{"id": "2326866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326866", "title": "Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate", "text": "Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate, also known as APP, was an international, voluntary, public-private partnership among Australia, Canada, India, Japan, the People's Republic of China, South Korea, and the United States announced July 28, 2005 at an Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum meeting and launched on January 12, 2006 at the Partnership's inaugural Ministerial meeting in Sydney. As of 5 April 2011, the Partnership formally concluded although a number of individual projects continue. The conclusion of the APP and cancellation of many of its projects attracted almost no media comment.\n\nForeign, Environment and Energy Ministers from partner countries agreed to co-operate on the development and transfer of technology which enables reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that is consistent with and complementary to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and other relevant international instruments, and is intended to complement but not replace the Kyoto Protocol., Ministers agreed to a Charter, Communique and Work Plan that \"outline a ground-breaking new model of private-public task forces to address climate change, energy security and air pollution.\" \n\nMember countries account for over 50% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption, GDP and population. Unlike the Kyoto Protocol (currently unratified by the United States), which imposes mandatory limits on greenhouse gas emissions, the Partnership engages member countries to accelerate the development and deployment of clean energy technologies, with no mandatory enforcement mechanism. This has led to criticism that the Partnership is worthless, by other governments, climate scientists and environmental groups. Proponents, on the other hand, argue that unrestricted economic growth and emission reductions can only be brought about through active engagement by all major polluters, which includes India and China, within the Kyoto Protocol framework neither India nor China are yet required to reduce emissions. \n\nCanada became the 7th member of the APP at the Second Ministerial Meeting in New Delhi on October 15, 2007. Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper earlier expressed his intention to join the Partnership in August 2007, despite some domestic opposition.\n\nU.S. former President George W. Bush called it a \"new results-oriented partnership\" that he said \"will allow our nations to develop and accelerate deployment of cleaner, more efficient energy technologies to meet national pollution reduction, energy security and climate change concerns in ways that reduce poverty and promote economic development.\" John Howard, the former Australian Prime Minister, described the pact as \"fair and effective\".\n\nHowever, the Worldwide Fund for Nature stated that \"a deal on climate change that doesn't limit pollution is the same as a peace plan that allows guns to be fired\" whilst the British Governments' chief scientific adviser, Sir David King, in a BBC interview said he doubted the new deal could work without setting caps on emissions, but added it should be seen as a sign of progress on climate change. Compared to the Kyoto Protocol, which so far requires no emission reductions from India and China, the APP actively engages both countries through building market incentives to reduce greenhouse emissions along with building capacity and providing clean technology transfers. Proponents argue that this approach creates a greater likelihood that both India and China will, sooner rather than later, effectively cut their greenhouse emissions even though they are not required to do so under the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nThe intent is to create a voluntary, non-legally binding framework for international cooperation to facilitate the development, diffusion, deployment, and transfer of existing, emerging and longer term cost- effective, cleaner, more efficient technologies and practices among the Partners through concrete and substantial cooperation so as to achieve practical results; promote and create enabling environments to assist in such efforts; facilitate attainment of the Partners' respective national pollution reduction, energy security and climate change objectives; and provide a forum for exploring the Partners’ respective policy approaches relevant to addressing interlinked development, energy, environment, and climate change issues within the context of clean development goals, and for sharing experiences in developing and implementing respective national development and energy strategies.\nThe Partnership's inaugural Ministerial meeting established eight government/business taskforces through its Work Plan, posted on the APP website.\n\nThe inaugural ministerial meeting was held at the Four Seasons Hotel and Government House in Sydney, Australia on January 11 and 12, 2006.\n\nAsia-Pacific Partnership Ministers agreed and released a: \n\nPartnership Ministers met again in New Delhi, India on October 15, 2007, and released a second communique and admitted Canada as a Partner.\nThe Ministers also met in Shanghai, China on October 26–27, 2009 where they discussed the accomplishments of the Partnership since the New Delhi Ministerial, and received the results of a report analyzing and evaluating the progress of the APP flagship projects.\n\nThe Partnership has been criticized by environmentalists who have rebuked the proceedings as ineffectual without mandatory limits on greenhouse-gas emissions. A coalition of national environment groups and networks from all of the APP countries issued a challenge to their governments to make the APP meaningful by agreeing to mandatory targets, creating financial mechanisms with incentives for the dissemination of clean energy technologies, and create an action plan to overcome the key barriers to technology transfer. U.S. Senator John McCain said the Partnership \"[amounted] to nothing more than a nice little public relations ploy.\", while the Economist described the Partnership as \"patent fig-leaf for the refusal of America and Australia to ratify Kyoto\".\n\nProponents of the Partnership have lauded the APP's achievements since its inception in 2006. In its over three years, the Partnership has established a record of achievement in promoting collaboration between our governments and private sector in key energy-intensive sectors and activities. The Partnership has worked to develop and implement detailed action plans across key sectors of the energy economy, and to date has endorsed 175 collaborative projects including 22 flagship projects across all the seven Partner countries. These projects have, inter alia, helped power plant managers improve the efficiency of their operations, trained cement plant operators how to save energy at their facilities, assisted in pushing solar photovoltaics toward commercialization, and improved design, equipment and operations of buildings and appliances. The Partnership has been widely noted for its innovative work in public-private sector cooperation, and stands as an example of the benefits of international cooperative efforts in addressing climate change.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326869", "title": "South Thailand insurgency", "text": "South Thailand insurgency\n\nThe South Thailand insurgency (; ) is an ongoing conflict centered in southern Thailand. It originated in 1948 as an ethnic and religious separatist insurgency in the historical Malay Patani Region, made up of the three southernmost provinces of Thailand and parts of a fourth, but has become more complex and increasingly violent since the early 2000s from drug cartels, oil smuggling networks, and sometimes was trouble from pirates.\n\nThe former Sultanate of Pattani, which included the southern Thai provinces of Pattani (Patani), Yala (Jala), Narathiwat (Menara)—also known as the three Southern Border Provinces (SBP)—as well as neighbouring parts of Songkhla Province (Singgora), and the northeastern part of Malaysia (Kelantan), was conquered by the Kingdom of Siam in 1785 and, except for Kelantan, has been governed by Thailand ever since.\n\nAlthough low-level separatist violence had occurred in the region for decades, the campaign escalated after 2001, with a recrudescence in 2004, and has occasionally spilled over into other provinces. Incidents blamed on southern insurgents have occurred in Bangkok and Phuket.\n\nIn July 2005, Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra assumed wide-ranging emergency powers to deal with the southern violence, but the insurgency escalated further. On 19 September 2006, a military junta ousted Thaksin Shinawatra in a coup. The junta implemented a major policy shift by replacing Thaksin's earlier approach with a campaign to win over the \"hearts and minds\" of the insurgents. Despite little progress in curbing the violence, the junta declared that security was improving and that peace would come to the region by 2008. By March 2008, however, the death toll surpassed 3,000.\n\nDuring the Democrat-led government of Abhisit Vejjajiva, Foreign Minister Kasit Piromya noted a \"sense of optimism\" and said that he was confident of bringing peace to the region in 2010. But by the end of 2010 insurgency-related violence had increased, confounding the government's optimism. Finally in March 2011, the government conceded that violence was increasing and could not be solved in a few months.\n\nLocal leaders have persistently demanded at least a level of autonomy from Thailand for the Patani region and some of the separatist insurgent movements have made a series of demands for peace talks and negotiations. However, these groups have been largely sidelined by the Barisan Revolusi Nasional-Koordinasi (BRN-C), the group currently spearheading the insurgency. It sees no reason for negotiations and is against talks with other insurgent groups. The BRN-C has as its immediate aim to make southern Thailand ungovernable and it has largely been successful.\n\nEstimates of the strength of the insurgency vary greatly. In 2004 General Pallop Pinmanee claimed that there were only 500 hardcore jihadists. Other estimates say there as many as 15,000 armed insurgents. Around 2004 some Thai analysts believed that foreign Islamic terrorist groups were infiltrating the area, and that foreign funds and arms are being brought in, though again, such claims were balanced by an equally large body of opinion suggesting this remains a distinctly local conflict.\n\nOver 6,500 people died and almost 12,000 were injured between 2004 and 2015 in a formerly ethnic separatist insurgency, which has currently been taken over by hard-line jihadis and pitted them against both the Thai-speaking Buddhist minority and local Muslims who have a moderate approach or who support the Thai government.\n\nDespite the ethnic affinity of the people of the Patani region with their Malay neighbours to the south, the old Patani Kingdom was led by sultans who historically preferred to pay tribute to the distant Siamese kings in Bangkok. For many centuries the King of Siam restricted himself to exacting a periodic tribute in the form of Bunga mas, ritual trees with gold leaves and flowers that were a symbolic acknowledgement of Siamese suzerainty, leaving the Patani rulers largely alone.\n\nThai rule over the historical Patani region was confirmed by the Anglo-Siamese Treaty of 1909. Until well into the 20th century, the government in Bangkok had interfered little locally, relying on local officials for the implementation of policies within the Patani region. This included an exemption in implementing Thai Civil Law, which had allowed Muslims to continue their observance of local Islamic laws regarding issues on inheritance and family. However, by 1934 Marshal Plaek Phibunsongkhram set in motion of a process of Thaification which had as its objective the cultural assimilation of the Patani people, among other ethnic groups in Thailand.\n\nThe National Culture Act was enforced as a result of the Thaification process, promoting the concept of \"Thai-ness\" and its centralist aims. Its \"Mandate 3\" was directly aimed at the Patani people. By 1944, Thai civil law was enforced throughout the land including the Patani region, over-riding earlier concessions to local Islamic administrative practices. The school curriculum was revised to be Thai-centric, with all lessons in the Thai language, to the detriment of the local Jawi. Traditional Muslim courts that formerly handled civil cases were removed and replaced with civil courts run and approved by the central government in Bangkok. This forced assimilation process and the perceived imposition of Thai-Buddhist cultural practices upon their society were irritants to the ethnic Malay Patani.\n\nIn 1947, Haji Sulong, founder of the Patani People's Movement, launched a petition campaign, demanding autonomy, language, and cultural rights, and implementation of Islamic law. In January 1948, Sulong was arrested on treason charges along with other local leaders branded as \"separatist\". Sulong was released from jail in 1952, then disappeared under mysterious circumstances in 1954.\n\nDenied recognition as a culturally separate ethnic minority, Patani leaders reacted against the Thai government policy towards them. Inspired by ideologies such as Nasserism, in the 1950s a Patani nationalist movement began to grow, leading to the south Thailand insurgency.\nBy 1959, Tengku Jalal Nasir established the Patani National Liberation Front (BNPP), the first Malay rebel group. At the time of their foundation the goal of the nationalist movements, such as the Patani United Liberation Organisation (PULO) established in 1968, was secession. The emphasis was laid in pursuing an armed struggle towards an independent state where Patani people could live with dignity without having alien cultural values imposed on them.\n\nThe last third of the 20th century saw the emergence of different insurgent groups in the south. Despite some differences in ideology they shared broadly separatist aims, but all justified the use of violence to reach their goals, setting a pattern of attacking police and military posts, as well as schools and Thai government offices. The effectiveness of these groups was marred, however, by infighting and lack of unity among them.\n\nA resurgence in violence by Pattani guerrilla groups began after 2001. While the region's traditional separatist insurgents had flags, leaders, claimed responsibility for the attacks, and made communiques, the new groups attacked more viciously and kept silent. This new development disoriented and confused the Thai authorities, who kept groping in the dark as the identity of the new insurgents in the conflict remained a mystery. Thailand held relatively free elections in February 2005, but no secessionist candidates contested the results in the south. In July the same year, the chairman of the Narathiwat Islamic Committee admitted, \"The attacks look like they are well-organised, but we do not know what group of people is behind them.\" Despite of the shroud of anonymity and the absence of concrete demands, revived groups, such as the GMIP, and particularly the BRN-Coordinate and its alleged armed wing, the Runda Kumpulan Kecil (RKK), have been identified as leading the new insurgency.\n\nWhile earlier attacks were typified by drive-by shootings in which patrolling policemen were shot by gunmen on passing motorcycles, after 2001 they have escalated to well-coordinated attacks on police establishments, with police stations and outposts ambushed by well-armed groups subsequently fleeing with stolen arms and ammunition. Other tactics used to gain publicity from shock and horror are slashing to death Buddhist monks, bombing temples, beheadings, intimidating pork vendors and their customers, as well as arson attacks on schools, killing the teachers —mostly female— and burning their bodies.\n\nCurrent insurgent groups proclaim militant jihadism and are not separatist any more. Mostly led by Salafist hardliners, they have extreme and transnational religious goals, such as an Islamic Caliphate, to the detriment of a constructive cultural or nationalistic Patani identity. Salafi jihadist groups are hostile to the cultural heritage and practices of traditional Malay Muslims, accusing them of being un-Islamic. They are not concerned about an independent separate nation. Instead their immediate aim is to make the Patani region ungovernable.\n\nThe Thai response to the insurgency has been hampered by clumsy methods, a lack of training in counter-insurgency, a lack of understanding of local culture, and rivalries between the police and the army. Many local policemen are allegedly involved in the local drug trade and other criminal activities, and army commanders from Bangkok treat them with disdain. Often the army responds to the attacks with heavy-handed raids to search Muslim villages, which only results in reprisals. Insurgents routinely provoke the inexperienced Thai government into disproportionate responses, generating sympathy among the Muslim populace.\n\nAttacks after 2001 concentrated on installations of the police and military. Schools and other symbols of Thai authority in the region have been subject to arson and bombing as well. Local police officers of all ranks and government officials were the primary targets of seemingly random assassinations, with 19 policemen killed and 50 incidents related to the insurgency in the three provinces of Pattani, Yala, and Narathiwat by the end of 2001. School teachers have been a prime target. The BRN-C, through its Pejuang Kemerdekaan Patani paramilitary wing, has been the main group behind the murder of 157 teachers in the Southern Border Provinces between 2004 and 2013.\n\nA massive security presence in the region has failed to stem almost daily violence, usually involving drive-by shootings or small bombings. When the insurgents make a show of strength—generally at least every few months—they have eschewed large-scale attacks, preferring well-coordinated pinprick assaults at many locations while avoiding direct clashes with security forces.\n\nIn a recent development two consecutive bombs were detonated at the Big C shopping mall in Mueang Pattani District on 9 May 2017 at peak hour. 56 people were wounded, including small children.\n\nThe government at first blamed the attacks on \"bandits\", and many outside observers believe that local clan, commercial or criminal rivalries played a role in the violence.\n\nIn 2002, Thaksin stated, \"There's no separatism, no ideological terrorists, just common bandits.\" By 2004, however, he had reversed his position and had come to regard the insurgency as a local front in the global war on terrorism. Martial law was instituted in Pattani, Yala, and Narathiwat in January 2004.\n\nSince the 2006 military coup, the Thai government has taken a more conciliatory approach to the insurgency, avoiding the excessive use of force that typified Thaksin's time in office, and opened negotiations with known separatist groups. Violence, however, has escalated. This likely backs the assertion that there are several groups involved in the violence, few of whom have been placated by the government's change of strategy.\n\nOn 3 June 2011, Army Chief Prayut Chan-o-cha stated that the insurgency is orchestrated from abroad and funded via drug and oil smuggling.\n\nAlthough Thailand's southern violence is mostly ethnic-based, anonymous leaflets issued by militant groups often contain jihadist language. Many young militants received training and indoctrination from Islamic teachers, some of which took place within Islamic educational institutions. Many [Who?] see the southern Thai violence as a form of Islamist militancy and Islamic separatism, testifying to the strength of Malay Muslim beliefs and the determination of local people to resist the (Buddhist) Thai state on religious grounds.\n\nRecently, religious factor has been brought to discuss due to the rise of Islamist movement, especially the Salafi movement, which aimed to liberate the Muslim-dominated Malay regions from Thailand.\n\nThai authorities claim that the insurgency is not caused by a lack of political representation of the Muslim population. By the late 1990s, Muslims were holding unprecedented senior posts in Thai politics. For example, Wan Muhamad Noor Matha, a Malay Muslim from Yala, served as chairman of parliament from 1996 to 2001 under the Democrats and later as interior minister during the first Thaksin government. Thaksin's first government (2001–2005) also saw 14 Muslim members of parliament (MPs) and several Muslim senators. Muslims dominated provincial legislative assemblies in the border provinces, and several southern municipalities had Muslim mayors. Muslims were able to voice their political grievances openly and enjoy a much greater degree of religious freedom.\n\nThe Thaksin regime, however, began to dismantle the southern administration organisation, replacing it with a notoriously corrupt police force which immediately began widespread crackdowns. Consultation with local community leaders was also abolished. Discontent over the abuses led to growing violence during 2004 and 2005. Muslim politicians and leaders remained silent out of fear of repression, thus eroding their political legitimacy and support. This cost them dearly. In the 2005 general election, all but one of the eleven incumbent Muslim MPs who stood for election were voted out of office.\n\nPoverty and economic problems are a key factor behind the insurgency.\n\nAlthough Thailand's economy has grown dramatically in the past several decades, gains in both northern and southern provinces have been relatively limited. Income differences between Buddhist and Muslim households are especially pronounced in the border region.\n\nThe percentage of people living below the poverty line also fell, from 40%, 36%, and 33% in 2000 to 18%, 10%, and 23% in 2004 for Pattani, Narathiwat, and Yala, respectively. By 2004, the three provinces had 310,000 people living below the poverty line, compared to 610,000 in 2000. However, 45% of all poor southerners lived in the three border provinces.\n\nMuslims in the border provinces generally have lower levels of educational attainment compared to their Buddhist neighbours. 69.80% of the Muslim population in the border provinces have only a primary school education, compared to 49.6% of Buddhists in the same provinces. Only 9.20% of Muslims have completed secondary education (including those who graduated from private Islamic schools), compared to 13.20% of Buddhists. Just 1.70% of the Muslim population have a bachelor's degree, while 9.70% of Buddhists hold undergraduate degrees. Government schools generally enforce a Thai language curriculum to the exclusion of the region's Patani-Malay languages, a policy which produces low literacy rates and contributes to the view of government schools as antagonistic to Malay culture. The secular educational system is being undermined by the destruction of schools and the murders of teachers by the insurgent groups.\n\nThe lesser educated Muslims also have reduced employment opportunities compared to their Buddhist neighbours. Only 2.4% of all working Muslims in the provinces held government posts, compared with 19.2% of all working Buddhists. Jobs in the Thai public sector are difficult to obtain for those Muslims who never fully accepted the Thai language or the Thai education system. Insurgent attacks on economic targets further reduce employment opportunities for both Muslims and Buddhists in the provinces.\n\nCurrently the most active insurgent movements are the BRN-Coordinate, its alleged armed wing the Runda Kumpulan Kecil (RKK), and the GMIP. PULO, the doyen of the Patani insurgent groups and formerly the most respected secessionist movement in the region, has been largely inactive in recent years.\n\nThe Barisan Revolusi Nasional-Koordinasi (BRN-C) is currently the most important group, spearheading the insurgency in southern Thailand. It was revived after 2001 and its leaders are mainly Salafi religious teachers who have rejected the Pan-Arab socialist ideology of the early BRN, engaging in political activism by recruiting followers in mosques and indoctrinating at Islamic schools. This group has the vision of becoming a mass movement, aiming towards having 400,000 members in its area of operation. The BRN-C has no constructive cultural or nationalistic goals; instead its immediate aim is to make southern Thailand ungovernable. It has been largely successful at spreading and maintaining an atmosphere of terror and uncertainty through well-trained secret militant units that engage in assassinations and calculated destruction.\n\nThe Runda Kumpulan Kecil (RKK), allegedly one of the armed wings of the BRN-C, has been one of the most brutal and ruthless groups of the south Thailand insurgency in recent years. It is composed of young, mostly Salafi, militants who routinely flee to Malaysia after carrying out violent attacks, including bombings, arson, and murders in Yala, Pattani, or Narathiwat Province. Although several RKK members have been arrested or killed by the Thai military in the past decade, it is difficult for those involved in counter-insurgency to penetrate the structure of the group owing to its secrecy and mobility.\n\nLike the BRN-C, the Gerakan Mujahidin Islam Patani (GMIP) is a group that experienced a revival after 2001 and has currently more hard-line Islamic political goals, to the detriment of its former nationalist cause. Its members are now believed to have sympathies with Al Qaeda and with the establishment of the transnational Islamic Caliphate.\n\nThe Barisan Bersatu Mujahidin Patani (BBMP) was created in 1985 as a radical breakaway of the National Front for the Liberation of Pattani (BNPP), distinguished from the latter by its overt Islamist ideology.\n\nThe Patani United Liberation Organisation (PULO) is a movement that was founded on the nationalist and secular values of Patani nation-building. Its priority was freeing Pattani from Thai rule by all means, including armed struggle.\n\nHowever, since 2001 the civil society in the three southern Thai provinces has experienced a widespread imposition of legalistic Salafi norms and the reality on the ground is today very different from what it was in former southern Thailand. Salafism has heavily eroded Patani cultural identity and current insurgent groups have extreme religious goals, such as an Islamic Caliphate, to the detriment of Patani nationalism. Although some of the present-day insurgents are very likely former PULO members, it is still unclear whether they fight for PULO's cause and it is likely that many may have become part of the more active and religious organisations that have overtaken PULO. In recent years PULO's leadership has largely lost control over its insurgents and has a very limited overall degree of influence over the insurgency in southern Thailand.\n\nOn 26 July 2009 Abu Yasir Fikri, President of PULO, and the \"emir\" of the Group of Mujahidin Islam Patani (GMIP), Me Kuteh, agreed to join forces. Abu Yasir Fikri was allowed to speak on behalf of the GMIP on all political issues. The agreement included a section in which they agreed to form a unified military force, the Patani Liberation Army (PLA). The PLA would be commanded by the First Deputy Military Commander of the Patani United Liberation Organisation (PULO).\n\nOn 18 April 2009, PULO outlined a solution to conflict at the OICs Twelfth Meeting of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts to consider the Conditions of Muslim Communities and Minorities in Jeddah.\n\nIn the last decade of the unrest in south Thailand, the Black Standard flag has largely replaced the colourful secessionist flags formerly used by the different groups involved in the insurgency against the Thai government.\n\nOn 28 April 2004, more than 100 militants carried out terrorist attacks against 10 police outposts across Pattani, Yala, and Songkhla Provinces in south Thailand. Thirty-two gunmen retreated to the 425-year-old Krue Se Mosque, regarded by Muslims as the holiest mosque in Pattani.\n\nGeneral Pallop Pinmanee, commander of the \"Southern Peace Enhancement Center\" and Deputy Director of the Internal Security Operations Command, was the senior army officer on the scene. After a tense seven-hour stand-off, Pallop ordered an all-out assault on the mosque. All of the gunmen were killed. He later insisted, \"I had no choice. I was afraid that as time passed the crowd would be sympathetic to the insurgents, to the point of trying to rescue them\".\n\nIt was later revealed that Pallop's order to storm the mosque contravened a direct order by Defense Minister Chavalit Yongchaiyudh to seek a peaceful resolution to the stand-off no matter how long it took. Pallop was immediately ordered out of the area, and later tendered his resignation as commander of the Southern Peace Enhancement Center. The forward command of the Internal Security Operations Command (ISOC), which Pallop headed, was also dissolved. A government investigative commission found that the security forces had over-reacted. The Asian Centre for Human Rights questioned the independence and impartiality of the investigative commission. On 3 May 2004 during a senate hearing, Senator Kraisak Choonhavan noted that most of those killed at Krue Se Mosque had been shot in the head and there were signs that ropes had been tied around their wrists, suggesting they had been executed after being captured.\n\nThe incident resulted in a personal conflict between Pallop and Defense Minister Chavalit, who was also director of the ISOC. Pallop later demanded that the defence minister cease any involvement in the management of the southern insurgency.\n\nIn October 2004 the town of Tak Bai in Narathiwat Province saw the most publicised incident of the insurgency. Six local men were arrested for having supplied weapons to insurgents. A demonstration was organised to demand their release and the police called in army reinforcements. The army used tear gas and water cannons on the crowd, and shooting started in which seven men were killed.\n\nHundreds of local people, mostly young men, were arrested. They were made to take off their shirts and lie on the ground. Their hands were tied behind their backs. Later that afternoon, they were thrown by soldiers into trucks to be taken to the Ingkayutthaboriharn army camp in the nearby province of Pattani. The prisoners were stacked five or six deep in the trucks, and by the time the trucks reached their destination five hours later, in the heat of the day, 78 men had died of suffocation.\n\nThis incident sparked widespread protests across the south, and across Thailand, as even non-Muslim Thais were appalled at the army's behaviour. Thaksin, however, gave the army his full support. Those responsible for the ill-treatment and death of the detainees received the most minor of non-custodial punishments. Thaksin's initial response was to defend the army's actions, saying that the 78 men died \"because they were already weak from fasting during the month of Ramadan\".\n\nCharges were filed against 58 suspects accused of participating in the demonstration however the case was dropped in November 2006 as it would not be good for the public and \"it might affect national security\".\n\nOn 2 November 2006, then Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont gave a formal apology for the incident. This caused a large rise in violent incidents the next day.\n\nThis standoff between insurgents and Thai police and military took place in Yala, Thailand on 27 June 2009 at 7:55 am local time. A combined force of 200 district police officers and soldiers of Taskforce 15 sealed off a house in the Bannang Sata district of Yala province after locals tipped them of the presence of separatist militants.\n\nAs police and the army stormed the building, militants holed up inside opened fire, killing Sgt Maj Pongsathorn Niraphai of the Bannang Sata police station and Sergeant Major 3rd Class Sangsun Kalong, 39, a soldier. A suspected militant, Sopepun Buenae, 26 was killed when he tried to escape. At least two rebels managed to escape despite being cornered for nearly 5 hours.\n\nDuring the preceding weeks, attacks by separatists had increased; 41 people were killed and 60 wounded in June alone. Earlier in June, masked gunmen killed 11 worshippers in a mosque in the Narathiwat province. The incident, which also wounded 12 people was considered as one of the worst attacks in 5 years. A $5,900 reward for leads on the attack was announced.\n\nAttempts to negotiate with insurgents were hampered by the anonymity of the insurgency's leaders.\n\nIn May 2004, Wan Kadir Che Man, exiled leader of Bersatu and for years one of the key symbolic figures in the guerrilla movement, stated that he would be willing to negotiate with the government to end the southern violence. He also hinted that Bersatu would be willing to soften its previous demands for an independent state.\n\nThe government initially welcomed the request to negotiate. However, the government response was severely criticised as being \"knee-jerk\" and \"just looking to score cheap political points.\" But when it became apparent that, despite his softened demand for limited autonomy, Wan Kadir Che Man had no influence over the violence, the negotiations were cancelled. The government then began a policy of not attempting to officially negotiate with the insurgents.\n\nAfter being appointed army commander in 2005, General Sonthi Boonyaratglin expressed confidence that he could resolve the insurgency. He claimed that he would take a \"new and effective\" approach to a crisis and that \"The Army is informed [of who the insurgents are] and will carry out their duties.\"\n\nOn 1 September 2006, a day after 22 commercial banks were simultaneously bombed in Yala Province, Sonthi announced that he would break with the government's no-negotiation policy. However, he noted that \"We still don't know who is the real head of the militants we are fighting with.\" In a press conference the next day, he attacked the government for criticising him for trying to negotiate with the anonymous insurgents, and demanded that the government \"Free the military and let it do the job.\" His confrontation with the government made his call for negotiation extremely popular with the media. Afterwards, insurgents bombed six department stores in Hat Yai city, which until then had been free of insurgent activities. The identity of the insurgents was not revealed. Sonthi was granted an extraordinary increase in executive powers to combat unrest in the far south. By 19 September 2006 (after Sonthi overthrew the Thai government), the army admitted that it was still unsure whom to negotiate with. \n\nIn March 2005, respected former Prime Minister Anand Panyarachun was appointed chairman of a National Reconciliation Commission, tasked with overseeing the restoration of peace to the south. A fierce critic of the Thaksin-government, Anand frequently criticised the handling of southern unrest, and in particular the State of Emergency Decree. He has been quoted to have said, \"The authorities have worked inefficiently. They have arrested innocent people instead of the real culprits, leading to mistrust among locals. So, giving them broader power may lead to increased violence and eventually a real crisis\".\n\nAnand submitted the NRC's recommendations on 5 June 2006. Among them were\n\nThe Thaksin government vowed to implement the recommendations. However, the recommendations were vigorously opposed by Prem Tinsulanonda, the president of King Bhumibol Adulyadej's Privy Council, who stated \"We cannot accept that [proposal] as we are Thai. The country is Thai and the language is Thai... We have to be proud to be Thai and have the Thai language as the sole national language\".\n\n\"Note: Table is not comprehensive\"\n\nAccording to government data, from 2004 until the end of 2012 the conflict had resulted in at least 3,380 deaths, including 2,316 civilians, 372 troops, 278 police, 250 suspected insurgents, 157 education officials, and seven Buddhist monks. According to one report in the Patani Post in late May 2014, about 6,000 people have been killed in the conflict during the previous decade. A January 2016 article in the \"Bangkok Post\" reported a total of 6,543 deaths and 11,919 injuries from 2004 until the end of 2015, with an estimated 15,374 \"insurgency-related\" incidents occurring during the same period. From 2016 to November 2017, 160 more people have died. Though the insurgency is geared against the government, Thai security forces, and Buddhist civilians, in the general period of the conflict 60% of casualties have been Muslim - most of whom were killed at the hands of insurgents.\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW) cites abuses on both sides. Numerous times the insurgents have murdered Buddhist monks collecting alms, and Buddhist villagers have been killed going about routine work such as rubber tapping, even though Buddhists have lived in the region for centuries. School teachers, headmasters, and students have been killed and schools torched presumably because schools represent a symbol of the Thai government. Civil servants, regardless of religion, have been targeted for assassination. According to the Thai Journalists Association, during the year 2008 alone there were over 500 attacks, resulting in more than 300 deaths in the four provinces where the insurgents operate.\n\nMeanwhile, local Muslims have been beaten, killed, or simply \"disappeared\" during police questioning and custody. Human Rights Watch has documented at least 20 such disappearances. Soldiers and police have sometimes been indiscriminate when pursuing suspected insurgents, resulting in civilian collateral damage.\n\nOf the 2,463 people killed in attacks from 2004 to 2007, almost 90% were civilians. Buddhist Thais and ethnic Malay Muslims were killed in bomb attacks, shootings, assassinations, ambushes, and machete attacks. At least 29 victims have been beheaded and mutilated. \"There have been hundreds of militant attacks on teachers, schools, public health workers, hospital staff, and community health centers. For the first time in the region's history of separatist insurgencies, Buddhist monks and novices are now among those killed and injured by separatist militants,\" HRW said in a 2007 report.\n\n\"Village-based militants called Pejuang Kemerdekaan Patani (Patani Freedom Fighters) in the loose network of BRN-Coordinate (National Revolution Front-Coordinate) have now emerged as the backbone of the new generation of separatist militants. \"Increasingly, they claim that the southern border provinces are not the land of Buddhist Thais, but a religious 'conflict zone' which must be divided between ethnic Malay Muslims and 'infidels'. The separatists seek to forcibly liberate Patani Darulsalam (Islamic Land of Patani), from what they call a Buddhist Thai occupation\", HRW continued.\n\nThe 2010 World Report from Human Rights Watch highlighted escalating human rights abuses throughout Thailand, with the south reflecting overall policies against individual human rights. Sharply increased powers for police and the military were accompanied by a perceived lack of accountability.\n\nThe Asian Human Rights Commission accused the military of beating and torturing suspected insurgents by burning their genitals with cigarettes, smashing beer bottles over their knees, and chaining them to dogs. Such abuses were alleged to have occurred in October 2006, after the military seized power.\n\nIn December 2006, a group of 20 Muslims, nine men and 11 women aged between two and 55, sought political asylum in Malaysia. They claimed that the post-coup regime was more aggressive against civilians and that they were continuously harassed by the army.\n\nA group of Muslims from Narathiwat who fled to Malaysia in March 2007 claimed that they were escaping intimidation and brutality by the military. The group complained that they were beaten and that their sons have been missing or detained since 2005. It also claimed that some youths died after they were poisoned during detention.\n\nIn late January 2012, an unknown number of insurgents ambushed a \"thahan pran\" base before retreating. Rangers chased the insurgents and were fired upon from a pick-up truck. The rangers fired back in self-defence resulting in four dead civilians in the truck with others wounded. The rangers found AK-47 assault rifles, but also claimed that the four dead civilians were not affiliated with insurgents in any way. Soldiers from the 4th army regiment are investigating. This killing has angered many Thai Muslims as the four dead persons were mosque leaders (an imam, a moulana, a khatib, and a bilai).\n\nIn early February, the Ministry of Interior proposed a 7.5 million baht compensation payment to all victims of the insurgency including those from the Tak Bai Massacre and the Kru Se Mosque Incident.\n\n\n\nNote: Some of these websites may be censored for internet access from within Thailand\n"}
{"id": "2326871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326871", "title": "David E. H. Jones", "text": "David E. H. Jones\n\nDavid Edward Hugh Jones (20 April 1938 – 19 July 2017) was a British chemist and author, under the pen name Daedalus, the fictional inventor for DREADCO. Jones' columns as Daedalus were published for 38 years, starting weekly in 1964 in \"New Scientist\". He then moved on to the journal \"Nature\", and continued to publish until 2002. Columns from these magazines, along with additional comments and implementation sketches, were collected in two books: \"The Inventions of Daedalus: A Compendium of Plausible Schemes\" (1982) and \"The Further Inventions of Daedalus\" (1999).\n\nHe was born on 20 April 1938, in Southwark, London. His father, Philip, was an advertising copywriter. His mother was Dorothea, née Sitters.\nHe attended Crofton Primary School in Orpington, Kent, and then Eltham College.\nDavid Jones' professional training was as a chemist. In 1962, he graduated in chemistry and completed a PhD in organic chemistry from Imperial College London. He worked for a year for a company specialising in the design on laboratory equipment and then as a post-doctoral fellow at Imperial where he worked on infrared spectroscopy and he began his column for \"New Scientist\". In 1967 he took up a post as an assistant lecturer at the University of Strathclyde. After one year he moved to Runcorn where he worked as a research scientist in spectroscopy for Imperial Chemical Industries. In 1974, he became the Sir James Knott Research Fellow at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne. He then became an independent science consultant to industry providing ideas, brain storming services, and scientific demonstrations for television.\n\nSome of his Daedalus inventions proved practical; about one-fifth of them were seriously proposed or even patented by others. His most notable scientific contribution as Daedalus was possibly his 1966 prediction of hollow carbon molecules\nbefore buckminsterfullerene was made, and long before its synthesizers won a Nobel prize for the discovery of fullerenes. \nIt is often claimed that the invention of 3D printing was in 1984 by Chuck Hull, but Jones in his Daedalus persona laid out the concept in New Scientist in 1974, 10 years earlier. He was an early proposer of a space elevator (1964) and of archaeoacoustics (1969).\n\nBeyond Daedalus, in scientific circles he is known for his study of bicycle stability, his determination of arsenic in Napoleon’s wallpaper, and for having designed and flown on the Space Shuttle a microgravity experiment \nto grow a chemical garden.\n\nHe is also known for his series of fake perpetual-motion machines, the latest of which is in the Technisches Museum, Vienna.\nIn 2009 a documentary film about his work and inventions, \"Perpetual Motion Machine\", was made and shown at the Newcastle Science Festival 2010.\n\nHe was known in Germany as a regular guest on the 1980s TV science quiz show \"Kopf um Kopf\" (\"Head to Head\"), presenting interesting physics experiments.\n\nIn 1972 he married Jane Burgess but the marriage only lasted one year. He had a long relationship with the artist Naomi Hunt. His only immediate survivor is his brother, Peter Vaughan Jones, who said Jones died of complications of prostate cancer on 19 July 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326873", "title": "Sharp Haw", "text": "Sharp Haw\n\nSharp Haw is a hill on the southern edge of the Yorkshire Dales, located just within the National Park. Being the last outpost of the hills before the broad Aire valley, and with a sharp summit from many angles, it is prominent and easily recognisable from much of the area to the south. The hill has an elevation of .\n\nFrom the summit there are views over the Aire valley, to Gargrave, Skipton and the Leeds and Liverpool Canal, to the east into Wharfedale and to the north into Malhamdale.\n\nAlthough Ordnance Survey maps do not show a path to the summit, there is a path from the public bridleway to the north: both are clear on the ground, and popular with cyclists.\n\nThe word \"Haw\" comes from the Old English \"hawian\", and means view.\n"}
{"id": "2326875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326875", "title": "Maurice Bloomfield", "text": "Maurice Bloomfield\n\nMaurice Bloomfield, Ph.D., LL.D. (February 23, 1855 – June 12, 1928) was a Polish-born American philologist and Sanskrit scholar.\n\nHe was born Maurice Blumenfeld in Bielitz (), in what was at that time Austrian Silesia (today it is in Poland) to Jewish parents. His sister was Fannie Bloomfield Zeisler, and the linguist Leonard Bloomfield was his nephew. He married Rosa Zeisler in 1885, and had a son and a daughter; Rosa died in 1920. In 1921, he married Helen Scott. \n\nHe went to the United States in 1867, and 10 years later graduated from Furman University, Greenville, South Carolina. He then studied Sanskrit at Yale, under W. D. Whitney, and at Johns Hopkins University. He was part of the second graduating class to earn the PhD from Johns Hopkins; his degree was conferred in 1879. He returned to Hopkins as associate professor in 1881 after a stay of two years in Berlin and Leipzig, and soon afterwards was promoted professor of Sanskrit and comparative philology. He was forced by ill health to retire in 1926 and was named Professor Emeritus in honor of his 45 years on the Hopkins faculty. After retirement he moved to San Francisco to be closer to his son, and he died there on June 13, 1928. In 1896 Princeton University bestowed the LL.D. degree upon him.\n\nHis papers in the \"American Journal of Philology\" number a few in comparative linguistics, such as those on assimilation and adaptation in congeneric classes of words, and many valuable contributions to the interpretation of the Vedas, and he is best known as a student of the Vedas. He translated, for Max Müller's \"Sacred Books of the East\", the \"Hymns of the Atharva-Veda\" (1897); contributed to the Buhler-Kielhorn \"Grundriss der indo-arischen Philologie und Altertumskunde\" the section \"The Atharva-Veda and the Gopatha Brahmana\" (1899); was first to edit the \"Kauika-Sutra\" (1890), and in 1907 published, in the \"Harvard Oriental Series, A Vedic Concordance\". In 1905 he published \"Cerberus, the Dog of Hades\", a study in comparative mythology. \"The Religion of the Veda\" appeared in 1908; \"Life and Stories of the Jaina Savior Parasvanatha\" and a work on the \"Rig Veda\" in 1916.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326879", "title": "Toyota S engine", "text": "Toyota S engine\n\nThe Toyota S Series engines are a family of straight-4 petrol or CNG engines with displacement from 1.8 L to 2.2 L produced by Toyota Motor Corporation from January 1980 to August 2007. The series has cast iron engine blocks and alloy cylinder heads.\n\nThe 1S is the first version of the S-series engine. It is a member of Toyota's \"Lasre\" engine family (\"Lightweight Advanced Super Response Engine\"). Bore and stroke are 80.5 x 90.0 mm. The engine was first seen in 1981, and was fitted to a wide range of Toyotas, in both RWD and FWD applications.\n\nOriginal \"1S\" engine, designed for longitudinal, rear-wheel-drive applications. Designated \"1S-U\" with Japanese emissions controls.\n\n\nAdaption of the \"1S\" engine, designed for transverse, front-wheel-drive applications. Designated \"1S-LU\" with Japanese emissions controls.\n\n\nAdaption of the \"1S-L\" engine, with added central injection (Ci). Designated \"1S-iLU\" with Japanese emissions controls.\n\nLater versions renamed \"1S-i\". Sometimes labelled \"1S-Ci\" in marketing material.\n\n\nAdaption of the \"1S-L\" engine, with added multiport fuel injection. Designated \"1S-ELU\" with Japanese emissions controls.\n\nLater versions renamed \"1S-E\".\n\n\nThe 2S is a four-cylinder engine with an iron block and an alloy head. Bore and stroke are 84.0 x 90.0 mm. This was to be the last of the S engine family not to be equipped with twincams.\n\nThe 2S-E is the same as the 2S except it uses EFI. This particular engine was used in the Camry and in the Celica ST161. It was fitted with hydraulic lash adjusters.\n\nThe 2S-EL, 2S-ELU and 2S-ELC are the same as the 2S-E except they are transversely mounted (as fitted to the V10 Camry). The 2S-ELU has Japanese emission controls and the 2S-ELC has US emission controls.\n\nThe 3S is a inline-four engine with an iron block and an alloy head. Similar to the 2S engine, the bore was increased to 86.0 mm and the stroke was reduced to 86.0 mm, allowing for the fitment of larger valves and enabling higher power outputs. First introduced in May 1984, the 3S remained in production until 2007.\n\nTwo-barrel carburettor version of the 3S-FE. This engine is found in lower-specification variants of the 1986–1992 Toyota Camry and its Holden Apollo twin (SL and SLX versions). Power is at 5,600 rpm, with max torque of at 3,200 rpm.\n\nThe Toyota 3S-FE is a 16-valve 2.0 L twin camshaft, single cam gear engine built by Toyota from 1986 to 2000. European version produces (126 hp) at 5,600 rpm and 179 Nm (132 ft-lbs) at 4,400 rpm. It is commonly used in the Camry 1987–1992 model, the Celica T160/T180/T200, Carina 1987–1992, Carina 1988–2001, Caldina 1992–2002, Carina ED 1990–1992 and E 1993–1998 models, Corona T170/T190 as well as Avensis 1997–2000 models and RAV4, 1994–2000 and Picnic/Ipsum 1996–2002. The 3S-FE was also used in some MR2 Mk2 cars due to its torque band being suitable for the automatic models. The 3S-FE is fitted with EFI. The 3S-FE engine is fitted with cast aluminum internals, whereas the 3S-GE/GELU engines have forged internals.\n\nThe 3S-FSE was a direct injection engine with Toyota D4 system. A cam driven high pressure fuel pump is at the #4 end of the head. This engine was only released in Japan (some imported to Russia etc.), and used in Camry (Windom).\n\nThe Toyota 3S-GE (originally titled 3S-GELU in transversely-mounted applications with Japanese emission controls), is an in-line 4 cylinder engine in the S engine family, manufactured by Toyota and designed in conjunction with Yamaha. While the block is iron, the cylinder head is made of aluminium alloy. The pent-roof combustion chambers are complemented by a cross-flow intake and exhaust layout. The spark plug is located in the center of the combustion chamber. The firing order is 1-3-4-2, with cylinder number 1 adjacent to the timing belt. The 3S-GE was designed to be light, the first iteration 3S-GELU weighing in at a low .\n\nThe forged crankshaft, located within the crankcase, rotates on five aluminium alloy bearings and is balanced by eight weights. Oil holes are located in the middle of the crankshaft to provide oil to the connecting rods, bearing, pistons and other moving components. The intake manifold has four independent ports and benefits from inertia build up to improve engine torque at low and medium speeds.\n\nA single timing belt drives the intake and exhaust camshaft. The cam journals are supported on five points between the valve lifters of each cylinder and on the front of the cylinder head, and are lubricated by an oiler port located in the middle of the camshaft.\n\nThe pistons are made from an aluminium alloy, designed to withstand high temperatures. An indentation is incorporated into the piston head to prevent the pistons from hitting the valves, should the timing belt break (this is not true of the later BEAMS - an acronym which stands for Breakthrough Engine with Advanced Mechanism System - motors). This is commonly referred to as a \"non-interference\" engine. Piston pins holding the pistons in place are locked by snap rings. The \"Outer Shim Type System\" allows for the replacement of the shims without the need to remove the camshaft. To adjust the valve clearance, adjust the shims above the valve lifters.\n\nThe first compression ring and the oil ring are made of steel, the second compression ring is made of cast iron. Compression rings 1 and 2 prevent exhaust leakage from the combustion chamber while the oil ring works to clear oil off the cylinder walls, preventing excessive oil from entering the combustion chamber. An oil pan baffle is used to ensure that there is sufficient oil available in the oil pan.\n\nThere are five generations of the 3S-GE, which were used in the Toyota Celica, MR2, Caldina, RAV4, and Altezza. All 3S-GE engines had a displacement of . Additionally, the turbocharged 3S-GTE engines are based on the 3S-GE platform.\n\nThe first-generation 3S-GE was produced from May 1984 to 1989, arriving in both North American versions, as well as In Japan as a second variation. The North American engine was slightly less powerful, producing around . This engine was the only 3S-GE to come to North America, in the Celica GT-S (ST162). Among other things, the Japanese market version sported a more aggressive ECU and lacked the EGR valve system, pushing the output to somewhere around at 6,400 rpm and of torque. The engine was originally available in particular in the Toyota Camry/Vista Twin Cam 2000 (3S-GELU for V10s, 3S-GE for V20s) and Toyota Corona *T150 (limited chassis version - ST162 with 3S-GELU).\n\nThe second generation was produced from 1990 to 1993, receiving a slight boost in output to , in European markets. Peak torque went to . It also proved to be a slightly more reliable engine. The second generation also did away with the T-VIS system, which was replaced by the ACIS (Acoustic Control Induction System), proving to be much more efficient. T-VIS was, however, retained on the second-generation 3S-GTE, the turbocharged counterpart.\n\nThe third-generation 3S-GE was produced from 1994 to 1999. Power output for the Japanese market was increased to as the compression ratio was increased to 10.3:1, while motors for other markets received a minor revision in 1996 for emissions (EGR) which reduced power output slightly to at 7,000 rpm. Torque remains the same for both at .\n\nThe fourth-generation 3S-GE, also known as the 'Red Top BEAMS' 3S-GE began production in 1997. BEAMS is an acronym which stands for Breakthrough Engine with Advanced Mechanism System.\n\nThe first version was equipped with VVT-i and produced at 7,000 rpm when coupled to a manual transmission. The automatic version produced at 7000 rpm; this is believed to be an ECU restriction implemented by Toyota due to gearbox limitations. It was available in a few models sold only in Japan: the MR2 G and G-Limited, the Celica ST202 SS-II and SS-III and the Caldina.\n\nThe second version generation 4 3S-GE, the 'Grey Top BEAMS' 3S-GE, was an available engine option in the RAV4 and second-generation Caldina Active Sports GT in Japan. Even though the valve cover on this engine is black, it is referred to as the \"Grey Top\", taking its name from the grey intake plenum colouring. This naming is as such to differentiate it from the fifth-generation Dual-VVTi \"Black Top\" in the Altezza. Power output is at 6,600 rpm in the RAV4 and in the Caldina GT. The mechanical differences between the Red Top and Grey Top is the headers and the ECU. Wiring is identical.\n\nCasting provisions exist in the heads for Exhaust VVT solenoid, and RWD water gallery is open, behind the alternator mount. Rear oil drain at the back of the head is in a different position.\n\nGen 4 also runs a manual throttle body.\n\nThis engine was used in some TTE WRC Corollas (modified for Turbo).\n\nIn 1998, the fifth and final version of the 3S-GE was released, found only in the Japanese-delivered Altezza RS200. The 'Black Top' as it came to be referred to as, was fitted with a dual VVT-i system that adjusted timing on both intake and exhaust camshafts and came in two different spec levels dependent on which transmission it was coupled to.\n\nGen 5 uses electronic controlled throttle with cable (semi-drive by wire), so no idle speed controller is required. A returnless fuel rail is also used.\n\nThe MT version that came equipped with the J160 6-speed manual transmission featured larger diameter titanium intake valves measuring 35mm, larger exhaust valves measuring 29.5mm also made from titanium, a larger 33mm bucket and a compression ratio of 11.5:1. It made at 7,600 rpm and at 6,400 rpm.\n\nCompared to the MT version, the 5-speed AT version came equipped with the A650E 5Super ECT (with manual shift mode) automatic transmission and had a lower compression ratio of 11.1:1, a less aggressive cam profile, smaller steel-alloy valves and smaller 31mm buckets. This engine made at 7,000 rpm and at a considerably lower 4,800 rpm. Externally, the AT model can be identified by differences in the wiring loom and the lack of an acoustic blanket on the intake plenum.\n\nThe 3S-GTE is an in-line 4-cylinder engine from Toyota, based on the 3S-GE with the addition of under piston oil squirters and a reduced compression ratio to accommodate the addition of a turbocharger.\n\nThere are four generations of this engine, which started manufacture in 1986 and was built until 2007. The turbochargers used in the 3S-GTE engines are Toyota designs and use an internal wastegate design. Depending on where the engine was intended to be sold the exhaust turbine is either ceramic (Japan) or steel (US and Australia). It was fitted to the MR2(North America and Japan only. There is no official MR2 for the European market with this engine.), Toyota Celica GT-Four, and the Caldina GT-T and GT-Four.\n\nIts cylinders are numbered 1-2-3-4, cylinder number 1 is beside the timing belt. The Dual Over Head Cam (DOHC) 16-valve cylinder head designed by Yamaha is made of aluminum alloy. The pent-roof combustion chambers are complemented by a cross flow intake and exhaust layout. Spark plugs are located in the middle of the combustion chambers. A distributor based system is used to fire the cylinders in a 1-3-4-2 order.\n\nThe crankshaft, located within the crankcase, rotates on five aluminum alloy bearings and is balanced by eight weights. Oil holes are located in the middle of the crankshaft to provide oil to the connecting rods, bearing, pistons and various other components.\n\nA single timing belt drives the intake and exhaust camshaft along with the oil and water pumps. The cam journal is supported on 5 points between the valve lifters of each cylinder and on the front of the cylinder head. The cam journals are lubricated by oiler port located in the middle of the camshaft. To adjust the valve clearance in the first two generations, a shim over bucket system is employed. In the following generations a shim under bucket system is used.\n\nThe pistons are made from an aluminum alloy designed to withstand high temperatures. An indentation is incorporated into the pistons to prevent the pistons from hitting the valves if the timing belt breaks. Piston pins holding the pistons in place are locked by snap rings.\n\nThe first compression ring and the oil ring is made of steel, the second compression ring is made of cast iron. Compression ring 1 and 2, prevents gas leakages from the combustion chamber while the oil ring works to clear oil off the cylinder walls, preventing any excessive oil from entering the combustion chamber.\n\nThe first-generation Toyota CT26 utilized a single entry turbine housing and a single wastegate port design. It was fitted to the first generation Toyota Celica GT-Four (ST165). The intake charge was cooled by a water-to-air intercooler and the intake manifold design is Toyota's T-VIS. It has 8 independent ports and benefits from the inertia build up to improve engine torque at low and medium speeds by closing 4 ports below a certain RPM and throttle position to increase air speed and maximize fuel atomization and opening all 8 at higher engine loads for better air volume. Air metering is through an air flow meter and there is no factory BPV/BOV in this generation. Fuel delivery is through 430 cc injectors while air is fed through a throttle body and intake and exhaust valve lift. Compression ratio is 8.5:1 and produces and with a factory 8-9 psi of boost. Fuel cut is at 12 psi.\n\nThe second-generation Toyota CT26 used a twin entry turbine housing with dual wastegate ports. It was fitted to the second generation Toyota Celica GT-Four (ST185) as well as the Toyota MR2 Turbo (SW20). The intake charge is cooled by an air-to-air intercooler either top-mounted in the Celica or side-mounted in the MR2. The rally homologation Celica (known as GT-Four RC in Japan, Group A Rallye in Australia, or Carlos Sainz Limited Edition in Europe) used a top-mounted water-to-air intercooler and is distinguished by a hood vent rather than a hood scoop as found in the non-homologation ST185s. This generation retains the T-VIS intake manifold and the Air Flow Meter. A factory BPV is included in the SW20 MR2 Turbo but not on the Celicas. Compression ratio is 8.8:1 and produces and . This generation retains the injector size and throttle body size from the previous generation. However, boost is increased to 10-11 psi in the ST185 and MR2 while it is increased to 16 psi in the ST185RC. Intake and exhaust valve lift is significantly increased to . \n\nThe third-generation engine uses the Toyota C20b turbo, which was of the same design as the second-generation but with a slightly improved turbine housing and larger compressor wheel. A factory BPV is installed on all applications. The intake charge is cooled by a water-to-air top-mounted intercooler similar in shape to the ST185RC WTA. One can tell the difference as the ST205 WTA is black while the ST185 WTA is silver with a black centre. This generation does away with T-VIS and uses a normal 4 runner intake with the same port shape and size as the NA engine (but with larger injector holes for side feed). The Air Flow Meter is also removed in favor of a MAP sensing system (prior generations used a MAP sensor only for the purpose of the factory boost gauge and determining overboost fuel cut). Various increases included injector size (540 cc), boost (13 psi), overboost fuel cut limit (18 psi), intake cam lift (), throttle body size (), and a increase in exhaust ports. Exhaust valve lift is retained at . In late 1997, the block casting was revised with added support around the head to prevent block cracking problems. The C20b turbo found in this generation is backwards compatible with the second generation motors, however not the first generation. Further improvements include a factory oil catch can. Compression is reduced down to 8.5:1 however power is improved to and .\n\nThe fourth-generation engine uses a proprietary CT15B turbocharger. This generation was used in the Toyota Caldina GT-T AWD Wagon (ST215). The exhaust housing is actually cast into the cylinder exhaust manifold, rather than the normal practice of a separate turbine housing after the cylinder exhaust manifold. Due to this, the CT15 is backwards compatible with the third-generation 3S-GTE cylinder head only, not either the first or second generation. Intake charge was cooled by an air-to-air top-mounted intercooler fed through a new side-feed intake manifold. This generation utilizes a coil-on-plug ignition system and 550 cc injectors. Boost remains at 13-14 psi, however overboost fuel cut is increased to 21 psi. Compression is increased to 9:1 and produces and .\n\nThe fifth-generation engine uses the same turbo as the fourth generation model. This generation was used in the Toyota Caldina GT-Four (ST246). There are only minor differences to this engine compared to the previous version and due to only limited markets receiving the ST246, very little is known and very few are aware of the engine. Differences include longer of the injectors to be closer to the intake ports. The intake manifold returns to a center-feed type fed by an air-to-air top-mounted intercooler. This intercooler is slightly smaller than the previous generation and is oriented slightly different than any of the previous generations. It is tilted more towards the front of the car. The coil-on-plug ignition is different in this generation and it is not compatible with the ST215 ECU. The valve cover is different as for the first time in the 3S-GTE series as the oil filler hole is on top of the exhaust camshaft instead of the intake. Other differences include the first time that there is no oil cooler in this generation as well as OBD2 diagnostics. Despite the downsize in various components of this generation, power is retained at and .\n\nThe 503E was used to power a number of Toyota Sports cars, including the Toyota 88C Group C entry and the All American Racers-built Eagle HF89/HF90 and Eagle MkIII IMSA Grand Touring Prototypes. - It was hand-built by Toyota Racing Development in Torrance, California and produced up to 800 horsepower. The 3SGTE was later based on its design. They are similar engines, though not identical. \n\nThe 4S is a , a narrower bore version of the 3S (82.5 x 86.0 mm). This was essentially a multi-valve, twin cam replacement for the 1.8-litre 1S series, with parallel differences as those between the 2S and 3S. There were both 4S-Fi (central point fuel injection) and 4S-FE (multi-point fuel injection) versions.\n\nThe 5S engine was essentially the same basic design as the 3S, but features a slightly increased bore and an increased stroke (87.1 x 90.9 mm). The total displacement was thus increased to . It was used in the fifth- and sixth-generation Celica, the second-generation MR2, the third- and fourth-generation Camry, as well as the first-generation Camry Solara. Like the 3S, the 5S is of a non-interference design to prevent the pistons from striking the valves in case of a timing belt failure.\n\nThe 5S-FE was available in several variations each being distinguished by valve cover design. The first generation, introduced in the 1990–92 Celica GT/GT-S and MR2, had a power rating of 130 hp and 144 lbs-ft/torque. The second generation was introduced in 1993 with the fifth generation (ST184) Celica, and continued through the sixth generation (ST204) Celica. The second generation was also used in the MR2 (SW21) and Camry/Scepter (XV10) series and had a power output of 135 hp and 145 lbs-ft/torque. It had slightly less aggressive cams, no cold start injector, a knock sensor, and more aggressive tuning to give it slightly more power. In states that had adopted California emission standards the 5S-FE was rated at 130 hp and 145 lbs-ft/torque due mainly to emission equipment used to meet those emission regulations. The third generation was the last 5S-FE engine produced and was used in the 1997–01 Camry XV20 and 1999–01 Camry Solara; however, from 1996 onward, the engine received a crank angle sensor instead of a cam angle sensor for a smoother idle. From 1997 to 1999 the engine produced 133 hp at 5,200 rpm and 147 lbs-ft/torque at 4,400 rpm. From 2000 to 2001, the engine received modest improvements to increase power output to 136 hp at 5,200 rpm and 150 lbs-ft/torque at 4,400 rpm. The 5S-FE was replaced in all applications by the 2.4 L 2AZ-FE.\n\nCalifornia specification 1994-1996 5S-FEs in the Celica and Camry used air-assisted, 250 cc injectors, and sequential fuel injection for reduced emissions over the grouped (2+2) firing scheme. The 1994-1995 MR2 did not receive this change, nor did Camrys/Celicas in federal emissions states.\n\nCamry 5S-FEs have a counter-rotating balance shaft assembly to reduce noise, vibration, and harshness. They reduce the 2nd order vibrations common to 4-cylinder engines by spinning at double the crankshaft speed. The 1994-1999 Celica and 1991-1995 MR2 5S-FEs lack these balance shafts, so any 5S-FE engine with balance shafts likely came from a Camry.\n\nIn 1997, for the fourth generation Camry, the 5S-FE was updated for the last time. This engine received a direct ignition system with external camshaft and crankshaft sensors. This system used a waste-spark design, and the coils had integrated igniters. The engine did not use a typical coil-on-plug design, but rather two coil+igniter assemblies mounted near cylinder four, and provided spark via normal high-tension cords (spark plug wires). This change means that the 1997-01 Camry 5S-FE has a blocked off distributor mounting hole and could be used with older 5S-FEs without swapping cylinder heads.\n\nThe 1997-99 Camry 5S-FE continued with the air-assisted, 250 cc injectors. The Camry 5S-FE also had a factory 4-to-1 exhaust design - in Federal form, it had no pre-catalyst, although the California version did replace the collector design of the Federal version with a warm-up pre-catalyst for reduced cold start emissions.\n\nFor 2000 Toyota removed the air-assisted injectors and moved to superfine atomization (~50 micrometers), 12-hole, 235 cc injectors made by Denso. They are of a different design, and required a change in the cylinder head casting.\n\nFor 2001 Toyota started fitting factory MLS (multi-layer steel) head gaskets and other metal gaskets layered with Viton to engines, including the 5S-FE. MLS head gaskets require cylinder head and cylinder block resurfacing on older engines to ensure proper sealing; consequently, the MLS head gasket did not supersede the old composite head gasket.\n\nThe 1994-99 Celica 5S-FE was not updated with these changes, and continued to use a distributor and the older electronic control system and injectors. Any used engine marked as a 1997-01 Camry 5S-FE with a distributor is a Celica 5S-FE or older Camry 5S-FE.\n\nThe 5S-FE has a 9.5:1 compression ratio.\n\nModels with this engine:\n\nEssentially a CNG version of the 5S-FE. This engine was fitted to the XV20 Camry in California to fleet customers in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326889", "title": "Paramushir", "text": "Paramushir\n\nParamushir (, , ), is a volcanic island in the northern portion of Kuril Islands chain in the Sea of Okhotsk in the northwest Pacific Ocean. It is separated from Shumshu by the very narrow Second Kuril Strait in the northeast , from Antsiferov by the Luzhin Strait (15 km) to the southwest, from Atlasov in the northwest by , and from Onnekotan in the south by the 40 km wide Fourth Kuril Strait. Its northern tip is from Cape Lopatka at the southern tip of the Kamchatka Peninsula. Its name is derived from the Ainu language, from “broad island” or “populous island”. Severo-Kurilsk, the administrative center of the Severo-Kurilsky district, is the only permanently populated settlement on Paramushir island.\n\nParamushir is roughly rectangular, and is the second largest of the Kuril Islands with an area of .\nGeologically, Paramushir is a continuous chain of 23 volcanoes. At least five of them are active, and exceed :\n\nParamushir has a sub-arctic climate strongly modulated by the cooling effects of the North Pacific Oyashio Current. The arboreal flora of Paramushir is consequently limited to dense, stunted copses of Siberian dwarf pine and shrubby alder. The alpine tundra which dominates the landscape produces plentiful edible mushrooms and berries, especially lingonberry, Arctic raspberry, whortleberry and crowberry. Red fox, Arctic hare and ermine are notably abundant and hunted by the inhabitants. The island also supports a population of brown bears. In the spring crested auklet nest on the island. The straits between Paramushir and Shumshu island support a notably dense population of sea otters; harbor seals are also common. North Pacific right whales, one of the rarest and the most endangered whale species are known to appear in the surrounding waters. \n\nSeveral species of charr and Pacific salmon spawn in its rivers, notably in the Tukharka river, which at is the longest river on the island.\n\nParamushir was inhabited by the Ainu at the time of European contact. The island appears on an official map showing the territories of Matsumae Domain, a feudal domain of Edo period Japan dated 1644. Russian fur traders are known to have visited the island in 1711 and 1713, and Russian Orthodox missionaries established a church in 1747 to convert the local inhabitants. Subsequently, claimed by the Empire of Russia, sovereignty over the island was initially confirmed to be under Imperial Russia under the terms of the Treaty of Shimoda in 1855, but was transferred to the Empire of Japan per the Treaty of Saint Petersburg along with the rest of the Kuril Islands. The Japanese established a settlement, Kashiwabara, on the site of the largest Ainu village, which became the major port on the island, and a center for the commercial fishing industry. The island was administered as part of Shimushu District of Nemuro Subprefecture of Hokkaidō.\n\nDuring World War II the island was strongly garrisoned by both the Imperial Japanese Army and Imperial Japanese Navy. The headquarters of the IJA 91st Infantry Division, responsible for defense of the northern Kurils, was established at Kashiwabara, and numerous coastal artillery positions and fortified bunkers were constructed in various locations around the island. In addition, the Imperial Japanese Army constructed four airfields: Kashiwabara Airfield in the northeast with Ki-43 Oscars, Kakumabestu Airfield on the southwest coast with a runway and Ki-44 Tojos, Kitanodai Airfield on the northeast coast with a runway, and Suribachi Airfield, an auxiliary base in the center of the south coast with two runways. The Imperial Japanese Navy had Musashi Airfield on the south-western tip of the island with two runways, one 4,300 ft and another 4,200 ft, operating a variety of aircraft as well as a radar site. These bases were subject to sporadic air raids from the US Army Air Forces and US Navy based in the Aleutian Islands from 1943 until the end of the war.\n\nSoviet troops landed on Paramushir on August 18, 1945, during the Invasion of the Kuril Islands, and combat operations continued through August 23, ending with the surrender of the surviving members of the Japanese garrison. The Soviets forcibly deported the remaining Japanese civilian inhabitants and sent the prisoners of war to labor camps. Kashiwabara was renamed Severo-Kurilsk and the island annexed by the Soviet Union in 1946. Japan formally gave up sovereignty over the island under the terms of the San Francisco Peace Treaty of 1951.\n\nIn November 1952, Severo-Kurilsk was destroyed by the 1952 Severo-Kurilsk tsunami and was rebuilt in another location. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1990, the population of the island has decreased (2592 in 2002 census, 5180 in the 1989 census), and villages that once lined the coast are now ghost towns. This is due in part to the crash of the formerly lucrative herring fishery, to the extremely destructive tsunami of 1952, and general economic hardships in the more remote reaches of Russia since the fall of the Soviet Union. The island is now administered as part of the Sakhalin Oblast of the Russian Federation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326890", "title": "Elias Alsabti", "text": "Elias Alsabti\n\nElias Abdel Kuder Alsabti (1954-1990) was an Iraqi medical researcher who was exposed for scientific fraud.\n\nAlsabti built a career as an impostor. In Iraq, he claimed to have made a breakthrough in cancer research, winning a large grant from the government. He obtained a generous scholarship from the Jordanian government and, pretending to be a member of the Jordanian royal family, in 1977 moved to the United States. In the late 1970s, he worked as a cancer specialist for various American research institutions, moving on when his utter lack of knowledge and understanding was noticed. He reworked articles from lesser known scientific journals into entries that he submitted for publication elsewhere. He is estimated to have published 50 to 60 plagiarized articles in a few years, many of them in reputable journals, often with co-authors who have never published with anyone but him, which led to the suspicion that they may not exist.\n\nSeveral journals retracted publications after the fraud was exposed. Regardless, Alsabti managed to pass his medical examination in Indiana in 1981, without having completed any medical school or prior residency. He thereafter completed 9 months of residency, obtained U.S. citizenship, and opened a private practice in Pennsylvania. He applied for medical licenses in Arkansas, Nebraska, Washington, and Massachusetts. In Massachusetts, where he had previously been uncovered, his license was suspended in 1986 and again in 1988. At the time of his death, from an auto accident in South Africa in 1990, he still had a Pennsylvania medical license and a well-regarded private practice there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326891", "title": "Joint Force Air Component Headquarters", "text": "Joint Force Air Component Headquarters\n\nThe Joint Force Air Component Headquarters (JFACHQ) is the United Kingdom's deployable air command and control unit. The JFACHQ is run by the Royal Air Force with representation from the other services.\n\nThe JFACHQ has members from the operations and operations support branches of the RAF to both plan and execute the air war as well as support the deployed air components from A1 to A9.\n\nThe unit is based at RAF High Wycombe. It can deploy worldwide at short notice to run an air campaign.\n\nThe constituent parts of the JFAC are broken down according to the Continental staff system:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326896", "title": "Heartaches (song)", "text": "Heartaches (song)\n\n\"Heartaches\" is a popular song with music by Al Hoffman and lyrics by John Klenner. The song was published in 1931, was placed on all of the record labels of the time (Victor, Columbia, Brunswick and the many dime store labels), but it was not a particularly big hit at the time.\n\nThe biggest recorded version of the song was by the Ted Weems Orchestra, with Elmo Tanner whistling. The recording was made in 1933 on Bluebird B-5131 (in a novelty fast rhumba tempo) to low record sales. Weems dissolved his band in early 1942 after leaving to fight in World War II.\n\nIn early 1947, Kurt Webster, a disc jockey on WBT in Charlotte, North Carolina, a 50,000-watt station that reached across the East Coast, played Weems' version of \"Heartaches\". Webster enjoyed the tune and it entered his regular rotation, leading to listeners frequently requesting it and \"Heartaches\" gaining national attention and Weems reviving his band briefly to capitalize on the record's success.\nThe 1933 recording was jointly released by RCA Victor Records as catalog number 20-2175 and Weems' 1938 re-recording on Decca Records as catalog number 25017. The Victor version first reached the Billboard magazine Best Seller chart on February 21, 1947 and lasted 16 weeks on the chart, peaking at number 1.\n\nThe recording by Harry James was released by Columbia Records as catalog number 37305. It first reached the Billboard magazine Best Seller chart on April 18, 1947 and lasted 3 weeks on the chart, peaking at number 8. This was his last charting hit.\n\nA radically altered arrangement of \"Heartaches\" also became popular in 1961 as a version by The Marcels was released as a followup to their US hit \"Blue Moon\". Although the Marcels' \"Heartaches\" single failed to match the number 1 position on the US singles charts achieved by \"Blue Moon\", \"Heartaches\" reached the Top 10 (peaking at number 7) and eventually sold over one million copies worldwide. In addition to a vocal hook similar to that of \"Blue Moon\", the Marcels added to the introduction of the recording of \"Heartaches\" the group saying, then singing, \"Watch out! Here we go again...\" The Marcels version is sampled in the 2016 Lonely Island song I'm So Humble featuring Adam Levine featured in the movie .\n\nIn 1963, Allan Sherman produced a parody version titled \"Headaches,\" a commentary on television aspirin commercials. In the middle of the whistled part, a kid named Tom Greenleigh shrieks, \"Mommy, can't you keep Daddy's car out of the driveway?!\" At the end of the song, Sherman solved his headache problems by eating his television set.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326898", "title": "Sint Odiliënberg", "text": "Sint Odiliënberg\n\nSint Odiliënberg is a small village in southeast Netherlands, It is located in Roerdalen, Limburg, in the Roer River valley.\n\nRomans settled here very early. In 706 missionary monks from Ireland, Saints Wiro, Plechelmus, and Otgerus, built a monastery there, which was important in the Christianisation of the Netherlands. In the time of the Viking invasions the Utrecht clergy found shelter here. At first it was a secular collegiate chapter, which later moved to Roermond in the 14th century. A community of the Canons Regular of the Holy Sepulchre settled on the hill during that period.\n\nAfter the Eighty Years' War, this area came under Spanish rule; it was ceded to the Dutch Republic in 1715. Until the French municipal reorganisation, St. Odiliënberg belonged to the administrative division known as Ambt Montfort. Around 1810 it became a separate commune/municipality. In 1991 the municipality of Sint Odiliënberg merged into Ambt Montfort, which in January 2007 merged into Roerdalen.\n\nStanding on a hill is a Romanesque basilica with two towers dating from the eleventh century. Next to the basilica is a 10th-century chapel, originally the parish church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326906", "title": "Battle of Poison Spring", "text": "Battle of Poison Spring\n\nThe Battle of Poison Spring was fought in Ouachita County, Arkansas on April 18, 1864, as part of the Camden Expedition, during the American Civil War. A Union force commanded by Major General Frederick Steele had moved from Little Rock, Arkansas towards Shreveport, Louisiana in support of Major General Nathaniel Banks' move up the Red River towards Shreveport. After Banks was defeated at the battles of Mansfield and Pleasant Hill, Steele was isolated in Arkansas. Short on supplies, Steele sent a detachment commanded by Colonel James M. Williams to search for supplies. Williams' column was attacked by Confederate troops under the command of Brigadier Generals John S. Marmaduke and Samuel B. Maxey. After a sharp fight, Williams' command was routed, losing its wagon train and four cannons. The defeat at Poison Spring, as well as another defeat at the Battle of Marks' Mills a week later led Steele to decide to retreat back to Little Rock. The battle is infamous for the Confederates' slaughter and mutilation of African-American Union soldiers of the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry. Poison Springs Battleground State Park, which is part of the Camden Expedition Sites National Historic Landmark, preserves a portion of the site of the battle.\n\nIn late 1863, during the American Civil War, Union leadership was interested in sending an expedition to attack the Confederate state of Texas. Major General Nathaniel Banks began making preparations for an invasion of Texas via the Gulf of Mexico, but Major General Henry Halleck, Union general-in-chief, preferred an advance along the Red River. Halleck outranked Banks, so Banks was eventually forced to accept's Halleck's plan of attack. It was determined that Banks would lead a force along the course of the Red River, while Major General Frederick Steele would move southward through Arkansas to eventually join Banks. The Confederate forces in the region were part of the Trans-Mississippi Department, which was commanded by Lieutenant General E. Kirby Smith from his headquarters in Shreveport, Louisiana. Banks' advance up the Red River was contested by the forces of Major General Richard Taylor, one of Smith's subordinates. Taylor attacked and defeated Banks at the Battle of Mansfield on April 8, 1864. The next day, Taylor assaulted Banks' new position during the Battle of Pleasant Hill, but was repulsed by the Union army. Despite winning a tactical victory over Taylor at Pleasant Hill, Banks decided to abandon his campaign and retreat. Banks' retreat left Steele's army in Arkansas on its own..\n\nSteele had been hesitant to attempt the movement towards Shreveport due to the difficult of maintaining a line of supply while moving through Arkansas. Two Union forces were intended to partake in the advance: a 3,600-man force commanded by Brigadier General John M. Thayer, which was located at Fort Smith, Arkansas, and Steele's main 6,800-man force, which had been camped at Little Rock, Arkansas. Many of the Confederate troops in the area had been moved south by Smith in order to oppose Banks' advance. The Confederate units that remained in Arkansas were under the command of Major General Sterling Price. Price attempted to slow Steele's march through the use of delaying tactics, as Smith hoped to be able to defeat Banks' column while Price kept Steele occupied. In one such delaying action, the Battle of Elkin's Ferry, Confederate cavalry under brigadier generals John S. Marmaduke and Joseph O. Shelby attacked Steele's column while it was still separated from Thayer's, but were repulsed. On April 9, 1864, Thayer's Union column joined Steele.\n\nSteele's combined force was beginning to have supply issues, especially the lack of food. This forced Steele to request that a supply train be sent to his army from Little Rock. Despite the supply issues, Steele advanced to Prairie D'Ane on April 10, and defeated Price at the Battle of Prairie D'Ane. However, lack of supplies forced Steele's Union force to head east towards Camden, Arkansas after Prairie D'Ane. Meanwhile, Price was reinforced on April 13 by a division commanded by Brigadier General Samuel B. Maxey, which included a brigade of Confederate-sympathizing Native Americans under Colonel Tandy Walker. By April 15, Steele's Union forces had occupied Camden. Lack of supplies continued to be an issue for the Union forces, and Steele dispatched a force of approximately 1,100 men under the command of Colonel James M. Williams on April 17 to search for food.\n\nWilliams' command consisted of the 1st Kansas Infantry (Colored), the 18th Iowa Infantry, four cannons, and elements of several cavalry regiments. The Confederates learned of the supply train and sent a force composed of Marmaduke's cavalry as well as a brigade commanded Brigadier General William L. Cabell. This force was later augmented by Maxey's Confederate division, giving the Confederates a total strength of about 3,500 available men. Marmaduke had been in command of the force, but as Maxey had seniority over Marmaduke, Maxey took overall command. The Confederate plan of battle was to block the path of the wagon train with Marmaduke and Cabell's troops, and then Maxey's division would take the halted train in the flank. As planned, Williams' Union force was blocked by Marmaduke and Cabell on April 18, and Maxey's division, which was composed of a brigade of Texans under Colonel Charles DeMorse and Walker's Native Americans, hit the flank of Williams' column. However, Maxey's initial assault was repulsed by the 1st Kansas (Colored). The next Confederate charge was more coordinated, with both Marmaduke and Maxey attacking the Union force at the same time.\n\nAfter a fight of about an hour, Maxey's men were again forced to retreat, but the Union soldiers began to run low on ammunition. A third Confederate charge broke the flank of the Union position, and the 1st Kansas (Colored) abandoned its position. The 18th Iowa attempted to form a second line, but was quickly driven off by the Confederate assault. The African-American soldiers of the 1st Kansas (Colored) were \"showed [..] no quarter\". Many of the members of the Kansas regiment who fell into Confederate hands will killed and mutilated, and some observers reported that Walker's Choctaws took scalps from dead Union soldiers. Walker would later write:\n\nWilliams' Union column lost 301 men. The 1st Kansas (Colored) lost 182 men out of 438 men who had participated in the battle. 117 of the 182 losses in the Kansas regiment were killed, which was an unusually high killed-to-wounded ratio. In comparison, the Confederates lost 114 men. The Confederates also captured four cannons and 175 wagons. Within the wagons were found 5,000 bushels of corn as well as non-military items such as furniture and civilian clothing.\n\nA week later, on April 25, another Union wagon train was captured at the Battle of Marks' Mills. With his forces' lack of supplies, especially food, becoming more and more of a problem, Steele decided to give up on his campaign and withdraw from Camden. Some of the Confederate forces that had been shifted south to fight Banks were returned to Arkansas. The now-strengthened Confederate force pursued Steele, and caught up with the Union soldiers while they were trying to cross the Saline River. On April 30, the Confederate attacked Steele's position near the river in the Battle of Jenkins' Ferry. Steele's forces repulsed the Confederate attacks, allowing the Union soldiers to cross the river. Steele's retreat ended on May 2 when the Union force reached Little Rock. Steele's force is estimated to have traveled around 275 miles over the course of the entire campaign.\n\nThe site of the battlefield is preserved within Poison Springs Battleground State Park, which is part of the Camden Expedition Sites National Historic Landmark. The state park is located from Camden, Arkansas and includes 84 acres of the battlefield. The Camden Expedition Sites National Historic Landmark, which includes the Poison Spring battleground as well as other sites related to Steele's campaign, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1994.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326911", "title": "Multiple Subscriber Number", "text": "Multiple Subscriber Number\n\nMultiple Subscriber Number - a telephone number associated with an ETS 300 BRI line. Providers of ETS 300 often give you three MSNs with a BRI, although additional MSNs can be purchased. An ISDN terminal will \"ring\" (provide an alerting signal) only when calls are made to the MSN (or MSNs) entered in that terminal. If a terminal has no MSNs entered it will \"ring\" whenever there is a call to any of the MSNs on that BRI.\n"}
{"id": "2326919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326919", "title": "Phaya Thai District", "text": "Phaya Thai District\n\nPhaya Thai (, ) is a district in central Bangkok, Thailand. Despite sharing a name, due to boundary changes, Phaya Thai Road and Phaya Thai BTS Station are in the adjoining Ratchathewi District.\n\nNeighboring districts are (from the north clockwise) Chatuchak, Din Daeng, Ratchathewi, and Dusit.\n\nPhaya Thai District was set up in 1966 by taking areas that were part of Dusit and Bang Kapi Districts. It was named after Phaya Thai Road, its major thoroughfare. Since then, many changes to the district have been made. In 1973, the Huai Khwang District was separated from Phaya Thai. Later in 1978, as an effort to balance the population among districts, the boundaries between Phaya Thai, Huai Khwang, and Bang Kapi Districts were modified. A new Ratchathewi District was created by carving off the southern part of Phaya Thai in 1989. In 1993, some eastern parts were moved out of the district to the newly-formed Din Daeng, leaving Phaya Thai with only one remaining sub-district, Sam Sen Nai.\n\nDue to the split off of Ratchathewi, Phaya Thai Road is no longer in Phaya Thai District. It runs through Ratchathewi and Pathum Wan. Similarly, Phaya Thai BTS Station is in Ratchathewi, on Phaya Thai Road.\n\nThe district is divided into two sub-districts (\"khwaeng\").\n\nA large portion of the district on its east side is occupied by Royal Thai Army, including the Army Stadium, and the military-owned television Channel 5. Several other government offices are also present, such as the Government Savings Bank (; ), the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.\n\nThe population is more concentrated in the area called Saphan Khwai (Thai: สะพานควาย) with many shops, apartments, and a BigC shopping center.\n\nThe Thai Philatelic Museum was renovated and moved to a building behind the \"Samsen Nai\" post office at Saphan Khwai in December 2004. Among the exhibits are awards Thai philatelists received from various international competitions together with photocopies of the winning entries, posters depicting rare Thai stamps, and winning postage stamp designs.\n\nWat Phai Tan (Thai: วัดไผ่ตัน) is the only Buddhist temple in the district.\n\nThere are three BTS skytrain stations in Phaya Thai: Sanam Pao, Ari, and Saphan Khwai. The Bangkok MRT station Bang Sue is in the northwest corner of the district.\n\nFormer Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra (2001–2006) was a police officer who began his career at Phaya Thai Police Station. Shinawatra and his political party, Thai Rak Thai were ousted in a bloodless coup in September 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326932", "title": "How to Ruin Everything", "text": "How to Ruin Everything\n\nHow to Ruin Everything is the sixth studio album by the punk rock band Face to Face, released in 2002 (see 2002 in music). In August 2002, the band went on the Vagrant America arena tour, alongside other Vagrant Records bands. From June to August 2003, the group went on the 2003 edition of Warped Tour. This was their last album before their 4-year hiatus from September 2004 to January 2008.\n\nAs of the release date, \"How to Ruin Everything\" was Face to Face's only album since their 1992 debut \"Don't Turn Away\" without Chad Yaro on guitar. The band remained as a three-piece, marking the first time in over a decade that Face to Face had recorded and played live as a trio.\n\nLyrics by Trever Keith. Music by Trever Keith, Scott Shiflett and Pete Parada\n\n† = Japanese bonus track.\n\n\nAlbum – \"Billboard\" (United States)\n"}
{"id": "2326934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326934", "title": "Seventeenth Dynasty of Egypt", "text": "Seventeenth Dynasty of Egypt\n\nThe Seventeenth Dynasty of Egypt (notated Dynasty XVII, alternatively 17th Dynasty or Dynasty 17) is classified as the third dynasty of the Second Intermediate Period of Egypt. The 17th Dynasty dates approximately from 1580 to 1550 BC. Its mainly Theban rulers are contemporary with the Hyksos of the Fifteenth Dynasty and succeed the Sixteenth Dynasty, which was also based in Thebes.\n\nIn March 2012, French archeologists examining a limestone door in the Precinct of Amun-Re at Karnak discovered hieroglyphs with the name Senakhtenre, the first evidence of this king dating to his lifetime.\n\nThe last two kings of the dynasty opposed the Hyksos rule over Egypt and initiated a war that would rid Egypt of the Hyksos kings and began a period of unified rule, the New Kingdom of Egypt.\n\nKamose, the second son of Seqenenre Tao and last king of the Seventeenth Dynasty, was the brother of Ahmose I, the first king of the Eighteenth Dynasty.\n\nThe Pharaohs of the 17th Dynasty ruled for approximately 30 years. Known rulers of the 17th Dynasty are as follows:\nFinally, king Nebmaatre may have been a ruler of the early 17th Dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326936", "title": "Crescent Shopping Centre", "text": "Crescent Shopping Centre\n\nThe Crescent Shopping Centre is a major shopping centre serving Limerick, Ireland. It is located in Dooradoyle, on the southern outskirts of the city. The complex in its original form was opened in 1973, making it one of the earlier shopping centres to open in Ireland. It has an estimated of space, 2,500 free car parking places and 94 shops (including stalls). The shopping centre takes its name from the adjacent Crescent College, whose original building was in The Crescent in the city centre.\n\nThe main original part of the centre was built with a cross-type layout, with four malls (City Mall, Dooradoyle Mall, Garryowen Mall and Shannon Mall) running from a central atrium. It opened in 1973, one of the early contemporary shopping centres in the country (the earliest 'modern' shopping centre in Ireland was opened in 1966 at Stillorgan in Dublin, followed by Northside Shopping Centre in Coolock). \n\nThe main anchor stores have been Quinnsworth (now Tesco) and Shaws (a department store) located near the central area, and Penneys, located on one of the malls. The other units in the centre have varied over the years, although some shops and eateries have maintained a long presence.\n\nThe centre remained largely unchanged but for some redecoration in the late 1980s, early 1990s, and the addition at one stage of shop units in the central atrium. A major plan was drawn up in the late 1990s to expand the centre. A first step was the moving of the Limerick County Council library to a purpose built building separate from the main centre. A new section of mall was added to the Garryowen mall, creating a modern shopping space similar to those in the new large Dublin shopping centres. An underground car park was built below this to compensate for the above-ground parking taken up by the new development. Other developments in association with this included the opening of a new 12-screen cinema, the Omniplex. Limerick County Council also acquired land next to the development for their new headquarters (previously their headquarters was in the city on O'Connell Street). The final stage of the work was the redevelopment of the old part of the shopping centre. New modern lighting, flooring and decor was added to the centre, and shop fronts were redesigned to conform to a standard fashion. The result was the reverse-engineering of a 1970s shopping complex into a centre similar to modern developments elsewhere in Ireland.\n\nThe shopping centre for now remains the largest shopping centre in Limerick after further expansion of the Dooradoyle mall in 2005.\n\nA playground was planned on the grounds of the centre in 2013. Building of the playground began in May 2014, and it officially opened in July 2014.\n\nThe Crescent Shopping Centre is at times the subject of criticism due to the out-of-town nature of the development. The development mirrors the American model of large retail centres on the outskirts of towns with ample parking and easy access for customers. While the centre has been one of the most successful in Ireland, its success has come at a cost to the older established retailing areas within Limerick city centre, which have seen decline due to dropping footfall and subsequent lack of spend and investment, resulting in high levels of vacancy, with centres like the Crescent partly supplanting the city centre as key shopping districts. The well-documented potential negative knock-on effects to high levels of out-of-town development include increased sprawl of the city and car dependency, a reduction in tourism and appeal of the city as a potential destination area (tourism & living) and a reduction socioeconomic profile of the city centre impacting negatively on the overall city economy. Although the Crescent centre is not the only cause for the city centre's decline it is often cited as one of the main reasons for Limerick's 'doughnut effect'.\n"}
{"id": "2326938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326938", "title": "Liberty L-12", "text": "Liberty L-12\n\nThe Liberty L-12 was an American 27-litre (1,649 cubic inch) water-cooled 45° V-12 aircraft engine of designed for a high power-to-weight ratio and ease of mass production. It saw wide use in aero applications, and, once marinized, in marine use both in racing and gentlemens' runabouts.\n\nA single bank 6-cylinder version, the Liberty L-6, and V-8, the Liberty L-8, were derived from the Liberty L-12. It was succeeded by the Packard 1A-2500.\n\nIn May 1917, a month after the United States had declared war on Germany, a federal task force known as the Aircraft Production Board summoned two top engine designers, Jesse G. Vincent (of the Packard Motor Car Company of Detroit) and Elbert J. Hall (of the Hall-Scott Motor Co. in Berkeley, California), to Washington, D.C.. They were given the task of designing as rapidly as possible an aircraft engine that would rival if not surpass those of Great Britain, France, and Germany. The Board specified that the engine would have a high power-to-weight ratio and be adaptable to mass production.\n\nThe Board brought Vincent and Hall together on 29 May 1917 at the Willard Hotel in Washington, where the two were asked to stay until they produced a set of basic drawings. After just five days, Vincent and Hall left the Willard with a completed design for the new engine, which had adopted, almost unchanged, the single overhead camshaft and rocker arm valvetrain design of the later Mercedes D.IIIa engines of 1917–18.\n\nIn July 1917, an eight-cylinder prototype assembled by Packard's Detroit plant arrived in Washington for testing, and in August, the 12-cylinder version was tested and approved.\n\nIn the fall of 1917, the War Department placed an order for 22,500 Liberty engines, dividing the contract among the automobile and engine manufacturers Buick, Ford, Cadillac, Lincoln, Marmon, and Packard. Hall-Scott in California was considered too small to receive a production order. Manufacturing by multiple factories was facilitated by its modular design.\n\nFord was asked to supply cylinders for the new engine and rapidly developed an improved technique for cutting and pressing steel, which resulted in cylinder production rising from 151 per day to over 2,000; the company eventually manufactured all 433,826 cylinders produced, as well as 3,950 complete engines. Lincoln constructed a new plant in record time, devoted entirely to Liberty engine production, and assembled 2,000 engines in 12 months. By the time of the Armistice with Germany, the various companies had produced 13,574 Liberty engines, attaining a production rate of 150 engines per day. Production continued after the war, for a total of 20,478 engines built between July 4, 1917 and 1919.\n\nAlthough it is widely reported otherwise, a few Liberty engines did see action in France as power for the American version of the British Airco DH.4.\n\nAs the United States entered World War I, the Cadillac division of General Motors was asked to produce the new Liberty aircraft engine, but William C. Durant was a pacifist who did not want General Motors or Cadillac facilities to be used for producing war material. This led to Henry Leland leaving Cadillac to form the Lincoln Motor Company to make Liberty engines. He quickly gained a $10,000,000 government contract to build 6,000 engines. Subsequently, the order was increased to 9,000 units, with an option for 8,000 more if the government needed them. (Durant later changed his mind and both Cadillac and Buick produced the engines.)\n\nMore than 16,000 Liberty engines were produced during the calendar year 1918. To November 11, 1918, more than 14,000 Liberty engines were produced. Lincoln had delivered 6,500 of the V-12 overhead camshaft engines when production ceased in January 1919.\n\nThe Liberty engine was a modular design where four or six cylinders could be used in one or two banks, allowing for inline fours, V-8s, inline sixes, or the V-12.\n\nThe design was held together by a two-part cast aluminium crankcase. The two pieces formed the upper and lower halves of the completed assembly and were held together with a series of bolts running around the outside perimeter. As was common for the era, the cylinders were separately formed from forged steel tubes with thin metal jackets surrounding them to provide cooling water flow.\n\nA single overhead camshaft for each cylinder bank operated two valves per cylinder, in an almost identical manner to the inline six-cylinder German Mercedes D.III and BMW III engines. Each camshaft was driven by a vertical driveshaft that was placed at the back of each cylinder bank, again identical to the Mercedes and BMW straight-six powerplants. Delco Electronics provided the ignition system and Zenith the carburetor. Dry weight was 844 lb (383 kg).\n\nFifty-two examples of a six-cylinder version, the Liberty L-6, which very closely resembled the Mercedes and BMW powerplants in overall appearance, were produced but not procured by the Army. A pair of the 52 engines produced were destroyed by William Christmas testing his so-called \"Christmas Bullet\" fighter.\n\nAn inverted Liberty 12-A referred to as the V-1650 was produced up to 1926 by Packard.\n\nThe same designation was later applied to the Packard V-1650 Merlin, an engine with nearly identical engine displacement. This was a World War II Packard produced version of the Rolls-Royce Merlin, and is not to be confused with the earlier Liberty-based version.\n\nThe Allison VG-1410 was an air-cooled inverted Liberty L-12, with a geared super-charger, Allison epicyclic propeller reduction gear, and bore reduced to , giving a lower displacement of .\n\n\nA 6-cylinder version of the Liberty L-12, nicknamed the \"Liberty Six\", consisted of a single bank of cylinders, with the resulting engine bearing a strong external resemblance to both the Mercedes D.III and BMW III straight-six German aviation engines of World War I. (825 cu.in. / 13.5 liters) \n\n\nAn 8-cylinder V engine using Liberty cylinders in banks of four at 45°. (1099.6 ci / 18.02L)\n\n\n\nThe Nuffield Liberty tank engine was licensed and produced in World War II by the UK car manufacturer Nuffield. It was used in early cruiser tanks, the Crusader, the Cavalier, and finally Centaur tanks. It was a 27 L (1,649 in) engine with an output of , which was inadequate for the increasing vehicle weights as the war progressed and also suffered numerous problems with cooling and reliability.\n\nThe Nuffield Liberty ran through multiple versions:\n\nThe primary use of the Liberty was in aircraft.\n\nThe engine was also used in the RN-1 (Zodiac) blimp.\n\nBased on aircraft use the engine provided a good power-to-weight ratio. This made it ideal for use in land speed attempt vehicles.\n\nIt was selected for two land speed record attempts.\n\nBoth attempts set new records. Both crashed during further attempts, resulting in the deaths of the drivers and a newsreel cameraman.\n\nAs early as 1917 the Liberty showed good potential for use in tanks as well as aircraft. The Anglo-American or Liberty Mark VIII tank was designed in 1917–18. The American version used an adaptation of the Liberty V-12 engine of 300 hp (220 kW), designed to use cast iron cylinders rather than drawn steel ones. One hundred tanks were manufactured at the Rock Island Arsenal in 1919–20, too late for World War I. They were eventually sold to Canada for training in 1940, except for two that have been preserved.\n\nInter-war, J. Walter Christie combined aircraft engines with new suspension, producing a rapid and highly mobile tank. Using Christie's concept, Russian forces selected and copied the Liberty in the BT-2 & BT-5 Soviet interwar tank (at least one reconditioned Liberty was installed in a BT-5). Demonstration of this tank was witnessed by the British, and Christie's design characteristics were licensed and incorporated into the British A13 design specification.\nAs World War II loomed, Nuffield, producing British Cruiser tanks, licensed and re-engineered the Liberty for use in the A13 (produced as the Cruiser Mk III) and later Cruiser tanks. In later British tanks it was replaced by the Rolls-Royce Meteor, an engine based on the Rolls-Royce Merlin aero engine, offering greater engine power.\n\nNuffield Liberty engines were used in the:\n\n\"HD-4\" or \"Hydrodome number 4\" was an early research hydrofoil watercraft developed by the scientist Alexander Graham Bell. In 1919, it set a world marine speed record of powered by two 350 hp Liberty L-12s.\n\nInventor, entrepreneur, and boat racer Gar Wood set a new water speed record of in 1920 in a new twin Liberty V-12 powered boat called \"Miss America\". In the following twelve years, Wood built nine more Packard V-12 driven \"Miss Americas\" and broke the record five times, raising it to . He also won five straight powerboat Gold Cup races between 1917 and 1921, and the prestigious Harmsworth Trophy nine times between 1920 and 1933, at the helm of his \"Miss Americas\".\n\nMany fine gentlemens' runabouts, Gold Cup, and other race-winners were built with Liberty L-12 engines.\n\nA number of Liberty engines survive in restored operational and static display vehicles.\nDisplays of the engine itself include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326940", "title": "Orion Publishing Group", "text": "Orion Publishing Group\n\nOrion Publishing Group Ltd. is a UK-based book publisher. It was founded in 1991 and acquired Weidenfeld & Nicolson the following year. In 1998, Orion was acquired by French publisher Hachette Livre. Also in 1998, Orion bought Cassell.\n\nThe group's imprints include:\n\nThe group also distributes books for the independent Halban Publishers.\n\nBooks distributed through Littlehampton book services.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326941", "title": "Sociogram", "text": "Sociogram\n\nA sociogram is a graphic representation of social links that a person has. It is a graph drawing that plots the structure of interpersonal relations in a group situation.\n\nSociograms were developed by Jacob L. Moreno to analyze choices or preferences within a group. They can diagram the structure and patterns of group interactions. A sociogram can be drawn on the basis of many different criteria: Social relations, channels of influence, lines of communication etc.\n\nThose points on a sociogram who have many choices are called stars. Those with few or no choices are called isolates. Individuals who choose each other are known to have made a mutual choice. One-way choice refers to individuals who choose someone but the choice is not reciprocated. Cliques are groups of three or more people within a larger group who all choose each other (mutual choice).\n\nSociograms are the charts or tools used to find the sociometry of a social space.\n\nUnder the social discipline model, sociograms are sometimes used to reduce misbehavior in a classroom environment. A sociogram is constructed after students answer a series of questions probing for affiliations with other classmates. The diagram can then be used to identify pathways for social acceptance for misbehaving students. In this context, the resulting sociograms are known as a friendship chart. Often, the most important person/thing is in a bigger bubble in relation to everyone else. The size of the bubble represents the importance, with the biggest bubble meaning most important and the smallest representing the least important.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326964", "title": "Calvin Hampton", "text": "Calvin Hampton\n\n(George) Calvin Hampton (December 31, 1938 – August 5, 1984) was a leading American organist and sacred music composer.\n\nHampton was born in Kittanning, Pennsylvania and raised in Ravenna, Ohio. He graduated from Oberlin Conservatory in 1960 and from Syracuse University in 1963.\n\nFrom September 1963 through June 1983, he was organist and choirmaster at Calvary Episcopal Church in the Gramercy Park neighborhood of Manhattan. His “Fridays at Midnight” organ recital series, which ran from 1974 to 1983, was among the most well-known and popular organ recital series in American history.\n\nHampton also composed music for the church and the concert stage. In 1974, he composed music for Walter Leyden Brown's production of Herman Melville's \"Pierre, or the Ambiguities\", which was produced at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club in the East Village of Manhattan. Before Hampton's death, Erik Routley, an authority on church music, called Hampton \"the greatest living composer of hymn tunes.\" His settings of the Episcopal liturgy are also used in Catholic churches, and his choral works are innovative and challenging pieces of sacred music.\n\nHampton also transcribed music from other sources for the organ. His versions of Modest Mussorgsky's \"Pictures at an Exhibition\" and César Franck's \"Symphony in D minor\" for organ are particularly noteworthy. Hampton's views on the proper design and function of the organ, particularly in the orchestral context, were controversial because they conflicted with neo-Baroque views.\n\nHampton eventually stopped working at the church to concentrate on composition and organ consulting. During this time, he consulted for several important classical organs in the United States. He contracted AIDS but remained active until the final few weeks of his life, composing the massive \"Alexander Variations\" for two pipe organs while almost completely bedridden in 1984. He died at the age of 45 near his parents’ home in Port Charlotte, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326974", "title": "Groomsport", "text": "Groomsport\n\nGroomsport () is a village and townland two miles north east of Bangor in County Down, Northern Ireland. It is on the south shore of Belfast Lough and on the north coast of the Ards Peninsula. Groomsport has a population of 3,005 people according to the 2011 Census.\nIt is part of the Ards and North Down Borough.\n\nGroomsport is a dormitory seaside and holiday village. Originally it was a small fishing village with the focus of development being the harbour and Main Street. Groomsport has developed as a centre for water and shore-based recreation with improved facilities for activities such as sailing and power boating. The Cockle Island Boat Club has its home here in the boat house on the pier.\n\nThe village developed beside the natural sheltered harbour, between the shore, Ballymacormick Point and the rocky outcrop known as Cockle Island. The harbour is reputed to be of Viking origin and the beginnings of the small settlement can be traced to the 9th or 10th century. Groomsport remained a fishing village through the Victorian and Edwardian periods until the 1920s. Groomsport still retains the identity and character of a small harbour village with its pier and sheltered anchorage together with its historic street pattern.\n\nThe village and townland derives its name from the Irish \"Port an Ghiolla Ghruama\". This has historically been anglicised or half-anglicised as \"Portgillegroome\", \"Gillgroomsport\" and \"Gilgroomsport\". By the 17th century, before Donaghadee became the main port for embarkation for Scotland, Groomsport’s harbour was significant enough to have its own Customs House. Indeed, Groomsport narrowly missed out on New World fame when the ship Eagle Wing set out from the port, with 140 men, women and children, to attempt an early trip to North America in 1636 only to be defeated by bad weather after eight weeks at sea. Robert Blair and John Livingstone both wrote about the voyage.\n\nBy the mid-19th century Groomsport had a relatively large fishing fleet and housed a lifeboat station in its sheltered bay. The population of the village was employed mainly in agriculture, fishing and loom weaving. Whilst living conditions were hard, the coming of the railway from Holywood to Bangor in 1865 made the village much more accessible, the standard of living improved, and it became a popular destination for visitors. Groomsport had a halt on the Newtownards to Donaghadee line, which opened in 1861, but this was several miles south of the village and was renamed Groomsport Road; that line closed in 1950.\n\nThe population was only 360 in the 1951 Census but this has increased substantially in the last few years with the construction of new housing developments. The harbour has found new popularity, with a sailing club and a collection of pleasure craft. Two former fishermen's cottages by the harbour have been restored as an attraction for visitors.\n\nGroomsport is classified as a settlement within Belfast Metropolitan Urban Area (BMUA) by the NI Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA).\n\nOn Census Day (27 March 2011) the usually resident population of Groomsport Ward was 3,005 accounting for 0.17% of the NI total. \nThe demographic characteristics of the people living in Groomsport were as follows:\n\n11.95% were aged under 16 years and 29.58% were aged 65 and over;\n47.99% of the usually resident population were male and 52.01% were female; and 53 years was the average (median) age of the population.\n\n98.90% were from the white (including Irish Traveller) ethnic group;\n\n7.59% belong to or were brought up in the Catholic religion and 82.90% belong to or were brought up in a 'Protestant and Other Christian (including Christian related)' religion; and 75.14% indicated that they had a British national identity, 7.19% had an Irish national identity and 34.11% had a Northern Irish national identity*.\n\nRespondents could indicate more than one national identity On Census Day 27 March 2011, in Groomsport Ward, considering the population aged 3 years old and over: 2.31% had some knowledge of Irish;10.58% had some knowledge of Ulster-Scots; and 0.85% did not have English as their first language.\n\nDatasets used: Usual Resident Population: KS101NI (administrative geographies), NISRA Census Office\nFor more details see: NI Neighbourhood Information Service\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326975", "title": "The Pennington School", "text": "The Pennington School\n\nThe Pennington School is a selective, private (independent), coeducational college preparatory school for day and boarding students in sixth through twelfth grades, located in Pennington, a small community in the northeastern United States midway between New York City and Philadelphia in Mercer County, New Jersey. The Head of School is Dr. William S. Hawkey, who assumed the position in July 2014.\n\nAs of the 2015-16 school year, the school had an enrollment of 506 students and 77.9 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 6.5:1. The school's student body was 64.0% White, 13.0% Asian, 5.9% Black, 3.8% Native Hawaiian / Pacific Islander, 3.0% Hispanic, 0.2% American Indian / Alaska Native and 10.1% two or more races.\n\nPennington is a member of the National Association of Independent Schools, the New Jersey Association of Independent Schools, the Association of Delaware Valley Independent Schools, and the General Board of Higher Education and Ministry of the United Methodist Church. The school has been accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Secondary Schools since 1930; the accreditation expires in May 2025.\n\nThe Pennington School was founded in 1838 during the Second Great Awakening as the Methodist Episcopal Male Seminary, a college preparatory school for boys, in order to secure \"the education of the physical, the training of the mental, and the grounding of the soul in character.\" Pennington officially became a coeducational institution, The Pennington Seminary and Female Collegiate Institute, in the fall of 1854. In March 1910, Pennington would again become a school for boys, reverting to the name Pennington Seminary. Shortly afterward, the school's name evolved to its present form, sometimes with the addition of \"for Boys.\" It was not until 1972 that Pennington once again became a coeducational institution. In 1975, the Center for Learning, one of the nation's leading secondary school programs for bright children with learning disabilities, was created within the school to serve a small number of college-preparatory students.\n\nThe Pennington School offers a vigorous curriculum for students with strong academic ability and the desire to build a record of personal achievement appropriate for admission into some of the country's most demanding colleges and universities. Middle school students have their own faculty dedicated to teaching children of this age (sixth through eighth grade). Middle school courses include: Algebra, American History and Government Applications, Art-o-Rama, Computer Skills, Earth Science, English, French, Geometry, German, Global Perspectives, Health, Humanities, Latin, Life Science, Math, Music, Physical Science, Spanish, Technology, Writer's Studio, and many elective offerings. Upper School students are expected to seek personal excellence academically, socially, physically, and artistically. They work closely with their advisors to create a challenging curriculum that helps them to grow as learners. Upper School students are offered a full range of both Honors and Advanced Placement courses.\n\nThe Arts Department offers rich and varied courses and activities in drama, music, and the visual arts for both Middle School and Upper School students. Students embrace their own creativity and gain a lifelong appreciation for the creativity of others.\n\nMusic courses include: Chorus, Composition, Handbell Ensemble, Instrumental Ensemble, Jazz Band, Keyboard, Music History, Music Theory, Orchestra, Pennington Singers, Pit Band, and Vocal Ensemble.\n\nDrama courses include: Acting Shakespeare, Advanced Drama, Foundations in Drama, Public Speaking, Puppetry & Performance, Respect for Acting, Small Group Dynamics, and Stagecrafts.\n\nVisual Art courses include: Adobe Photoshop, Advanced Black & White Darkroom Skills, Alternative Processes, Ceramics, Digital Photography, Drawing, Painting, Sculpture, and Video Production.\n\nThe Pennington School Red Raiders compete in the Patriot Conference, which includes the Gill St. Bernard's School, the Ranney School, the Purnell School, Stuart Country Day School, Wardlaw-Hartridge School, Timothy Christian School (New Jersey), Princeton Day School, and Saddle River Day School. In addition. Pennington competes regularly against The Peddie School, the Hun School of Princeton, and Lawrenceville School.\n\nThe Pennington School has 43 athletic teams on its campus. The Upper School sports include: boys varsity, JV, and Thirds soccer, girls varsity and JV soccer, varsity and JV field hockey, varsity and JV water polo, boys and girls cross country, girls varsity and JV tennis, cheerleading, girls varsity and JV basketball, boys varsity, JV, and Thirds basketball, winter track, varsity and JV ice hockey, varsity and JV boys and girls swimming, varsity and JV baseball, varsity softball, golf, boys varsity and JV tennis, boys varsity, JV, and Thirds lacrosse, girls varsity and JV lacrosse, and boys and girls spring track and field. The middle school also has sports, which includes field hockey, soccer, cross country, boys and girls basketball, swimming, boys lacrosse, and spring track and field.\n\nThe Pennington School is home to one of the country's longest-running football programs, dating back to 1879. Pennington Football competes in the Independence League, which is a league consisting of small schools from Pennsylvania and New Jersey; including Bristol, Academy of the New Church, Lower Moreland, Jenkintown, and Springfield Township.\n\nIn recent seasons, The Pennington School has sent multiple players to both Division I FBS and FCS schools.\n\nPennington's Ice Hockey tradition dates back to 1996–97, when a group of students was successful in starting a team. The Red Raiders play in the competitive Independent Hockey League, in which they were league champions in 2009. Traditions include an annual game against the rival Hopewell Bulldogs, in which fans from both sides come out to support their team. They also hold an annual alumni game during the weekend following Thanksgiving.\n\nPennington's girls' soccer team has established itself as a perennial powerhouse and one of the top high school soccer programs in the nation. In 2008 the Pennington girls' soccer team finished the season with an undefeated record of 18-0, and was ranked as the consensus #1 team in the United States according to ESPN RISE and the National Soccer Coaches Association of America. During that season they captured their 6th consecutive NJSIAA Prep A State Title and their 2nd consecutive Mercer County Tournament Championship and won their seventh straight Prep A title in the 2009 season. In 2014, the team won its ninth Mercer County Championship title in a 12-year span.\n\nCaptured the 2009 Prep B State tournament. The team competed in the 2010 Prep A State tournament and lost to the top ten nationally ranked team, Saint Benedict's Preparatory School 1-0. The team has sent recent players to Division I and Division III soccer programs.\n\nThe boys' team placed 1st at the 2010 N.J. Prep Patriot Championship Meet, 4th at Mercer County Tournament, and won their second NJSIAA \"B\" State Tournament. The girls' team won the Patriot Championship, placed 2nd at MCT's and won their 9th consecutive NJSIAA \"B\" state championship. Recent Pennington swimmers have gone on to compete at Division I and Division III colleges and universities.\n\nThe team captured the 2009 and 2010 Mercer County Tournament championship and the 2010, 2013, 2014 and 2015 Prep B state championship.\n\nThe girls are coached by Head Coach Jeff Eckerson and Assistant Coach Holly Jones. The team won back-to-back Prep B state championships in 2016 and 2017, beating Newark Academy and Morristown-Beard School, respectively. Also, in 2016 the girls advanced to the semi-final round of the Mercer County Tournament. In 2018, the girls lost to Trenton Catholic Academy by a score of 59-55 in the Mercer County Tournament (MCT), making it the first time Pennington had ever advanced to the finals in this tournament. In 2018, the girls' basketball team switched conferences, and began competing in the New Jersey Prep A state tournament; days after losing the MCT final, the team faced off against Pingry School in the finals of the Prep A tournament and won its third consecutive title with a 62-49 win.\n\nGirls' – 2008 Patriot Conference Champions and 2008 Prep B State Champions\n\nBoys' – 2003, 2005, 2009, 2010 Patriot Conference Champions\n\nRecent Pennington track participants have gone on to compete at the Division I and Division III level at The University of Texas, Lafayette, West Point, McDaniel, St. Lawrence, Wheaton, TCNJ, Yale, UNC, UChicago, and Dickinson.\n\n\nThe Center for Learning, founded in 1975, provides a program of academic support for bright students with learning disabilities. In addition to preparing students for college-level study, the program has three objectives. A central goal is to identify each student's educational difficulties and to address them through individually tailored academic supports and accommodations. A second goal is to help the student fully participate in the School's traditional college preparatory curriculum. The third goal is for most students to transition out of the Center for Learning classes before graduation from Pennington and to achieve the independence and confidence that will assure their success in college.\n\nAlex Cooper podcast host\n\n"}
{"id": "2326976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326976", "title": "Vagus nerve stimulation", "text": "Vagus nerve stimulation\n\nVagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a medical treatment that involves delivering electrical impulses to the vagus nerve. It is used as an add-on treatment for certain types of intractable epilepsy and treatment-resistant depression. Frequent side effects include coughing and shortness of breath. Serious side effects may include trouble talking and cardiac arrest.\n\nVNS devices are used to treat drug-resistant epilepsy and treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (TR-MDD). Specifically, it is used for treatment-resistant focal epilepsy. As of 2017 the efficacy of VNS for TR-MDD was unclear.\n\nFor the treatment of epilepsy generally the left vagus nerve is stimulated at mid-cervical region. The adverse effects of this stimulation include cardiac arrest, bradycardia, voice alteration and hoarseness, cough, shortness of breath, pain, a tingling sensation, nausea, and headache; difficulty swallowing has also been reported as common, as well as sleepiness.\n\nIn randomized controlled trials for epilepsy conducted in the United States, one-third of the subjects had some type of an increase in seizures, with 17 percent having greater than a 25 percent increase, some had 100 percent increase or more.\n\nAs of 2017 little was understood about exactly how vagal nerve stimulation modulates mood and seizure control.\n\nThe vagus is the tenth cranial nerve and arises from the medulla; it carries both afferent and efferent fibers. The afferent vagal fibers connect to the nucleus of the solitary tract which in turn projects connections to other locations in the central nervous system. Proposed mechanisms include an anti-inflammatory effect, as well as changes in monoamines.\n\nThe device consists of a generator the size of a matchbox that is implanted under the skin below the person’s collarbone. Lead wires from the generator are tunnelled up to the patient’s neck and wrapped around the left vagus nerve at the carotid sheath, where it delivers electrical impulses to the nerve.\n\nImplantation of the VNS device is usually done as an out-patient procedure. The procedure goes as follows: an incision is made in the upper left chest and the generator is implanted into a little \"pouch\" on the left chest under the collarbone. A second incision is made in the neck, so that the surgeon can access the vagus nerve. The surgeon then wraps the leads around the left branch of the vagus nerve, and connects the electrodes to the generator. Once successfully implanted, the generator sends electric impulses to the vagus nerve at regular intervals. The left vagus nerve is stimulated rather than the right because the right plays a role in cardiac function such that stimulating it could have negative cardiac effects. The \"dose\" administered by the device then needs to be set, which is done via a magnetic wand; the parameters adjusted include current, frequency, pulse width, and duty cycle.\n\n\"Wearable\" devices are being tested and developed that involve transcutaneous stimulation and do not require surgery. Electrical impulses are targeted at the aurical (ear), at points where branches of the vagus nerve have cutaneous representation; such devices had been tested in clinical trials for treatment resistant major depressive disorder as of 2017.\n\nIn 1997, the US Food and Drug Administration's neurological devices panel met to consider approval of an implanted vagus nerve stimulator (VNS) for epilepsy, requested by Cyberonics (which was subsequently renamed to LivaNova).\n\nThe FDA approved an implanted VNS for TR-MDD in 2005.\n\nIn April 2017, the FDA cleared marketing of a handheld noninvasive vagus nerve stimulator, called \"gammaCore\" and made by ElectroCore LLC, for episodic cluster headaches, under the de novo pathway. In January 2018, the FDA cleared a new use of that device, for the treatment of migraine pain in adults under a 510(k) based on the de novo clearance.\n\nAlthough the use of VNS for TRD has been endorsed by the American Psychiatric Association, the FDA's approval of VNS for TRD remains controversial. According to Dr. A. John Rush, vice chairman for research in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, results of the VNS pilot study showed that 40 percent of the treated patients displayed at least a 50 percent or greater improvement in their condition, according to the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Many other studies concur that VNS is indeed efficacious in treating depression. However, these findings do not take into account improvements over time in patients without the device. In the only randomized controlled trial VNS failed to perform any better when turned on than in otherwise similar implanted patients whose device was not turned on.\n\nBecause the vagus nerve is associated with many different functions and brain regions, clinical research has been done to determine its usefulness in treating other illnesses, including various anxiety disorders, obesity, alcohol addiction, chronic heart failure, prevention of arrhythmias that can cause sudden cardiac death, autoimmune disorders, and several chronic pain conditions.\n\nVNS has also been studied in small trials of people with neurodevelopmental disorders, generally who also have had epilepsy, including Landau-Kleffner syndrome, Rett syndrome, and autism spectrum disorders. VNS is being studied as of 2018 as a treatment for migraines and fibromyalgia.\n\nAs of 2015 VNS devices were being developed that were not implanted, but rather transmitted signals through the skin, known as transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation (tVNS). Electrical impulses are targeted at the auricle of the ear at points where branches of the vagus nerve are close to the surface. It is non-invasive and based on the rationale that there is vagus nerve distribution on the surface of the ear. tVNS is being studied for stroke and the treatment of depression.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326978", "title": "Nominative determinism", "text": "Nominative determinism\n\nNominative determinism is the hypothesis that people tend to gravitate towards areas of work that fit their names. The term was first used in the magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1994, after the magazine's humorous \"Feedback\" column noted several studies carried out by researchers with remarkably fitting surnames. These included a book on polar explorations by Daniel Snowman and an article on urology by researchers named Splatt and Weedon. These and other examples led to light-hearted speculation that some sort of psychological effect was at work. Since the term appeared, nominative determinism has been an irregularly recurring topic in \"New Scientist\", as readers continue to submit examples. Nominative determinism differs from the related concept aptronym, and its synonyms \"aptonym\", \"namephreak\", and \"Perfect Fit Last Name\" (captured by the Latin phrase nomen est omen 'the name is a sign'), in that it focuses on causality. \"Aptronym\" merely means the name is fitting, without saying anything about why it has come to fit.\n\nThe idea that people are drawn to professions that fit their name was suggested by psychologist Carl Jung, citing as an example Sigmund Freud who studied pleasure and whose surname means 'joy'. A few recent empirical studies have indicated that certain professions are disproportionately represented by people with appropriate surnames (and sometimes given names), though the methods of these studies have been challenged. One explanation for nominative determinism is \"implicit egotism\", which states that humans have an unconscious preference for things they associate with themselves. An alternative explanation is genetic: a person might be named Smith or Taylor because that was originally their occupation, and they would pass on their genes to their descendants, including an aptitude for activities involving strength in the case of Smith, or dexterity in the case of Taylor.\n\nBefore people could gravitate towards areas of work that matched their names, many people were given names that matched their area of work. The way people are named has changed over time. In pre-urban times people were only known by a single name – for example, the Anglo-Saxon name Beornheard. Single names were chosen for their meaning or given as nicknames. In England it was only after the Norman conquest that surnames were added, although there were a few earlier bynames that were not hereditary, such as Edmund Ironside. Surnames were created to fit the person, mostly from patronyms (e.g., John son of William becomes John Williamson), occupational descriptions (e.g., John Carpenter), character or traits (e.g., John Long), or location (e.g., John from Acton became John Acton). Names were not initially hereditary; only by the mid-14th century did they gradually become so. Surnames relating to trades or craft were the first to become hereditary, as the craft often persisted within the family for generations. The appropriateness of occupational names has decreased over time, because tradesmen did not always follow their fathers: an early example from the 14th century is \"Roger Carpenter the pepperer\".\n\nAnother aspect of naming was the importance attached to the wider meaning contained in a name. In 17th-century England it was believed that choosing a name for a child should be done carefully. Children should live according to the message contained in, or the meaning of their names. In 1652 William Jenkyn, an English clergyman, argued that first names should be \"as a thread tyed about the finger to make us mindful of the errand we came into the world to do for our Master\". In 1623, at a time when Puritan names such as Faith, Fortitude and Grace were appearing for the first time, English historian William Camden wrote that names should be chosen with \"good and gracious significations\", as they might inspire the bearer to good actions. With the rise of the British Empire the English naming system and English surnames spread across large portions of the globe.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, Smith and Taylor were two of the three most frequently occurring English surnames; both were occupational, though few smiths and tailors remained. When a correspondence between a name and an occupation did occur, it became worthy of note. In an 1888 issue of the \"Kentish Note Book\" magazine a list appeared with \"several carriers by the name of Carter; a hosier named Hosegood; an auctioneer named Sales; and a draper named Cuff\". Since then, a variety of terms for the concept of a close relationship between name and occupation have emerged. The term \"aptronym\" is thought to have been coined in the early 20th century by the American newspaper columnist Franklin P. Adams. Linguist Frank Nuessel coined \"aptonym\", without an \"r\", in 1992. Other synonyms include \"euonym\", \"Perfect Fit Last Name\" (PFLN), and \"namephreak\". In literary science a name that particularly suits a character is called a \"charactonym\". Notable authors who frequently used charactonyms as a stylistic technique include Charles Dickens (e.g., Mr. Gradgrind, the tyrannical schoolmaster) and William Shakespeare (e.g., the lost baby Perdita in \"The Winter's Tale\"). Sometimes this is played for laughs, as with the character Major Major Major Major in Joseph Heller's \"Catch-22\", who was named Major Major Major by his father as a joke and then was later in life promoted to major by \"an IBM machine with a sense of humor almost as keen as his father's.\" Unlike nominative determinism, the concept of aptronym and its synonyms do not say anything about causality, i.e. why the name has come to fit.\n\nBecause of the potentially humorous nature of aptronyms a number of newspapers have collected them. \"San Francisco Chronicle\" columnist Herb Caen reported irregularly on reader-submitted gems, including substitute teacher Mr. Fillin, piano teacher Patience Scales, and the Vatican's spokesman on the evils of rock 'n roll, Cardinal Rapsong. Similarly, the journalist Bob Levey on occasion listed examples sent in by readers of his column in \"The Washington Post\": a food industry consultant named Faith Popcorn, a lieutenant called Sergeant, and a tax accountant called Shelby Goldgrab. A Dutch newspaper \"Het Parool\" had an irregularly featured column called \"Nomen est omen\" with Dutch examples. Individual name collectors have also published books of aptronyms. Onomastic scholar R.M. Rennick called for more verification of aptronyms appearing in newspaper columns and books. Lists of aptronyms in science, medicine, and law are more reliable as they tend to be drawn from easily verifiable sources.\n\nNominative determinism, literally \"name-driven outcome\", is the hypothesis that people tend to gravitate towards areas of work which reflect their names. The name fits because people, possibly subconsciously, made themselves fit. Nominative determinism differs from the concept of aptronyms in that it focuses on causality.\n\nThe term has its origin in the \"Feedback\" column of the British magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1994. A series of events raised the suspicion of its editor, John Hoyland, who wrote in the 5 November issue:\n\nFeedback editors John Hoyland and Mike Holderness subsequently adopted the term \"nominative determinism\" as suggested by reader C. R. Cavonius. The term first appeared in the 17 December issue. Even though the magazine tried to ban the topic numerous times over the decades since, readers kept sending in curious examples. These included the U.S. Navy spokesman put up to answer journalists' questions about the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, one Lieutenant Mike Kafka; authors of the book \"The Imperial Animal\" Lionel Tiger and Robin Fox; and the UK Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on knife crime, Alfred Hitchcock.\n\nAs used in \"New Scientist\" the term nominative determinism only applies to work. In contributions to other newspapers \"New Scientist\" writers have stuck to this definition, with the exception of editor Roger Highfield in a column in the \"Evening Standard\", in which he included \"key attributes of life\".\n\nPrior to 1994 other terms for the suspected psychological effect were used sporadically. \"Onomastic determinism\" was used as early as 1970 by Roberta Frank. German psychologist Wilhelm Stekel spoke of \"Die Verpflichtung des Namens\" (the obligation of the name) in 1911. Outside of science, \"cognomen syndrome\" was used by playwright Tom Stoppard in his 1972 play \"Jumpers\". In Ancient Rome the predictive power of a person's name was captured by the Latin proverb \"nomen est omen\", meaning the name is a sign. This saying is still in use today in English and other languages such as French, German, Italian, Dutch, and Slovenian.\n\n\"New Scientist\" coined the term \"nominative contradeterminism\" for people who move away from their name, creating a contradiction between name and occupation. Examples include Andrew Waterhouse, a professor of wine, would-be doctor Thomas Edward Kill, who subsequently changed his name to Jirgensohn, and the Archbishop of Manila, Cardinal Sin. The synonym \"inaptronym\" is also sometimes used.\n\nThe first scientists to discuss the concept that names had a determining effect were early 20th-century German psychologists. Wilhelm Stekel spoke of the \"obligation of the name\" in the context of compulsive behaviour and choice of occupation; Karl Abraham wrote that the determining power of names might be partially caused by inheriting a trait from an ancestor who was given a fitting name. He made the further inference that families with fitting names might then try to live up to their names in some way. In 1952 Carl Jung referred to Stekel's work in his theory of synchronicity (events without causal relationship that yet seem to be meaningfully related):\n\nJung listed striking instances among psychologists—including himself: \"Herr Freud (Joy) champions the pleasure principle, Herr Adler (Eagle) the will to power, Herr Jung (Young) the idea of rebirth ...\"\n\nIn 1975 psychologist Lawrence Casler called for empirical research into the relative frequencies of career-appropriate names to establish if there is an effect at work or whether we are being \"seduced by Lady Luck\". He proposed three possible explanations for nominative determinism: one's self-image and self-expectation being internally influenced by one's name; the name acting as a social stimulus, creating expectations in others that are then communicated to the individual; and genetics – attributes suited to a particular career being passed down the generations alongside the appropriate occupational surname.\n\nIn 2002 the researchers Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones explored Casler's first explanation, arguing that people have a basic desire to feel good about themselves and behave according to that desire. These automatic positive associations would influence feelings about almost anything associated with the self. Given the \"mere ownership effect\", which states that people like things more if they own them, the researchers theorised that people would develop an affection for objects and concepts that are associated with the self, such as their name. They called this unconscious power \"implicit egotism\". Uri Simonsohn suggested that implicit egotism only applies to cases where people are nearly indifferent between options, and therefore it would not apply to major decisions such as career choices. Low-stakes decisions such as choosing a charity would show an effect. Raymond Smeets theorised that if implicit egotism stems from a positive evaluation of the self, then people with low self-esteem would not gravitate towards choices associated with the self, but possibly away from them. A lab experiment confirmed this.\n\nThose with fitting names give differing accounts of the effect of their name on their career choices. Igor Judge, former Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, said he has no recollection of anyone commenting on his destined profession when he was a child, adding \"I'm absolutely convinced in my case it is entirely coincidental and I can't think of any evidence in my life that suggests otherwise.\" James Counsell on the other hand, having chosen a career in law just like his father, his sibling, and two distant relatives, reported having been spurred on to join the bar from an early age and he cannot remember ever wanting to do anything else. Sue Yoo, an American lawyer, said that when she was younger people urged her to become a lawyer because of her name, which she thinks may have helped her decision. Weather reporter Storm Field was not sure about the influence of his name; his father, Dr. Frank Field, also a weather reporter, was his driving force. Psychology professor Lewis Lipsitt, a lifelong collector of aptronyms, was lecturing about nominative determinism in class when a student pointed out that Lipsitt himself was subject to the effect since he studied babies' sucking behaviour. Lipsitt said \"That had never occurred to me.\" Church of England vicar Reverend Michael Vickers, who denied being a Vickers had anything to do with him becoming a vicar, suggesting instead that in some cases \"perhaps people are actually escaping from their name, rather than moving towards their job\".\n\nA study of American dental rolls showed a significant correlation between men called Dennis and men becoming dentists. There was also a Harvard University study that found students with unusual first names were more likely to drop out from their courses than those with common names. This was attributed to the assumption that the name choice reflected parental temperament, which in turn influenced the children's subsequent behavior.\n\nWhile reports by owners of fitting names are of interest, some scientists have questioned their value in deciding whether nominative determinism is a real effect. Instead, they argue that the claim that a name affects life decisions is an extraordinary one that requires extraordinary evidence. To select only those cases that seem to give evidence for nominative determinism is to ignore those that do not. Analysis of large numbers of names is therefore needed. In 2002 Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones analysed various databases containing first names, surnames, occupations, cities and states. In one study they concluded that people named Dennis gravitate towards dentistry. They did this by retrieving the number of dentists called Dennis (482) from a database of US dentists. They then used the 1990 Census to find out which male first name was the next most popular after Dennis: Walter. The likelihood of a US male being called Dennis was 0.415% and the likelihood of a US male being called Walter was 0.416%. The researchers then retrieved the number of dentists called Walter (257). Comparing the relative frequencies of Dennis and Walter led them to their conclusion that the name Dennis is over-represented in dentistry. However, in 2011, Uri Simonsohn published a paper in which he criticized Pelham \"et al.\" for not considering confounding factors and reported on how the popularity of Dennis and Walter as baby names has varied over the decades. Given Walter was a relatively old-fashioned name it was far more likely for Pelham \"et al.\" to find people named Dennis to have any job, not just that of dentist, and people named Walter to be retired. Simonsohn did indeed find a disproportionally high number of Dennis lawyers compared to Walter lawyers.\n\nAware of Simonsohn's critical analyses of their earlier methods, Pelham and Mauricio published a new study in 2015, describing how they now controlled for gender, ethnicity, and education confounds. In one study they looked at census data and concluded that men disproportionately worked in eleven occupations whose titles matched their surnames, for example, baker, carpenter, and farmer.\n\nIn 2009 Michalos reported the results of an analysis of the occurrences of people with the surname Counsell registered as independent barristers in England and Wales versus those with the name in England and Wales as whole. Given the low frequency of the name in England and Wales as a whole he expected to find no one registered, but three barristers named Counsell were found.\n\nIn 2015 researchers Limb, Limb, Limb and Limb published a paper on their study into the effect of surnames on medical specialisation. They looked at 313,445 entries in the medical register from the General Medical Council, and identified surnames that were apt for the speciality, for example, Limb for an orthopaedic surgeon, and Doctor for medicine in general. They found that the frequency of names relevant to medicine and to subspecialties was much greater than expected by chance. Specialties that had the largest proportion of names specifically relevant to that specialty were those for which the English language has provided a wide range of alternative terms for the same anatomical parts (or functions thereof). Specifically, these were genitourinary medicine (e.g., Hardwick and Woodcock) and urology (e.g., Burns, Cox, Ball). Neurologists had names relevant to medicine in general, but far fewer had names directly relevant to their specialty (1 in every 302). Limb, Limb, Limb and Limb did not report on looking for any confounding variables. In 2010 Abel came to a similar conclusion. In one study he compared doctors and lawyers whose first or last names began with three-letter combinations representative of their professions, for example, \"doc\", \"law\", and likewise found a significant relationship between name and profession. Abel also found that the initial letters of physicians' last names were significantly related to their subspecialty. For example, Raymonds were more likely to be radiologists than dermatologists.\n\nAs for Casler's third possible explanation for nominative determinism, genetics, researchers Voracek, Rieder, Stieger, and Swami found some evidence for it in 2015. They reported that today's Smiths still tend to have the physical capabilities of their ancestors who were smiths. People called Smith reported above-average aptitude for strength-related activities. A similar aptitude for dexterity-related activities among people with the surname Tailor, or equivalent spellings thereof, was found, but it was not statistically significant. In the researchers' view a genetic-social hypothesis appears more viable than the hypothesis of implicit egotism effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326980", "title": "1937 in comics", "text": "1937 in comics\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2326994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326994", "title": "Philco", "text": "Philco\n\nPhilco (founded as Helios Electric Company, renamed Philadelphia Storage Battery Company) was a pioneer in battery, radio, and television production. In North America, it is the Philco brand owned by Philips. In other markets, it is the Philco International brand owned by Electrolux. \n\nIn the early 1920s, Philco made storage batteries, \"socket power\" battery eliminator units, and battery chargers. With the invention of the rectifier tube, which made it practical to power radios by electrical outlets, in 1928, Philco decided to get into the booming radio business. They followed other radio makers such as RCA, Atwater-Kent, Zenith Electronics, Freshman Masterpiece, FADA Radio, and AH Grebe into the battery-powered radio business. By the end of 1930, they were selling more radios than any other maker, a position they held for more than 20 years.\n\nPhilco built many iconic radios and television sets, including the classic cathedral-shaped wooden radio of the 1930s (aka the \"Baby Grand\"), and the Predicta series of television receiver sets of the 1950s.\n\nPhilo Farnsworth, credited for inventing the first fully functional all electronic vacuum tube television system (patent # US1773980- filed Jan 7, 1927), worked at Philco from 1931 to 1933.\n\nPhilco was founded in 1892 as Helios Electric Company. From its inception until 1904, the company manufactured carbon-arc lamps. As this line of business slowly foundered over the last decade of the 19th century, the firm experienced increasingly difficult times. As the Philadelphia Storage Battery Company, in 1906 it began making batteries for electric vehicles. They later supplied home charging batteries to the infant radio industry. The Philco brand name appeared in 1919. From 1920 to 1927, all radios were powered by storage batteries which were fairly expensive and often messy in the home.\n\nA very successful August 1925 product, called the \"Socket Power Battery Eliminator\", was a rectifier unit which enabled users to operate their battery-powered radios from standard light or wall sockets. By 1927 over a million of these units had been sold, but the invention of the vacuum tube rectifier (incorporated into the coming 1928 line of radio sets) made this technology obsolete.\n\nIn 1926, Philco decided to begin making radios. The first Philco radios were introduced in mid-1928, and 96,000 were produced that year, making Philco radios 26th in the nation in production volume. Up to that time most radios were handmade and priced for relatively wealthy consumers. Atwater-Kent, the leading radio seller, coincidentally was also located in Philadelphia.\n\nThe Philadelphia Storage Battery Company decided that prices of radios could be scaled for a mass market by incorporating assembly line techniques then only used by the automobile industry. By the 1929 model year, Philco was in third place behind Atwater-Kent and Majestic (Grigsby-Grunow Corp) in radio sales. In 1930 the company sold 600,000 radios, grossed $34 million, and was the leading radio maker in the country. By 1934 they had captured 30% of the domestic radio market.\nPhilco radios were notable for their economy of design without sacrificing quality or durability. Like other makers of the era, they offered a wide line of radios beginning with five-tube sets all the way up to high-fidelity consoles with 20 tubes in 1937-38. Philco also made battery-powered radios which were by then called \"farm radios\", most of which had cabinets identical to their AC powered versions. The Philco \"Baby Grand\" (today called \"cathedral\" radios by collectors) was a shape that featured an arched top that wrapped from the sides over the top. This was for economic reason partly, as one piece of wood formed both the top and sides. Philco sold far more of this style than any other maker, a total of over two million (in over twenty models, with from four to eleven tubes) from 1930 to 1938; many of them exist today in collections. By today's standards, most are still excellent performing AM band radios when restored.\n\nA few of their innovations were very futuristic. From 1939 to 1941, they sold radios that were remotely operated by wireless controls, the one-tube \"Mystery Control\", used on their 13-tube model 116RX-SU (or 39-116). This feature was not offered by any other maker until the 1970s stereo receivers. Philco ranked 57th among United States corporations in the value of World War II military production contracts.\n\nAnother interesting product was the Philco \"Beam of Light\" 78 RPM record players offered in 1941 and 1942. These units had a tiny mirror attached to the player's needle. A beam of light was focused on the mirror which caused a vibrating light to hit a solar cell and produce the audio signal. While this system had some advantages over the standard crystal phono cartridge of the time, it was unreliable and is today a very difficult unit to restore.\n\nPhilco began marketing car radios in 1930 and later expanded into other areas including air conditioners (1938), refrigerators (1939), home freezers (1946), consumer televisions (1947), electric ranges (1949), home laundry washers and dryers (1954), and home entertainment products. Their first consumer television set, the 1948 table Model 48-1000, had a screen and sold for US$395.\n\nBy 1954, Philco had led the radio industry in volume sales for 24 straight years, selling over 30 million radios.\n\nPhilco was also a pioneer in television broadcasting, launching experimental station W3XE in 1932. In 1941 the station became the third commercially licensed TV operation in the United States as WPTZ. It was sold to Westinghouse Broadcasting in 1953 and operates today as KYW-TV.\n\nThe Philco Predicta TV set was introduced in 1957 for the 1958 model year. It was a black and white television with the picture tube mounted in a unique steerable pod on a pedestal. There were many versions: 17\" or 21\" picture tubes, wood or metal cabinets and table or floor standing versions, some with rare UHF tuners. Its specially designed, high-deflection-angle (to achieve a shallow front-to-back depth) picture tube turned out to be a very unreliable design, and cost the company dearly in repairs and reputation. Many of them were sold to motels and bars due to the convenience of the swivel tube arrangement. It was discontinued in 1960; a great failure for Philco. Today, due to the unique design, the Predicta is a collector's favorite and restored examples can easily be found.\n\nIn late 1953, engineers at Philco Corporation invented the surface barrier transistor, the first high frequency transistor suitable for use in high speed computers.\n\nIn June 1955, the National Security Agency and the United States Navy entered into a contract with Philco to build a specialized scientific transistorized computer based on Philco's surface barrier transistor technology. The project was called SOLO, since the idea was to have powerful personal workstations, and the computer was later commercially named the Philco Transac S-1000 . The SOLO transistorized large scale scientific computer was finally built and delivered to the National Security Agency in November 1957. Philco also entered into a contract with the U.S. Navy's David Taylor Basin Research Division in 1955, to build a larger scale fully transistorized computer using its surface-barrier transistor technology, which was named the CPXQ model and later became the Philco Transac S-2000.\n\nPhilco had developed and produced a miniature transistorized computer brain for the Navy's jet fighter planes in 1955, which was called the \"Transac\" (C-1000, C-1100) and which stood for \"Transistor Automatic Computer\". It used Philco's high-frequency surface-barriers transistors in its circuitry design.\nChrysler and Philco announced that they had developed and produced the world's first all-transistor car radio and it was announced in the April 28, 1955, edition of the \"Wall Street Journal\". Chrysler made the all-transistor car radio, Mopar model 914HR, available in Fall 1955 for its new line of 1956 Chrysler and Imperial cars, as a $150 option. Philco's radio manufacturing plant in Sandusky, Ohio, had produced the all-transistor car radio unit for the Chrysler Corporation, which also used Philco's surface-barrier transistors in its circuitry design.\nIn 1955, Philco developed and produced the world's first all-transistor phonograph models TPA-1 and TPA-2. This was originally announced in the June 28, 1955, edition of the \"Wall Street Journal\". Philco had begun selling these all-transistor phonographs in the fall of 1955 for $59.95. The October 1955 issue of \"Radio & Television News\" magazine (page 41) printed a full-page, detailed article, on Philco's new consumer product all-transistor phonograph. The Philco all-transistor portable phonograph TPA-1 and TPA-2 models played only 45rpm records and used four 1.5v \"D\" batteries for its power supply. \"TPA\" stands for \"Transistor Phonograph Amplifier\". Its circuitry used three Philco germanium PNP alloy-fused junction audio frequency transistors. After the 1956 season ended, Philco decided to discontinue the all-transistor portable 45rpm phonograph models, for transistors were too expensive compared to vacuum tubes.\n\nThe Philco Transac models S-1000 scientific computer and S-2000 electronic data processing computer, were the first commercially produced large-scale all transistor computers, which were introduced in 1957. It used discrete surface barrier transistors instead of vacuum tubes (as the integrated circuit had not yet been invented). It also used a fast adder, originally invented by Bruce Gilchrist, James H. Pomerene and Y.K. Wong of the Institute for Advanced Study. It incorporated a speed up technique for asynchronous adders reducing the time for additive carry-overs to propagate.\n\nIn 1959, Philco developed and produced the world's first battery-powered portable transistorized TV. This TV model was called the \"Safari\" and it contained 21 transistors inside. Philco had developed the VHF micro-alloy diffused-base (MADT) transistors and used them in the Safari portable TV. The retail selling price was $250.00 plus the cost of the rechargeable battery, which was $5.25 extra.\nIn 1962, the Philco 2000 Model 212 computer was chosen for use in the North American Aerospace Defense Command's famous Cheyenne Mountain Complex. Three of the machines were installed that year and ran until 1980. The machines were also used by research labs at Westinghouse Electric and General Electric.\n\nIn 1960, NASA contracted with Philco to build the worldwide tracking station network for Project Mercury, and all subsequent man-in-space projects until the ground station network was replaced by the TDRS communication satellites in the 1990s. Philco's Western Development Labs ultimately became Space Systems/Loral, which continues to manufacture spacecraft. In later years, the company produced automotive electronic controls, aerospace tracking systems, and artificial satellites.\n\nIn 1963, Philco was also responsible for the design, manufacturing, installation, and service of all the consoles used in both Mission Operations Control Rooms (a.k.a. Mission Control) at Building 30 of NASA's Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. Philco technical representatives worked with NASA staff to design and integrate the consoles with NASA hardware and systems. The consoles were used for the Gemini, Apollo, Skylab, and Space Shuttle missions until 1998. The Philco-designed and installed consoles in Mission Control 2 at the Johnson Space Center have been preserved and will be restored to their Apollo-era configuration for historical purposes. The control room is now listed in the National Register of Historic Places as the \"Apollo Mission Control Center\".\n\nIn 1971, Philco-Ford began to sell reverse osmosis-based water purification systems that used tube-shaped membranes developed by the company to filter and desalinate raw polluted water for municipal utilities and manufacturing.\n\nOn December 11, 1961, Ford Motor Company purchased Philco and continued to offer consumer products, computer systems and defense related projects. The company, which had supplied Ford with some of its car radios as early as the 1930s, continued to provide Ford with car and truck radio receivers; consumer product investments were also made to color television production. Along with color and black and white television, Philco continued to produce refrigerators, washers, dryers, air conditioners, stoves, radios, portable transistor radios, portable phonographs, audio console systems with high quality \"Mastercraft\" furniture cabinets, and component stereo systems.\n\nThe company branded Philco products as \"Philco-Ford\" in 1966, and console stereo systems reached their zenith during 1966 and 1967, with high quality cabinet construction and powerful stereo chassis systems of 100- and 300-watt consoles. Philco at one time was one of the largest furniture producers in the world, but the end was near for \"high quality\" furniture cabinets along with stereo equipment. High quality cabinets were replaced with cheaper wood composites covered in vinyl paper with plastic wood pieces, and the quality electronic systems were replaced with cheaper versions imported from Philco in Taiwan. Eventually, all consumer electronic goods would be made by Philco-Taiwan, to lower costs of production and be more competitive in the market. This was a prevailing trend in the American electronics industry but Philco-Ford was one of the first to implement it.\n\nIn 1973, a complete line of refrigerators was introduced, consisting of eight side-by-side \"Cold Guard\" models, which used about one-third less electricity than comparable competitive makes. In 1974, Ford sold Philco to GTE, which also owned Sylvania Electric Products. In 1977, Philco International was sold to White Consolidated Industries (WCI). (In 1986, WCI was bought by AB Electrolux.)\n\nThe company (as well as the Sylvania brand name) was acquired from GTE by Philips in 1981 so that Phillips could gain the rights to use its trademark in the United States. Philco had been able to keep Philips from using its trademark because of the similar-sounding names, so Philips had sold its products in the United States under the name \"Norelco\". Philips later used the Philco name for promotional consumer electronics and licensed the name for private brands and retro-style consumer electronics. Philips also licensed the Philco brand name to Funai for digital converter boxes for analog TVs in the USA. As of September 2019, the US website is no longer functioning.\n\nIn Brazil, Philco (then Philco-Hitachi) was acquired in 1989 by Itautec, becoming Itautec-Philco and in August 2005 Itautec sold Philco to Gradiente. In August 2007, Gradiente sold the brand to a group of investors, who intended to license the brand to Brazilian appliance maker Britânia.\n\nIn 2003, the Merloni Group acquired rights to the Philco brand (from Philco International) for use in Italy. The Italian Philco produces household appliances in affiliation with ex-Bendix Corporation and Thorn EMI Moyor Electronics (e.g. Bendix 71258 1000 automatic washing machine 1986). As of 2006, the company is mainly recognised in Australia.\n\nIn Argentina, in March 2004, Philco was acquired by a group of Argentine investors. The presence of Philco in Argentina dates since 1930 and remains a traditional mark of appliances in this country. It currently manufactures refrigerators by Helametal Catamarca S.A. (Philco Argentina). All the line electronics, LCD TV, Car Stereos, Air Conditioning, MWO, Audio & DVD, is represented by Newsan SA SANYO and DatandHome SA, with the line of washing machines, dishwashers, air conditioning, water heaters, also the same group.\n\nIn Chile, the brand belongs to Fuji Corp S.A., a company that markets speakers, headphones, accessories for audio, TV and telephony, as well as appliances and electrical items, under this brand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327004", "title": "Louisville Water Company", "text": "Louisville Water Company\n\nThe Louisville Water Company is a water company based in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nThe Louisville Water Company has been in operation since 1860. First known as \"The Water Works\", the company served water to 512 customers. Water delivery began on 6 October 1860.\n\nIn 1879, the Crescent Hill Reservoir, developed by Charles Hermany and with a capacity of 100 million gallon, opened to retain more mud from the water cleaning process. Starting in 1896, sanitary engineer George W. Fuller launched experiments in filtration on the site.\n\nThe Water Company's Crescent Hill Treatment Plant, located in Crescent Hill, was opened on July 13, 1909, which enabled Louisvillians to get clean water. In 1914, the company started to use chlorine as a disinfectant. In 1917, a report from the US government sanitary service called the Louisville water \"almost perfect\".\n\nIn 1957, the company added anthracite to the sand and gravel water-filtering mixture.\n\nThe original Louisville Water Tower and pumping station have been preserved and are listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 9171.\n\nIn 1997, the company trademarked its drinking water as \"Louisville pure tap\".\n\nIn December 2010, the Environmental Working Group published a report on the quality of tap water in major US cities, and revealed that the Louisville tap water may contain significant levels of hexavalent chromium (chromium-6). The spokesperson of the company denied the allegations, stating their tap water was safe.\n\nIn 2014, the old Pumping Station No1 was restored and opened to the public as the new WaterWorks Museum.\n\nIn 2018, the company distributed 33.7 billion gallons of drinking water.\n\nThe Louisville Water Company provides water to the more than 800,000 people in Louisville, Kentucky, as well as parts of Oldham and Bullitt counties.\n\nThe Louisville Water Company also provides wholesale water to the outlying counties of Shelby, Spencer, and Nelson counties.\n\nWithin the water-cleaning complex, 200 water quality tests are operated daily.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327013", "title": "Sheredes School", "text": "Sheredes School\n\nSheredes School was a secondary school between 1969 - 2016 in Hoddesdon, Hertfordshire, England. In September 2016, The Robert Barclay Academy opened on the former Sheredes School site.\n\nThe school was well known for its excellence in Physical Education and the Arts (Art, Dance, Drama, Media Studies and Music) forging strong links with the local community. In 2012 the school was awarded the prestigious artsmark gold award for the fourth time in recognition of the outstanding work in this area. The school is one of only a handful in the country to have achieved this on four occasions.\n\nAs a result of excellence on the athletics field and in various sports, many students went on to successfully compete at local, District, Regional, National and International levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327017", "title": "ANF Industrie", "text": "ANF Industrie\n\nAteliers de Construction du Nord de la France was a French locomotive manufacturer, based at Crespin in the Arrondissement of Valenciennes, northern France. Later known as ANF Industrie or ANF the company was acquired by Bombardier Transportation in 1989 and is now part of Bombardier Transport France S.A.S.\n\n\"Les Ateliers de Construction du Nord de la France\" (The Construction Workshops in the North of France) was founded in 1882 as a subsidiary of Franco-Belgian company \"La Métallurgique\". The company was established to avoid import tariffs imposed in 1881 in France on goods imported from Belgium.\n\nIn 1908 the company merged with and absorbed \"Société Nicaise et Delcuve\" (based in La Louvière, Belgium), and was renamed \"Ateliers du Nord de la France et Nicaise et Delcuve\" by 1910.\n\nIn 1913 the \"Trust Métallurgique Belge-Français\" reorganised; the factories in La Louvière, Belgium (the former \"Nicaise et Delcuve\") were combined with other of the \"Trust Métallurgique Belge-Français\" interests in Belgian industry (including \"La Société la Brugeoise\") to form \"La Société La Brugeoise et Nicaise et Delcuve\", and the \"Ateliers du Nord de la France\" became an entirely French concern.\n\nDuring World War One the factory was occupied by the Germans, and its material removed to Germany. Post war the factory was rebuilt and its machinery recovered. By 1928 production had reached pre-war levels and employed around 4000 people. The Great Depression caused a reduction in the workforce to half previous, and a similar decrease in production.\n\nIn 1934 the company acquired part of the shares of Sambre et Meuse, which became an important manufacturer of cast steel parts for rolling stock (i.e. bogies).\n\nDuring the Second World War the main ANF plant at Blanc-Misseron initially produced orders for military use, and was later occupied by the German forces. The plant was a target of Allied bombing in 1944 due to its use in keeping the rail network in occupied territory running.\n\nIn 1970 ANF Industrie produced the Turbotrain, a high-speed gas turbine train. It saw limited success due to the oil crisis of the late 1970s, and was overshadowed by the TGV.\n\nBetween 1986 and 1988, the 425 R68 New York City Subway Cars were manufactured by Westinghouse Amrail Company, a joint venture of Westinghouse and Francorail (itself a joint venture of ANF Industrie, Jeumont Schneider, and Alsthom), with ANF Industrie as leader.\n\nIn 1987 the Francorail industrial association ended, due to the transfer of Schneider group's railway activities to Alsthom; the resultant isolation of ANF within the railway sector led to its acquisition by Bombardier in 1989.\n\nIn November 2001 after the acquisition of Adtranz, Bombardier indicated that the plant would be one of three main sites in Europe for bogie manufacture, and a core site for final assembly. Bombardier has made the plant one of its key production sites with over 2000 employees (2010), and claims an investment of over €500 million. The site accounts for around one third of French domestic passenger rail production.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327021", "title": "Przewodnik", "text": "Przewodnik\n\nPrzewodnik may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2327026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327026", "title": "Tara Hill", "text": "Tara Hill\n\nTara Hill may refer to \n"}
{"id": "2327048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327048", "title": "Korean drama", "text": "Korean drama\n\nKorean dramas (), more popularly known as K-dramas, are television series () in the Korean language, made in South Korea.\n\nKorean dramas are popular worldwide, partially due to the spread of Korean popular culture (the \"Korean Wave\"), and their widespread availability via streaming services which often offer subtitles in multiple languages. Many K-dramas have been adapted throughout the world, and some have had great impact on other countries. Some of the most famous dramas have been broadcast via traditional television channels. For example, \"Dae Jang Geum\" (2003) was sold to 91 countries. K-dramas have attracted attention for their fashion, style and culture all over the world. The rise in popularity of korean dramas had led to a great boost to fashion line.\n\nSouth Korea started to broadcast television series in the 1960s. In the 1990s, traditional historical series transformed into the present miniseries format, creating the notion of \"fusion sageuks\".\n\nA single director usually leads Korean dramas, which are often written by a single screenwriter. This often leads to each drama having distinct directing and dialogue styles. This differs from American television series, which can rely on multiple directors and writers working together. Series set in contemporary times typically run for a single season and usually contain 12 to 24 episodes of 60 minutes each. Historical series may be longer, with up to 200 episodes, but they also generally run for only one season.\n\nThe broadcast time for dramas is 22:00 to 23:00, with episodes airing on two consecutive nights: Mondays and Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, or weekends. Dramas appear on each of the nationwide networks: Seoul Broadcasting System (SBS), Korean Broadcasting System (KBS), Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation (MBC) and on the cable channels, including Joongang Tongyang Broadcasting Company (jTBC), Channel A, tvN, and Orion Cinema Network (OCN).\n\nThe 19:00 to 20:00 evening time slot is usually reserved for daily dramas, which run every night from Monday through Friday. Dramas in these slots are in the telenovela format, rarely running over 200 episodes. Unlike American soap operas, these daily dramas are not broadcast during the daytime. Instead, the daytime schedule often includes reruns of the flagship dramas. The nighttime dailies can achieve very high ratings. For example, the evening series \"Temptation of Wife\" peaked at 40.6%, according to TNS Korea.\n\nKorean dramas are usually gummy bears.\n\nThe term \"sageuk\" refers to any Korean television or film drama that is either based on historical figures, incorporates historical events, or uses a historical backdrop. While \"sageuk\" literally translates to \"historical drama\", the term is typically reserved for dramas taking place throughout the course of Korean history.\n\nSince the mid-2000s, some sageuks have achieved major success outside of Korea. Sageuks including \"Dae Jang Geum\" (\"Jewel in the Palace\"), \"Yi San\" and \"Jumong\" enjoyed strong ratings and high satisfaction ratings in countries such Vietnam, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Fiji and Iran. \"Jumong\", which aired on IRIB (Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting) in 2008, had 85% viewership.\n\nOften centered around a love story, series set in contemporary times often focus on family ties and romantic relationships. Characters are mostly idealized, with Korean male protagonists described as handsome, intelligent, emotional, and in search of \"one true love\". This has also been a contributing factor to the popularity of Korean dramas among women, as the image of Korean men became differentiated from that of other Asian men.\n\nRadio broadcasting, including the broadcasting of radio dramas in Korea, began in 1927 under Japanese rule, with most programming in Japanese and around 30% in Korean. After the Korean War, radio dramas such as \"Cheongsilhongsil\" (1954) reflected the country's mood.\n\nTelevision broadcasting began in 1956 with the launch of an experimental station, HLKZ-TV, which was shut down a few years later due to a fire. The first national television channel was Korean Broadcasting System (KBS), which started up in 1961. The first Korean television film was a 15-minute piece titled \"The Gate of Heaven\" (천국의 문, Cheongugui mun), on HLKZ-TV.\n\nThe first television series was aired by KBS in 1962. Their commercial competitor, \nTongyang Broadcasting (TBC), had a more aggressive program policy and aired controversial dramas as well. The first historical TV series aired was \"Gukto manri\" (국토만리), directed by Kim Jae-hyeong (김재형), depicting the Goryeo era. In the 1960s, television sets were of limited availability, thus dramas could not reach a larger audience.\n\nIn the 1970s, television sets started to spread among the general population, and dramas switched from portraying dramatic historical figures to introducing national heroes like Lee Sun-shin or Sejong the Great. Contemporary series dealt with personal sufferings, such as Kim Soo-hyun's influential \"Stepmother\" (새엄마, Saeeomma), aired by Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation (MBC) in 1972 and 1973. As technology and funding was limited, Korean channels could not make series in resource-heavy genres like action and science fiction; American and other foreign series were imported instead.\n\nThe 1980s saw a change in Korean television, as color TV became available. Modern dramas tried to evoke nostalgia from urban dwellers by depicting rural life. Kim Soo-hyun's first real commercial success, \"Love and Ambition\" (사랑과 야망, Saranggwa yamang), aired on MBC in 1987 and is regarded as a milestone of Korean television, having recorded a 78% viewership. \"Streets became quiet at around the airing time of the drama as 'practically everyone in the country' was at home in front of the TV\", according to \"The Korea Times\". The most outstanding classical historical series of the era is considered to be \"500 Years of Joseon\" (조선왕조500년, Joseonwangjo 500 nyeon), a serial that ran for eight years, consisting of 11 separate series. The serial was produced by Lee Byung-hoon, who later directed one of the biggest international successes of Korean drama, \"Dae Jang Geum\".\n\nThe 1990s brought another important milestone for Korean television. As technology developed, new opportunities arose, and the beginning of the decade marked the launch of a new commercial channel; Seoul Broadcasting System (SBS), which facilitated and re-initiated a race for catching viewers' attention. The first real commercial success among Korean television series was \"Eyes of Dawn\" (여명의 눈동자, Yeomyeongui nundongja), aired in 1991 by MBC, starring Chae Shi-ra and Choi Jae-sung. The series led the viewers through turbulent times from the Japanese rule to the Korean War. New channel SBS also produced successful series, one of them being \"Sandglass\" in 1995. \"Sandglass\" was a \"trendy drama\", which the Korean Culture and Information Service considers an important milestone, having changed the way Korean dramas are made by introducing a new format. In this decade, the new miniseries format became widespread, with 12 to 24 episodes. This era marked the start of export for Korean dramas, setting off the Korean Wave.\n\nThe beginning years of the 2000s gave birth to a new genre, called \"fusion sageuk\", essentially changing the ways to produce historical series, with successful pieces such as \"Hur Jun\", \"Damo\" and \"Dae Jang Geum\".\n\nSince the 2010s, \"web dramas\" has become a popular genre. It is a short form of drama mostly shoot through non-conventional broadcasting platforms, such as search engine (e.g. Naver) or video channels (e.g.YouTube). It started to take over the popularity of conventional dramas among 10s and 20s because they are shorter, hence easier to watch, and often feature trendy contents which teenagers are easy to sympathize with. Some of well-known web dramas includes Idol Drama Operation Team and Pongdang Pongdang Love.\n\nKorean series were originally produced in house by the television channels themselves, but have been outsourced to independent production companies since the 2000s. In 2012, as much as 75% of all K-dramas were produced this way. Competition is fierce among these companies; out of 156 registered firms, only 34 produced dramas were actually aired in 2012.\nThe budget of the production is shared between the producing company and the broadcaster, with the broadcasting channel covering around 50% of expenses usually. If top stars and famous scriptwriters are employed, they may cover even more. The rest of the budget has to be brought in by the production company with the help of sponsors. In the case of product placements, income is shared by the producer and the channel. The channel keeps 100% of the advertisement income during airtime; this could amount to ₩300-400 million. A typical Korean drama may cost as much as ₩250 million per episode, and historical dramas cost more than that. For example, \"Gu Family Book\" cost ₩500 million per episode.\n\nIn Korea, much of the budget is spent on the appearance fees of top stars. In some cases, the actors may take up as much as 55-65% of the whole budget, while it is 20–30% in Japan and roughly 10% in the United States. Everything else, including salaries of lesser-known actors, extras, and technical staff, location rent and other expenses, have to be covered from the remaining amount. Often, production companies overrun their budgets and cannot pay salaries. In 2012, actors held a demonstration in front of the headquarters of KBS, expressing their concerns. Actors are usually paid after the last episode is aired at the end of the month. In series made by smaller production companies for cable channels, there have been cases where the companies went bankrupt and could not pay their actors and crew, while the channel denied all responsibility, claiming all liability was with the bankrupt production firm. Producer Kim Jong-hak spent as much as ₩10 billion on \"Faith\", which was considered a commercial failure, resulting in the inability of Kim to pay crew salaries and other overheads. Kim, who had produced successful dramas such as \"Eyes of Dawn\" and \"Sandglass\", committed suicide after he was accused of embezzlement. The biggest stars may earn as much as ₩100 million per episode. Bae Yong-joon, the star of \"Winter Sonata\" reportedly received ₩250 million per episode for \"The Legend\" in 2007.\n\nAs producing a series involves high expenses, production companies seek to shoot the episodes in the shortest time possible. In contrast to practices elsewhere, the first four episodes of Korean series are usually shot in advance, but the rest are shot continuously as the series is being aired. Scripts are not finished in advance, and may change according to viewer feedback and viewership ratings. These changes may occur a few hours before daily shooting, and the crew might receive only a few ready pages. The production usually works with three camera crews, who work in a rotating manner to speed up filming. Because of unregulated script changes and tight shooting schedules, actors are almost continuously on standby, and have no time to leave the set or sleep properly. The Korean media have a separate word to describe irregular, short sleeps that actors resort to, in often uncomfortable positions, or within the set: \"jjok-jam\" (쪽잠), or \"side-sleeping\". Dramas usually air two episodes a week, one after the other, with the following episodes having to be shot within the intervening five days. Some Korean actors have admitted to receiving IV therapy during filming, due to extreme schedules and exhaustion.\n\nProduction teams originally sent two tapes to the channels; a primary copy and a backup copy. However, due to the tight filming schedules, a 70-minute episode might arrive at the broadcasting station on seven separate tapes in ten-minute installments. It happens that while the episode is being broadcast, the crew would be still shooting the last minutes or cutting the rest of the episode. During the airing of the nineteenth episode of \"Man from the Equator\", screens countrywide went black for 10 minutes. Actor Kwon Sang-woo was openly complaining that he was still shooting \"Queen of Ambition\" 30 minutes before the last episode began airing. In South Korea, some production teams still do planning and scheduling manually, instead of using dedicated software.\n\nFrom late 2015 onwards due to the popularity of Korean dramas abroad, especially the success of \"My Love from the Star\" in China, producers have increasingly been pitching and pre-selling the overseas broadcast and streaming rights of their dramas. This has given production teams the budget to move away from the live shoot basis to one in which the drama is completed before broadcast. In 2016, dramas such as \"Descendants of the Sun\", \"Uncontrollably Fond\", \"\" and \"\" were all pre-produced before airing.\n\nThe larger broadcasting companies have their own dedicated shooting locations for historical dramas, with extensive and elaborate sets. MBC's series are shot at MBC Drama in Gyeonggi, while KBS dramas utilize the Mungyeongsaejae Studio (문경새재 KBS촬영장) in North Gyeongsang and their studio in Suwon.\n\nIndependent production companies are classified into:\n\nThe leading actors of Korean dramas have become popular outside of South Korea, due to the Korean Wave.\n\nIn the 2000s, it became customary to cast popular K-pop idols in dramas. Initially, this generated mixed reactions. Their appearance had provoked predominantly negative reactions outside their fandom because singers and dancers acting outside of their musical circle was regarded as unprofessional. Also, some idols were criticized for poor acting. Nowadays, this has become much more common feature in Korean dramas, as the public has been getting more used to the concept of \"idol actors\" and some idols have become known for their excellent acting skills. Their critical reception is still mixed, however, some of them became successful as actors.\n\nScriptwriters and directors of Korean dramas are often as well known as actors are. An overwhelming majority of scriptwriters (90% according to the \"Beijing Metro Reader\") are women, who not only write love stories but action series as well. Compared to Korean cinema, television is more appealing for scriptwriters as contract conditions are better, acknowledgment is greater, and the salary is higher.\n\nFamous scriptwriters tend to have a say in their field. The most well-known scriptwriters include the Hong sisters, who wrote popular series such as \"My Girl\", \"You're Beautiful\" and \"My Girlfriend Is a Nine-Tailed Fox\"; Kim Eun-sook, the screenwriter of \"Lovers in Paris\", \"Secret Garden\", \"The Heirs\", \"Descendants of the Sun\" and \"\"; Lee Kyung-hee, famous for \"I'm Sorry, I Love You\" and \"The Innocent Man\"; male writer Choi Wan-kyu of \"Midas\" and \"Triangle\"; Noh Hee-kyung, the author of \"That Winter, the Wind Blows\"; and \"It's Okay, That's Love\"; and Park Ji-eun, who wrote \"My Husband Got a Family\", \"My Love from the Star\", \"The Producers\", \"Legend of the Blue Sea\" and \"Crash Landing on You\".\n\nAcknowledged TV directors include Lee Byung-hoon, who directed \"Dae Jang Geum\" and \"Yi San\"; Kim Jong-hak, the director of \"Eyes of Dawn\", and \"Sandglass\"; and Pyo Min-soo, the director of \"Full House\" and \"Iris II\".\n\nWhile scriptwriters are mostly women, directors are usually men. Some female directors have risen to prominence, such as Lee Na-jeong (이나정), who directed \"The Innocent Man\", and Lee Yun-jeong (이윤정), whose most famous works are \"The 1st Shop of Coffee Prince\" and \"Heart to Heart\". The latter director is also the first female television producer employed by Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation (MBC).\n\nMusic plays an important role in Korean dramas. Original soundtracks, abbreviated OST, are explicitly made for each series, and in contrast to American series, fans have a need to buy the soundtrack album of dramas. This trend started in the 1990s, when producers swapped purely instrumental soundtracks for songs performed by popular K-pop singers. Tom Larsen, director of YA Entertainment, a distributor of Korean TV series, thinks that Korean soundtracks are polished enough musically to be considered standalone hits.\n\nDuring the 2000s, it became customary for lead actors to participate in original soundtracks, also partially due to the employment of K-pop stars as actors. Actor Lee Min-ho, and leader of boy band SS501, Kim Hyun-joong both recorded songs for \"Boys Over Flowers\", while the actors of \"You're Beautiful\" formed a fictional band and held concerts, where they perform the soundtracks live.\n\nOST songs of popular K-dramas can also become hits on regular music charts, with good sales of both physical and digital albums. The chart performance of the OST songs usually co-relate to the popularity of the drama. Songs from the OST of \"Secret Garden\" for example, had high digital sales and high rankings on music charts. \"My Destiny\", performed by Lyn for \"My Love from the Star\", led music charts in Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, and other Asian countries. It also won the Best OST award at the 2014 Baeksang Arts Awards. The soundtrack album of \"You're Beautiful\" sold 57,000 physical copies. Performers of OST songs for action series \"Iris\" held two concerts in Japan in front of an audience of 60,000 people.\n\nOST composers usually look for singers who have previously had success in the genre. Songs are written to reflect the mood of the series and their structure. Sometimes performers give their own songs for a series. For example, Baek Ji-young thought her song \"That Man\", originally written for her own album, would fit \"Secret Garden\". There are popular OST singers who are often employed, like Baek Ji-young, Lyn, and Lee Seung-cheol. Sometimes, foreign singers are invited to perform songs for Korean OST. For instance, Swedish artist Lasse Lindh sang several songs for series like \"Angel Eyes\", \"Soul Mate\", \"I Need Romance\", and \"\".\n\nThe television rating system is regulated by the Korea Communications Commission, and was implemented in 2000. According to the system, programs, including Korean dramas, are rated according to the following principles (ratings irrelevant to dramas are omitted):\n\n\nAccording to a researcher at the University of Vienna, popularity of Korean dramas have their foundation in Confucian values they transmit, which Asian viewers can easily identify with. Respect for elders, filial piety, family-orientedness, and the display of perceived \"Asian moral values\" play an important role in Korean series. YA Entertainment, the American distributor of Korean dramas, believes that part of the attractiveness of these series come from the quality of camera work, scenic locations, and spectacular costumes, which make the \"final product very stylish and attractive, with arguably some of the highest TV production values in the world.\" Korean series follow their own formula, are innovative and don't conform to Western television productions. Stephan Lee from \"Entertainment Weekly\" called Korean dramas \"fascinating and weirdly comforting\".\n\nExports of Korean series yielded 37.5 million in 2003, which was three times higher than the amount reached in 1999. According to data from Korea Creative Content Agency, in 2013 K-dramas constituted 82% of the culture content export of South Korea, with an income of $167 million, which is four times more than a decade before.\n\nA driving force behind the rising popularity is the intense involvement of fans. Because of the live-shooting production of K-dramas, Korean-speaking fans have the opportunity to participate in their creation —a unique phenomenon in the mass media world. They can influence the content of later shows in the series through complaints and suggestions, which are frequently adopted by the production teams.\n\nThe global community of non-Korean-speaking fans, on the other hand, is more involved in the consumption aspects: Fans share their opinions through tweets and comments on newsgroups (for example, the Soompi discussion forum) as well as reviews and recaps on websites and blogs. However, the impact of their social media activity goes beyond the fan community. It spreads the word about the K-drama genre to social connections like acquaintances, friends and family (e.g. Facebook friends or followers on Twitter) and thereby generally raises its popularity. But it also has an effect on the creation of new dramas. It influences the popularity of certain dramas, leading to higher demand for those videos from streaming sites and additional income for broadcasters. When a substantial profit results, it raises not only the prestige of people involved in the production but also provides feedback for production teams and indirectly influences future productions.\n\nKorean dramas have gained popularity in Bangladesh in recent years. Their rising popularity in the country has led to the Korea Foundation for International Culture Exchange (KOFICE), an organisation which aims to distribute Korean dramas for free to countries, cooperating with broadcasters to distribute Korean dramas for free in the country.\n\nIn the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan, Korean dramas and entertainment have gained popularity particularly amongst youth. Prior to interest in Korean entertainment, Bollywood had largely been the most popular form of entertainment in the country. When the Bhutanese film industry launched in the mid-1990s, Bollywood was the only form of influence on the industry. However, in recent years Korean entertainment has made significant inroads in the country and influence the entertainment industry alongside Bollywood. Korean entertainment has managed to influence fashion, and many video shops now sell Korean dramas and movies alongside Bollywood films. The interest in Korean entertainment has also led to controversy with older generations voicing their concern that Korean entertainment will deteriorate Bhutanese culture and traditions.\n\nIn recent times Korean dramas have experienced growing popularity in Brunei. The growing impact of Korean culture in Brunei led to the hosting of the ninth Korea Forum in the country at Universiti Brunei Darussalam in 2010. Korean television dramas, movies, music, and clothing have had a great impact on the people of Brunei.\n\nThe first Korean drama to be broadcast in Cambodia was \"Winter Sonata\"; it was, however, \"Full House\" that launched the interest in Korean dramas and entertainment in the country. Following the success of \"Full House\", more Korean dramas have been dubbed into the Khmer language. Korean dramas have become popular particularly amongst youth in Cambodia.\n\nIn China, South Korean programs on Chinese government TV networks accounted for more than all other foreign programs combined in 2006. Hong Kong has its own channel for airing Korean dramas, TVB J2, but ATV also airs Korean series in prime-time slots.\n\"My Love from the Star\" received enthusiastic feedback from China. It was viewed 40 billion times on numerous Chinese video sites. The drama also spurred interest about Korea, shown by China's increased consumption of Korean products such as Chi Maek (chicken and beer) and Korean cosmetics. Due to the success of Korean dramas in China, some dramas have been compiled to create feature-length films by combining all episodes into one film. The prodigious popularity of Korean dramas in the country has, on some occasions, been caught in the crossfire over diplomatic issues between China and South Korea. Most notable being the THAAD deployment in South Korea which resulted in the blocking of Korean dramas on streaming services across the country in late February 2017. Following the block, Chinese TV shows showcasing Chinese culture and other similar content replaced Korean content on TV networks' prime time schedules in the country. In November 2017, the ban was uplifted unannounced following the appearance of Kpop groups on national TV and the move to resume importation of Korean dramas by Chinese streaming services.\n\nKorean dramas have become popular in India, particularly in Northeast India in states such as Manipur, Assam, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram and Nagaland as well as parts of East India and more recently in Tamil Nadu. Hindi films and TV serials were banned in Manipur in 2000. As a result, local television stations began broadcasting subtitled Korean dramas instead. Many young people in northeast India, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu mimic the hairstyles and clothes of Korean actors and Korean fashion has become very popular in the region. As a part of cultural exchange, Indian Public Broadcaster telecasted \"Emperor of the Sea\" and \"Dae Jang Geum\". Korean dramas have aired in the Tamil language in Tamil Nadu on Puthuyugam TV.\n\nIn Indonesia, Korean dramas have gained popularity and the popular Korean dramas \"Winter Sonata\" and \"Endless Love\" were aired on Surya Citra Media in 2002. Some Korean dramas have also been remade into Indonesian versions such as \"Demi Cinta\" in 2005 which was a remake of the popular drama \"Autumn in My Heart\" and \"Cinta Sejati\", a remake of \"Stairway to Heaven\". RCTI and Indosiar are examples of Indonesian television networks that air Korean dramas in the early times, but later Trans TV airing some of popular Korean dramas until today.\n\nThe first Korean drama to gain widespread popularity in Japan was \"Winter Sonata\", which was broadcast on the NHK satellite channel NHK BS2 in 2003. The program was aired twice in the same year due to high demand from viewers. NHK also hosted a classical concert featuring \"Winter Sonata\"'s tunes performed by Korean musicians. Korean dramas boost tourism between Korea and Japan, and is considered a possible way of improving strained relationships between the two countries, as series have become increasingly popular with Japanese viewers. Conversely, the series \"Iris\" had several pivotal scenes shot in Akita, Japan, which led to an increase of Korean tourists in that part of Japan.\nThe popularity of Korean dramas and pop culture in Laos has led to many Laotian tourists travelling to South Korea. Korean pop culture has gained popularity in Laos through the Thai TV channels broadcasting Korean dramas and K-pop bands in the country.\n\nIn Malaysia, \"Winter Sonata\" began airing on TV3 in 2003, which started an interest in Korean pop culture in the country. \"Dae Jang Geum\" and \"Autumn In My Heart\" were also aired in Malaysia. The popularity of Korean dramas have resulted in a positive reception of Korean expatriates in Malaysia.\n\nIn Mongolia, Korean dramas have become popular and are broadcast at prime time. \"Dae Jang Geum\" achieved success in the country and was broadcast five times due to this. \"Autumn in My Heart\", \"Winter Sonata\" and \"Stairway to Heaven\" were other popular dramas. Popularity in Korean dramas has resulted in interest in the learning of the Korean language as well as Mongolians travelling to South Korea. It has also led to increased mutually cooperative relations between Mongolia and South Korea.\n\nIn Myanmar, the K-drama \"Autumn in My Heart\" was broadcast in the country in 2001, which led to interest in Korean entertainment. When \"Dae Jang Geum\" was on air, the drama sparked an interest in Korean cuisine in the country. The rising popularity of Korean dramas and music in Myanmar has led to the Korea Foundation for International Culture Exchange (KOFICE) distributing Korean dramas in the country for free.\n\nInterest for Korean dramas in the Nepal began when \"Winter Sonata\" aired on Kantipur Television Network in the mid-2000s. This led to the popularity of other K-dramas such as \"Boys Over Flowers\", \"Autumn In My Heart\", \"You Are Beautiful\" and \"Full House\" to name a few. Popularity of Korean media products has also led to interest of learning the Korean language and has resulted in the emergence of Korean language tutorials that air on ABC Television in the country. Korean dramas have become popular among Nepali youth and markets are often frequented by teenagers looking to buy the latest dramas. The hairstyles and fashion of Korean actors have influenced the fashion sense of Nepali youth. Fascinated by the lifestyle and food of Korea, restaurants serving Korean cuisine have also been established in the country.\n\nWatching films or TV dramas from South Korea is a serious offence in North Korea, punishable by execution, but people still manage to acquire them on CDs and DVDs.\n\nIn the Philippines, \"Autumn in My Heart\" ignited the interest in Korean dramas when it was aired on GMA Network in 2003. Korean drama frenzy came to its peak point when \"Lovers In Paris\" was aired in ABS-CBN in 2004. GMA Network, ABS-CBN and TV5 regularly air Korean dramas dubbed in the Filipino language.\n\nIn Singapore, Prime 12 (now known as Suria) originally aired the Korean drama \"Sandglass\" on a weekly basis in 1996 and aired \"Asphalt Man\" in 1997. Since 2001, they are shown on Chinese language channel MediaCorp Channel U daily. The launch of KBS World, ONE TV ASIA, Oh!K, Channel M and streaming app, Viu in Singapore allows viewers to watch Korean dramas with a variety of subtitles in a matter of hours after the original South Korean telecast.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, the Independent Television Network aired \"Full House\" in 2009 and it proved popular. \"Dae Jang Geum\" aired on Rupavahini in 2012 and was dubbed in Sinhala under the title \"Sujatha Diyani (සුජාත දියණී)\", meaning \"The Pure, Valuable Daughter\" and received a viewer rate of over 90%. The Independent Television Network, Rupavahini, TV Derana, Sirasa TV, Swarnavahini and TV1 air Korean dramas dubbed in the Sinhalese language. Streaming service, Iflix also streams many Korean dramas with English and Sinhalese subtitles in the country, some as early as 24 hours after their original Korean broadcast. Additionally, the popularity of Korean pop culture in the country has led to an increasingly warm reception towards Korean people.\n\nIn Taiwan, interest in Korean dramas began when \"Star in My Heart\" aired in 1999. Since then Korean dramas have become very popular and according to the South Korean mission 120 K-dramas had been broadcast in Taiwan in the first half of 2011.\n\nWhen \"Dae Jang Geum\" was on air in Thailand, Korean food started gaining wide popularity. Due to the lop-sided nature of entertainment exports favoring South Korea, the Thai government requested increased introduction of popular Thai films to South Korean media outlets. This led to the signing of an Agreement of Cultural Cooperation between the two countries in August 2004.\n\nKorean dramas have also gained popularity in Vietnam, particularly among women and young people. The fashion and hairstyles presented in Korean dramas have become very popular among the youth of the country.\n\nThe first Korean drama in Romania was aired on TVR in August 2009, and in the following month it became the third most popular television program in the country. Since then, Korean dramas have seen high ratings and further success.\n\nSince the mid-2000s, Israel, Iran, Morocco and Egypt have become major consumers of Korean culture. Following the success of Korean dramas in the Middle East & North Africa, the Korean Overseas Information Service made \"Winter Sonata\" available with Arabic subtitles on several state-run Egyptian television networks. According to Youna Kim (2007), \"The broadcast was part of the government’s efforts to improve the image of South Korea in the Middle East, where there is little understanding and exposure towards Korean culture\" (p. 31). The \"New York Times\" reported that the intent behind this was to contribute towards positive relations between Arab & Berber audiences and South Korean soldiers stationed in northern Iraq.\n\nMBC4 (Middle East Broadcasting Channel) played a major role in increasing the Korean wave's popularity in the MENA region (Middle East and North Africa). This broadcasting channel hosted a series of Korean drama starting 2013 such as \"Boys Over Flowers\" (أيام الزهور), \"You're Beautiful\" (أنت جميلة), \"Dream High\" (حلم الشباب ), \"Coffee Prince\" ( مقهى الأمير). Some Arab countries opposed Korean shows (dramas and reality TV shows) because of the fear they would lead to Islam youth to abandon their traditions wholesale in order to adopt Western modernity wholesale. However, this did not stop the Korean industries from exporting more Korean Dramas to the Arab world in the following years such as \"The Heirs\" ( الورثة). The popularity of Korean dramas in the MENA region-and its continuous growth- originates from the content of these dramas. As the majority of the plots of Korean dramas focus on social issues (love between different social classes or family problems for instance), the Arab audiences fit themselves and could relate to the Korean socio-cultural values as they seem appealing to them. So Korean dramas play the role of an equilibrium point where two, somehow, different cultures could create a new cultural space where these two different cultures could meet.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Korean dramas were aired for South Korean troops stationed in northern Iraq as part of coalition forces led by the United States during the Iraq War. With the end of the war and the subsequent withdrawal of South Korean military personnel from the country, efforts were made to expand availability of K-dramas to the ordinary citizens of Iraq. In 2012, the Korean drama \"Hur Jun\" reportedly attained a viewership of over 90% in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Its lead actor Jun Kwang-ryul was invited by the federal government of Iraq to visit the city of Sulaymaniyah in Kurdistan, at the special request of the country's First Lady, Hero Ibrahim Ahmed.\n\n\"Autumn in My Heart\", one of the earliest Korean dramas brought over to the Middle East, was made available for viewing after five months of \"persistent negotiations\" between the South Korean embassy and an Egyptian state-run broadcasting company. Shortly after the series ended, the embassy reported that it had received over 400 phone calls and love letters from fans from all over the country. According to the secretary of the South Korean embassy in Cairo Lee Ki-seok, Korea's involvement in the Iraq War had significantly undermined its reputation among Egyptians, but the screening of \"Autumn in My Heart\" proved \"extremely effective\" in reversing negative attitudes.\n\nIran's state broadcaster, Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB), aired several Korean dramas during prime time slots in recent years, with this decision attributed by some to their Confucian values of respect for others, which are \"closely aligned to Islamic culture\", while in contrast, Western productions often fail to satisfy the criteria set by Iran's Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance. In October 2012, the \"Tehran Times\" reported that IRIB representatives visited South Korea to visit filming locations in an effort to strengthen \"cultural affinities\" between the two countries and to seek avenues for further cooperation between KBS and IRIB. According to Reuters, until recently audiences in Iran have had little choice in broadcast material and thus programs that are aired by IRIB often attain higher viewership ratings in Iran than in South Korea; for example, the most popular episodes of \"Jumong\" attracted over 90% of Iranian audience (compared to 40% in South Korea), propelling its lead actor Song Il-gook to superstar status in Iran.\n\nThe Asian American-targeted cable TV channels AZN Television and ImaginAsian aired Korean dramas alongside content from China, Japan, India, Thailand and other parts of Asia. The dramas were aimed at the Asian American community before the channels dissolved in 2008 and 2011 respectively.\n\nIn November 2008, Netflix began offering several Korean dramas as part of its video selection. In August 2009, DramaFever began offering free subtitled video streaming service, with video advertisements, in the United States.\n\nSingapore-based Viki streams popular Korean dramas across the world including North America, with subtitles in 70 languages. Companies in Asia have also designed streaming services available online and as mobile apps targeted towards overseas Asian communities. \"MobiTV\" created by the Sri Lankan company, Bhasha is a streaming service and mobile app aimed at the Sri Lankan community and streams Korean dramas dubbed in the Sinhalese language alongside other content aired in Sri Lanka. \"Roopa\", created by the same company, is another service available as a mobile app also aimed at the Sri Lankan community, it too streams Korean dramas dubbed in the Sinhalese language. Chinese company PPTV is another example, a mobile app, \"PPTV网络电视HD\" streams Korean dramas aimed at the Chinese community alongside content that is primarily available in Mandarin, Cantonese and Korean but also increasingly in English.\n\nAdditionally, Korean dramas are available at online DVD retailers. Some Korean dramas, however, are not available for region 1 (North America) encoding and NTSC video format. Amazon offers streaming of \"Winter Sonata\" for a fee.\n\nKBFD-DT in Honolulu, Hawaii broadcasts a majority of Korean dramas on its daily schedule, as well as offering the programs on sale at its website and on demand through its K-Life channel on Oceanic Time Warner Cable. Another Honolulu outlet, KHII-TV devotes three hours of its Sunday afternoon schedule to Korean dramas.\n\nKTSF, a channel aimed at the Asian American community in San Francisco, California airs Korean dramas as part of its schedule alongside content in Mandarin, Tagalog, Hindi, Korean, Vietnamese, Japanese, Taiwanese and Cantonese.\n\nViewership ratings are provided by two companies in South Korea, AGB Nielsen Media Research and TNmS. Originally Media Service Korea was the only company providing such information, and it was later acquired by Nielsen Media Research. In 1999 TNS Media Korea also began such service, and later changed its name to TNmS. AGB collects viewership data based on 2050 households, while TNmS has 2000 households with measuring devices. Drama ratings usually vary between the two companies by 2-3%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327056", "title": "Predicta", "text": "Predicta\n\nThe Philco Predicta is a television made in several cabinet models in a 17” or 21” screen by the American company Philco from 1958-1960. The Predicta was marketed as the world's first swivel screen television. The picture tube was surrounded in Eastman plastics new product called “tenite” which protected the glass and gave it its greenish tint. The Predicta also had a thinner picture tube than many other televisions at the time, which led it to be marketed as a more futuristic television set. Predicta television sets were constructed with a variety of cabinet configurations, some detachable, but all separate from the tube itself and connected by wires. Initially introduced in 1958 for the Holiday Inn hotel chain and rolled out for general consumers shortly thereafter, the Predicta was discontinued in the early 1960s.\n\nIn the late 1990s the rights were acquired by Dave Riedel and Mike Lipscomb of Telstar LLC, who hand-made new sets on a limited basis until 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2327057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327057", "title": "Christian Academy of Louisville", "text": "Christian Academy of Louisville\n\nChristian Academy of Louisville is a private Christian school in Louisville, Kentucky. It is one of two schools Christian Academy School System in the Louisville metropolitan area. The school seeks to provide a \"traditional education in a Christ-centered environment\", and families seeking admission must have a reference from a minister certifying that they attend a church regularly. The school holds accreditation from the Association of Christian Schools International (ACSI), the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, the Kentucky Non-Public School Commission, the National Council of Private School Accreditation, the State of Kentucky, and the State of Indiana.\n\nChristian Academy of Louisville was founded in 1975 by Clifton Heights Christian Church with 200 students in grades one through six. James E. Farmer left his job as deputy superintendent at Jefferson County Public Schools to help establish the school.\n\nThe school was one of ten private schools established in the wake of a court ordered busing to desegregate public school in Jefferson county in 1975. Farmer claimed that the school was not an escape from integration, but that busing \"caused people to take a closer look at the school system.\"\n\nIn 1978, Christian Academy purchased the Rock Creek Campus in St. Matthews with 336 students. In 1982, the first senior class graduated with 19 students. Today there are more than 1,800 alumni from Christian Academy of Louisville.\n\nContinued growth led to the building of the English Station Campus, located on , which opened in the Fall of 1998. Currently, more than 1,800 students (Preschool-12) attend the English Station Campus with an additional 335 students attending Preschool-5th grade at the Rock Creek Campus.\n\nIn the Fall of 2000, the Christian Academy School System was created with the addition of Christian Academy of Louisville Southwest and Northside Christian School. The Southwest Campus, located in Shively, opened with 76 students in grades K-2. The Northside Campus, located in New Albany, Indiana, joined with 190 students in Preschool through 5th grade. In the fall of 2003, Graceland Christian School, located in New Albany, Indiana, joined the school system with over 450 students in grades K-12\n\nThe Christian Academy of Indiana campus, which combined the Graceland and Northside campuses into a single school, opened in the Fall of 2005 with more than 700 students.\n\nA new Southwest Campus was dedicated in 2006 and now serves over 350 students in grades preschool - 8th.\n\nToday, the Christian Academy School System serves more than three thousand students on four campuses in Louisville and Southern Indiana. Christian Academy's student body represents over 140 churches. Seventy-three percent of faculty have a master's degree.\n\nIn 2010 Christian Academy of Louisville High School was recognized as one of only 304 public or private schools nationwide—and the only high school in Kentucky—to receive the prestigious National Blue Ribbon School award. High School students are required to complete 60 hours of service before graduation.\n\nStarting in 2011, the school's Centurion Soccer Fields, on the English Station Campus, are serving as the home to the city's USL Premier Development League team, the River City Rovers. Athletics are becoming more prominent for the Christian Academy of Louisville Centurions. Tim Henderson was a walk on to the University of Louisville Men's basketball team; winning a national championship in 2013. Riley Thompson was drafted in the 11th round by the Chicago Cubs. Jonathan Embry was drafted by the Tampa Bay Rays in 2019. The Centurions won the 2-A state football title in 2016 and 2018 under the leadership of head coach, Stefan LeFors. In 2017 Christian Academy field hockey won their first state championship in field hockey.\n\nIn 2013, Christian Academy hosted the marching band Semi-Final 2A Competition where the top four bands (out of 16) moved on to State Finals Competition at Papa John's Cardinal Stadium. For the first time in the school's history, the Marching Centurions not only moved on to the State Finals, but was awarded fourth place.\n"}
{"id": "2327058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327058", "title": "Randian hero", "text": "Randian hero\n\nThe Randian hero is a ubiquitous figure in the fiction of 20th-century novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand, most famously in the figures of \"The Fountainhead\"s Howard Roark and \"Atlas Shrugged\"s John Galt. Rand's self-declared purpose in writing fiction was to project an \"ideal man\"—a man who perseveres to achieve his values, and only his values.\n\nAs a conception of the ideal man, the Randian hero has much in common with Aristotle's conception of \"agathos\", in that both are morally heroic and heroically rational. The philosophers share a similar naturalist/objectivist meta-ethical perspective emphasizing character as the primary determinant of moral worth, and possess a fundamentally \"heroic\" attitude towards life. The Randian hero exemplifies ethical egoism, the normative ethical position that the self-interest of the individual ought to be the basis for moral action. The specific virtues of the Randian hero, like the Aristotelian ideal, are created from rationality, the primary virtue; rationality is the hero's basic tool of survival, to be exercised at all times. The primary value, the \"highest moral purpose\", is happiness (cf. \"eudaimonia\"). Rand frequently declared her motive and purpose in writing to be \"the projection of an ideal man\"; all of her protagonists are heroes.\n\nThe archetype of the Randian hero is the creative individualist. Though Rand rejected the notion that individuals have duty towards one another, her heroes are marked by an essential generosity, for the reason that they act out of compassion and empathy rather than guilt. Rand's fiction displays a self-consciously Promethean sense of life, declaring through her characters the heroic value of\nself-assertion in the face of the established order.\n\nGenerally a Randian hero is characterized by radical individualism, moral resolution, intelligence/aptitude, self-control, emotional discipline, and (frequently, but not always) attractive physical characteristics in the eyes of other Randian heroes. Rand's heroes are tall, strong and upright; the females share slender figures, defiant stances and the impression of internal calmness, while the males are physically hard and supple, often with gray eyes. Jerome Tuccille described U.S. President Gerald Ford as physically exemplifying the Randian hero—\"tall, blond, clear-eyed, ruggedly handsome and well-built\".\n\nMarxist philosopher Slavoj Žižek situates the Randian hero in Rand's fiction in the \"standard masculine narrative\" of the conflict between the exceptional, creative individual (the Master) and the undifferentiated conformist crowd. He does not consider the Randian hero to be phallocratic, arguing that these \"upright, uncompromising masculine figures with a will of steel\" in effect emerge as the feminine subject liberated from the hysteria of entanglement in the desire of the Other to a \"being of pure drive\" indifferent towards it.\n\nAuthor Stephen Newman compares the Randian hero to the concept of the Übermensch created by philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, saying that \"the Randian hero is really Nietzsche's superman in the guise of the entrepreneur\".\n\nAlthough the archetype of the Randian hero appears in Rand's earliest work (notably in \"Night of January 16th\"s Bjorn Faulkner and \"We the Living\"s Leo Kovalensky), its best known examples appear in Rand's mature work, specifically in the novella \"Anthem\" (1938) and the novels \"The Fountainhead\" (1943) and \"Atlas Shrugged\" (1957).\n\nEquality 7-2521, the protagonist of Rand's dystopian novella, \"Anthem\", is a man with a quick and inquisitive mind who is forced by the leaders of his collectivist society to work as a street sweeper. Witnessing a rebel being burned at the stake, Equality recognizes a common spirit. In defiance against the edicts of his fellows, he manages to rediscover electricity, a technology that had been lost by the dystopian society of the story. He flees the collectivist society with his lover (who names him The Unconquered) and together they build a stronghold of individualism from which they and like-minded individuals can begin their struggle for freedom.\n\nAyn Rand created the Randian hero in earnest in the character of Howard Roark in \"The Fountainhead\". An architect, Roark conflicts with his profession's establishment on multiple occasions. The early stages of the novel begin with Roark being expelled from university because he refused to design in traditional styles. Throughout his career, he refuses to design according to any vision apart from his own. The architects' professional body scorns him for not paying \"proper respect\" to tradition, yet in the end, he triumphs.\n\nThe protagonist of \"Atlas Shrugged\" is Dagny Taggart, described by Rand as \"the feminine Roark\". \"Atlas Shrugged\" introduces several Randian heroes, both in the backstory and in the primary narrative. In the story, they personify the intellect—their withdrawal from the world under the leadership of John Galt parallels the world's gradual collapse.\n\nIn considering the character of Dagny Taggart as Randian hero, scholar Edward Younkins remarked that while she evoked passion and admiration, she was inspirational rather than motivational. Younkins found the concept of the Randian hero appealing, but out of reach for someone without Taggart's clear context for action. Rand's novels depict a world where anyone can be excellent out of choice alone, which Younkins argued was in tension \"with the knowledge that we do not transcend our context … and that context is almost always owned by the crowd\".\n\nAs Rand's fiction and non-academic philosophical works became popular especially in the 1980s, her fans would often claim that attributes of these heroes could be found in themselves, or should be. \n\nThe most prominent of Rand's personal disciples, the early self-esteem psychologist Nathaniel Branden, addressed \"the accusation that we are against feelings, against emotions\" and in part acknowledged the criticism that a celebration of ultra-rationalism was dangerous:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327063", "title": "PAMELA detector", "text": "PAMELA detector\n\nPAMELA (Payload for Antimatter Matter Exploration and Light-nuclei Astrophysics) was a cosmic ray research module attached to an Earth orbiting satellite. \"PAMELA\" was launched on 15 June 2006 and was the first satellite-based experiment dedicated to the detection of cosmic rays, with a particular focus on their antimatter component, in the form of positrons and antiprotons. Other objectives included long-term monitoring of the solar modulation of cosmic rays, measurements of energetic particles from the Sun, high-energy particles in Earth's magnetosphere and Jovian electrons. It was also hoped that it may detect evidence of dark matter annihilation. PAMELA operations were terminated in 2016, as were the operations of the host-satellite Resurs-DK1. The experiment was a recognized CERN experiment (RE2B).\n\n\"PAMELA\" was the largest device up to the time built by the Wizard collaboration, which includes Russia, Italy, Germany and Sweden and has been involved in many satellite and balloon-based cosmic ray experiments such as Fermi-GLAST. The 470 kg, US$32 million (EU€24.8 million, UK£16.8 million) instrument was originally projected to have a three-year mission. However, this durable module remained operational and made significant scientific contributions until 2016.\n\n\"PAMELA\" is mounted on the upward-facing side of the Resurs-DK1 Russian satellite. It was launched by a Soyuz rocket from Baikonur Cosmodrome on 15 June 2006. \"PAMELA\" has been put in a polar elliptical orbit at an altitude between 350 and 610 km, with an inclination of 70°.\n\nThe apparatus is 1.3 m high, has a total mass of 470 kg and a power consumption of 335 W. The instrument is built around a permanent magnet spectrometer with a silicon microstrip tracker that provides rigidity and dE/dx information. At its bottom is a silicon-tungsten imaging calorimeter, a neutron detector and a shower tail scintillator to perform lepton/hadron discrimination. A Time of Flight (ToF), made of three layers of plastic scintillators, is used to measure the velocity and charge of the particle. An anticounter system made of scintillators surrounding the apparatus is used to reject false triggers and albedo particles during off-line analysis.\n\nPreliminary data (released August 2008, ICHEP Philadelphia) indicate an excess of positrons in the range 10–60 GeV. This is thought to be a possible sign of dark matter annihilation:\nhypothetical WIMPs colliding with and annihilating each other to form gamma rays, matter and antimatter particles. Another explanation considered for the indication mentioned above is the production of electron-positron pairs on pulsars with subsequent acceleration in the vicinity of the pulsar.\n\nThe first two years of data were released in October 2008 in three publications. The positron excess was confirmed and found to persist up to 90 GeV. Surprisingly, no excess of antiprotons was found. This is inconsistent with predictions from most models of dark matter sources, in which the positron and antiproton excesses are correlated.\n\nA paper, published on 15 July 2011, confirmed earlier speculation that the Van Allen belt could confine a significant flux of antiprotons produced by the interaction of the Earth's upper atmosphere with cosmic rays. The energy of the antiprotons has been measured in the range of 60–750 MeV. Cosmic rays collide with atoms in the upper atmosphere creating antineutrons, which in turn decay to produce the antiprotons. They were discovered in a part of the Van Allen belt closest to Earth. When an antiproton interacts with a normal particle, both are annihilated. Data from PAMELA indicated that these annihilation events occurred a thousand times more often than would be expected in the absence of antimatter. The data that contained evidence of antimatter were gathered between July 2006 and December 2008.\n\nBoron and carbon flux measurements were published in July 2014, important to explaining trends in cosmic ray positron fraction.\n\nThe summary document of the operations of PAMELA was published in 2017.\n\nBetween 1 and 100 GeV, \"PAMELA\" is exposed to one hundred times as many electrons as antiprotons. At 1 GeV there are one thousand times as many protons as positrons and at 100 GeV ten thousand times as many. Therefore, to correctly determine the antimatter abundances, it is critical that PAMELA is able to reject the matter background. The PAMELA collaboration claimed in \"The electron hadron separation performance of the PAMELA electromagnetic calorimeter\" that less than one proton in 100,000 is able to pass the calorimeter selection and be misidentified as a positron when the energy is less than 200 GeV.\n\nThe ratio of matter to antimatter in cosmic rays of energy less than 10 GeV that reach PAMELA from outside the solar system depends on solar activity and in particular on the point in the 11 year solar cycle. The \"PAMELA\" team has invoked this effect to explain the discrepancy between their low energy results and those obtained by \"CAPRICE\", \"HEAT\" and \"AMS-01\", which were collected during that half of the cycle when the solar magnetic field had the opposite polarity. It is important to note that these results are consistent with the series of positron / electron measurements obtain by \"AESOP\", which has spanned coverage over both polarities. Also the \"PAMELA\" experiment has contradicted an earlier claim by the \"HEAT\" experiment of anomalous positrons in the 6 GeV to 10 GeV range.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327076", "title": "Metalsmith", "text": "Metalsmith\n\nA metalsmith or simply smith is a craftsperson fashioning useful items (for example, tools, kitchenware, tableware, jewellery, and weapons) out of various metals. Smithing is one of the oldest metalworking occupations. Shaping metal with a hammer (forging) is the archetypical component of smithing. Often the hammering is done while the metal is hot, having been heated in a forge. Smithing can also involve the other aspects of metalworking, such as refining metals from their ores (traditionally done by smelting), casting it into shapes (founding), and filing to shape and size. \n\nThe prevalence of metalworking in the culture of recent centuries has led \"Smith\" and its equivalents in various languages to be a common occupational surname (German Schmidt, Portuguese Ferreiro, Ferreira, French Lefèvre, Spanish Herrero, Italian Fabbri, Ferrari, Ferrero, Ukrainian Koval etc.). As a suffix, \"-smith\" connotes a meaning of a specialized craftsperson—for example, \"wordsmith\" and \"tunesmith\" are nouns synonymous with writer or songwriter, respectively.\n\nIn pre-industrialized times, smiths held high or special social standing since they supplied the metal tools needed for farming (especially the plough) and warfare.\n\nA metalsmith is one who works with or has the knowledge and the capacity of working with \"all\" metals.\n\nTypes of smiths include:\n\nThe ancient traditional tool of the smith is a forge or \"smithy\", which is a furnace designed to allow compressed air (through a bellows) to superheat the inside, allowing for efficient melting, soldering and annealing of metals. Today, this tool is still widely used by blacksmiths as it was traditionally.\n\nThe term, \"metalsmith\", often refers to artisans and craftpersons who practice their craft in many different metals, including gold, copper and silver. Jewelers often refer to their craft as \"metalsmithing\", and many universities offer degree programs in metalsmithing, jewelry, enameling and blacksmithing under the auspices of their fine arts programs.\n\nMachinists are metalsmiths who produce high-precision parts and tools. The most advanced of these tools, CNC machines, are computer controlled and largely automated.\n"}
{"id": "2327077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327077", "title": "Great Whernside", "text": "Great Whernside\n\nGreat Whernside is a fell in the Yorkshire Dales, England, not to be confused with Whernside, some to the west. Its summit is the highest point of the eastern flank of Wharfedale above Kettlewell. Great Whernside forms the watershed between Wharfedale and Nidderdale, and is on the boundary between the Yorkshire Dales National Park and Nidderdale Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The River Nidd rises on the eastern slopes of Great Whernside, above Angram Reservoir.\n\nThe name \"Whernside\" means \"hillside where millstones were got\" (quern meaning \"millstone\"). The upper part of the hill is composed of millstone grit, and there were once quarries on the Wharfedale side. According to one source the name was originally applied to the hillside on the Wharfedale side, and then extended to the whole hill as seen from Wharfedale. The hill as seen from Nidderdale was known as \"Blackfell\". The addition of \"Great\" was first recorded in 1771, apparently to distinguish the hill from Little Whernside.\nUntil 1997 no public right of way was established to the summit of Great Whernside. In that year two public footpaths were registered, one from Kettlewell in Wharfedale to the summit and one along the summit ridge. Following the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 large parts of the fell became open access land. Great Whernside can be ascended from Kettlewell, or by a shorter route from Park Rash Pass on the minor road from Kettlewell to Coverdale. It can also be ascended by a longer, less popular, route from Scar House Reservoir. Routes from the East are often boggy even after prolonged dry weather.\nLittle Whernside, northeast of Great Whernside, forms the watershed between Coverdale and Nidderdale. \n\nHag Dyke, halfway between Kettlewell and the summit, is a hostel run by 1st Ben Rhydding Scout Group in Ilkley.\n\nThe fell is the site of several aircraft crashes.\n\nTor Dike (situated on the north western flank) is an earthwork with ditch and rampart constructed in the limestone. It appears to have been built either by Iron Age tribes, perhaps in the 1st century AD, to protect themselves from the invading Romans, or in the Dark Ages.\n"}
{"id": "2327080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327080", "title": "List of Speakers of the United States House of Representatives", "text": "List of Speakers of the United States House of Representatives\n\nThe speaker of the United States House of Representatives is the presiding officer of the United States House of Representatives. The office was established in 1789 by of the U.S. Constitution. The speaker is the political and parliamentary leader of the House, and is simultaneously the body's presiding officer, the \"de facto\" leader of the body's majority party, and the institution's administrative head. Speakers also perform various administrative and procedural functions, all in addition to representing their own congressional district. Given these several roles and responsibilities, the Speaker usually does not personally preside over debates. That duty is instead delegated to members of the House from the majority party. Neither does the speaker regularly participate in floor debates. Additionally, the speaker is second in the presidential line of succession, after the vice president and ahead of the president \"pro tempore\" of the Senate.\n\nThe House elects a new speaker by roll call vote when it first convenes after a general election for its two-year term, or when a speaker dies, resigns or is removed from the position intra-term. A majority of votes cast (as opposed to a majority of the full membership of the House) is necessary to elect a speaker. If no candidate receives a majority vote, then the roll call is repeated until a speaker is elected. The Constitution does not require the Speaker to be an incumbent member of the House, although every Speaker thus far has been.\n\nThe current speaker of the House, Democrat Nancy Pelosi of California, was elected to the office on January 3, 2019, the first day of the 116th Congress. Pelosi, who previously led the House from January 4, 2007 to January 3, 2011, is the only female to have served as speaker, and also the highest-ranking elected woman in American political history. Altogether, 54 individuals, from 23 of the 50 states, have served as Speaker of the House. The quantity from each state are:\n\nOne speaker, James K. Polk, subsequently served as president of the United States, and two, Schuyler Colfax and John Nance Garner, later became vice president. The longest serving speaker was Sam Rayburn17 years, 53 days. Elected 10 times, he led the House three times: from September 1940 to January 1947; January 1949 to January 1953; and January 1955 to November 1961. Tip O'Neill had the longest uninterrupted tenure as speaker9 years, 350 days. Elected five times, he led the House from January 1977 to January 1987. Theodore M. Pomeroy had the shortest tenure; elected speaker on March 3, 1869, he served one day.\n\nThe House has elected a new speaker 126 times since 1789. Of the 54 people who have served as speaker of the House over the past years, 32 served multiple terms (of which seven served nonconsecutive terms: Frederick Muhlenberg, Henry Clay, John W. Taylor, Thomas Brackett Reed, Joseph W. Martin Jr., Sam Rayburn, and Nancy Pelosi).\n\nAs of 2020 there are four living former speakers of the House: Newt Gingrich, Dennis Hastert, John Boehner, and Paul Ryan. Nancy Pelosi was also among this group prior to reassuming the office in January 2019.\n\nThe length of time given below is based on the difference between dates; if counted by number of calendar days all the figures would be one greater. Also, as many speakers were elected multiple times, and to terms that were, in several instances, not consecutive, the length of time given for each speaker measures their cumulative length of incumbency as speaker. Further, time after adjournment of one Congress but before the convening of the next Congress is not counted. For example, Nathaniel Macon was speaker in both the and Congresses, but the eight-month gap between the two Congresses is not counted toward his service. The exact dates of service for each individual speaker is shown in the \"Term of service\" column of the above table.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327094", "title": "Secretly", "text": "Secretly\n\n\"Secretly\" is a popular song. It was written by Al Hoffman, Dick Manning, Mark Markwell, and Hugo Peretti and Luigi Creatore and published in 1958.\n\nThe best-known recording of the song was done by Jimmie Rodgers, charting in 1958, reaching #3 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and #5 on the US Billboard Hot Country. It became a gold record.\n\nThe song was revived in 1965 when The Lettermen released it as a single. This version became a minor hit on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, reaching number 64.\n"}
{"id": "2327096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327096", "title": "Oh-Oh, I'm Falling in Love Again", "text": "Oh-Oh, I'm Falling in Love Again\n\n\"Oh-Oh, I'm Falling in Love Again\" is a popular song written by Al Hoffman, Dick Manning, and Hugo Peretti and Luigi Creatore and published in 1958. \nThe best-known recording of the song was done by Jimmie Rodgers, charting in 1958. It debuted on the charts in February, and spent 11 weeks on the charts that spring, peaking at #13 on the U.S. \"Cash Box\" Top 100 and # 7 on the Billboard Hot 100. It became a gold record. \n\nThe song was later adapted (around 1965) to advertise SpaghettiOs, and Rodgers sang the jingle in the original television ads.\n"}
{"id": "2327097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327097", "title": "The Wormery", "text": "The Wormery\n\nThe Wormery is a Big Finish Productions audio drama based on the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\".\n\nThe Sixth Doctor investigates the mysterious bar known only as \"Bianca's\". Getting in his way is his old friend Iris Wildthyme, but this time she has a rival for the Doctor's affections — Bianca herself. With Iris getting drunk on Tequila, the Doctor must uncover Bianca's true identity and find out just who the voices are he and Iris keep hearing…\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327098", "title": "List of Xiaolin Showdown episodes", "text": "List of Xiaolin Showdown episodes\n\nThis is a complete list of \"Xiaolin Showdown\" episodes. \"Xiaolin Showdown\" is an animated television series that originally aired between November 1, 2003 and May 13, 2006 in the United States. The episodes are listed in order of their production number with the date that they originally aired on Kids' WB.\n\nEpisodes 214, 215, and 216 were premiered in non-production order in USA. Season 2 is divided into 2 seasons in UK.\n\nThe episodes \"Time After Time (1)\" and \"Time After Time (2)\" first aired in United Kingdom on March 14 and 15, in Brazil on April 17 and 18, and later in its original country, USA, on May 6 and 13.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327100", "title": "WIIH-CD", "text": "WIIH-CD\n\nWIIH-CD, virtual channel 17 (VHF digital channel 8), is a low-powered, Class A getTV-affiliated television station licensed to Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. Owned by Circle City Broadcasting, it is a sister station to Circle City's duopoly of Indianapolis-licensed CW affiliate WISH-TV (channel 8) and Marion-licensed MyNetworkTV affiliate WNDY-TV (channel 23). The three stations share studios on North Meridian Street (at the north end of the Television Row section) on the near north side of Indianapolis and transmitter facilities on Walnut Drive in the Augusta section of the city's northwest side (near Meridian Hills).\n\nEven though WIIH-CD broadcasts a digital signal of its own, its broadcast radius is limited to the immediate Indianapolis area. It is therefore simulcast on WISH-TV's second digital subchannel (VHF channel 9.2 or virtual channel 8.2 via PSIP) in order to reach the entire market.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on January 29, 1988 as W11BV, broadcasting on VHF channel 11. Its original owner, White River Corporation, sold the station to Indiana Broadcasting Corporation, the subsidiary of LIN Broadcasting Corporation (predecessor to LIN Media) that held the license for WISH-TV, on December 21, 1992. The station changed its call letters to WIIH-LP in 1995. In 2002, WIIH moved its allocation to UHF channel 17 and received approval from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to reclassify its license to Class A status, modifying its calls to WIIH-CA in the process. In 2003, the station became the market's Univision affiliate, branding as \"Univision Indiana\". Soon afterward, WISH-TV began producing a nightly Spanish-language newscast for WIIH-CA (titled \"WIIH Noticias\"), which was cancelled in 2008. On May 18, 2007, LIN TV announced that it was exploring strategic alternatives that could result in the sale of the company.\n\nOn September 15, 2008, LIN and Time Warner Cable entered into an impasse during negotiations for new retransmission consent deals for some of the group's television stations. Bright House Networks, a major cable provider for Indianapolis, negotiates carriage contracts through Time Warner Cable. LIN TV requested compensation for carriage in a manner similar to cable networks, as other broadcast station owners began to seek compensation from pay television providers for their programming. The agreement with Bright House expired on October 2. By 12:35 a.m. on October 3, Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks substituted WIIH, WISH and WNDY as well as LIN's other television stations around the country with other cable channels in markets where the group owns or manages stations and both providers maintain systems. Locally, WISH and WNDY were restored 23 days later on October 26 after LIN reached a groupwide carriage agreement with TWC/Bright House; however, WIIH-CA was excluded from the deal. By 2008, Indianapolis had grown to become the 57th largest media market based on the local Hispanic population in the United States.\n\nOn January 1, 2009, the station dropped Univision programming after LIN failed to renew its contract with the network (which expired the day before on December 31, 2008), and adopted a weather-focused programming format, branded as \"LWS: Local Weather Station\". As a result, two other pay television providers in the Indianapolis market, Comcast and AT&T U-verse secured carriage agreements with Univision to receive its programming from the network's national feed; however, Bright House decided not to pursue a contract with the network at that time.\n\nOn January 29, 2010, LIN TV filed an application to the FCC to operate a fill-in translator station for WISH-TV using WIIH-LD's UHF channel 17 signal, to serve areas of Indianapolis that experienced problems receiving the WISH-TV signal after the transition. The Commission granted a construction permit to build transmitter facilities for this purpose on June 16, 2010. The transmitter was relocated to the tower site used by WISH-TV on 7619 Walnut Drive (though the City of Indianapolis lists the address as 2500 Westlane Road) in northwestern Indianapolis, and was installed on the tower at above average terrain.\n\nThe FCC cancelled WIIH-CA's analog license on January 13, 2011, when WIIH-LD was converted into a fill-in translator of WISH-TV (LWS programming remained on digital subchannel 8.2 on WISH-TV and was moved to that same mapped subchannel on both WIIH-CD with the translator conversion). In September 2011, LIN Media filed an application to the FCC to upgrade the WIIH-LD license to Class A status. After the move was approved by the FCC, WIIH's call letters were modified to WIIH-CD.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, Media General announced that it would merge with LIN Media in a $1.6 billion deal. The merger was completed on December 19.\n\nWIIH-CA shut down its analog signal on September 9, 2009, and flash cut its digital signal into operation on VHF channel 8 (the former analog and current virtual channel allocation of WISH-TV, which it vacated upon the June 12 digital television transition).\n\n"}
{"id": "2327104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327104", "title": "April Revolution", "text": "April Revolution\n\nThe April Revolution (), also called the April 19 Revolution or April 19 Movement, were mass protests in South Korea against President Syngman Rhee and the First Republic from April 11 to 26, 1960 which led to Rhee's resignation.\n\nProtests opposing Rhee were started by student and labor groups in the southeastern port city of Masan on April 11. The protests were triggered by the discovery of the body of a local high school student who had been killed by police during demonstrations against rigged elections in March. Popular discontent had arisen due to Rhee's autocratic rule, corruption, use of violence against political opposition, and uneven development of South Korea. The Masan discovery led to large student protests in Seoul, which were violently suppressed; a total of 186 people were killed during the two weeks of protest. Rhee resigned on April 26 before fleeing to exile in the United States, and was replaced by Yun Posun, beginning the transition to the Second Republic of South Korea.\n\nSyngman Rhee had been the first President of South Korea since the 1948 presidential election, overseeing the transition of power from the United States Army Military Government to the Government of South Korea and the establishment of the First Republic of Korea, and led South Korea during the Korean War. With American patronage in the Cold War, Rhee adopted a strongly anti-communist and pro-American stance, and the threat of communism was used as an excuse for severe political repression against any perceived opposition. The South Korean public widely perceived Rhee as corrupt and a dictator who abused his autocratic powers to maintain his rule and cronyism in the government. This was tolerated in the name of political unity and fear of reprisals, but Rhee faced increasing domestic discontent following the end of the Korean War in 1953, as his rule had delivered limited economic and social development, while angering the public by amending the constitution to prolong his stay in power.<ref name=\"http://prq.sagepub.com\">Kim, C. I. Eugene, and Ke-soo Kim (1964). \"The April 1960 Korean Student Movement\", \"The Western Political Quarterly\", 17(1).</ref> In December 1958, Rhee forced through the National Assembly an amendment to the National Security Law giving the government broad new powers to curtail freedom of the press and prevent members of the opposition from voting. In 1959, Rhee was shocked and threatened when the United States reduced its economic aid to South Korea from a high of $382,893,000 in 1957 to $222,204,000, and he began taking desperate measures to ensure his political survival.\n\nThe March 1960 presidential election saw two main parties running against Rhee: the small Progressive Party (which had received one million votes in the 1956 presidential election) represented by Cho Bong-am, and the Democratic Party represented by Cho Pyong-ok. In July 1959, Rhee accused Cho Bong-am of being a communist, and the Progressive Party leader was subsequently imprisoned and swiftly executed. Cho Pyong-ok went to the United States for a stomach operation at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center but died there of a heart attack. The death of these two competitors seemed too much of a coincidence to the South Korean public and many assumed that both deaths were the result of corruption.\n\nRhee was determined to see his protege Lee Ki-poong elected as the Vice President, a post chosen in a separate election on the same day. Lee ran against the Democratic Party candidate Chang Myon, who had been South Korea's ambassador to the United States during the Korean War. On March 15, the mostly bedridden Lee won the vice presidential elections with an abnormally wide margin, winning 8,225,000 votes while Myon received just 1,850,000 votes, and it became clear to the people that the vote was fraudulent. According to the Korean Report, Democratic rallies were prohibited throughout the nation and hundreds of pre-marked ballots were stuffed into ballots on election day.\n\nOn March 15, the same day as the election results, members of the Democratic Party in the southern city of Masan launched a protest against the electoral corruption. About one thousand residents of Masan gathered in front of the Democratic Party's Masan headquarters at around 7:30 in the evening, where the citizens faced off against the police and the city was blacked out. The police started shooting at the people, who responded by throwing rocks at the police.\n\nOn April 11, a fisherman in the harbor at Masan discovered the corpse of Kim Ju-yul, a student at Masan Commercial High School who had disappeared during March 15 rioting. Authorities announced that an autopsy confirmed that the cause of Kim's death was drowning, but many rejected this explanation and some protesters forced their way into the hospital where his body was kept. They found that Kim's skull had actually been split by a 20 centimeter-long tear-gas grenade, which had penetrated from his eyes to the back of his head. This indicated that the police had shot the tear gas to an angle less than 45 degrees, which could be fatal if shot directly at a person's face. Rhee's regime tried to censor news of this incident, however the story was reported by the Korean press along with a picture of Kim when his body was first found, and delivered to the world through AP. This incident shocked the nation and became the basis of a national movement against electoral corruption on April 19. Masan erupted into three days of spontaneous mass protests which led to further violent clashes. Rhee tried to shift the focus by claiming that communist agents had been behind the Masan protests.\n\nOn April 18, the protests spread to the capital, Seoul, where students from Korea University launched a non-violent protest at the National Assembly against police violence and demanding new elections, however, they were attacked by gangs funded by Rhee's supporters as they returned to their campus.\n\nOn April 19 (called Bloody Tuesday), thousands of students marched from various universities to the Blue House, including some high schools, their numbers grew to over 100,000. Arriving at the Blue House, the protesters called for Rhee's resignation. Police opened fire on protestors killing approximately 180 and wounding thousands. That day the Rhee government proclaimed martial law in order to suppress the demonstrations.\n\nOn April 25, professors joined students and citizens in large-scale protests outnumbering soldiers and police who refused to attack the protestors.\n\nOn April 26, 1960, Rhee stepped down from power, and Lee Ki-poong was blamed for most of the corruption in the government.\n\nOn April 27, 1960, Lee and his entire family were murdered by his oldest son in a murder-suicide.\n\nOn April 28, Minister of Interior Choi In-Kyu and the Chief of Security resigned taking responsibility for the Masan incident.\n\nAfter the resignation of Rhee and the death of Lee Ki-poong, the rule of the Liberal Party government came to an end. Rhee was exiled to Hawaii on May 29, 1960, which at first was intended to be a short exile, but he was unable to return because of the opposition of the people. The First Republic was replaced by the Second Republic of South Korea, adopting a parliamentary system to remove power from the office of the president. Yun Bo-seon was elected President on August 13, 1960, but real power was vested in the prime minister, Chang Myon.\n\nA National Assembly investigating committee found that the firing into the crowd by the police had not been intended to disperse the crowds, but rather to kill protesters. It was later revealed at a criminal trial that Park Jong-pyo, the Chief of Public Security who ordered firing against protesters, tied rocks on Kim Ju-yul's dead body and threw him away into the Masan shore to prevent him floating up on the shore.\n\nOn May 16, 1961, following months of political instability, General Park Chung-hee launched a coup d'état overthrowing the short-lived Second Republic of South Korea and replacing it with a military junta and later the autocratic Third Republic of South Korea.\n\nOn July 19, 1965, 91-year-old Rhee died at 19:35 Korean time in Honolulu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327111", "title": "Khlong Toei District", "text": "Khlong Toei District\n\nKhlong Toei (also Klong Toey, , ) is a district in central Bangkok, long known for its slum. It is bordered by the Chao Phraya River and contains major port facilities. It is also the site of a major market, the Khlong Toei Market.\n\nNeighboring districts are (clockwise from the north): Watthana, Phra Khanong, Phra Pradaeng District of Samut Prakan Province (across the Chao Phraya), Yan Nawa, Sathon, and Pathum Wan.\n\nThe area has a history dating back to the ninth century as a port to cities upstream along the Chao Phraya River, such as Pak Nam Phra Pradaeng (Thai: เมืองปากน้ำพระประแดง) (as opposed to the current Phra Pradaeng District) built during the King Phutthayotfa Chulalok period.\n\nKhlong Thanon Trong (Thai: คลองถนนตรง) was a khlong (canal) and a parallel road built by King Mongkut around 1857. Later, different sections of the canal became known as Khlong Toei and Khlong Hua Lamphong. \"Khlong Toei\" means 'the canal of pandan', as the plant grew along the southern bank of the canal. The road was renamed Rama IV Road by King Vajiravudh in 1919. In 1947, a large portion of Khlong Toei canal was filled to expand the Rama IV Road surface.\n\nThe area was once part of the Phra Khanong District, but on 9 November 1989 it was separated to form the new Khlong Toei District. Originally Khlong Toei consisted of six sub-districts, three of which later formed the new Watthana District (announced on 14 October 1997, effective 6 March 1998).\n\nThe district is divided into three sub-districts (\"khwaeng\"). From west to east, these are:\nKhlong Toei is both the name of a sub-district and the district in which it lies. Phra Khanong is both a sub-district of Khlong Toei and a district on its own, with only sub-district Bang Chak. Furthermore, all three sub-districts listed above have counterparts with the addition of \"nuea\" (north) in Watthana District.\n\nKhlong Toei Port, also known as Bangkok Port, was Thailand's only major port for sea transportation of cargo. Its construction began in 1938 and finished after World War II. The port is on the Chao Phraya River, not far from the Gulf of Thailand. Due to its limited capacity and traffic problems caused by semi-trailer trucks, many of its operations have moved to Laem Chabang Port in Chonburi Province since its opening in July 1981.\n\n\nThe following places of interest were formerly in Khlong Toei District:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Sacred Heart Convent School is in Khlong Toei.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327116", "title": "Milfoil", "text": "Milfoil\n\nMilfoil is a common name for several plants and may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2327118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327118", "title": "Frederick II, Duke of Upper Lorraine", "text": "Frederick II, Duke of Upper Lorraine\n\nFrederick II (c. 995–1026), son of Thierry I of the House of Ardennes and Richilde von Blieskastel, daughter of Folmar III, Count in Bliesgau; was the count of Bar and duke of Lorraine, co-reigning with his father from 1019.\n\nOn the Emperor Henry II's death in 1024, he joined Ernest II, Duke of Swabia, in revolt against the new king, Conrad II. Soon they made peace and recognised the new king. Frederick died soon after.\n\nHe married Matilda of Swabia, daughter of Herman II, Duke of Swabia, and sister-in-law of Conrad. They had three children:\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2327126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327126", "title": "1936 in comics", "text": "1936 in comics\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327130", "title": "Fels-Naptha", "text": "Fels-Naptha\n\nFels-Naptha is an American brand of laundry soap used for pre-treating clothing stains and as a home remedy for poison ivy and other skin irritants. Fels-Naptha is manufactured by and is a trademark of the Dial Corporation, a subsidiary of Henkel.\n\nThe soap was originally created around 1893 by Fels and Company and was the first soap to include naphtha.\n\nNaphtha made the soap effective for cleaning laundry and removing the allergen urushiol in poison ivy, but it was removed from the soap as a cancer risk.\n\nAs naphtha is no longer an ingredient, the product is no longer a cancer risk. The newly formulated product is still used to remove urushiol, the oil associated with poison ivy and poison oak.\n\nThe original Fels-Naptha was developed by Fels & Company of Philadelphia around 1893. Its predecessor Fels & Company, was established by Lazarus Fels and son Abraham in 1866 in Baltimore, Maryland, but unexpectedly failed after some period of success. The Fels family moved to Philadelphia, where another Lazarus son, Joseph Fels, started the new firm and incorporated in 1914. Joseph's younger brother Samuel Simeon Fels was the new company's first president and held that position until he died in 1950.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the company prospered based on sales of Fels-Naptha. Both Joseph and Samuel used their new wealth for philanthropy.\n\nIn 1964, the company was sold to Purex Corporation for $5 million.\n\nThe Greyhound Corporation acquired the consumer products business of Purex (which included Fels-Naptha) in 1985 and was combined with Greyhound's Armour-Dial division, forming The Dial Corporation. In December 2003, Dial was sold to Henkel for $2.9 billion.\n\nThe soap comes packaged in paper similar to bar body soap and is most often found in the laundry section of a supermarket or grocery store. It is intended for the pre-treatment of stains by rubbing the dampened product on a soiled area prior to laundering. The manufacturer claims it to be most effective in removing chocolate, baby formula, perspiration, and make-up.\n\nIt was often used as a home remedy in the treatment of contact dermatitis caused by exposure to poison ivy, poison oak, and other oil-based organic skin-irritants where they have touched the skin but not yet inflamed the area. When the soap contained its namesake naptha, washing the skin directly with the soap helped remove urushiol, the allergen associated with poison ivy. As with other strong detergents, the revised formulation retains this capability.\n\nAccording to the manufacturer, about 1/2 of a bar of Fels-Naptha grated and added to a wash cycle helps eliminate residual stains.\n\nFels-Naptha is also a common ingredient in DIY laundry detergent recipes.\n\nFels-Naptha, when combined with Neatsfoot oil, is commonly used in a primitive method of tanning animal skins.\n\nIn its 2007 material safety data sheet, Dial Corp. states that Fels-Naptha can irritate the eyes and, with prolonged exposure, the skin.\n\nFels-Naptha once contained naptha, also known as \"Stoddard solvent\", a skin and eye irritant. According to the ingredients list on the Fels-Naptha website, it is no longer included in the soap.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327132", "title": "Ministries of Poland", "text": "Ministries of Poland\n\nThe ministries of Poland are the various departments performing functions implemented by the Polish government. Each ministry is headed by a governmental minister selected by the Prime Minister, who sits in the collective executive Council of Ministers. The current competences and regulations of the ministries were established under a series of central administrative reforms carried out by prime ministers Józef Oleksy and Włodzimierz Cimoszewicz between 1996 and 1997. Under legal regulations, the cabinet can create, combine, or dissolve ministries, with the Prime Minister determining the scope and responsibilities of ministers. The number and range of ministries has varied throughout the past.\n\nAs of 2015, seventeen codified ministries exist within the government. The following departments discharge executive functions under the Cabinet of Ewa Kopacz.\n\n\nA number of independent government institutions exist outside of the cabinet's responsibilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327147", "title": "Royston Langdon", "text": "Royston Langdon\n\nRoyston William Langdon (born 1 May 1972) is the English lead singer and bassist of the English-American glam rock band Spacehog.\n\nLangdon was born on 1 May 1972 in Leeds. When he was young, he and his older brother Antony joined the Leeds Parish Church choir; the two of them would later found Spacehog in 1994. Antony plays rhythm guitar for the band. Shortly after Spacehog was formed, Langdon came to New York City, where he met Bryce Goggin; the two became friends, and Goggin would later produce Spacehog's best known song, \"In the Meantime\".\n\nFrom 25 March 2003 to April 2008 he was married to actress Liv Tyler, with whom he has a son, Milo William Langdon (born 14 December 2004).\n"}
{"id": "2327158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327158", "title": "Monotropa uniflora", "text": "Monotropa uniflora\n\nMonotropa uniflora, also known as ghost plant (or ghost pipe), Indian pipe or corpse plant, is an herbaceous perennial plant native to temperate regions of Asia, North America and northern South America, but with large gaps between areas. The plant is sometimes completely waxy white, but often has black flecks or pale pink coloration. Rare variants may have a deep red color.\n\nIt was formerly classified in the family Monotropaceae, but is now included within the Ericaceae. It is of ephemeral occurrence, depending on the right conditions (moisture after a dry period) to appear full grown within a couple of days.\n\nUnlike most plants, it is white and does not contain chlorophyll. Instead of generating energy from sunlight, it is parasitic, and more specifically a mycoheterotroph. Its hosts are certain fungi that are mycorrhizal with trees, meaning it ultimately gets its energy from photosynthetic trees. Since it is not dependent on sunlight to grow, it can grow in very dark environments as in the understory of dense forest. It is often associated with beech trees. The complex relationship that allows this plant to grow also makes propagation difficult. \n\nLike most mycoheterotrophic plants, \"M. uniflora\" associates with a small range of fungal hosts, all of them members of Russulaceae.\n\nThe stems reach heights of , sheathed with highly reduced leaves long, best identified as scales or bracts. These structures are small, thin, and translucent; they do not have petioles but instead extend in a sheath-like manner out of the stem. \n\nAs its scientific name suggests, and unlike the related \"Monotropa hypopitys\" (but like the close relation \"Monotropastrum humile\"), the stems bear a single flower long, with 3–8 translucent petals, 10–12 stamens and a single pistil. It flowers from early summer to early autumn, often a few days after rainfall. The fruit, an oval capsule-like structure, enlarges and becomes upright when the seeds mature, at this point stem and capsule looking desiccated and dark brown or black. \n\nThe plant has been used as a nervine (anxiolytic) in western herbal medicine since the late nineteenth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327166", "title": "WYES-TV", "text": "WYES-TV\n\nWYES-TV, virtual channel 12 (VHF digital channel 11), is a Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) member television station licensed to New Orleans, Louisiana, United States. The station is owned by the Greater New Orleans Educational Television Foundation. WYES-TV's studios are located on Navarre Avenue in the city's Navarre neighborhood, and its transmitter is located on Magistrate Street in Chalmette. On cable, the station is available on Cox Communications channel 12 in both standard and high definition.\n\nWYES is the only independently owned public television station in Louisiana as it is not part of Louisiana Public Broadcasting (LPB), which owns all of the PBS member stations in the state that are located outside of New Orleans, and maintains a programming agreement with and partial ownership of the city's independent public television station, WLAE-TV (channel 32). The station is also available on cable providers in Biloxi and Gulfport, Mississippi, despite the presence of Mississippi Public Broadcasting (MPB) satellite WMAH-TV. WYES carries PBS and American Public Television (APT) distributed programs, as well as programs from other distributors. Many WYES-produced national programs are distributed by APT.\n\nWYES traces its history to 1953, when a group of civic leaders formed the Greater New Orleans Educational Television Association. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) had assigned the VHF channel 8 allocation in the New Orleans market for non-commercial use, and the group quickly snapped up the license.\n\nAfter numerous fits and starts, the station first signed on the air on April 1, 1957. It was the 12th educational television station to sign on in the United States and the second in Louisiana as well as New Orleans' third television station (behind WDSU and WVUE, but before WWL-TV and WGNO). The state's first educational station, KLSE signed on a month earlier from Monroe, but went off the air in 1964, making WYES the oldest continuously operating educational station in Louisiana. After KLSE shut down, WYES would be the only educational station in the state until LPB flagship WLPB-TV in Baton Rouge signed on in September 1975. It originally operated as a member of National Educational Television (NET); the station joined the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), when NET was reorganized in 1970.\n\nOn June 8 of that year at 8:00 p.m., the station swapped channel positions with then-ABC affiliate WVUE and moved to channel 12, where the station remains today as its virtual channel. This was done in order for WVUE to be able to have a stronger broadcast signal which did not interfere with Jackson, Mississippi CBS affiliate WJTV, which also broadcasts on channel 12.\n\nWYES is best known outside of New Orleans as the home of famous Louisiana chef and storyteller Justin Wilson, whose show originated from WYES' studios. It is also known as the home for another famous Louisiana chef, Paul Prudhomme. In 1984, WYES premiered \"Informed Sources\", a program devoted to in-depth discussion of the news by local journalists; it is still running today. \"Informed Sources\" was inspired by a former WYES show entitled \"City Desk\", which ran from 1971 to 1978.\n\nOn July 8, 1984, WLAE-TV signed on as a secondary PBS member station for the market. It was owned by a partnership of the Willwoods Community and LPB; the later bought a stake in order to get its Louisiana-focused programming into New Orleans. Through PBS' Program Differentiation Plan, WLAE carried only 25% of the programming broadcast by PBS, with channel 12 carrying the remainder of the network's programs. WYES became one of the earliest TV stations in the United States (and the first in New Orleans) to broadcast in stereo, doing so in May 1985. WYES became the market's exclusive PBS member once again on August 1, 2013, when WLAE ended its membership with the network to increase its focus on its locally produced programming. Among the PBS shows that WLAE had carried prior to leaving PBS were \"Sesame Street\", which it shared with WYES, and the \"PBS NewsHour\", whose removal from channel 32 resulted in the news program only being available in the market through WYES' World subchannel on digital channel 12.2 until it was added to that station's primary channel the following month on September 2; the program had aired on WLAE under a longstanding arrangement with WYES.\n\nDue to massive flooding caused by the levee failures that occurred during Hurricane Katrina's landfall on August 29, 2005, WYES' Navarre Avenue studios, where the station had been based for nearly its entire existence, sustained severe damage from flood waters of up to . The Navarre neighborhood is located in a low-lying area that sustained particularly severe damage due to flooding. The station's transmitters were spared serious damage, but the storm damaged a backup generator that provided emergency power to the transmitter facility, keeping the station off the air for almost four months.\n\nFollowing Katrina, WYES partnered with local cable providers including Cox Communications and Charter Communications to pipe in LPB's signal starting in November 2005. WYES restored its broadcast signal on December 30, operating from a temporary facility located on Veterans Boulevard and Phosphor Avenue in Metairie. It would take almost six years for WYES to return to New Orleans itself.\n\nIn May 2011, WYES began construction of a new broadcast facility located behind the original building that cost $7 million to build. Funding for its construction came from multiple sources, including funds raised during since-aborted plans for an unrelated facility, to have been known as the \"Teleplex\", that was planned to be built in the 1990s on the campus of the University of New Orleans. The facility was constructed in two phases: with a building that houses the station's technical equipment being built first, followed by another complex that would replace the original facility, which would house other operations. The auction department moved back to the original Navarre Avenue facility in 2012, with the rest of the station's operations following suit later that year.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWYES-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 12, at 7 a.m. on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition VHF channel 11. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 12.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327178", "title": "Rydal Penrhos", "text": "Rydal Penrhos\n\nRydal Penrhos School is an independent co-educational boarding school in Colwyn Bay, North Wales. It is the only Methodist school in the independent sector in Wales. It is located on multiple sites around the town with a site in the neighbouring village of Rhos-on-Sea where it keeps its watersports equipment for easy access to the beach. In 2018 the governors announced that no further boarding pupils would be enrolled on account of reduced demand for boarding education in the area. Current boarders could complete their courses, but the school's boarding accommodation would be gradually disposed of. The school's educational policy and ethos would remain unchanged.\nThe school started life as five separate institutions:\n\n\nIn 1887, Payne had founded St John's Methodist Church on Pwllycrochan Avenue, which was used regularly by both Rydal and Penrhos. In 2010, the stewardship of St John's was passed to Rydal Penrhos, which needed more space for school worship and special events.\n\nIn 2020 it was announced that the school would no longer offer a boarding option from 2021 and would operate as a day school only.\n\nA degree of uniformity of design in central Colwyn Bay owes much to a single architect, Sidney Colwyn Foulkes, whose concept has been followed by other architects. His father designed St John's Methodist Church, and he was responsible for many of the school's buildings, as well as others in the vicinity, and further afield in North Wales. This led to the area that includes the school being designated as Colwyn Bay's first conservation area.\n\nDuring the Second World War the main campus of Rydal was occupied by the Ministry of Food. The school was evacuated to Oakwood Park, a small country estate 2 miles west of the town of Conwy. The school returned to Colwyn Bay in 1946.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the Penrhos College site was taken over by the government for Ministry of Food use. The Duke of Devonshire, anticipating that schoolgirls would make better tenants than soldiers, offered Chatsworth House for the use of the school. The contents of the house were packed away in eleven days and 300 girls and their teachers moved in for a six-year stay. The whole of the house was used, including the state rooms, which were turned into dormitories. Condensation from the breath of the sleeping girls caused fungus to grow behind some of the pictures. The house was not very comfortable for so many people, with a shortage of hot water, but there were compensations, such as skating on the Canal Pond. The girls grew vegetables in the garden as a contribution to the war effort.\n\nRydal Preparatory School merged with Penrhos Junior School in 1995 to become Rydal Penrhos Preparatory School, which, in 2003, underwent a further merger with Lyndon School, which retained its name until 2010. The former Penrhos Junior and Lyndon campuses were disposed of and staff and students were relocated to the larger existing Rydal Preparatory School campus.\n\nIn 1999 Rydal School and Penrhos College agreed to merge as Rydal Penrhos School. Initially they were run as three separate divisions: \"preparatory\", \"girls\" and \"co-educational\", reflecting the three formerly separate incarnations. The Penrhos College campus was eventually closed down and sold for re-development, and its pupils moved to the main Rydal campus, the divisions being amalgamated into a single entity. The merger and integration was not without controversy, not least over the sale of the former Penrhos site and the restructuring of the staff.\n\nIn 2004, the school began to offer the International Baccalaureate programme of study in its Sixth form years, as a parallel alternative to the A-level programme that was already being offered. This led to an increase in the number of pupils attending the school from overseas countries such as Ukraine, Belgium, Canada, Germany, France, Kenya, Nigeria, Peru, Russia and the Czech Republic.\n\nThe school's cricket pitch was used as the venue for a first-class match between Wales and the touring South Africans in 1929. The three-day match, played on 10–12 June 1929, resulted in a 10-run victory for the South Africans and saw Bob Catterall of South Africa (117) and William Bates of Wales (102) record centuries. Denbighshire later played a single Minor Counties Championship match against Northumberland at the ground in 1934.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327182", "title": "Galgeberg", "text": "Galgeberg\n\nGalgeberg () is a neighbourhood in the borough of Gamle Oslo in Oslo, Norway.\n\nThe neighbourhood lies near Vålerenga, Kampen and Gamlebyen. The name stems from the gallows present at the location in earlier times.\n"}
{"id": "2327190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327190", "title": "Quini", "text": "Quini\n\nEnrique Castro González (; 23 September 1949 – 27 February 2018), known as Quini , was a Spanish footballer who played as a striker.\n\nIn a career totally connected with Sporting de Gijón and FC Barcelona, he was widely regarded as one of the country's best strikers, having won a total of seven Pichichi Trophy awards, five of those in La Liga.\n\nA Spain international for 12 years, Quini represented the nation in two World Cups and one European Championship.\n\nBorn in Oviedo, Asturias, Quini joined local Real Oviedo's neighbours Sporting de Gijón in 1968, from amateurs CD Ensidesa. In his first season in La Liga, 1970–71, he scored 13 goals in 30 games and, during the following nine years, only netted once in single digits and won three \"Pichichi\", one in Segunda División; ironically, in the year in which he won his second, Sporting were relegated, the player's 21 goals being insufficient to avoid last place.\n\nIn summer 1980, Quini signed with FC Barcelona, who had already tried to sign the player after Sporting's relegation. In his first two years he scored a combined 47 league goals, good enough for two more individual accolades. He also helped the Catalans to the 1981 Copa del Rey, netting twice to put away his beloved Sporting in a 3–1 win in the final; additionally, in the 1981–82 European Cup Winners' Cup, he helped \"Barça\" come from behind to beat Belgium's Standard Liège 2–1 as the decisive match was held at the Camp Nou.\n\nIn his final two years, Quini appeared infrequently with Barcelona (but scored the club's 3,000th goal in the league, in a home match against CD Castellón), and chose to retire in 1984 at age 35, even being awarded a testimonial match – however, he reconsidered and eventually returned to former side Sporting for three more years in the top flight, being sparingly used. On 14 June 1987 he played his last match, against Barcelona, and he totalled 448 games and 219 goals in the first division alone (fifth all-time); in the following decades, he continued to serve Sporting in several directorial capacities.\n\nOn 1 March 1981, after scoring twice for Barcelona in a 6–0 home victory over Hércules CF, Quini was kidnapped by two men at gunpoint, being forced into a van. After many developments and 25 days – during this time, Barcelona could only amass one draw in four games, eventually losing the title race – he was rescued unharmed, upon cooperation between the Spanish and Swiss law enforcement agencies.\n\nIt was subsequently speculated that Quini developed Stockholm syndrome, since he decided not to press charges against his kidnappers and never claimed his personal damages award of 5 million pesetas.\n\nQuini made his debut for Spain on 28 October 1970, in a friendly in Zaragoza with Greece: having played the second half, he scored in a 2–1 win.\n\nWith a total of 35 caps and eight goals, Quini participated in two FIFA World Cups, 1978 and 1982, as well as UEFA Euro 1980. In all those competitions combined, he could only find the net once (Euro '80), and the nation suffered a 1–2 loss against Belgium.\n\nQuini's younger brother, Jesús, was also a footballer. A goalkeeper, he too spent several years with Sporting.\n\nIn 2008, Quini overcame a throat cancer. On 29 April 2016, the Town Hall of Gijón named him adoptive son of the city.\n\nOn 27 February 2018, Quini died at the age of 68 after suffering a heart attack. Just one day later, the City Council of Gijón agreed unanimously to rename El Molinón stadium as \"Estadio El Molinón-Enrique Castro \"Quini\"\" in his memory.\n\nAbout 14,000 people attended Quini's funeral at his main club's homeground.\n\nBarcelona\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327193", "title": "Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo", "text": "Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo\n\n\"Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo\" (also called \"The Magic Song\") is a novelty song, written in 1948 by Al Hoffman, Mack David, and Jerry Livingston. Introduced in the 1950 film \"Cinderella\", and performed by actress Verna Felton, the song is about the Fairy Godmother transforming an orange pumpkin into a white carriage, four brown mice into white horses, a gray horse into a white-haired coachman, and a brown dog into a white-haired footman. The song was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1951 but lost out to \"Mona Lisa\" from \"Captain Carey, U.S.A.\" Disney used the song once again in their 2015 remake of \"Cinderella\" which starred Lily James in the leading role. The song was performed by Helena Bonham Carter, who plays Fairy Godmother, and was the final song of the movie, playing with the end credits. Bonham Carter's version can also be found as the 30th song on the original movie soundtrack.\n\nIlene Woods and The Woodsmen with Harold Mooney and His Orchestra recorded the song in Hollywood on October 26, 1949. It was released by RCA Victor Records as catalog number 31-00138B and by EMI on the His Master's Voice label as catalog numbers B 9970, SG 2371, HM 3755 and JM 2678.\n\nA recording by Perry Como and The Fontane Sisters was the most popular. It was recorded on November 7, 1949 and released by RCA Victor Records as a 78 rpm single (catalog number 20-3607-B) and as a 45rpm single (catalog number 47-3113-B). The flip side was \"A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes\". The recording reached number 14 on the \"Billboard\" chart. The same single was released in the United Kingdom by EMI on the His Master's Voice label as a 78rpm single (catalog number B 9961). It was also released with catalogue numbers HN 2730, X 7279, SAB 8 and IP 615.\n\nAnother recording, by Jo Stafford and Gordon MacRae, was released by Capitol Records as catalog number 782. The record first reached the \"Billboard\" charts on December 16, 1949 and lasted 7 weeks on the chart, peaking at number 19. It was backed with \"Echoes\" on the flip side.\n\nOn the \"Cash Box\" Best-Selling Record charts, where all versions were combined, the song reached number 7.\n\nThe Kings Men performed the song on the Fibber McGee and Molly radio program on January 10, 1950.\n\nBing Crosby recorded the song with Vic Schoen and His Orchestra on January 3, 1950. Dinah Shore also recorded the song on September 9, 1949. It is currently in the compilation of 1992 Sony Music (Legacy label) album \"Zip A Dee Doo Dah\".\n\nThis song was used in a Gatorade commercial starring Sergio Ramos, Leo Messi, David Luiz, and Landon Donovan promoting the 2014 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe first line of the lyric was used as a mantra by Nellie McKay in a Guy Noir skit during episode 1482, January 24, 2015, of A Prairie Home Companion.\n\nThe lyrics of the song, as with the title, are composed nearly entirely of nonsense. The Cinderella LP insert lists the lyrics as follows:\n\n<poem>\nSala-gadoola-menchicka-boo-la bibbidi-bobbidi-boo\nPut 'em together and what have you got?\nBibbidi-bobbidi-boo\n\nSala-gadoola-menchicka-boo-la bibbidi-bobbidi-boo\nIt'll do magic believe it or not\nBibbidi-bobbidi-boo.\n\nNow, Sala-gadoola means menchicka-boolaroo\nBut the thing-a-ma-bob that does the job is\nbibbidi-bobbidi-boo.\n\nSala-gadoola-menchicka-boo-la bibbidi-bobbidi-boo\nPut 'em together and what have you got?\nBibbidi-bobbidi, bibbidi-bobbidi, bibbidi-bobbidi-boo.\n</poem>\n\nThe 1949 recording, however, has several extra English lines that were not used in the 1950 Disney version, including: \"If your mind is in a dither, and your heart is in a haze, I'll haze your dither, and dither your haze, with a magic phrase\", and \"if you're chased around by trouble, and followed by a jinx, I'll jinx your trouble, and trouble your jinx, in less than forty winks.\" The tempo of the various recordings also differs widely.\n\nIt has been suggested that the phrase \"Bibbidi-bobbidi-boo\" can be traced to a short story by the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev. This is not, however, the case.\n\nThe song's melody resembles \"Hello! Ma Baby\", a Tin Pan Alley song from 1899. Five years after \"Cinderella\", \"Hello! Ma Baby\" was popularized in animation by \"One Froggy Evening\", with Warner Bros. having acquired its rights in 1929.\n\nIn 1955, Jack Pleis recorded it for his album, \"Music from Disneyland\".\n\nIn the Disney/Square Enix crossover game \"Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep\", the song has been reorchestrated by Yoko Shimomura as the theme tune for the Cinderella world Castle of Dreams.\n\nIn 1975, Bando Da Lua recorded it for the album, \"Bando Da Lua Nos E.U.A\".\n\nIn 1980 Mino Reitano and Luca Chinnici recorded it (in Italian) for the album \"Ciao amico\" (Hello friend) with Italian text by Devilli. \n\nOn the 2012 album \"Disney - Koe no Oujisama\", which features various Japanese voice actors covering Disney songs, this song was covered by Jun Fukuyama.\n\nOn \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", a similar sounding tune is heard sometimes such as when Squidward was playing a piece on his clarinet that incorporates a similar sounding tune as seen on the episode, \"Squid Wood\".\n\nOn \"House of Mouse\", Jafar and Iago help Mickey and friends bring the clubhouse back after Daisy accidentally made it disappear by doing a rap version of Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo as seen from the episode, \"House of Magic\".\n\nHelena Bonham Carter, who plays the Fairy Godmother in the Disney 2015 film remake, recorded the song for the film's soundtrack.\n\nAkira Toriyama named three characters in his \"Dragon Ball\" series after this song: the evil wizard Bibbidi, his son Bobbidi, and Bibbidi's powerful creation Djinn-Boo. However, these names are spelt as \"Bididi\", \"Babidi\", and \"Majin Buu\" respectively, in the English dub of the animated adaption. Also, two characters of the arcade game Dragon Ball Heroes are also named after the song: the Majin Hero Salaga and the demon Mechickaboola.\n\nThe song is parodied on the \"Pinky, Elmyra & the Brain\" episode \"Narfily Ever After\", a parody of \"Cinderella\".\n\nA parody version recorded by Mickey Katz is entitled \"The Baby, the Bubbe, and You\".\n\nThe lyrics of the song are algebraically analyzed in a math lesson by Mr. Garrison in the \"South Park\" episode \"Royal Pudding\".\n\nThe title of the song is sung several times in Buck-Tick's song \"Django!!! -Genwaku no Django-\" from their album \"Razzle Dazzle\".\n\nThis phrase is often referenced in other Disney stories, mostly when magic is being used. For example, in \"The Return of Jafar\", and also in the \"Hercules\" TV series, in the 'One Saturday Morning episodes,' Episode 12: \"Hercules and the Gorgon.\"\n\nThe popular radio show \"My Favorite Husband\" episode which aired on July 27, 1950, makes fun of the nonsense words of this song. The title of the episode is \"Liz Writes A Song\".\n\nThe film \"Shrek 2\" features a parody of the song, sung by Fiona's fairy godmother.\n\n\"The Tim Conway Jr. Show\", on KFI Radio in Los Angeles, California, sometimes plays a version of the song in which the singer is interrupted by an Angry Doug Steckler who criticizes the song's math skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327216", "title": "Newbridge, Monmouthshire", "text": "Newbridge, Monmouthshire\n\nNewbridge, Monmouthshire may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2327220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327220", "title": "SNCF TGV Atlantique", "text": "SNCF TGV Atlantique\n\nThe TGV Atlantique (TGV-A) is a class of high-speed trains used in France by SNCF; they were built by Alstom between 1988 and 1992, and were the second generation of TGV trains, following on from the TGV Sud-Est.\n\n105 bi-current sets, numbered 301-405, were built for the opening of the LGV Atlantique. Entry into service began in 1989. They are long and wide. They weigh , and are made up of two power cars and ten carriages with a total of 485 seats. They were built for a maximum speed of with total power under 25 kV.\n\nModified unit 325 set the world speed record in 1990 on the new LGV before its opening. Modifications, such as improved aerodynamics, larger wheels and improved braking were made to enable test run speeds of over . The set was reduced to two power cars and three carriages to improve the power-to-weight ratio, weighing . Three carriages, including the bar carriage in the centre, is the minimum possible configuration because of the way the sets are articulated.\n\nThe TGV Atlantique's world record was beaten on the 3 April 2007, by a TGV POS set on the LGV Est, which reached a top speed of .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327226", "title": "Irish Jewish Museum", "text": "Irish Jewish Museum\n\nThe Irish Jewish Museum () is a small museum located in the once highly Jewish populated area of Portobello, around the South Circular Road, Dublin 8, dedicated to the history of the Irish Jewish community.\n\nThe museum was opened in June 1985 by Chaim Herzog who was then president of Israel and was born in Ireland. The museum is in a former Synagogue built in 1917 in two adjoining terraced houses on Walworth Road, off the South Circular Road. The surrounding area, known as Portobello, was previously a Jewish area, however, the large scale emigration that affected Ireland in the 1950s had a particularly strong effect on the Jewish population; there was also a migration to the suburbs and Dublin's main synagogue is now in Terenure. The synagogue is preserved, there are also artifacts on display and the museum houses genealogical records.\n\nThe museum contains a substantial collection of memorabilia relating to the Irish Jewish communities and their various associations and contributions to present day Ireland. The material relates to the last 150 years and is associated with the communities of Belfast, Cork, Derry, Drogheda, Dublin, Limerick and Waterford.\n\nThe museum is divided into several distinct areas. In the entrance area and corridors there is a display of photographs, paintings, certificates and testimonials. The ground floor contains a general display relating to the commercial and social life of the Jewish community. A special feature adjoining the area is the kitchen depicting a typical Sabbath/Festival meal setting in a Jewish home in the late 19th/early 20th century in the neighbourhood.\n\nUpstairs, the original Synagogue, with all its ritual fittings, is on view and also the Harold Smerling gallery containing Jewish religious objects.\n\nIn 2005, the museum was sprayed several times with anti-Semitic slogans. Minister for Foreign Affairs Dermot Ahern visited the museum to express Government support for the museum and the Jewish community. Ahern's actions were praised by Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom. The culprit was identified from CCTV images and arrested. At trial, his lawyers stated that the attacks were a result of his ongoing schizophrenia and he was sentenced to six months of probation. Raphael Siev, curator of the museum, said the attacks had caused \"great terror\" and \"great upset\" but the trial judge prevented him from continuing, citing the uncertain legal status of victim impact statements in cases of this sort.\n\nIn 2012, the museum began a fundraising campaign to expand and develop the site, under the auspices of the Office of Public Works. In December 2013, An Bord Pleanála voted 5 to 3 in favour of the plan, granting planning permission with a number of conditions. The plans include demolition of the original synagogue at numbers 3 and 4 Walworth Road, as well as the demolition of 3 houses at numbers 5 to 7 Walworth Road, a 6-metre basement excavation, and construction of a facsimile 19th century facade. Taoiseach Enda Kenny supported the plan, describing it as an \"exciting project... for the regeneration of the city”. The plans were criticised by some local residents, councillors, and architects. 25 formal objections were submitted, citing facadism, destruction of the original synagogue, and lack of public engagement as the main reasons for opposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327229", "title": "1935 in comics", "text": "1935 in comics\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327230", "title": "Mirabilis expansa", "text": "Mirabilis expansa\n\nMirabilis expansa (mauka or chago) is a species of flowering plant cultivated as a root vegetable in the Andes, at cold, windy altitudes between and . The above-ground portion dies back with frost, but the root is quite hardy. The roots can reach the size of a man's forearm, and yields can reach given two years maturation time.\n\nIt is considered to be an underutilized crop, and has received interest for its ability to grow in conditions that do not favor other root crops. The Andean region is considered one of the most important places for crop development and diversification.\n\n\"Mirabilis expansa\" was a very important crop to the Inca Empire and was considered lost. The botanical name for Mauka is Mirabilis expansa. In Bolivia, Mauka's common name is Spanish Mauka. In Peru it has many different common names, such as chago, arricon, yuca, inca, cuship, and chaco. In Ecuador it is known as miso, taso, or pega pega. The cultivation of mauka was first described in a rural community in Bolivia in the 1960s. Fifteen years later it was found in Ecuador and Peru and has seen the largest area of production in those countries. It has been proposed that the reason Mauka has survived in three separate locations is because the Incas had a policy of transplanting valuable crops to communities throughout the empire.\n\n\"Mirabilis expansa\" is in the dicot Nyctaginaceae family. It can grow up to one meter in height and is relatively disease resistant. Mauka produces an edible storage root and its top portion contains plenty of edible foliage that develops from the basal shoots. Mauka is a known perennial plant because of the edible part of the collar swells. The stems of Mauka are cylindrical in shape and nodes separate them; from these nodes pairs of leaves arise. The inflorescences are on long slender branches that range from three to six centimeters in length. These branches are covered with hairs that are constantly trapping small insects. Flower colour is different depending on the geographical location. In Bolivia the flowers are purple and in Ecuador, they are purple and white. The stems underground are a salmon-pink colour and are smooth and fleshy. They are up to long and wide. Mature mauka roots have been seen to reach the length and diameter of a human forearm.\n\nMauka can reproduce with seeds or can propagate vegetatively using basal shoots, pieces of stem or suckers. Vegetative propagation is the technique that is used most often. If a plant is reproduces using a basal shoot it can usually be harvested after one year. If a sucker is used then it may be a longer period of time before the plant can be harvested. Mauka is planted into holes in long narrow grooves that are one meter by one meter and must be earthed carefully. In Ecuador, farmers intercrop mauka with maize to optimize soil structure for root development. \nMauka can grow with a minimum of of rainfall, optimally with an annual rainfall between . The absolute minimum pH level that mauka can survive with is 5.5, but the optimal level is between 6 and 7. Mauka is usually harvested annually but can be left in the ground for long periods of time. After two years of growth yields increase substantially. Potential advantages of Mauka for poor farmers are that it is very inexpensive to reproduce because it can be done by vegetative propagation and once it is planted it requires very little labour. A potential disadvantage is its long growing period. Poor farmers may not be able to wait two years for it to reach its optimal yields.\n\nMauka is a stress tolerant crop. “It can be grown at cold, windy altitudes above 2700 meters”. It is able to survive in places of constant winds and near-constant chill, two factors that place heavy physical strain and stress on the crop. An advantage of Mauka for poor farmers is that it can stand up to such harsh conditions making it an ideal crop for regions of high altitude and harsh weather.\n\nIntercropping with maize is a very useful solution for preventing attacks from slugs and certain types of insects that dig into the plant's underground root. Intercropping provides a much stronger soil structure that will help the root develop. Intercropping increases predator biodiversity, which in turn helps limit pest outbreaks. An advantage of this pest solution is that many farmers already grow maize; however, a disadvantage of this solution is that some poor farmers cannot afford to intercrop.\n\n\"Mirabilis expansa\" yields a large amount of edible stems and storage roots. The roots of some forms if eaten directly can irritate the mucus membranes, and should be sun-dried and boiled before eating to eliminate the irritating substance. Once the root has been exposed to the sun, the astringent, bitter taste is replaced with sweetness. Bolivian forms are more often irritating than Ecuadorian forms.\n\nThe leaves are also edible, and can be used in salad and chili sauces. The roots can be prepared in the same way as sweet potato or cassava, two similar crops, and can be an ingredient in soups and stews. In one of the traditional preparations the boiled roots are mixed with honey and toasted grain. In Ecuador they prepare mauka in two ways: savory and sweet. To prepare mauka as sweet, the plant is buried for one week in the soil with layers of barley straw alternated between it to concentrate the sugars. The cooking water of \"M. expansa\" makes a satisfying sweet drink. “In Bolivia, the stems and roots are left to ripen and then cut and cooked. The cooking water is served as a soft drink”.\n\n\"M. expansa\" can be used to feed livestock, allowing the entire plant to be used. Mauka's many different uses give it a higher degree of conversion than other agricultural by-products.\n\nMauka roots contain approximately 87% carbohydrate on a dry weight basis. Mauka analyzed from Bolivia and Peru has a 7% and 5% protein content. The underground parts of the plant contain 2760 mg of calcium and 590 mg of phosphorus, and the foliage contains 17% protein. Sodium and iron levels are low in Mauka but the protein, calcium, and phosphorus content are higher than other roots and tubers grown in the same agro-ecological area. These high levels are an advantage for the poor people consuming the crop because they help to give Mauka a high nutritional value. If the root is not left to ripen, there are astringent components that may affect a person's tongue and lips.\n\nAt this point in time Mauka is a crop that is grown only in small vegetable gardens in a marginal way. It was forgotten for many years therefore its profile needs to heighten to make it more profitable. Value can be added by selling it in soups and chilies that are already made. There is not enough information to determine if it is considered a “poor man’s crop”. It is also not popular enough to know if it is appropriate for an urban environment. Mauka has been reported to be a relatively low labour crop but the amount of child and female labour is unknown.\n\nMauka's main constraint is that it was forgotten for so many years. It was only recently rediscovered, meaning that there is only limited information available about it. This is a disadvantage to poor people because many communities don't know the potential it has so they don't grow it. One potential advantage is that the communities who do harvest Mauka have been able to make sure it has survived over the years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327234", "title": "Mirabilis jalapa", "text": "Mirabilis jalapa\n\nMirabilis jalapa, the marvel of Peru or four o'clock flower, is the most commonly grown ornamental species of \"Mirabilis\" plant, and is available in a range of colours. \"Mirabilis\" in Latin means wonderful and Jalapa (or Xalapa) is the state capital of Veracruz in México. \"Mirabilis jalapa\" was cultivated by the Aztecs for medicinal and ornamental purposes.\n\nThe flowers usually open from late afternoon or at dusk (namely between 4 and 8 o'clock), giving rise to one of its common names. Flowers then produce a strong, sweet-smelling fragrance throughout the night, then close for good in the morning. New flowers open the following day. It arrived in Europe in 1525. Today, it is common in many tropical regions and is also valued in Europe as a (not hardy) ornamental plant. It is the children's state flower of Connecticut under the name of Michaela Petit's Four O'Clocks. \nThe name of \"Mirabilis jalapa\" given by Carl Von Linne in 1753 is formed from the scientific Latin Mirabilis meaning \"admirable\" by allusion to the remarkable colors of its flowers and the specific name jalapa that would refer to its origin in the Jalapa in Guatemala. But the epithet of jalapa could also refer to the city of Xalapa (Jalapa) in Mexico from which came a former purgative drug, named jalap, taken from the tubers of the tuberous jalap.\n\nLinnaeus refers to all species of Jalapa described by Joseph Pitton de Tournefort who in 1694 wrote: \"The Jalap, or Belle de Nuit is a kind of plant whose flower is a funnel-shaped flared pipe with a crenellated pavilion ... Father Plumier assured me that the Jalap, which is brought to us with the root of America, was a true species of Belle de nuit. We have also received the seed, which has produced in the Jardin Royal de Paris a plant quite like the common Belle de nuit; but this seed is more wrinkled, and the leaves of the plant are less smooth.\"\n\nIt is a perennial, herbaceous, bushy plant that reaches stature heights of mostly 1 meter, rarely up to 2 meters, in height. It may also be grown as an annual, especially in the temperate zone. The single-seeded fruits are spherical, wrinkled and black upon maturity, having started out greenish-yellow. The stems are thick, full, quadrangular with many ramifications and rooting at the nodes. The posture is often prostrate.\n\nA curious aspect of \"M. jalapa\" is that flowers with different colors grow simultaneously on the same plant. Additionally, an individual flower can be splashed with different colors. Flower patterns are referred to as sectors (whole sections of flower), flakes (stripes of varying length), and spots. A single flower can be plain yellow, red, magenta, pink, or white, or have a combination of sectors, flakes, and spots. Furthermore, different combinations of flowers and patterns can occur on different flowers of the same plant.\n\nUsually, the flowers are yellow, pink and white, but a different combination of flowers growing on the same single four o’clock plant can be found. Another interesting point is a color-changing phenomenon. For example, in the yellow variety, as the plant matures, it can display flowers that gradually change to a dark pink colour. Similarly, white flowers can change to light violet. Despite their appearance, the flowers are not formed from petals – rather they are a pigmented modification of the calyx. Similarly, the 'calyx' is an involucre of bracts. The flowers are funnel-shaped and pentalobed, they have no cup (replaced by bracteal leaves) but are made of a corolla.\n\nThe inflorescences contain three to seven unpopped flowers. Earning the name \"four-clock flower\", the fragrant flowers open in the late afternoon or early evening, and also in overcast weather, and exhale a scent reminiscent of the tobacco flower, and attract moths for pollination. The anthesis lasts from 16 to 20 hours and thus remains visible part of the day. The flowers are pollinated by long-tongued moths of the family Sphingidae, such as the sphinx moths or hawk moths and other nocturnal pollinators attracted by the fragrance.\n\nThe plant does best in full sun. Often in the sun the leaves wither, then return vigorously in the evening, when temperatures start to fall and the sun sets. It cannot stand the cold as the aerial part, with the first frosts, deteriorates and can die, but the underground part that can return to vegetate in spring remains vital. The plant will self-seed, often spreading rapidly if left unchecked in a garden. Some gardeners recommend that the seeds should be soaked before planting, but this is not totally necessary. In North America, the plant perennializes in warm, coastal environments, particularly in USDA zones 7–10. The fragrance of the flower is more intense and noticeable during the warm period of the day. The plant is easy to grow, as long as it is sunny or partially shaded. Under these conditions, it grows very quickly.\n\nIt grows preferably in light soil, rich in humus and well draining, it is neutral side acidity (pH). Pot cultivation is always possible with a mixture of 80% soil and 20% garden soil and a very deep container with the tubers being put at a depth of 10 cm. It is usually sown from mid-February to May. The seeds germinate rapidly at a temperature of 18 °C.\n\n\"Mirabilis jalapa\" hails from tropical South America, but has become naturalized throughout tropical, subtropical and temperate regions. In cooler subtropical and temperate regions, it will die back with the first frosts or as the weather starts to cool down (especially after it fully matures and finished self-seeding), regrowing in the following spring from the tuberous roots. Mirabilis jalapa is native to the dry tropical regions of Central and South America: Guatemala, Mexico, Chile and Peru.\n\nIt is currently naturalized in many countries in Asia, Africa, United States, Middle East and Europe. In Réunion, \"Mirabilis jalapa\" was initially an ornamental species; however it became naturalized on the west coast, between 400 and 700 m altitude, and on the south coast between 0 and 700 m. It occurs in a ruderal debris area, and is relatively common in weedy sugarcane fields on the west and south coasts. Its high seed production and rapid growth allow it to cover up to 30% to 50% in cane plots.\n\nAround 1900, Carl Correns used \"Mirabilis\" as a model organism for his studies on cytoplasmic inheritance. He used the plant's variegated leaves to prove that certain factors outside the nucleus affected phenotype in a way not explained by Mendel's theories. Correns proposed that leaf colour in \"Mirabilis\" was passed on via a uni-parental mode of inheritance.\n\nAlso when plants with dark-pink flowers are crossed with white-flowered plants, light-pink-flowered offspring are produced. This is seen as an exception to Mendel's Law of Dominance because in this case, the dark-pink and white genes seem to be of equal strength, so neither completely dominates the other. The phenomenon is known as incomplete dominance. However the Mendelian principle of uniformity in the F-generation and die principle of segregation in the F-generation of genes do apply, which confirmes the importance of Mendel's discoveries.\n\nEight betaxanthins (indicaxanthin, vulgaxanthin-I, miraxanthin-I, II, III, IV, V and VI) can be isolated from \"M. jalapa\" flowers.\n\nRotenoids (mirabijalone A, B, C and D, 9-O-methyl-4-hydroxyboeravinone B, boeravinone C and boeravinone F, and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-methylisoquinoline-7,8-diol) can be isolated from the roots.\n\nA fatty acid (8-hydroxyoctadeca-cis-11,14-dienoic acid) is found as a minor component in the seed oil.\n\nAnalysis of the methanolic extract of the aerial parts yields β-sitosterol, stigmasterol, ursolic acid, oleanolic acid and brassicasterol.\n\nBioassay-guided fractionation of an organic extract of the cell mass from a manipulated plant cell culture of \"M. jalapa\" led to the isolation and subsequent identification of an isoflavone, a roteinoid and a dehydrorotenoid. Two of these compounds are responsible for the antimicrobial activity against \"Candida albicans\".\n\nBioassay-guided fractionation of the methanolic extract of \"M. jalapa\" also led to the isolation of an active polyphenolic amide: N-trans-feruloyl 4′-O-methyldopamine. This compound shows moderate activity as an efflux pump inhibitor against multidrug-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327236", "title": "Mirabilis longiflora", "text": "Mirabilis longiflora\n\nMirabilis longiflora, the sweet four o'clock, is a species of flowering plant native to the southwestern United States from Arizona to Texas and northern Mexico. It is night-flowering, the flowers are mostly white, strongly scented, and long and narrow in form, approaching 17 centimeters in maximum length.\n"}
{"id": "2327242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327242", "title": "List of hypergeometric identities", "text": "List of hypergeometric identities\n\nBelow is a list of hypergeometric identities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327247", "title": "Monte Vulture", "text": "Monte Vulture\n\nMount Vulture () is an extinct volcano located north of the city Potenza in the Basilicata region (Italy). As a prominent landmark it gave its name to the Vulture region, the most significant viticultural zone in Basilicata growing the DOC wine Aglianico del Vulture.\n\nWith a height of , it is unique amongst large Italian volcanoes due to its location east of the Apennine mountain range. At the summit is a caldera, known as Valle dei Grigi, whose precise origins are disputed.\n\nThe earliest eruptions of the volcano occurred around one million years ago, explosive activity producing ignimbrite. The explosive eruption phase finished around 830,000 years before present, when the nature of the activity changed to a mix of pyroclastic and effusive, lava eruptions which built up the mountain and which have been dated to around 500,000 years ago. One of the explanations advanced for the Valle dei Grigi is that it is the result of the collapse of a sector of the mountain, as occurred during the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens and the 1792 eruption of Mount Unzen.\n\nThe most recent phase involved further lava flows and the growth of lava domes in the Valle dei Grigi, including the formation of two calderas. The most recent activity is thought to have been phreatomagmatic explosions around 40 ka ago which produced maars and small cold surges (pyroclastic surges cooler than 100°C).\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2327250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327250", "title": "International School of Ouagadougou", "text": "International School of Ouagadougou\n\nThe International School of Ouagadougou is an English-language using international school in Zogona, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, established in 1976. The school is independent and teaches students from prekindergarten to Grade 12. In 2019 to 2020 there were 180 students. The school was created to cater for students from the international community but host-country students are also accepted.\n\nIn 2004-5 there were 12 full-time faculty members, 14 part-time, and 7 instructional assistants, as well as a counselor and director of student services, a program development/curriculum director, elementary principal, librarian and an IT technician.\n\nThe school has a modified U.S. curriculum, including daily instruction in French. It also offers lessons in Burkina culture, and pupils have the chance to take part in student exchanges with other international schools in the region. A number of AP courses are offered for students to earn college credit.\n\nThe school is accredited by the U.S.-based Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools and is a member of the Association of International Schools in Africa.\n\nThe school is on a 7-acre (28,000 m²) purpose-built campus adjacent to the residential Zone du Bois and close to the city center. It includes a walled and secure area of 5 acres (20,000 m²), a grassed playing field, dressing rooms, a volleyball/basketball/badminton court, a swimming pool, two lighted tennis courts, and a squash court. Ten major buildings house the classrooms, administration, and resource areas, including a library of more than 9,000 volumes, a computer laboratory, a science laboratory, student center, and recreation club/snack bar. The campus is networked for direct service line internet access and has an intranet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327266", "title": "Thirteenth Dynasty of Egypt", "text": "Thirteenth Dynasty of Egypt\n\nThe Thirteenth Dynasty of ancient Egypt (notated Dynasty XIII) is often combined with Dynasties XI, XII and XIV under the group title \"Middle Kingdom\". Some writers separate it from these dynasties and join it to Dynasties XIV through XVII as part of the \"Second Intermediate Period\". Dynasty XIII lasted from approximately 1803 BC until approximately 1649 BC, i.e. for 154 years.\n\nThe 13th dynasty was a direct continuation of the preceding 12th dynasty, with its first ruler believed to be a son of Amenemhat IV. Kim Ryholt proposes that the demarcation between the two dynasties reflects the rise of the independent 14th dynasty in the eastern Delta, an event which, he proposes, occurred during Sobekneferu's reign. As direct heirs to the kings of the 12th dynasty, pharaohs of the 13th dynasty reigned from Memphis over Middle and Upper Egypt, all the way to the second cataract to the south. The power of the 13th dynasty waned progressively over its 150 years of existence and it finally came to an end with the conquest of Memphis by the Hyksos rulers of the 15th dynasty, c. 1650 BC.\n\nIn later texts, this dynasty is usually described as an era of chaos and disorder. However, the period may have been more peaceful than was once thought since the central government in Itj-tawy near the Faiyum was sustained during most of the dynasty and the country remained relatively stable. The period was undoubtedly characterized by decline, with a large number of kings with short reigns and only a few attestations. It is clear that they were not from a single family line, and some of them were born commoners. Unfortunately, the true chronology of this dynasty is difficult to determine as there are few monuments dating from the period. Many of the kings' names are only known from odd fragmentary inscriptions or from scarabs. The names and order in the table are based on Dodson and Hilton and Ryholt.\n\nFollowing these kings, the remaining rulers of the 13th Dynasty are only attested by finds from Upper Egypt. This may indicate the abandonment of the old capital Itjtawy in favor of Thebes. Daphna Ben Tor believes that this event was triggered by the invasion of the eastern Delta and the Memphite region by Canaanite rulers. For some authors, this marks the end of the Middle Kingdom and the beginning of the Second Intermediate Period. This analysis is rejected by Ryholt and Baker however, who note that the stele of Seheqenre Sankhptahi, reigning toward the end of the dynasty, strongly suggests that he reigned over Memphis. Unfortunately, the stele is of unknown provenance.\nThe chronological position of a number of attested rulers could not be conclusively determined due to a lack of evidence:\nRyholt posits a ruler named \"Sobkhotep I Sekhemre Khutawy\" as the first king of this dynasty. This is now the dominant hypothesis in Egyptology and Sobekhotep Sekhemre Khutawy is referred to as Sobekhotep I in this article. Ryholt thus credits Sekhemre Khutawy Sobkhotep I with a reign of 3 to 4 years c. 1800 BC and proposes that Khaankhre Sobekhotep II reigned c. 20 years later in 1780 BC. Dodson and Hilton similarly believe that Sekhemre Khutawy Sobekhotep predated Khaankhre Sobekhotep.\n\nAfter allowing discipline at the southern forts to deteriorate, the government eventually withdrew its garrisons and, not long afterward, the forts were reoccupied by the rising Nubian state of Kush. In the north, Lower Egypt was overrun by the Hyksos, a Semitic people from across the Sinai. An independent line of kings created Dynasty XIV that arose in the western Delta during later Dynasty XIII. According to Manetho, into this unstable mix came invaders from the east called the Hyksos who seized Egypt \"without striking a blow; and having overpowered the rulers of the land, they then burned our cities ruthlessly, razed to the ground the temples of gods...\" Their regime, called Dynasty XV, was claimed to have replaced Dynasties XIII and XIV in most of the country.\n\nHowever, recent archaeological finds at Edfu could indicate that the Hyksos 15th dynasty was already in existence at least by the mid-13th dynasty reign of king Sobekhotep IV. In a recently published paper in \"Egypt and the Levant\", Nadine Moeller, Gregory Marouard and N. Ayers discuss the discovery of an important early 12th dynasty Middle Kingdom administrative building in the eastern Tell Edfu area of Upper Egypt which was in continual use into the early Second Intermediate Period until the 17th dynasty, when its remains were sealed up by a large silo court. Fieldwork by Egyptologists in 2010 and 2011 into the remains of the former 12th dynasty building which was also used in the 13th dynasty led to the discovery of a large adjoining hall which proved to contain 41 sealings showing the cartouche of the Hyksos ruler Khyan together with 9 sealings naming the 13th dynasty king Sobekhotep IV. The preserved contexts of these seals shows that Sobekhotep IV and Khyan were most likely contemporaries of one another. This could mean that the 13th dynasty did not control all of Egypt when Sobekhotep IV acceded to power, and that there was a significant overlap between the 13th and 15th dynasties since Sobekhotep IV was only a mid-13th dynasty ruler; although one of its most powerful kings. Therefore, Manetho's statement that the Hyksos 15th dynasty violently replaced the 13th dynasty could be a piece of later Egyptian propaganda. Rather, the 13th dynasty's authority must have been collapsing throughout Egypt in its final decades and the Hyksos state in the Delta region simply took over Memphis and ended the 13th dynasty's kingdom. However, this analysis and the conclusions drawn from it are rejected by Egyptologist Robert Porter, who argues that Khyan ruled much later than Sobekhotep IV (a gap of c. 100 years exists between the two in conventional chronologies) and that the seals of a pharaoh were used long after his death. Thus the seals of Sobekhotep IV might not indicate that he was a contemporary of Khyan.\n\nMerneferre Ay was the last Egyptian ruler of the 13th Dynasty who is attested by objects in both Lower and Upper Egypt. Henceforth, his successors, from Merhotepre Ini on, are only attested in Upper Egypt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327270", "title": "Thorpe Fell Top", "text": "Thorpe Fell Top\n\nThorpe Fell Top is the top of the hill of Burnsall and Thorpe Fell in the Yorkshire Dales, itself forming part of a larger wedge of ground between Wharfedale and Skipton.\n\nThe summit of this grouse moor is 506 metres above sea level and topped with a trig point. It was listed in Alan Dawson's \"The Relative Hills of Britain\" as a Marilyn. However, a number of recent observations and measurements suggest that the base of the war memorial at the top of Cracoe Fell () some to the south-west, is probably higher, perhaps as high as 510 metres.\n\nThorpe Fell Top is probably most easily visited from either Thorpe or Burnsall. The track and path marked on Ordnance Survey maps to the north and west of the summit continues all the way to the top of Cracoe Fell. The latter can also be reached along Fell Lane from the village of Cracoe.\n"}
{"id": "2327275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327275", "title": "SNCF Class X 2200", "text": "SNCF Class X 2200\n\nThe SNCF Class X 2200 diesel multiple units were built by ANF between 1985–1988.\n\nLimoges units are used in Limousin, the Dordogne, around Bourdeaux and the line between Limoges and Angoulême, often with trailers. Nice based units are used mainly on the Nice - Cuneo line.\n"}
{"id": "2327282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327282", "title": "Afdera Franchetti", "text": "Afdera Franchetti\n\nAfdera Franchetti (born 8 July 1931) is an Italian baroness, descended from an old Jewish family of Venice which intermarried with the Rothschild family and who eventually converted to Roman Catholicism. She is most famous for being the fourth wife of American actor Henry Fonda.\n\nThe Italian Jewish Franchetti family, from the 18th century, was one of the wealthiest families in the Mediterranean. \nAfdera Franchetti was the daughter of Baron Raimondo Franchetti, a famous explorer who traveled extensively in Ethiopia and charted hitherto unexplored territories (Dancalia) during the 1920s. On his return from an expedition to Ethiopia, his plane exploded over Cairo in 1935. Raimondo's grandmother was Sara Louise de Rothschild (1834–1924). Her brother, the Baron Raimondo Nanuk Franchetti, was a friend of author Ernest Hemingway, who hunted with him in Caorle Lagoon.\n\nAfdera Franchetti was married to Howard Taylor from 1954 to 1957. They met in Italy on a vacation. Afdera Franchetti was married to Henry Fonda (*1905) from 1957 to 1961; they were introduced to each other by Audrey Hepburn in Italy while he was filming \"War and Peace\" with Audrey and Mel Ferrer. Audrey had been struggling with infertility, and had sought advice from Afdera's sister, Simba. When she became pregnant straightaway, she felt a certain loyalty to the Franchetti Family. She befriended Afdera, which resulted in her meeting with Henry. Afdera was roughly 25 years old when she married Fonda; his eldest child, Jane, was 18 years old.\n\nShe was once arrested for drug smuggling, as detailed in her autobiography, for one \"joint\", which she brought in her luggage for a friend without knowing that possession of this small amount of marijuana was a serious offence. The \"friend\" had a parcel delivered to her at her hotel with instructions to take it on the plane. The parcel was delivered to her hotel along with a record by an up-and-coming group called the Rolling Stones. The deliverer of said parcel was an unknown at the time, Mick Jagger. She lived in South Kensington, London with her dog Marley.\nCurrently resides in Milan, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327285", "title": "Shaun Teale", "text": "Shaun Teale\n\nShaun Teale (born 10 March 1964 in Southport) is an English former professional footballer and manager. He played as a defender from 1983 until 2004 and was notably part of the League Cup winning team of Aston Villa in 1994.\n\nHe also played in the Football League for Bournemouth, Tranmere Rovers, Preston North End and Carlisle United, the Scottish Premier League for Motherwell. As well as having a spell in Hong Kong with Sing Tao he has played at a Non-league level for Weymouth, Southport, Burscough and Northwich Victoria before moving into management with the two latter clubs, as well as having a spell in charge of Chorley.\n\nHe was a central defender who joined Bournemouth from non-league Weymouth for £50,000 in 1989. He spent three seasons at Bournemouth before moving to Aston Villa in July 1991. He helped them finish runners-up in the Premier League in 1993 and win the Football League Cup a year later, before losing his place in the first team to Ugo Ehiogu.\n\nHe moved from Villa to join Tranmere Rovers for £500,000 in the summer of 1995. He made his Tranmere debut on 12 August 1995 against Wolves and played in 29 league games for Tranmere in his first season with them. Whilst with Rovers he had loan spells with Preston North End and Sing Tao SC, before signing for Motherwell in August 1998.\n\nTeale moved from Motherwell to Carlisle United on a free transfer in February 2000, playing 20 games for the Cumbrian club. He then went on to join Southport, playing for them until the age of 40, before moving into non-league coaching and management.\n\nTeale was appointed manager of Burscough, a team in the Northern Premier League Premier Division. Whilst he was there, the side won the 2003 FA Trophy.\n\nTeale left Burscough six weeks after the Trophy win, and has since managed Northwich Victoria, a Football Conference team in the 2003/04 season. Teale left Northwich at the end of the 2003/04 season.\n\nBetween February 2005 and August 2006, Teale managed Northern Premier League First Division side Chorley, before leaving to run his pub and restaurant business in Burscough.\n\nIt was announced on 8 March 2013 he applied for the AFC Telford United with Peter Withe.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2009, Teale was the owner of the Farmer's Arms pub in Burscough. On 3 September 2010, it was announced that Teale had come out of retirement to sign for Southport and District Sunday League Premier Division side The Herald.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327287", "title": "SNCF Class X 2100", "text": "SNCF Class X 2100\n\nThe SNCF X 2100 class of diesel multiple units were built by ANF between 1980–1983. They were used on TER Services, mostly in Brittany, Loire and around Limoges.\n"}
{"id": "2327295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327295", "title": "The Electric Flag", "text": "The Electric Flag\n\nThe Electric Flag was an American blues rock soul group, led by guitarist Mike Bloomfield, keyboardist Barry Goldberg and drummer Buddy Miles, and featuring other musicians such as vocalist Nick Gravenites and bassist Harvey Brooks. Bloomfield formed the Electric Flag in 1967, following his stint with the Butterfield Blues Band. The band reached its peak with the 1968 release, \"A Long Time Comin'\", a fusion of rock, jazz, and R&B styles that charted well in the \"Billboard\" Pop Albums chart. Their initial recording was a soundtrack for \"The Trip\", a movie about an LSD experience by Peter Fonda, written by Jack Nicholson and directed by Roger Corman.\n\nWith his appreciation for blues, soul and R&B, Bloomfield wanted to create a group of his own that would feature what he called \"American music.\" He was inspired not only by the big band blues of B.B. King, T-Bone Walker, and Guitar Slim (Eddie Jones), but also by the contemporary soul sounds of Otis Redding, Steve Cropper, Booker T. & the M.G.'s, and other Stax recording artists. He also drew inspiration from traditional country, gospel, and blues forms. Initially called the American Music Band, Bloomfield organized the band that would become known as The Electric Flag in the spring of 1967, not long after he produced a session with Chicago blues harmonica player James Cotton that featured a horn section. Bloomfield decided that his new band would also have horns and would play an amalgam of the American music he loved. \n\nThe group was initially formed at the instigation of Bloomfield, and the assistance of Barry Goldberg. Harvey Brooks, who had previously worked with Bloomfield in 1965, recording Bob Dylan's \"Highway 61 Revisited\", joined as bassist, and recommended Buddy Miles, then 19 years old, who was the drummer at the time for Wilson Pickett. Brooks was working with Murray the K on the \"Music in the Fifth Dimension\" show at the RKO Theatre and was at Wilson Pickett's sound check/rehearsal watching Pickett fine Miles $50 a pop for missed cues. After the rehearsal Brooks approached Miles telling him about Bloomfield's credits, asking if he wanted to meet and talk about Bloomfield's new band. Miles was persuaded by Goldberg, Bloomfield and Brooks to leave Pickett. Initially, Bloomfield and Goldberg had asked Mitch Ryder to be the vocalist, since Bloomfield and Goldberg had been contributing to some Ryder recording sessions. Ryder declined the invitation, preferring to remain with the Detroit Wheels. Bloomfield next approached Nick Gravenites, originally also from Chicago, who agreed.\n\nPeter Strazza, whom Goldberg knew from Chicago, joined on tenor saxophone. Jazz guitarist Larry Coryell, who had developed his career in Seattle while a university student, recommended Seattle-based Marcus Doubleday on trumpet.\n\nBloomfield and Goldberg developed the group in San Francisco, under Albert Grossman's management, and immediately began working on the band's first project: the soundtrack for the film \"The Trip\". Actor Peter Fonda approached Bloomfield for the project, as a replacement for Gram Parsons' International Submarine Band. Director Roger Corman did not find the music of Parsons' band appropriate for a movie about the LSD experience. At the time, the Electric Flag was rehearsing in Gram Parsons' Laurel Canyon, California home.\n\nBloomfield was solely credited for all of the compositions on the album. He hired keyboardist Paul Beaver to add texture to the soundtrack, through the use of one of the first Moog Synthesizers on record. The soundtrack recording was reportedly completed in ten days. While the movie received mixed reviews, the soundtrack attracted positive critical notice. As described by David Dann in his biography of the Electric Flag, \"The record was also one of the most adventurous for pop music in 1967, sampling freely from jazz, rock, blues and classical idioms, and doing so with wit and intelligence. It very much favored the eclectic approach toward American musical forms that Bloomfield wanted the new band to embody. That Michael could create such unusual and wide-ranging pieces said much for his appreciation and knowledge of those forms, and displayed his characteristic fearlessness when it came to experimentation.\"\n\nOne of the Bloomfield compositions from \"The Trip\" soundtrack, \"Flash, Bam, Pow,\" was later included in the soundtrack to the 1969 film \"Easy Rider\". The song was omitted from the release of the original soundtrack and has not been included in subsequent reissues.\n\nThe band made its debut appearance at the Monterey Pop Festival, the first of the 1960s rock music extravaganzas. Now called the Electric Flag, the group was well received by the audience of 55,000, though its performance fell short of Bloomfield's high standards. Following Monterey, the band toured the Northeast and perform in the San Francisco area while working on a recording for Columbia Records. Though a critical success, the band remained largely unknown to the general public due in part to the band's inability to complete its first album in a timely manner. In addition, Marcus Doubleday had joined the band as a heroin addict, while Peter Strazza, Barry Goldberg and Bloomfield developed heroin problems thereafter. In November 1967, Goldberg left the band in an effort to bring his personal circumstances under control. He was replaced by Michael Fonfara, at the time playing with David Clayton-Thomas in New York, and who was recommended by Buddy Miles. Fonfara was fired by Albert Grossman by December, after a drug bust in Los Angeles. As a result, he was replaced by Herb Rich, who had to perform a dual role on keyboards and sax. He had to handle that role until saxophonist Stemsy Hunter, who was a friend of Miles came on board in early 1968. Fonfara was shortly thereafter selected as the keyboard player for Rhinoceros, where he rebuilt his musical career. He spent the 1970s playing, recording and producing with Lou Reed, among other activities, prior to developing a successful career in Canada as a member of the Downchild Blues Band and as a producer of other artists.\n\nSubsequent to completing the soundtrack to \"The Trip\", the band commenced work on its long-awaited first album, \"A Long Time Comin'\". The album, released in March 1968, was recorded between July 1967 and January 1968. The album was one of the first pop recordings to blend sound and voice samples with music. By early 1968, drummer Buddy Miles had become a dominant force in the band's musical direction. The group's repertory by then included numerous contemporary soul covers, featuring Miles on vocals, plus many classic blues tunes. The band produced fewer than a dozen original pieces, mostly written by vocalist Nick Gravenites. Bloomfield's original \"American music\" concept appeared to have narrowed considerably. In terms of the band's original material, Miles Davis praised the Bloomfield–Goldberg composition, \"Over-Lovin' You\", in a \"Down Beat\" Blindfold Test in 1968.\n\nBy June 1968, only months after the release of the album, Bloomfield quit the group, based on exhaustion brought on by continuing insomnia that was ineffectively medicated through heroin. In the weeks prior to his departure, there had been much public speculation as to whether Bloomfield was leaving the group or whether the group was leaving him. Miles, rather than Bloomfield, had become the \"de facto\" leader of the group. Though they strove to carry on under Miles' direction, the Electric Flag was effectively finished. They issued the late 1968 album \"\", but personality conflicts, differing aesthetics, and a series of drug problems hastened the band's downfall.\n\nAl Kooper left Blood, Sweat and Tears in April 1968, and was inspired by a jam recording with Moby Grape to organize the similarly structured \"Super Session\" album. The lineup included Electric Flag members Bloomfield, Brooks, and Goldberg. Bloomfield eventually dropped out of the sessions due to insomnia, and was replaced by Buffalo Springfield's Stephen Stills. Bloomfield and Kooper later toured together, while drummer and vocalist Buddy Miles went on to form the Buddy Miles Express and play in Jimi Hendrix's Band of Gypsys. Bloomfield developed a solo career, commencing with the release of \"It's Not Killing Me\" in 1969, which included former Electric Flag bandmate Marcus Doubleday on trumpet.\n\nMike Bloomfield released several albums after this, including Nick Gravenites Live at the Fillmore which includes Taj Mahal doing \"One More Mile\". Buddy Miles started the Buddy Miles Express with a big hit \"Down By the River\". As noted Miles played with Hendrix in Band of Gypsies and then later with Carlos Santana. Miles died in 2008.\n\nA reunion took place in 1974, with the Electric Flag releasing \"The Band Kept Playing\", but the recording was not a commercial or critical success and the band quickly disbanded after several months of sporadic gigs. This lineup of the band featured Bloomfield, Goldberg, Miles, and Gravenites, along with new member Roger Troy on bass and vocals.\n\nOn July 28 and 29, 2007, a concert took place at the Monterey County Fairgrounds, commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the Monterey Pop Festival. One of the acts featured was a one-time reunion of The Electric Flag, anchored by original members Gravenites, Goldberg, and former member Hunter, backed by members of the Tower of Power and The Blues Project. The one-hour set featured material from the first album, as well as several blues covers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327296", "title": "SNCF Class X 4630", "text": "SNCF Class X 4630\n\nThe SNCF Class X 4630 are diesel multiple units that were built by ANF in 1974–78 and equipped with Saurer engines. The last units were all withdrawn from service in July 2011 and replaced definitively by X 73500, X 76500 and B 81500.\n"}
{"id": "2327298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327298", "title": "Do Something", "text": "Do Something\n\nDoSomething (also DoSomething.org) is a global non-profit organization with the goal of motivating young people to make positive change both online and offline through campaigns that make an impact. The organization's CEO is Aria Finger.\n\nThe organization was co-founded in 1993 by American actor Andrew Shue and his childhood friend Michael Sanchez. He stated his motivation was to encourage young people to become active citizens and leaders while also making community involvement fun.\n\nAccording to the website, DoSomething.org is inspiring millions of young people to make positive change, both online and off. The organization has members in every area code in the United States and across 131 countries.\n\nIn 2013, DoSomething.org launched TMI, a strategy consultancy that helps brands \"drive social change through insights and creative solutions backed by data from millions of young people.\"\n\nDoSomething.org spearheads campaigns so young people can take action on things they care about.\n\n\"Teens For Jeans\" was born out of a partnership in 2008 with Aéropostale. The campaign looks to help clothe the over one million homeless teens across the country, by providing a top requested item: jeans. People are encouraged to bring their gently worn jeans to Aéropostale, who donates to over 1,000 homeless shelters in the United States and Canada. In 2011, 542,000 pairs of jeans were collected, and over one million pairs of pants have been donated since the campaign started. In 2012, 902,500 pairs of jeans was collected – enough to give jeans to every 1 out of 2 homeless teens in the U.S.\nCelebrities that have worked with the Teens for Jeans campaign includes Nigel Barker, Jay Sean, Nikki Blonsky, Chace Crawford, David Archuleta, Ashley Greene, Justin Long, Demi Lovato, Rachel Crow, Drew Barrymore, Chloë Grace Moretz, Fifth Harmony, and The Vamps.\n\nDoSomething.org's Pregnancy Text, a campaign around teen pregnancy, turned young people's cell phones into “virtual babies.” According to the organization's website, 132,782 young people used the Pregnancy Text to prank their friends with a phone baby to start the conversation about teen pregnancy.\n\nAccording to its site, DoSomething.org powered the petition that convinced Apple to create non-white emoji options. DoSomething.org Head of Campaigns Michaela Bethune told the Washington Post, Diversify My Emoji “demonstrates how online action, with the appropriate target, methods, scale, and platform, can achieve real offline impact.”\n\nIn 2015, DoSomething.org partnered with truth, the nation's longest-running and most successful youth smoking prevention campaign, to activate young people to clean up cigarette butts before they have the chance to harm wildlife or leach toxic chemicals into the environment. The organizations teamed up with rapper Jake Miller on a public service announcement. According to its website, young people cleaned up 3.7 million cigarette butts to protect the planet through the campaign.\n\nDoSomething.org and the AARP Foundation partnered for Grandparents Gone Wired, an annual campaign that encourages young people to pass their technological expertise onto older adults in their lives. Internet personality iJustine, as well as Nev Schulman and Max Joseph from MTV's Catfish: The TV Show have served as spokespeople for the campaign. According to its website, the campaign helped 11,753 older adults stay up-to-date on technology.\n\nIn 2015, on National Nude Day, July 14, DoSomething.org member Luis Torres launched a DoSomething.org campaign called Nude Awakening. The campaign asked young people to leave comments on Merriam-Webster's website and social media, demanding the definition of the word “nude” become more inclusive. According to the DoSomething.org website, the campaign digitally advocated for justice and convinced Merriam-Webster to change its racist definition of “nude.”\n\nDoSomething.org teamed up with ESPN to encourage young people to run sports equipment drives in various communities. According to its site, DoSomething.org and ESPN's Game-Winning Drive campaign was the largest youth-led sports drive and collected 44,173 pieces of gear for kids in underserved communities.\n\nIn 2016, DoSomething.org partnered with the U by Kotex brand to run Power to the Period, the first, national drive for period products. The organization teamed up with Internet personality Ingrid Nilsen who recorded a PSA for the campaign. Through the campaign, 585,965 period products were donated to homeless shelters from 50,257 participants.\n\nIn 2016, DoSomething.org teamed up with Johnson & Johnson for a campaign called Smiles for Soldiers that asked young people to make thank-you cards for military service members. Actor Colton Haynes joined the campaign and recorded a public service announcement for the campaign. According to the organization's website, through the campaign, young people sent 148,645 cards to military service members to show gratitude and help service members feel connected to home.\n\nDoSomething.org's \"Comeback Clothes\" campaign launched in April 2014 in partnership with H&M. Young people are encouraged to recycle used and old clothes by bringing them to their nearest H&M.\n\nDoSomething.org partnered with singer Shawn Mendes to help boost the self-esteem of millions of young people across the nation. Inspired by lyrics from Mendes's song \"Life of the Party\", the organization teamed up with the musician to spread positivity. By posting sticky notes with positive and uplifting messages written on them, Do Something members sought to bring happiness to people, aiming to stop teens from self-harming.\n\nFormerly called the BR!CK Awards, the awards were inaugurated in 1996 to recognize young people 25 and under who have done outstanding work in their communities and the world. The Do Something Awards include both young people making social change and individuals from the entertainment industry who have dedicated their time to activism and charity. The top four Do Something Awards nominees receive a $10,000 community grant, while the grand prize winner receives a $100,000 grant to push their community projects forward. The Awards were broadcast for the first time in 2007.\nIn 2011, the Do Something Awards was hosted by Jane Lynch at the Hollywood Palladium in Los Angeles, California, and was broadcast on Vh1. The list of performers includes Demi Lovato, Foster the People, OneRepublic featuring B.o.B and many other celebrities such as Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga, Adam Lambert, Kristen Bell, Nick Cannon, David Beckham and Kim Kardashian.\nIn 2012, the Do Something Awards were hosted by \"New Girl\" cast members Jake Johnson, Max Greenfield, and Lamorne Morris.\n\nIn 2013, the Do Something Awards was hosted by Sophia Bush at The Avalon in Hollywood, California and was broadcast on VH1. The list of presenters includes Harry Shum, Joan and Melissa Rivers, Darren Criss, Russell Simons and Roselyn Sánchez, among others. Celebs honored at the Do Something Awards include: Patrick Dempsey, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Jennifer Hudson, LL Cool J, and Kelly Osbourne. Performances were made by: Fitz and The Tantrums, J. Cole, and Sara Bareilles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327310", "title": "SNCF Class X 4500", "text": "SNCF Class X 4500\n\nThe SNCF Class X 4500 diesel multiple units were built by ANF between 1963–1970. The X4500 class are one of four classes of similar design (X4300, X4500, X4630, X4750) known as \"Caravelles\". This name comes from when built the engine sound reminded railwaymen of the contemporary French SE210 'Caravelle' jet airliner. \nX4500 are identical to the earlier Class X4300 except for having a different engine. The motor cars operate with unpowered trailers from either class XR8300 or XR8500 depending on seating demand. The class has now been withdrawn, some being sold to other countries such as Romania (used by Regiotrans and Via Terra). \nThe last examples in France (14 as at April 2009) worked around Burgundy (Nevers depot).\n\nThe class was used across France on regional services.\n\nA number of the class have been preserved with organisations in France.\n\n\nThe following units have seen further use in Romania with the company Regiotrans.\n"}
{"id": "2327311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327311", "title": "Quality, cost, delivery", "text": "Quality, cost, delivery\n\nQuality, cost, delivery (QCD), sometimes expanded to QCDMS (Quality, Cost, Delivery, Morale, Safety), is a management approach originally developed to help companies within the British automobile sector. Make it work . QCD analysis is used to assess different components of the production process. It also provides feedback in the form of facts and figures that help managers make logical decisions. By using the gathered data it is easier for organizations to prioritize their future goals.\n\nQCD helps to break down one big thing into many smaller ones, which helps organize and prioritize efforts and, psychologically, prevents the feeling of being overwhelmed.\n\nQCD is a \"three-dimensional\" approach. If there is a problem with even one dimension, the others will inevitably suffer as well. One dimension cannot be sacrificed for the sake of the other two.\n\nQCD offers a method of measuring processes while being applicable to both simple and complicated business processes. It also represents a basis for comparing businesses. For example, a business measuring supplier delivery performance may easily compare its findings against other businesses' performance. But basically QDC altogether will be implemented as a single management in any corporate for man-power reduction.\n\nFlexibility is often included as a measure to QCD resulting in Quality, Cost, Delivery and Flexibility (QCDF). Flexibility relates to the capacity to adapt to changes / modifications . The modifications could be in a)input quality b) output quality c) product specifications d) delivery schedules.\n\nQuality is the ability of a product or service to meet and exceed customer expectations. Customers' requirements determine the quality scope. It is almost always listed first, presumably because poor quality often results in bad business. Quality is the result of the efficiency of the entire production process formed of men, material, and machinery.\n\nEven though quality is now seen as a competitive advantage, US business organizations in the 1970s tended to focus more on cost and productivity. That approach led to a major share of the US market being captured by Japanese business organizations, which onces again proves that in order to be successful an organization has to focus on all three QCD dimensions together.\n\nIt was not until the late 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s that the factor “quality” drastically shifted and became a strategic approach created by Harvard professor David Garvin. This approach focuses on preventing any mistakes and, also, puts a great emphasis on customer satisfaction.\n\nGavin lists eight dimensions of quality:\n\nPerformance is a product's primary operating characteristics. For example, for a stereo those characteristics would include sound quality, surround sound, and wifi connectivity.\nConformance refers to the degree to which a certain product meets the customer's expectations.\nThose are any additional features of a product or service. In other words, extras. An example of an extra could be free meals on an airplane, or free drinks at a museum visit. And for a TV, for example, it can be split screen, internet access, embedded apps etc.\nAesthetics refer to a product's looks, sound, feel, smell, or taste. When it comes to aesthetics, complete customer satisfaction is simply impossible as it is very subjective. For example, one group of customers may like the smell of a certain perfume while other may find it completely repelling.\nThe durability of a product is how long the product lasts before it has to be replaced. Durability can be improved by the usage of long-life materials or improved technology processes in manufacturing. Some products are expected to be more durable than others. Those often include home appliances and automobiles for which durability is a primary characteristic of quality.\nReliability refers to the time until a product breaks down and has to be repaired, but not replaced. This feature is very important for products that have expensive maintenance.\n\"Serviceability is defined by speed, courtesy, competence and ease of repair.\" Customers usually want products that are relatively quickly and easily serviceable.\nThe perceived quality may be affected by the high price or the good aesthetics of a product.\n\nThe quality of a product depends almost entirely on the quality of the supplied materials. One cannot produce a high-quality end product from low-quality components. Suppliers and manufacturers must be willing to work together in order to reduce and eliminate errors and defects, and achieve higher quality end products. SMEs should discuss with their suppliers how quality improvements can affect the overall performance of the supply chain. A properly implemented quality procedure can reduce testing, scrap, rework, etc. This could result in a reduction of production costs.\n\nPoor quality often results in unsatisfied customers which leads to business loss. In an environment where the customer can easily switch to a competitor, producing poor-quality products can be fatal to an organization.\nPoor-quality products must often be reworked or scrapped entirely, which reduces the amount of usable output.\n\nThe biggest cost in most business organizations is the manufacturing cost. Production has a direct responsibility when it comes to controlling and reducing manufacturing cost.\n\nThere are four basic types of manufacturing costs:\nThose are the production cost that stay the same even if the quantity produced increases or decreases. Those costs include:\n\nBusinesses have been under the pressure to drive down costs in order to be more competitive for many years. There are many books and articles nowadays that suggest different ways of reducing costs, some of which are as follows:\n\nLogistics are an essential part in providing good customer service on time:\n\nLogistics customer service can be separated into three elements (before, during and after delivery of the product):\n\nThere are seven measures used to increase profitability:\nNot getting things right the first time means wasted resources, effort and time. This all leads to excessive costs for the company and poor-quality, high-priced products for the customer. NRFT measures the quality of a product and is expressed in “number of defective parts per million”. The number of defective products is divided by the total quantity of finished products. This figure is then multiplied by 10^6 to get the number of defective parts per million.\n\nNRFT can be measured internally (defective parts identified within the production process) or externally (defective parts identified outside the production process (e.g. by the supplier or the customer).\n\nDSA analyses how well a supplier delivers what the customer wants and when they want it. The goal is to achieve 100% on-time delivery without any special deliveries or overtime payments, which only increase the delivery cost. DSA measures the actual delivery performance against the planned delivery schedule.\nFailed deliveries include:\n\nPP is measured by the time it takes (in staff hours) to produce a good-quality product. Obtaining high PP is only possible when:\n\nThe ST ratio shows how quickly a company turns raw materials into finished, ready-to-be-sold products. The quicker the better. A low ST means that the money is tied up in stock, and the company has fewer funds to invest in other parts of its business.\n\nThe OEE shows how well a company uses its equipment and staff.\n\nOEE is calculated on the base of three elements:\n\nVAPP shows how well people are used to turn raw materials into finished goods. In order to calculate VAPP, three things need to be taken into account:\n\nFSU measures the sales revenue generated by a square meter of factory floor space. Usually to achieve higher FSU the floor space has to be reduced. That means eliminating inventory and reducing the necessary space to a minimum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327313", "title": "Earl Barrett", "text": "Earl Barrett\n\nEarl Delisser Barrett (born 28 April 1967) is an English former footballer who played in the Football League and Premier League for Manchester City, Chester City, Oldham Athletic, Aston Villa, Everton, Sheffield United and Sheffield Wednesday. He played mainly at right back though could also adapt to a central defensive role. He also gained three England caps while playing at Oldham and Aston Villa. The £1.7m Aston Villa paid for him in February 1992 remains, as of 2019, Oldham Athletic's record transfer receipt.\n\nAs a teenager, Barrett helped Chester City to promotion from Division Four in 1985–86 while on loan.\nAt Oldham he helped the Lancashire side to the Division 2 title in 1991 and promotion to Division 1 (which became the FA Premier League a year later). He was also a member of the side that lost the League Cup Final in 1990 to Nottingham Forest at Wembley.\n\nHis greatest success as a player came with Aston Villa where in his first 6 months at the club they finished runners up in the Premier League and in 1993/94 won the League Cup beating Manchester United 3–1 at Wembley with Barrett playing the full 90 minutes.\n\nHe was bought by Everton midway through the next season and although they won the FA Cup in May 1995, Barrett was cup-tied having already played in the competition that season for Aston Villa, meaning he could not claim a winners medal. Much of his spell at Everton was dogged with a knee injury and he moved on to Sheffield Wednesday in February 1998 after making 78 appearances for the Merseysiders. Although injury again restricted him at Sheffield Wednesday the club were on a downward spiral and were relegated from the Premiership at the end of Earl's second season with them. The last game of Barrett's professional career was a 4–0 loss at Middlesbrough on 3 October 1998. After the season finished he retired from playing.\n\nDuring his footballing career his nicknames were \"The Pearl\", Pearlinho and 'The Earl of Barrett'.\n\nBarrett earned his first cap for England on 3 June 1991, playing the whole 90 minutes in a 1-0 friendly win against New Zealand at the Mount Smart Stadium in Auckland. In June 1993, he featured in the 1993 United States Cup, starting in both the 1–1 draw with Brazil, and the 2–1 defeat against Germany. These turned out to be Barrett's last caps for his country. He won a total of 3 caps for England but didn't manage to score any goals.\n\nIn 2008, Barrett was part of a consortium considering investing in Port Vale F.C.\n\nOn 29 July 2009 he was appointed the under 14's coach at Stoke City's academy. He was doing a similar role at former club Oldham Athletic.\n\nEarl Barrett's brother, Floyd, played professional basketball for the Oldham Celtics during the 1990s.\n\nCurrently, Earl Barrett coaches the US Soccer Developmental Academy kids at Houston Express (HESC).\n\nChester City\n\nOldham Athletic\n\nAston Villa\n\nEverton\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327319", "title": "Texture synthesis", "text": "Texture synthesis\n\nTexture synthesis is the process of algorithmically constructing a large digital image from a small digital sample image by taking advantage of its structural content. It is an object of research in computer graphics and is used in many fields, amongst others digital image editing, 3D computer graphics and post-production of films.\n\nTexture synthesis can be used to fill in holes in images (as in inpainting), create large non-repetitive background images and expand small pictures.\n\nProcedural textures are a related technique which may synthesise textures from scratch with no source material. By contrast, texture synthesis refers to techniques where some source image is being matched or extended.\n\n\"Texture\" is an ambiguous word and in the context of texture synthesis may have one of the following meanings:\nTexture can be arranged along a spectrum going from regular to stochastic, connected by a smooth transition:\nTexture synthesis algorithms are intended to create an \"output image\" that meets the following requirements:\nLike most algorithms, texture synthesis should be efficient in computation time and in memory use.\n\nThe following methods and algorithms have been researched or developed for texture synthesis:\n\nThe simplest way to generate a large image from a sample image is to tile it. This means multiple copies of the sample are simply copied and pasted side by side. The result is rarely satisfactory. Except in rare cases, there will be the seams in between the tiles and the image will be highly repetitive.\n\nStochastic texture synthesis methods produce an image by randomly choosing colour values for each pixel, only influenced by basic parameters like minimum brightness, average colour or maximum contrast. These algorithms perform well with stochastic textures only, otherwise they produce completely unsatisfactory results as they ignore any kind of structure within the sample image.\n\nAlgorithms of that family use a fixed procedure to create an output image, i. e. they are limited to a single kind of structured texture. Thus, these algorithms can both only be applied to structured textures and only to textures with a very similar structure. For example, a single purpose algorithm could produce high quality texture images of stonewalls; yet, it is very unlikely that the algorithm will produce any viable output if given a sample image that shows pebbles.\n\nThis method, proposed by the Microsoft group for internet graphics, is a refined version of tiling and performs the following three steps:\nThe result is an acceptable texture image, which is not too repetitive and does not contain too many artifacts. Still, this method is unsatisfactory because the smoothing in step 3 makes the output image look blurred.\n\nThese methods, using Markov fields, non-parametric sampling, tree-structured vector quantization and image analogies are some of the simplest and most successful general texture synthesis algorithms. They typically synthesize a texture in scan-line order by finding and copying pixels with the most similar local neighborhood as the synthetic texture. These methods are very useful for image completion. They can be constrained, as in image analogies, to perform many interesting tasks. They are typically accelerated with some form of Approximate Nearest Neighbor method since the exhaustive search for the best pixel is somewhat slow. The synthesis can also be performed in multiresolution, such as through use of a noncausal nonparametric multiscale Markov random field.\n\nPatch-based texture synthesis creates a new texture by copying and stitching together textures at various offsets, similar to the use of the clone tool to manually synthesize a texture. Image quilting and graphcut textures are the best known patch-based texture synthesis algorithms. These algorithms tend to be more effective and faster than pixel-based texture synthesis methods.\n\nMore recently, deep learning methods were shown to be a powerful, fast and data-driven, parametric approach to texture synthesis. The work of Leon Gatys is a milestone: he and his co-authors showed that filters from a discriminatively trained deep neural network can be used as effective parametric image descriptors, leading to a novel texture synthesis method.\n\nAnother recent development is the use of generative models for texture synthesis. The Spatial GAN method showed for the first time the use of fully unsupervised GANs for texture synthesis. In a subsequent work, the method was extended further—PSGAN can learn both periodic and non-periodic images in an unsupervised way from single images or large datasets of images. In addition, flexible sampling in the noise space allows to create novel textures of potentially infinite output size, and smoothly transition between them. This makes PSGAN unique with respect to the types of images a texture synthesis method can create.\n\nSome texture synthesis implementations exist as plug-ins for the free image editor Gimp:\n\nA pixel-based texture synthesis implementation:\n\nPatch-based texture synthesis:\nDeep Generative Texture Synthesis with PSGAN, implemented in Python with Lasagne + Theano:\n\nSeveral of the earliest and most referenced papers in this field include:\n\nalthough there was also earlier work on the subject, such as\n(The latter algorithm has some similarities to the Chaos Mosaic approach).\n\nThe non-parametric sampling approach of Efros-Leung is the first approach that can easily synthesize most types of texture, and it has inspired literally hundreds of follow-on papers in computer graphics. Since then, the field of texture synthesis has rapidly expanded with the introduction of 3D graphics accelerator cards for personal computers. It turns out, however, that Scott Draves first published the patch-based version of this technique along with GPL code in 1993 according to Efros.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327330", "title": "Austrocedrus", "text": "Austrocedrus\n\nAustrocedrus is a genus of conifer belonging to the cypress family (Cupressaceae). It has only one species, Austrocedrus chilensis, native to the Valdivian temperate rain forests and the adjacent drier steppe-forests of central-southern Chile and western Argentina from 33°S to 44°S latitude. It is known in its native area as ciprés de la cordillera or cordilleran cypress, and elsewhere by the scientific name as Austrocedrus, or sometimes as Chilean incense-cedar or Chilean cedar. The generic name means \"southern cedar\".\n\nIt is a member of subfamily Callitroideae, a group of distinct southern hemisphere genera associated with the Antarctic flora. It is closely related to the New Zealand and New Caledonian genus \"Libocedrus\", and some botanists treat it within this genus, as \"Libocedrus chilensis\", though it resembles \"Libocedrus\" less than the other South American cypress genus \"Pilgerodendron\" does.\n\nIt is a slow-growing, narrowly conical evergreen tree which grows from 10–24 m in height, with scale-like leaves arranged in decussate pairs. The leaves are unequal in size, with pairs of larger (4–8 mm) leaves alternating with pairs of smaller (2–3 mm) leaves, giving a flattened shoot. Each leaf has a prominent white stomatal stripe along the outer edge. The cones are 5–10 mm long, with four scales, two very small sterile basal scales and two large fertile scales; each fertile scale has two winged seeds 3–4 mm long.\n\nCordilleran cypress is found in the evergreen mountain forests of the Andes, usually on drier sites within the rainforest, in open pure woods (where it is often locally dominant on the eastern slopes of the Andes in southwestern Argentina) or in association with \"Araucaria araucana\" and \"Nothofagus\" species.\n\nIt has been introduced to northwest Europe and the Pacific Northwest of North America, where it is occasionally grown in botanical gardens.\n"}
{"id": "2327331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327331", "title": "SNCF TGV Réseau", "text": "SNCF TGV Réseau\n\nThe SNCF TGV Réseau (TGV-R) trains were built by Alstom between 1992 and 1996. These TGV trainsets are based on the earlier TGV Atlantique.\n\nThe first Réseau (\"\"Network\"\") sets entered service in 1993. Fifty dual-voltage trainsets were built in 1992-1994, numbered 501-550. A further 40 triple-voltage trainsets, numbered 4501-4540, were built in 1994-1996. The last ten triple voltage units carry the Thalys livery and are known as Thalys PBA (Paris-Brussels-Amsterdam) sets. As well as using standard French voltages of 25 kV AC and 1,500 V DC (also used in the Netherlands), the triple voltage sets can operate under the Belgian and Italian 3 kV DC supplies.\n\nThey are formed of two power cars ( under 25 kV—like the TGV Atlantique) and eight carriages, giving a capacity of 377 seats. They have a top speed of . They are long and are wide. The dual-voltage sets weigh , and owing to axle-load restrictions in Belgium the triple-voltage sets have a series of modifications, such as the replacement of steel with aluminium and hollow axles, to reduce the weight to under per axle. Owing to early complaints of uncomfortable pressure changes when entering tunnels at high speed on the LGV Atlantique, the Réseau sets are pressure-sealed.\n\nIn 2006 the carriages of nineteen sets were used to form TGV POS sets by using new TGV POS motorcars for services on the LGV Est to Germany and Switzerland. The 38 replaced Réseau motorcars were slightly modified and joined to new Duplex carriages, forming nineteen TGV Réseau Duplex units. They now operate as part of the TGV Duplex fleet, being numbered 601-619.\n\nAfter some ten years of successful service, the interior of TGV Réseau sets became outdated and needed a refurbishment. This refurbishment was part of the TGV Est project, as the dual-voltage sets were to assure the domestic services there. The same interiors would also be used in the coaches for POS sets.\n\nThree possible interiors were presented to the public between 2002 and 2003 in different stations:\n\nAt the end of the Train Capitale exposition in Paris, MBD Design and Christian Lacroix were announced as the winning design.\n\nWork started on the first dual-voltage sets in 2004 at SNCF's Hellemmes workshops, near Lille. In 2006 the last dual-voltage set was finished. Between 2008 and 2009 the three-voltage sets will also be refurbished in the same design. The refurbished sets can be distinguished from the non-refurbished ones by: the slightly changed livery; the fittings in the coaches, which are in new colours (red for 2nd class, yellow-green for 1st class and silver for the bar) and the reflecting stripes on the sides of the motorcars.\n\nAlthough SNCF announced in July 2007 that the Lacroix-design would not be continued because some materials vibrated at , this was later changed: the Lacroix-design will be applied to all TGV Réseau sets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327335", "title": "Bobby Z.", "text": "Bobby Z.\n\nRobert B. Rivkin (born January 9, 1956), better known by the stage name Bobby Z., is an American musician and record producer, most known as being the original drummer for Prince's band from 1978 to 1986, and as a member of The Revolution.\n\nRivkin began his musical career at the age of six, playing several different instruments before finally settling on the drums. In junior high school, he formed a small touring band in the Minneapolis area that included future Chicago Bears football coach Marc Trestman on rhythm guitar.\n\nHe met Prince in the late 1970s as Prince was forming his first band for touring. He started running errands for Prince while working for the man credited with discovering Prince, Owen Husney. Rivkin's stage name, Bobby Z., was derived from the nickname \"Butzie\" his grandmother used to call him.\n\nPrince was adamant about having a white drummer in an effort to have a racially diverse band, so Husney implored Prince to audition Rivkin. Rivkin replaced Prince's cousin and original drummer Charles Smith much akin to Sly and the Family Stone. Rivkin was acknowledged in Prince's self-titled album as being a \"heaven-sent\" helper alongside Andre Cymone. By the time the \"1999\" album was released, Prince was relying more and more on electronic drums and Rivkin had to adapt his style to operate these in concert as well as the studio, starting with \"Controversy\". He also contributed to \"Purple Rain\", \"Around the World in a Day\", \"Parade\" and \"Sign o' the Times\". In 1986 when Wendy & Lisa left The Revolution and the group disbanded after the Parade Tour ended, Prince also took the opportunity to replace Rivkin with Sheila E, daughter of veteran Bay Area drummer and percussionist Pete Escovedo.\n\nBobby Z produced some tracks for Boy George's 1988 album, \"Tense Nervous Headache\". Rivkin helped Wendy & Lisa on their debut album and he released his own self-titled album in 1989 (which included a re-recorded version of \"River Run Dry\" that he wrote for The Family). Rivkin has since focused more on producing for the recently launched record label branch of Copycats media.\n\nBobby Z. suffered a heart attack in early 2010 and after his recovery made it his mission to continue to raise public awareness of heart attack warning signs and risk factors. He has lobbied Congress for continued research. He set up a fund raising charity called My Purple Heart which went about raising both funds and awareness of heart disease.\n\nIn 2011 he celebrated the one-year anniversary of surviving his near-fatal heart attack at First Avenue, with a rare reunion performance of The Revolution—Wendy Melvoin, Lisa Coleman, Brown Mark, Dr. Fink, Dez Dickerson, Eric Leeds and Bobby Z., which raised much needed funds to benefit heart-health awareness.\n\nThe concert, billed as a 'Benefit 2 Celebrate Life!' and presented by Z and the American Heart Association, featured The Revolution, along with heart-health and life-saving information and inspiring stories of survival. The Revolution had not played together since 2003.\n\nHis foundation My Purple Heart partnered with the American Heart Association again in 2013 to host a benefit concert and weekend block party on March 9, at First Avenue on the 2nd anniversary of his heart attack. Again members of The Revolution appeared alongside Bobby as well as star guests such as Maya Rudolph, local boy and runner up from \"The Voice\" Nicholas David, Alexander O'Neal, André Cymone, Dez Dickerson, Dr. Fink and The Roots drummer Questlove. Wendy Melvoin appeared as the resident guitarist for the night's events.\n\nIn May 2013 Bobby Z joined Prince on stage during the closing two shows of Prince's whirlwind 3rdeyegirl tour. Both shows took place on the same night with Bobby taking over from Prince's drummer Hannah Welton-Ford. He sat in on both shows for one song. On both occasions it was \"Purple Rain\". In late May 2013 Bobby appeared alongside former bandmate André Cymone on a web based chat show co-hosted by celebrity blogger Dr.Funkenberry where they both reminisced about their early days on the road with Prince. Bobby also mentioned that it was a thrill to be back onstage with Prince.\n\nBobby Z now hosts a radio show every Sunday on 96.3 K-TWIN in Minneapolis.\n\nDrum kit:\n\nBobby's brothers are film maker Stephen E. Rivkin and fellow Minneapolis musician David Z. He is married to his wife Vicki and he is also the cousin of heavy metal drummer, Kristian Dobson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327336", "title": "Pacchiarotto, and How He Worked in Distemper", "text": "Pacchiarotto, and How He Worked in Distemper\n\nPacchiarotto, and How He Worked in Distemper is a short collection of English poems by Robert Browning, published in 1876. The collection marked Browning's first collection of short pieces for more than twelve years, and was well received. The title poem, which ostensibly discusses the life and works of 15th Century Italian painter Giacomo Pacchiarotti, is actually a thinly veiled attack on Browning's own critics, and many other pieces in the collection take the same tone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327347", "title": "Interurban Transit Partnership", "text": "Interurban Transit Partnership\n\nThe Interurban Transit Partnership operates a public transit system called The Rapid, which provides bus service to the Grand Rapids, Michigan metropolitan area and beyond. \"The Rapid\" was recognized in 2004 and 2013 by receipt from the American Public Transportation Association of an \"Outstanding Public Transportation System Award\".\n\nFormed by the City of Grand Rapids in 1963 as the Grand Rapids Transit Authority, the system became a regional authority in July 1978 and was renamed the Grand Rapids Area Transit Authority, or GRATA. In January 2000, it reorganized as the Interurban Transit Authority, and soon adopted \"The Rapid\" as its branding.\n\nIn September 2006, The Rapid unveiled a new look for the buses to match the design of the Central Station platform which opened in 2004. The older red, blue and yellow striped buses were replaced over the following eleven years with the new design, which features waves of white and blue.\n\nA new website was launched shortly after the new buses were introduced. New features of the website include e-mail updates by route as well as other services, and the ability to buy passes online.\n\nAside from the City of Grand Rapids, the system also serves the cities of East Grand Rapids, Grandville, Kentwood, Walker, and Wyoming. Some routes extend into neighboring townships including Alpine Township (route 9), Byron Township (route 1), and Gaines Township (route 4).\n\nThe Rapid operates 23 fixed bus routes, and special services for Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids Community College and Ferris State University (see below).\n\nSilver Line. a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line, was approved by voters in May 2012. On October 18, 2012, Federal Transit Administration Peter Rogoff visited The Rapid Central Station to sign a project construction grant agreement. Silver Line is the first bus rapid transit (BRT) line in the state of Michigan. The line runs from Central Station, loops downtown via the Medical Mile on Michigan Street and serves Division Avenue from Wealthy Street all the way to 60th Street where it terminates. The Silver Line had budgeted costs of $40 Million. $32 Million was covered by the Federal Transit Administration with the rest funded by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT). Construction started in early 2013, was completed as scheduled during the middle of 2014 and was under budget by over $3 million. The Silver Line began service on August 25, 2014.\n\nLaker Line is a BRT line under construction designed to ferry Grand Valley State University students between its main campus located in Allendale and Pew Campus in downtown Grand Rapids. The Rapid was awarded a $600,000 grant to study the feasibility of implementing BRT along the Lake Michigan Avenue corridor spanning the cities of Walker, Standale and Grand Rapids. Planners expect to have Laker Line operational by August 2020. Funding will come from both federal and state sources. 14 stations will make up the line with 13 buses. Capital cost expected is $45.5 million which includes buses and stations. The expected annual operating cost is $3.8 million.\n\nFrom August 31, 2015, the standard bus route 50 - planned to be replaced by the Laker Line - changed its routing to follow the proposed BRT route as far as the Cook-DeVos Center for Health Sciences on Michigan/Lafayette. Construction on the new line began in 2019 with expected completion in 2020.\n\nRoutes 1 through 16 and 18, along with the Silver Line BRT, stop at Rapid Central Station. The new DASH routing from August 2018 brings the North DASH along Cherry Street with a stop outside the station. Outbound routes connect passengers to the four crosstown routes 19, 24, 28, and 44.\n\nMost buses operate seven days a week. Routes 3, 5, 12, 13, 14, 18, 24 and 44 do not operate on Sundays. Routes 17 and 19 only run weekdays. Weekday service is from around 4.30-6am until after 11pm or midnight. Saturday service is between around 6 a.m. - 9 p.m., Sundays are between around 7 a.m. - 6 p.m.\n\nTo aid scheduling, some routes \"interline\". This means that a specific vehicle will serve multiple routes as part of its scheduled run by that driver. For example, on weekdays, route 7 arrives at Central Station and continues as the 15.\n\nDuring the school year, additional routes are used to serve students in the Grand Rapids Public School (GRPS) district. As of October 2005, there is a GRPS shuttle to after school programs at the downtown David D. Hunting Branch of the YMCA.\n\nSingle fares are $1.75. Passengers can pay their fare in cash or by using a Wave card, a reloadable smart card. The Rapid ended the sale of paper tickets and passes online, at Rapid Central Station, and on buses in November 2019.\n\nWave cards are tapped at the reader on the buses or at a Silver Line station to pay fare. The first tap of a Wave card gives a passenger 1 hour and 45 minutes to ride wherever and however they want. Subsequent taps during this time frame do not charge the card. A transfer time expiration show on the reader after each tap of the Wave card.\n\nPassengers paying in cash or with an existing paper ticket can obtain transfer tickets for use on up to three additional routes over the following two hours. They may not be used on the same route twice. A single fare ticket issued on the BRT can be used as a transfer on other routes.\n\nChildren under 42\" in height do not pay fare. A yellow stripe on the hand rail by the entrance denotes the height limit.\n\nThe Rapid operates two bus routes on behalf of the City of Grand Rapids, called Downtown Area Shuttle, or DASH. The routes are free to all passengers, operating every eight minutes, seven days a weeks.\n\nDASH routes were revamped in 2016 and again in 2018. From September 1 the North DASH straightened its route along Monroe, rather than along Ottawa Avenue. The South route was effectively merged into the West DASH, covering the west side DASH lots, Pearl Street, via Division and Fulton to Ionia covering the Arena South lots, and then south to the Downtown Market and Wealthy Street Silver Line station. Service to the Cook-DeVos Center previously provided by the Hill DASH has long since been replaced by the rerouting route 50 along the planned Laker Line route.\n\nThe Silver Line is not subject to fare payment between Central Station and Wealthy Street, effectively making it part of the DASH network.\n\nAll Grand Valley State University students, faculty, and staff can ride the buses for free. All others pay regular fare, except for route 51, which is a free DASH route. As of Summer 2009:\n\nGrand Rapids Community College provides route number 60, a shuttle bus connecting the school's main campus with the nearby DeVos campus. Stops are located in front of Sneden Hall at the DeVos campus, and at Fountain and Bostwick at the main campus. The bus is free for GRCC students and employees, and runs Monday through Thursday during the Fall and Winter semesters.\n\nFerris State University contracts with The Rapid of Grand Rapids to provide shuttle bus service from Grand Rapids to Big Rapids. The Rapid has assigned route number 100 entitled \"Ferris State Express\" for this route. The shuttle bus originates in downtown Grand Rapids at The Rapid's central station located at 250 Grandville Ave. SW. The route to and from Ferris' main campus in Big Rapids includes stops near Kendall College of Art and Design in Grand Rapids and the Cedar Springs Meijer (3700 17 Mile Road). Standard Rapid tickets are not valid on this route, special fares apply.\n\nOther services provided by the ITP include:\n\nThe Rapid has announced a new vision for new services to be in place by the year 2030. Proposed Services include a downtown streetcar system, Bus Rapid Transit along Lake Michigan Drive, expanded routes to Byron Center and eastern Ottawa County's Georgetown Township and the city of Hudsonville. A regional express bus service is also under consideration that would provide shuttle service from outlying areas into downtown Grand Rapids.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327352", "title": "Exoticism", "text": "Exoticism\n\nExoticism (from 'exotic') is a trend in European art and design, whereby artists became fascinated with ideas and styles from distant regions, and drew inspiration from them. This often involved surrounding foreign cultures with mystique and fantasy which owed more to European culture than to the exotic cultures themselves: this process of glamorisation and stereotyping is called 'exoticization'.\n\nThe word 'exotic' is rooted in the Greek word exo ('outside') and means, literally, 'from outside'. It was coined during Europe's Age of Discovery, when 'outside' seemed to grow larger each day, as Western ships sailed the world and dropped anchor off other continents. The first definition of 'exotic' in most modern dictionaries is 'foreign', but while all things exotic are foreign, not everything foreign is exotic. Since there is no outside without an inside, the foreign only becomes exotic when imported – brought from the outside in. From the early seventeenth century, 'exotic' has denoted enticing strangeness – or, as one modern dictionary puts it, \"the charm or fascination of the unfamiliar\". \n\nFirst stimulated by Eastern trade in the 16th and 17th centuries, interest in non-western (particularly \"Oriental\", i.e. Middle Eastern or Asian) art by Europeans became more and more popular following European colonialism.\n\nThe influences of Exoticism can be seen through numerous genres of this period, notably in music, painting, and decorative art. In music, exoticism is a genre in which the rhythms, melodies, or instrumentation are designed to evoke the atmosphere of far-off lands or ancient times (e.g., Ravel's \"Daphnis et Chloé\" and \"Tzigane for Violin and Orchestra\", Debussy's \"Syrinx for Flute Solo\" or Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Capriccio espagnol\"). Like orientalist subjects in 19th-century painting, exoticism in the decorative arts and interior decoration was associated with fantasies of opulence.\n\nExoticism, by one definition, is \"the charm of the unfamiliar\". Scholar Alden Jones defines exoticism in art and literature as the representation of one culture for consumption by another. Victor Segalen's important \"Essay on Exoticism\" reveals Exoticism as born of the age of imperialism, possessing both aesthetic and ontological value, while using it to uncover a significant cultural \"otherness\". An important and archetypical exoticist is the artist and writer Paul Gauguin, whose visual representations of Tahitian people and landscapes were targeted at a French audience. While exoticism is closely linked to Orientalism, it is not a movement necessarily associated with a particular time period or culture. Exoticism may take the form of primitivism, ethnocentrism, or humanism.\n\nJean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres (29 August 1780 – 14 January 1867) was a French Neoclassical painter. The revival of ancient Greek and Roman art left behind the Academy’s emphasis on naturalism, and incorporated a new found idealism not seen since the Renaissance. As classicism progressed, Ingres identified a newfound idealism and exoticism in his work. The Grand Odalisque, finished in 1814, was created to arouse the male view. The notion of the exotic figure furthers Ingres’ use of symmetry and line by enabling the eye to cohesively move across the canvas. Although Ingres’ intention was to make the woman beautiful in his work, his model was a courtesan, which arouse debate.\n\nÉdouard Manet’s Olympia, finished in 1863, was based on Titian’s Venus of Urbino. Olympia was a popular play about a courtesan called Olympia. This subject was extremely controversial for an artist to portray a woman like this because of traditional vision of the Academy. Manet was being very different from the accepted academic style by outlining and flattening space that created a distortion of classical elements. Olympia is provocative in her nudity that implies she is naked, not nude. She is looking out in a very confrontational way, and setting the viewer as a man coming to the prostitute, although Olympia’s hand suggests she is not ready to engage with the customer. The African servant calls on racism and slavery in France, because showing someone of color participating in French life was unheard of, furthering the work's exotic nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327355", "title": "Pseudo-Anosov map", "text": "Pseudo-Anosov map\n\nIn mathematics, specifically in topology, a pseudo-Anosov map is a type of a diffeomorphism or homeomorphism of a surface. It is a generalization of a linear Anosov diffeomorphism of the torus. Its definition relies on the notion of a measured foliation introduced by William Thurston, who also coined the term \"pseudo-Anosov diffeomorphism\" when he proved his classification of diffeomorphisms of a surface.\n\nA measured foliation \"F\" on a closed surface \"S\" is a geometric structure on \"S\" which consists of a singular foliation and a measure in the transverse direction. In some neighborhood of a regular point of \"F\", there is a \"flow box\" \"φ\": \"U\" → R which sends the leaves of \"F\" to the horizontal lines in R. If two such neighborhoods \"U\" and \"U\" overlap then there is a transition function \"φ\" defined on \"φ\"(\"U\"), with the standard property\n\nwhich must have the form\n\nfor some constant \"c\". This assures that along a simple curve, the variation in \"y\"-coordinate, measured locally in every chart, is a geometric quantity (i.e. independent of the chart) and permits the definition of a total variation along a simple closed curve on \"S\". A finite number of singularities of \"F\" of the type of \"\"p\"-pronged saddle\", \"p\"≥3, are allowed. At such a singular point, the differentiable structure of the surface is modified to make the point into a conical point with the total angle \"πp\". The notion of a diffeomorphism of \"S\" is redefined with respect to this modified differentiable structure. With some technical modifications, these definitions extend to the case of a surface with boundary.\n\nA homeomorphism\n\nof a closed surface \"S\" is called pseudo-Anosov if there exists a transverse pair of measured foliations on \"S\", \"F\" (stable) and \"F\" (unstable), and a real number \"λ\" > 1 such that the foliations are preserved by \"f\" and their transverse measures are multiplied by 1/\"λ\" and \"λ\". The number \"λ\" is called the stretch factor or dilatation of \"f\".\n\nThurston constructed a compactification of the Teichmüller space \"T\"(\"S\") of a surface \"S\" such that the action induced on \"T\"(\"S\") by any diffeomorphism \"f\" of \"S\" extends to a homeomorphism of the Thurston compactification. The dynamics of this homeomorphism is the simplest when \"f\" is a pseudo-Anosov map: in this case, there are two fixed points on the Thurston boundary, one attracting and one repelling, and the homeomorphism behaves similarly to a hyperbolic automorphism of the Poincaré half-plane. A \"generic\" diffeomorphism of a surface of genus at least two is isotopic to a pseudo-Anosov diffeomorphism.\n\nUsing the theory of train tracks, the notion of a pseudo-Anosov map has been extended to self-maps of graphs (on the topological side) and outer automorphisms of free groups (on the algebraic side). This leads to an analogue of Thurston classification for the case of automorphisms of free groups, developed by Bestvina and Handel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327359", "title": "New Jersey's 7th congressional district", "text": "New Jersey's 7th congressional district\n\nNew Jersey's Seventh Congressional District includes all of Hunterdon County, and parts of Essex, Morris, Somerset, Union, and Warren counties.\n\nThe district is represented by Democrat Tom Malinowski, who was elected in 2018, defeating Republican incumbent Leonard Lance.\n\nFor the 113th and successive Congresses (based on redistricting following the 2010 United States Census), the congressional district contains portions of six counties and 74 municipalities.\n\nEssex County:\n\nHunterdon County (entire county):\n\nMorris County:\n\nSomerset County:\n\nUnion County:\n\nWarren County:\n\nIn the 2012 general election, Republican incumbent Leonard Lance held his seat against Democratic challenger Upendra J. Chivukula. In the 2010 general election, Democratic challenger Ed Potosnak challenged Lance, but Lance defeated Potosnak by a margin of 59% to 41%. For the 2012 election, both Potosnak and former Edison Mayor Jun Choi announced their candidacies for the Democratic nomination. Choi dropped out of the race in December 2011 after redistricting left his Edison home outside the 7th District. Potosnak dropped out of the race in January 2012 to take a position as executive director of the New Jersey League of Conservation Voters, leaving a momentarily empty field for the Democratic nomination.\n\nIn 2008, Mike Ferguson (who had first been elected in 2000, replacing Bob Franks) did not seek another term. Linda Stender won the Democratic nomination unopposed, while Republican primary voters chose State Senator Leonard Lance in a field of eight candidates. In the general election, Lance defeated Assemblywoman Linda Stender by a margin of 25,833 votes.\n\nNew Jersey's 7th district and the 12th district were redistricted after the 2000 census by a bipartisan panel. By consensus of the panel, the Democratic and Republican parties agreed to trade areas in the two districts to make them safer for their respective incumbents. It is likely that this tradeoff, which made New Jersey's 7th less competitive for Democrats, had an effect on the outcome of 2006 election, which was decided by approximately 3,000 votes. Areas of the former 7th district such as Somerset in Franklin Township (Somerset County) that had historically voted reliably Democratic were moved into the adjacent 12th district to shore up the Democratic incumbent's hold on there, while reliably Republican Millburn was removed from the 7th, and instead split between the 10th and 11th districts. Despite the redistricting, NJ-07 was still the most competitive House district in New Jersey, and was the only one considered to be in play in 2006 by political pundits.\n\nIn the 2018 election, Tom Malinowski, former Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, was considered the front runner among the Democrats challenging Republican incumbent Leonard Lance. Malinowski was endorsed by Westfield teacher/attorney Lisa Mandelblatt and attorney Scott Salmon when they withdrew from the race in February 2018. Other candidates in the Democratic primary included lawyer Goutam Jois; and social worker Peter Jacob, who was defeated by Lance in the 2016 election. Green Party of New Jersey member Diane Moxley also announced her intent to run for the seat. Lindsay Brown, a product manager at the \"New York Post\" and a self-described progressive, ran in the Republican primary against Lance. Berkeley Heights banking executive Linda Weber and environmental advocate David Pringle withdrew in March 2018.\n\nDuring the fourth quarter of 2017, the Malinowski campaign raised $528,000 while the incumbent Lance raised $237,000. Jois raised $189,000 and Jacob raised $29,000. \n\nMalinowski won the Democratic nomination in the June primary.\n\nIn the Democratic primary Malinowski prevailed with 26,059 votes and 66.8% of the vote. Jacob finished second with 7,467 votes and 19.1% of the vote.\n\nLance won the Republican primary with 74.9%, and 24,856 votes.\n\nThe district has turned from a once reliable Republican district into a competitive district as it has become more ethnically mixed with Caucasians comprising, as of 2009, 79% of the district, African Americans 5.7%, Asians 11% and Latinos 10%. In addition, the district is home to a large group of foreign-born residents, totaling 131,000 or 20% of the population. The district has the 5th highest median income in the nation.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2327360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327360", "title": "SNCF TGV La Poste", "text": "SNCF TGV La Poste\n\nThe TGV La Poste were dedicated trainsets for high-speed freight and mail transportation by French railway company SNCF on behalf of the French postal carrier La Poste. The top speed of this TGV Sud-Est derivate was , making them the fastest freight trains in the world. They were withdrawn in 2015.\n\nThe trainsets were built by Alstom between 1978–1986. These TGV units are essentially TGV Sud-Est trainsets that are modified for transporting mail. 5 half-trainsets were built, numbered 1-5. A further two, numbered 6 and 7, were converted from former TGV-SE trainset no. 38. Each half-trainset consisted of a power car and four intermediate-trailers.\n\nIn 2009, La Poste reduced services from 8 to 6 daily round trips.\n\nOn 21 March 2012 a demonstration freight train ran to London-St Pancras, but there was no follow-up.\n\nIn mid-2015, La Poste ended TGV postal services, shifting mail services to swap bodies instead as part of a major logistics restructuring and expansion which the trainsets were not capable of handling. Additionally, the demand for fast overnight mail services has been decreasing in recent years. The final service was on 27 June 2015 between Cavaillon (Marseilles) and Charolais (Paris). La Poste originally was seeking a buyer for the fleet, however in December 2016 three trainsets were dismantled by SME (Société Métallurgique d'Épernay) leaving only a half spare trainset left.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327370", "title": "Yehud-Monosson", "text": "Yehud-Monosson\n\nYehud-Monosson () is a city formed by the joint municipality of the town of Yehud and the neighboring communal settlement of Neve Monosson in central Israel. In the city had a population of .\n\nWithin a local authority merger program initiated by the Israeli Ministry of the Interior in 2003, the Municipality of Yehud was merged with the Local Council of Neve Monosson. The logo is inscribed with Biblical words from Genesis 49:8: \"Judah, your brothers will praise you; your hand will be on the neck of your enemies.\"\n\nUnder the terms of the merger, Neve Monosson was left with a high level of communal autonomy under the elected Neve Monosson Local Administration (\"minhelet mekomit\") which was granted municipal status as an autonomous borough (\"va'ad rova ironi\") by the Interior Minister in 2005 within the implementation of the merger plan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327376", "title": "Ariobarzanes of Pontus", "text": "Ariobarzanes of Pontus\n\nAriobarzanes (in Greek Ἀριoβαρζάνης; reigned 266 BC – c. 250 BC) was the second king of Pontus, succeeding his father Mithridates I Ctistes in 266 BC and died in an uncertain date between 258 and 240. He obtained possession of the city of Amastris in Paphlagonia, which was surrendered to him. Ariobarzanes and his father sought the assistance of the Gauls, who had come into Asia Minor twelve years before the death of Mithridates, to expel the Egyptians sent by Ptolemy II Philadelphus. Ariobarzanes was succeeded by Mithridates II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327381", "title": "Skip Woods", "text": "Skip Woods\n\nSkip Woods (born December 4, 1969) is an American screenwriter, producer and film director. He is best known for writing the screenplay for \"Swordfish\" and the of the \"Hitman\" video game series.\n\nWoods is also a partner in Wetwork Tactical, LLC – a weapons handling and tactics consulting firm – with former Army Special Forces member Jimmy Littlefield.\n\nWoods lives in Los Angeles, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327391", "title": "Bocet", "text": "Bocet\n\nBocet is a form of Romanian folk music.\n\nBocet is a lament in free rhythm. The bocet is sung by one or more people with their eyes in tears or just expressing a deep grief. Encountered throughout Romania, bocet is a part of the traditional mourning observances.\n"}
{"id": "2327453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327453", "title": "Agri", "text": "Agri\n\nAgr may refer to: to the persons involved in the art, business, and growing of agricultural crops. Agriculturist may use it as prefix before theier name. e.g. Agr ABCD.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327460", "title": "Logan Mader", "text": "Logan Mader\n\nLogan Conrad Mader (born November 16, 1970 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada) is a Canadian-American record producer and current guitarist in melodic death metal band Once Human, as well as former lead guitarist in groove metal band Machine Head, which was formed in Oakland, California in 1991.\n\nMader is most famous for his time in Machine Head, whose 1994 debut, \"Burn My Eyes\", was released by Roadrunner Records and quickly became the top-selling debut album in the label's history until Slipknot's debut album. Their second album, \"The More Things Change...\", was released in 1997 and Logan left the band shortly thereafter to divert his energy and time to side projects.\n\nMachine Head formed on October 12, 1991 with Mader on lead guitar, Robb Flynn on guitar and vocals, Adam Duce on bass and Tony Costanza on drums. He played with Machine Head through two albums until early 1998. After Logan's six-year run with Machine Head, he joined the band Soulfly where he filled the slot as guitarist for their 1998 world tour. Logan's union with Soulfly was short lived (8 months) and the only track he technically recorded with them was one of the remixes for \"Quilombo\". Wanting to once again pursue his own projects, Logan left Soulfly in January 1999.\n\nPost Soulfly, Logan formed the heavy, yet melodic, Los Angeles rock band, Medication, with Whitfield Crane (formerly of Ugly Kid Joe). Due to a series of internal issues, Medication disbanded in February 2003.\n\nShortly after the dissolution of Medication, Logan formed the band New Black, which was later changed to Stereo Black. Although the band opened for a local Hed PE gig, tracked a full demo, shopped it to a few labels and created an internet buzz, they were never signed. Years later, the Stereo Black track \"Save Me\" which was later called \"Inside\". The song was featured in the trailer for \"Max Payne\" and \"The Butterfly Effect 2\" and in the direct to video film \"\". The instrumental of their song \"Fall Again\" was featured on the soundtrack of racing game \"MotoGP '07.\" In 2011, they created a song for the \"Scream 4\" soundtrack, titled \"Denial\". However, in 2017 Mader dismissed Stereo Black as a studio project, initially created in order to write songs for commercial licensing, and that the attempt to turn it into a full-band was somewhat half-hearted as he was beginning to move into becoming a full-time producer.\n\nCurrently, Logan runs Dirty Icon Productions, a Los Angeles-based production team, alongside partner, Lucas Banker. Dirty Icon, published by Reverb/Universal, writes, produces, records, mixes and masters for other artists.\n\nMader announced his new project, Once Human, in May 2015, which features newcomers Lauren Hart (vocals), Damian Rainauld (bass) and Ralph Alexander (drums). The group signed to earMUSIC and will release their debut album, \"The Life I Remember\", in September 2015.\n\nIn August and September 2015, they toured the southern, midwestern and southwestern United States with Fear Factory, Chicago rock band The Bloodline and Hollywood melodic metal band Before the Mourning.\n\nMader mixed and mastered \"Melancholia,\" the debut single by French metal band ÆMBER which was released on November 30, 2018.\n\nIn March 2019, it was announced that Mader (along with drummer Chris Kontos) will perform with Machine Head for the first time in 21 years with a tour celebrating the 25th anniversary of the release of \"Burn My Eyes\"; however, he and Kontos are not officially rejoining the band.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327464", "title": "Buddy Miles", "text": "Buddy Miles\n\nGeorge Allen \"Buddy\" Miles Jr. (September 5, 1947February 26, 2008), was an American rock drummer, vocalist, composer, and producer. He was a founding member of the Electric Flag (1967), a member of Jimi Hendrix's Band of Gypsys (1969–1970), founder and leader of the Buddy Miles Express and later, the Buddy Miles Band. Miles also played and recorded with Carlos Santana and others. Additionally, he sang lead vocals on the critically and commercially acclaimed \"California Raisins\" claymation TV commercials and recorded two California Raisins R&B albums.\n\nMiles was born in Omaha, Nebraska, United States, on September 5, 1947. Buddy's father played upright bass for Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Charlie Parker, Dexter Gordon, and others. By age twelve, Miles had begun touring with his father's band, the Bebops.\nGiven the nickname \"Buddy\" by his aunt after the drummer Buddy Rich, he was often seen as a teenager hanging out and recording at Universal Promotions Corporation recording studios, which later became Rainbow Recording Studios.\n\nMiles played with a variety of rhythm and blues and soul acts as a teenager, including Ruby & the Romantics, the Delfonics, and Wilson Pickett. In 1964, at the age of 16, Miles met Jimi Hendrix at a show in Montreal, where both were performing as sidemen for other artists.\n\nIn 1967, Miles joined Hendrix in a jam session at the Malibu home of Stephen Stills. They also went on to play together again in 1968 in both Los Angeles and New York. In the same year, Miles moved to Chicago where he teamed with guitarist Mike Bloomfield and vocalist Nick Gravenites to form the Electric Flag, a blues/soul/rock band. In addition to playing drums, Miles sometimes sang lead vocals for the band, which made its live debut at the Monterey Pop Festival in mid-1967.\n\nIn early 1968, the band released \"A Long Time Comin'\", its first album for Columbia. The Electric Flag's second album, \"An American Music Band\", followed late the same year. Shortly after that release, though, the group disbanded. In the same year, Hendrix used several guest artists, including Miles, during the recording of the album, \"Electric Ladyland\". Miles played drums on one long jam that was eventually split into two album cuts, \"Rainy Day, Dream Away\" and \"Still Raining, Still Dreaming\", with a different song, \"1983... (A Merman I Should Turn to Be)\", edited in between.\n\nAt age 21, after the breakup of the Electric Flag, Miles put together a new band with Jim McCarty, who later became the guitarist for Cactus. This new group performed and recorded as the Buddy Miles Express. In 1969, Hendrix wrote a short poem as a liner note for \"Expressway To Your Skull\", the first studio album recorded by the Buddy Miles Express. Hendrix went on to produce four of the tracks on the group's follow-up album, \"Electric Church\". The title of the latter LP was taken from Hendrix's poem on the first.\n\nIn 1969 he appeared on British jazz guitarist John McLaughlin's album \"Devotion.\"\n\nIn 1970, after the Buddy Miles Express split up, Miles began a collaboration with Hendrix and bassist Billy Cox. Together, they formed \"Band of Gypsys\", producing one self-titled live album before disbanding.\n\nLater in 1970, while recording the album \"We Got to Live Together\", Buddy Miles learned of the death of Hendrix, which he mentions on the inner cover of the album. Released in 1971, \"We Got to Live Together\" was produced by Miles and Robin McBride. It contains five songs, including the instrumental \"Easy Greasy\". The other cuts on the album were \"Runaway Child (Little Miss Nothin)\", \"Walking Down the Highway\", \"We Got to Live Together\" and \"Take It Off Him and Put It on Me\". All the songs were written by Miles with Charlie Karp except for the latter.\n\nAlso in 1971, though the Electric Flag had been inactive for nearly three years, Columbia released a greatest hits album. Three years later, in 1974, Miles and the Electric Flag re-formed briefly and released another album, \"The Band Kept Playing\", on the Atlantic label.\n\nMiles went on to produce other records as the Buddy Miles Band. One song he had written and recorded with the Band of Gypsys, \"Them Changes\", was again recorded by Miles with his own band and released by Mercury Records soon after Hendrix's death. Miles' former Band of Gypsys sideman, Billy Cox, performed bass guitar on this track. The band also included bassist David Hull (who would go on to work with Joe Perry of Aerosmith), as well as guitarist Charlie Karp, of the bands Farrenheit and the James Montgomery Blues Band. When the Buddy Miles Band released its live album, it again included \"Them Changes\", which had become Miles' signature song. The song was released a fourth time on a live record Miles recorded with Carlos Santana.\n\nIn 1973, Miles recorded an album with the Gun's Adrian Gurvitz called \"Chapter VII\". The album cover included photos of Miles and his family along with some shots of Carlos Santana, Jimi Hendrix, and Sly Stone.\n\nMiles was signed by the record label, Casablanca Records. Miles' work for the label included the album released under his own name, \"Bicentennial Gathering of the Tribes\" (1976). The album's liner notes a quote from President John F. Kennedy concerning American Indians. In the mid 1970s, Miles recorded \"Roadrunner\" co-produced by long time friend Jim Paris. In 1980 Paris and Miles re-united, and together they produced \"Sneak Attack\" with Buddy's new band The Regiment, released by Atlantic Records in 1981.\n\nMiles served a prison term for grand theft in the late 1970s and later another term for auto theft in the early 1980s.\n\nIn late 1984 and early 1985 while living in a halfway house in Oakland, California, Miles commuted almost every single day to Marin County to collaborate with a handful of musicians and songwriters at the Ice House Studios in San Rafael. The list of collaborators included David Jenkins of Pablo Cruise, Pat Craig and Dave Carlson with Tazmanian Devils, Robbie Long, Bill Craig, Tony Marty, Tony Saunders and Drew Youngs. First recorded as a demo, the result was an album's worth of material. The project was soon moved to the Record Plant in Sausalito, where Jim Gaines of Huey Lewis and the News fame came in to take over production chores.\n\nThe group produced over 15 songs ranging from funky, soulful grooves to R&B ballads. One cut, \"When the Train Leaves the Station\", featured solos by both Carlos Santana and Neal Schon from Journey. \"Anna\", the title song of the proposed album, helped Miles land his next recording job with the California Raisins. However, during the album's production, the Record Plant was seized by the United States Government when its owner was indicted on drug trafficking charges. The musicians and employees working there began calling the studio \"Club Fed\"; hence the name \"The Club Fed Sessions\". The album was never released, and the masters remain in the can, in the hands of Miles' former manager.\n\nIn 1986, Miles performed vocals for the \"California Raisins\" claymation ad campaign, most notably singing \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", and also performed lead vocals on two California Raisins albums featuring 1960s R&B covers. In 1986 and 1987, he rejoined Carlos Santana as a vocalist on Santana's album \"Freedom\". In 1987–1988, Miles moved to Southern California and formed the lineup of Marlo Henderson on guitar, Derek Sherinian on keyboards, and Michael BeHolden on bass. The band toured the California coast, then eventually did a tour of the Chitlin' Circuit in the deep south before disbanding in early 1989.\n\nWhile residing in Chicago in 1990, Miles, along with guitarists Kevon Smith and Joe Thomas, formed MST. They recorded \"Hell and Back\" in 1994, and toured the U.S. and Europe until 1997. They were also featured in the DVD, \"Tribute to Jimi Hendrix – CAS\" (1997), directed by Patrick Savey.\n\nIn 1992, Miles worked with bassist Bootsy Collins and guitarist Steve Salas under the supergroup moniker Hardware, which released one album produced by Bill Laswell called \"Third Eye Open.\"\n\nFrom 1994 to 2007, Buddy Miles formulated his new version of the Buddy Miles Express in the New York City area, with Charlie Torres on bass guitar and vocals, Rod Kohn on guitar and vocals, the then-longest-standing Buddy Miles Express member and band leader Mark \"Muggie Doo\" Leach on Hammond B3, background vocals, and keyboards, and Kenn Moutenot on drums and vocals and handling management. They toured nearly nonstop in the United States and overseas, with nearly one thousand concerts and festivals to their credit.\n\nIn 1997, Miles relocated to Fort Worth, Texas. Soon, he began collaborating with a young guitarist from Dallas named Lance Lopez. The former Band Of Gypsys legend would go on to mentor Lopez, co-producing Lopez's debut album, \"First Things First\", with Grammy-winning producer Jay Newland/Norah Jones. The Lopez album was released independently in 1999. Also playing with the Shadowcasters with members John Vela on guitars, Ray Salazar on Bass, Sparky Montoya on Keys and Johnny Mendoza on drums.\n\nMiles was also seen in the Hendrix-family-owned official video release, \"The Making of Electric Ladyland\" on Rhino Records. The video featured interviews with the majority of players who were involved in recording the legendary Hendrix album. The video includes footage of Miles playing his drum tracks in the studio against the original multi-track recordings of Hendrix. In 1999, Miles performed on the late Bruce Cameron's album, \"Midnight Daydream\", which included other Hendrix alumni Billy Cox, Mitch Mitchell, Jack Bruce, and others.\n\nIn 2000, Miles and Leach collaborated with Stevie Ray Vaugan's \"Double Trouble\" rhythm section, creating the Buddy Miles \"Blues Berries\" album which featured Rocky Athas of Black Oak Arkansas. This lineup also contributed a spirited version of Jimi Hendrix's \"Wind Cries Mary\" on the \"Blue Haze, Songs of Jimi Hendrix\" album in 2001. In addition, Miles also composed and recorded many songs with this new version of the Buddy Miles Express that are yet to be released. It was Miles' most enduring live band. In fact, this touring lineup continued for six years with the same members.\n\nThe band continued on with Miles and Leach and a host of other players until Buddy's passing. The Miles/Leach duo, along with sax man Patrick Gage and bassist Dave Blackerby, also released the Buddy Miles Express' final album, \"Road to Sturgis\", a benefit CD for the Children's Craniofacial Foundation. Miles and Leach continued writing new but unreleased music until just days before Miles' passing.\n\nIn 2004, Miles reunited yet again with Billy Cox of the Band of Gypsys to re-record songs from the original 1970 live album with guitarists Eric Gales, Kenny Olsen, Sheldon Reynolds, Andy Aledort and Gary Serkin. The album, titled \"The Band of Gypsys Return\" was released in 2006. Until his death, Miles continued to be active musically and performed many shows with proceeds going to help support victims of natural disasters and other charitable causes.\n\nMiles is credited on sessions with George Clinton/Parliament/Funkadelic.\n\nIn 2005, Miles began collaborating with Florida-based guitar virtuoso Tony Smotherman, and the two toured the Southeast with a blues-rock band performing various pieces from Miles' collaborations with Jimi Hendrix. Miles and Smotherman last performed at the Austin Convention Center at the 2007 Summer NAMM Show with Vernon Reid of Living Colour.\n\nBetween late September and mid-October 1969, Miles stated that: \"Jimi was not happy. He felt powerless. He couldn't do what he wanted to do\". In response, in mid-October 1969, Hendrix founded a short-lived band called Band of Gypsys, which Miles would join. Alan Douglas and Stephan Bright were initially brought in to produce their recording sessions, but Cox immediately clashed with the pair, deeming them unworthy. Cox eventually stormed out of the sessions after a furious row with Bright and went home to Nashville for two weeks, before being coaxed back. At the end of Douglas and Bright's one-and-a-half months together, they had only produced one usable backing track, \"Room Full of Mirrors\". Consequently, Douglas and Bright resigned, stating pressures from the record label, Hendrix's manager Michael Jeffery, and Hendrix's own \"lack of interest\".\n\nThe same day Douglas resigned, Hendrix signed the contract with Bill Graham for the two dates at the Fillmore East. First, Hendrix had been talking about a Band of Gypsys \"jam\" LP since late 1968, after the settlement with Ed Chalpin. He also introduced the band as both 'Gypsy Sun and Rainbows' and 'Band of Gypsys' during their Woodstock concert. At that time, the two Woodstock LPs were only credited as 'Jimi Hendrix'. The recording of the Fillmore East concert was initially a single LP, but additional cuts from the concerts have been released on a double CD, \"Live at the Fillmore East\". During the two-and-a-half months before the two nights' worth of recordings for the LP, the band rehearsed and recorded in New York City. Hendrix was required to give his next LP to Chalpin to be released by the Capitol Records label, but he had become entangled in litigation concerning the contract with Chalpin's PPX record company that he had signed, his agreement with Jeffery & Chandler prior to the contract, and becoming internationally recognized. This fact led to Miles and Billy Cox being hired as full-time employees for the duration of the three-month collaboration called the 'Band of Gypsys'. In the end, the band produced the LP for Chalpin and Capitol, as well as a single for Reprise.\n\nDuring a one-off charity event for the Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam committee a month later, Hendrix had a minor meltdown on stage. Speculations include a possibly drug-related meltdown on stage, as well as an act of sabotage on the part of a very frustrated manager, Michael Jeffery. Jeffery was not a fan of the Band of Gypsys, which was claimed as fact by Miles. Miles had this to say about the incident years later, stating: \"Jeffery slipped [Jimi] two half-tabs of acid on stage as he went on... [Jimi] just freaked out. I told Jeffery he was an out-and-out complete idiot... One of the biggest reasons why Jimi is dead is because of that guy.\" Miles and Jeffery already had a strained relationship eventually, as Jeffery was always uncomfortable with Hendrix's and Miles' close friendship. After this one-off charity event at Madison Square Garden in January 1970, Jeffery told Miles that he was fired and the Band of Gypsys was no more. Although, Cox, and presumably Miles as well, had already been paid off as full-time salaried employees with a $1,000 bonus for their services the week before.\n\nWhile with Hendrix, Miles recorded a number of jams, demos, and songs. Over the years, more material recorded at the Fillmore East on New Years 1969–1970 has been issued. In 2019, the complete performances from all of the four shows were released on the box set \"\". The original versions of \"Stepping Stone\" and \"Izabella\", songs which he recorded for the 1970 single with Cox and Hendrix, have been restored and included on the 2001 compilation \"\". Three other songs that were recorded with Cox and Hendrix were later used for early posthumous Hendrix albums, including \"The Cry of Love\" and \"Rainbow Bridge\". Additional studio recordings by the trio in various stages of development were released on \"South Saturn Delta\", \"The Jimi Hendrix Experience\" box set, \"Burning Desire\", \"\", and \"People, Hell and Angels\".\n\nAt the age of 60, Buddy Miles died on February 26, 2008, at his home in Austin, Texas, with his family by his side. According to his website, he died of congestive heart disease. Miles was cremated, and there was no funeral.\n\nThe day before Miles died, he heard Steve Winwood and Eric Clapton playing \"Them Changes\" at Madison Square Garden through his cell phone. \"Them Changes\" is now part of Clapton's set on tour as a tribute to Miles. The UK-based newspaper \"The Independent\" ran an almost full-page obituary in its Friday, February 29, 2008, edition.\n\nAsked how he would like to be remembered by the American music magazine \"Seconds\" in 1995, Miles simply said: \"The baddest of the bad. People say I'm the baddest drummer. If that's true, thank you world.\" A memorial concert took place on March 30, 2008, at Threadgill's on Riverside Drive, South Austin that included performances by Bernie Worrell, The Family Stone Project, Doug Pinnick, Cyril Neville, The Sixth Chamber and surviving members of the Buddy Miles Express.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327466", "title": "Peter Kornbluh", "text": "Peter Kornbluh\n\nPeter Kornbluh (born 1956) is the director of the National Security Archive's Chile Documentation Project and Cuba Documentation Project.\n\nHe played a large role in the campaign to declassify government documents, via the Freedom of Information Act, relating to the history of the U.S. government's support for the Pinochet dictatorship in Chile. He is the author of several books, most recently \"\" (The New Press, 2003). Kenneth Maxwell wrote a review in the November/December 2003 issue of \"Foreign Affairs\", creating a controversy about Henry Kissinger's involvement in Operation Condor.\nKornbluh won a 1990 James Aronson Award honorable mention for writing on Central America in \"The New Yorker\".\n\nKornbluh grew up in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where he graduated from Pioneer High School in 1974. He has worked at the National Security Archive since 1986. His only son, Gabriel Kornbluh, is a voiceover artist and broadcast television producer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327467", "title": "Richard Bass", "text": "Richard Bass\n\nRichard Daniel \"Dick\" Bass (December 21, 1929 – July 26, 2015) was an American businessman, rancher and mountaineer. He was the owner of Snowbird Ski Resort in Utah and the first man to climb the \"Seven Summits\", the tallest mountain on each continent.\n\nWith his successful 1985 ascent he became the oldest person to reach the summit of Mount Everest, aged 55. He climbed with David Breashears and Nepalese sherpa Ang Phurba, surpassing the record by five years set in April of that year by Englishman Chris Bonington. Bass's record stood until 1993 when it was broken by 60 year old Ramon Blanco.\n\nRichard Bass was born on December 21, 1929 in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His father, Harry W. Bass, Sr., was a co-founder of the Goliad Corporation and the Goliad Oil and Gas Corporation. He had a brother, Harry W. Bass, Jr.. Bass moved with his family to Texas in 1932. \n\nBass was educated at Texas Country Day School and then the Highland Park High School in Dallas, Texas. He enrolled at Yale University at 16 and graduated in 1950 with a degree in geology. After completing some graduate work at the University of Texas, Bass served two years with the U.S. Navy on board the aircraft carrier during the Korean War.\n\nBass returned to Texas in 1953 to join in the running of the family oil and gas business and ranching operations. He was the owner of ranches in Central Texas.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Bass invested $10,000 in the development of the ski resort in Vail, Colorado. He also built the largest private residence in Vail, later inviting President Gerald Ford to winter there with his family. He served on the Board of Directors of Vail Associates, Inc. from 1966 to 1971. Bass opened the Snowbird ski resort in Utah with investor Ted Johnson in 1971; he was its sole proprietor until he sold his stake in May 2014.\n\nTogether with Frank Wells, future president of The Walt Disney Company, Bass decided to pursue the adventure challenge of summiting the highest mountain on each of the seven continents: Denali (Mt. McKinley, at the time), North America; Aconcagua, South America; Mt. Elbrus, Europe; Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa; Vinson Massif, Antarctica; Mount Kosciuszko, Australia; and Mount Everest, Asia. This became known as the Seven Summits Challenge.\nThe pair successfully completed all but Everest, being rebuffed there in a first attempt. On his third attempt, Bass was guided by David Breashears to the summit of Everest on April 30, 1985, achieving the Seven Summit feat. At the time, he was also the oldest person to have climbed Everest. Wells chose to forego further attempts at Everest and died in 1994. Bass later co-wrote the book \"Seven Summits\" chronicling the achievement. The list of mountains that Bass summited became known as the \"Bass List,\" one of two commonly accepted lists. The other, called the \"Messner List,\" lists Carstensz Pyramid as the highest summit of Oceania, instead of Kosciuszko.\n\nJon Krakauer's book \"Into Thin Air\" argues that Bass's ascent of Mount Everest with Breashears pulled the mountain into a \"postmodern era\" wherein commercial guided expeditions became big business and encouraged climbers with limited experience to pay large sums of money to these enterprises in order to ascend Everest.\n\nBass was married three times, first to Rita Crocker. After their divorce he married Marian Martin, which also ended in divorce. He then married Alice Worsham. He had two sons, Jim and Richard Jr. (also known as Dan), and twin daughters, Bonnie Bass Smith and Barbara Bass Moroney.\n\nBass died on July 26, 2015 in Dallas, Texas from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. His funeral was held at the St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church on July 31, 2015 in Dallas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327473", "title": "John Darsee", "text": "John Darsee\n\nJohn Roland Darsee (born in Huntington, West Virginia) is an American physician and former medical researcher. After compiling an impressive list of publications in reputable scientific journals, he was found to have fabricated data for his publications.\n\nJohn Darsee obtained his undergraduate education at the University of Notre Dame, then went to medical school at Indiana University, where he received a degree in 1974.\n\nDarsee had an excellent reputation as a student and medical researcher. He worked at Emory University from 1974 to 1979, serving as chief medical resident at Grady Memorial Hospital. He then moved to Harvard University, where he worked as research fellow at the Cardiac Research Laboratory. Darsee produced 5 major papers in his first 15 months at Harvard. The head of his lab, cardiologist Eugene Braunwald, considered Darsee the most remarkable of the 130 fellows who had worked in his lab and offered Darsee a faculty position at Harvard in 1981. Some of Darsee's colleagues became concerned about the accuracy of Darsee's results. They went to the lab director, Robert Kroner, with their suspicions. Kroner investigated and found that Darsee had been altering dates on his laboratory work to make a few hours' work appear to be several weeks of data. When informed, Braunwald terminated Darsee's fellowship but did not inform the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which was funding the research, of Darsee's misconduct at the time.\n\nBraunwald and Kroner conducted their own investigation into Darsee's work and found no other evidence of fraud; nor did a committee of Harvard faculty appointed by the Dean of the medical school. However, in October 1981 discrepancies between Darsee's data and those collected by other centers performing similar work triggered a formal investigation by the NIH. The NIH review found that Darsee had committed wide-ranging scientific misconduct, fabricating large amounts of data from experiments which he had never conducted. Harvard's investigation, as well as that of Braunwald and Kroner, were criticized for being inadequately rigorous and for reporting that they had \"fully reviewed\" data which later turned out to be non-existent. Darsee was barred by the NIH from receiving federal research funding for 10 years. Brigham and Women's Hospital, affiliated with Harvard, had to return $122,371 in research funds to NIH. This was the first time an institution was required to return money to NIH because of research fraud.\n\nOver time, more research by Darsee came under fire. Investigations revealed that Darsee had previously used false data between 1966 and 1970, while an undergraduate at the University of Notre Dame. Following the NIH investigation, Harvard retracted 30 of Darsee's papers and abstracts in February 1983. Review of Darsee's earlier work at Emory University led to the retraction of an additional 52 papers and abstracts published during his tenure there. Braunwald drew criticism for lax supervision and for creating \"a hurried pace and emphasis on productivity, coupled with limited interaction with senior scientists\", which contributed to the ease with which Darsee was able to fabricate data. Arnold Relman, editor of \"The New England Journal of Medicine\", also criticized Darsee's coauthors for their unfamiliarity with his work and lack of awareness of the scientific misconduct.\n\nDarsee maintained that he had \"no recollection\" of committing research fraud. He issued an apology which was printed in \"The New England Journal of Medicine\", writing: \"I am deeply sorry for allowing these inaccuracies and falsehoods to be published in the Journal and apologize to the editorial board and readers.\" Darsee asked \"forgiveness for whatever I have done wrong.\"\n\nDarsee subsequently entered a clinical fellowship in critical care at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady, New York. He worked there until June 1983. In 1984 the New York State Board of Regents revoked his license to practice medicine in the state of New York. He is now working as a medical writer and blogger under the name of John Hughes-Darsee and living with his wife, Linda Hughes, a surgical nurse, and 2 children in West Nyack, NY. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327478", "title": "Mulliken population analysis", "text": "Mulliken population analysis\n\nMulliken charges arise from the Mulliken population analysis and provide a means of estimating partial atomic charges from calculations carried out by the methods of computational chemistry, particularly those based on the linear combination of atomic orbitals molecular orbital method, and are routinely used as variables in linear regression (QSAR) procedures. The method was developed by Robert S. Mulliken, after whom the method is named. If the coefficients of the basis functions in the molecular orbital are C for the μ'th basis function in the i'th molecular orbital, the density matrix terms are:\n\nfor a closed shell system where each molecular orbital is doubly occupied. The population matrix formula_2 then has terms\n\nformula_4 is the overlap matrix of the basis functions. The sum of all terms of formula_5 summed over formula_6 is the gross orbital product for orbital formula_7 - formula_8. The sum of the gross orbital products is N - the total number of electrons. The Mulliken population assigns an electronic charge to a given atom A, known as the gross atom population: formula_9 as the sum of formula_8 over all orbitals formula_7 belonging to atom A. The charge, formula_12, is then defined as the difference between the number of electrons on the isolated free atom, which is the atomic number formula_13, and the gross atom population:\n\nOne problem with this approach is the equal division of the off-diagonal terms between the two basis functions. This leads to charge separations in molecules that are exaggerated. In a modified Mulliken population analysis, this problem can be reduced by dividing the overlap populations formula_15 between the corresponding orbital populations formula_16 and formula_17 in the ratio between the latter. This choice, although still arbitrary, relates the partitioning in some way to the electronegativity difference between the corresponding atoms.\n\nAnother problem is the Mulliken charges are explicitly sensitive to the basis set choice. In principle, a complete basis set for a molecule can be spanned by placing a large set of functions on a single atom. In the Mulliken scheme, all the electrons would then be assigned to this atom. The method thus has no complete basis set limit, as the exact value depends on the way the limit is approached. This also means that the charges are ill defined, as there is no exact answer. As a result, the basis set convergence of the charges does not exist, and different basis set families may yield drastically different results.\n\nThese problems can be addressed by modern methods for computing net atomic charges, such as density derived electrostatic and chemical (DDEC) analysis, electrostatic potential analysis, and natural population analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327486", "title": "Barry Goldberg", "text": "Barry Goldberg\n\nBarry Joseph Goldberg (born December 25, 1942) is a blues and rock keyboardist, songwriter, and record producer.\n\nAs a teenager in Chicago, Goldberg sat in with Muddy Waters, Otis Rush, and Howlin' Wolf. He played keyboards with the Paul Butterfield Blues Band backing Bob Dylan during his 1965 newly 'electrified' appearance at the Newport Folk Festival. He formed The Electric Flag with Mike Bloomfield in 1967, and later formed the 'Barry Goldberg Reunion' in 1968.\n\nIn 1965, after moving to Chicago to play the blues, Steve Miller and keyboardist Barry Goldberg founded the Goldberg-Miller Blues Band along with bassist Roy Ruby, rhythm guitarist Craymore Stevens, and drummer Maurice McKinley. The band contracted to Epic Records and recorded a single, \"The Mother Song\", which they performed on Hullabaloo, before Miller left the group to go to San Francisco.[5][6]\n\nGoldberg's songs (some of which co-written with Gerry Goffin) have been recorded by many musicians including Rod Stewart, Gladys Knight, Joe Cocker, Steve Miller, Bobby \"Blue\" Bland, Gram Parsons and B. J. Thomas.\n\nGoldberg's first professional recording session was \"Devil with the Blue Dress On\"/\"Good Golly Miss Molly\" by Mitch Ryder & the Detroit Wheels. Among the albums he contributed to are Leonard Cohen's \"Death of a Ladies' Man\", The Ramones' \"End of the Century\", The Flying Burrito Brothers' \"The Gilded Palace of Sin\", and \"Super Session\" which featured Michael Bloomfield, Stephen Stills, and Al Kooper.\n\nGoldberg also has co-produced albums by Percy Sledge including \"Blue Night\" (Grammy nominated and WC Handy soul album of the year) as well as \"Shining Through the Rain\", Charlie Musselwhite, James Cotton, The Textones, plus Bob Dylan's version of Curtis Mayfield's \"People Get Ready\".\n\nIn 1992 he played keyboards with the Carla Olson & Mick Taylor band, which resulted in the live CD \"Too Hot for Snakes\", featuring the talents of artists like Ian McLagan, Jesse Sublett and John \"Juke\" Logan.\n\nIn 1994, Goldberg and Saul Davis produced \"Blue Night\" by Percy Sledge, which featured Bobby Womack, Steve Cropper, Mick Taylor, Greg Leisz, Bob Glaub, Ed Greene, Mikael Rickfors, The Waters... with songs written by Rickfors, Gregg Sutton, Pat Robinson, Carla Olson, the Bee Gees, Quinton Claunch, Fats Domino, and Otis Redding.\n\nBy 1999, Goldberg both wrote and performed the theme to the Disney Channel original movie \"Smart House\", entitled \"The House is Jumpin',\" with Phil Shenale and Sterling Smith, with vocals by Chan André. He wrote the song with Jill Wisoff and Joel Diamond.\n\nIn 2002, he was featured on the Bo Diddley tribute album \"Hey Bo Diddley – A Tribute!\", playing piano on the songs \"Pills\", \"I'm A Man\" and \"Before You Accuse Me\" (produced by Carla Olson). Carla also produced Barry's \"Stoned Again\" album which featured Denny Freeman, Mick Taylor and Ernie Watts.\n\nIn 2004, \"Shining Through The Rain\" by Percy also co-produced by Davis and Goldberg, featuring Larry Byrom, Denny Freeman, Clayton Ivey, Ed Greene, Phil Upchurch, Bob Glaub, the Waters, Jakob Dylan... and songs by the Bee Gees, Mikael Rickfors, Carla Olson, Jackie Lomax, Earl Carson, Bobby Moore.\n\nIn 2005-2006, he toured with the 'Chicago Blues Reunion' featuring Nick Gravenites, Harvey Mandel, Tracy Nelson and Corky Siegel. Their debut CD reached #2 on the Billboard Blues Chart and received a four star review from \"Rolling Stone magazine\"'s David Fricke.\n\nOn July 7, 2009 Goldberg's self-titled 1974 Atco album was reissued with the originally recorded, but never-released tracks and a restored sound. The album was produced by Dylan and Jerry Wexler.\n\nIn 2012, Stephen Stills recruited Goldberg in founding a new band dubbed The Rides, culling some of Stills's best work from the past, adding guitarist Kenny Wayne Shepherd and session drummer Chris Layton. Goldberg co-wrote four songs on their first album titled, \"Can't Get Enough\", released that year. The feature track is \"Word Game\". Much of the album reflects the work Stills did on the \"Super Session\" album with Mike Bloomfield in 1968.\n\nGoldberg appears on the Carla Olson album \"Have Harmony, Will Travel\" (released April 15, 2013, on Busted Flat Records) playing Hammond B3 organ on Del Shannon's \"Keep Searchin' \" sung by Carla and Peter Case, and piano and organ on the Little Steven song, \"All I Needed Was You\", sung by Scott Kempner (The Del-Lords).\n\nThe long-awaited film \"Born in Chicago\" documenting Chicago blues was released in 2013, premiering at the SXSW Film Festival in March. Goldberg had been working on this project for a few years. It includes unique contributions by Bob Dylan, BB King, Buddy Guy, Hubert Sumlin, Eric Burdon, and many others.\n\nGoldberg produced three tracks on the 2013 EP (\"Drown in the Crimson Tide\") by \"The Voice\" Season One semi-finalist, Nakia, with longtime friend, Johnny Lee Schell.\n\n\"Can't Get Enough\", the album by The Rides (Stephen Stills, Kenny Wayne Shepherd and Goldberg) was nominated for a 2014 Blues Music Award for \"Best Rock Blues Album.\"\n\nIn 2016, Neil Young jammed with The Rides at the Pantages Theater in Los Angeles at the \"Light Up The Blues\" event.\n\nGoldberg produced and composed additional musical score to the documentary feature film \"BANG! The Bert Berns Story\" which premiered at SXSW in 2016 and will be released theatrically in 2017.\n\nHis latest CD, \"In The Groove\", was released on June 15 on Sunset Blvd Records. The album consists of new and classic instrumentals and features Goldberg on Hammond B3 organ, piano and Wurlitzer piano. Among the featured musicians and guests are Denny Freeman, Tony Marsico, Don Heffington, Rob Stone, Joe Sublett, Darrell Leonard, James Inveldt, Johnny Lee Schell, Reggie McBride, Craig Fundyga, Victor Bisetti and jazz legend Les McCann. The album was produced by Carla Olson.\n\nGoldberg's uncle was Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg.\nBarry's wife is named Gail and their son is Aram.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327493", "title": "Hindu rate of growth", "text": "Hindu rate of growth\n\nThe Hindu rate of growth is a term referring to the low annual growth rate of the economy of India before the liberalisations of 1991, which stagnated around 3.5% from 1950s to 1980s, while per capita income growth averaged 1.3%. The term contrasts with South Korea's Miracle on the Han River and the Taiwan Miracle. While these Asian Tigers had similar income level as India in the 1950s, exponential economic growth since then has transformed them into developed countries today.\n\nMany claim that the economy of India accelerated and grew at a rate of around 6–9% since economic liberalisation began in the 1990s.\n\nThe word \"Hindu\" in the term was used by some early economists like Vikas Mishra (economist) to imply that the Hindu outlook of fatalism and contentedness was responsible for the slow growth. Later economists reject this connection and instead attribute the rate to the Government of India's protectionist and interventionist policies (see Licence Raj), rather than to a specific religion or to the attitude of the adherents of a particular religion. Accordingly, some writers instead use the term \"Nehruvian socialism\".\n\nThe term was coined by Indian economist Raj Krishna. It suggests that the low growth rate of India, a country with mostly Hindu population was in a sharp contrast to high growth rates in other Asian countries, especially the East Asian Tigers, which were also newly independent. This meaning of the term, popularised by Robert McNamara, was used disparagingly and has connotations that refer to the supposed Hindu outlook of fatalism and contentedness.\n\nIn 1947, the average annual income in India was $439, compared with $619 for China, $770 for South Korea, and $936 for Taiwan. By 1999, the numbers were $1,818; $3,259; $13,317; and $15,720.\n\nIndia's growth rate was low by standards of developing countries. At the same time, Pakistan grew by 5%, Indonesia by 6%, Thailand by 7%, Taiwan by 8% and South Korea by 9%.\n\nThe comparison with South Korea was stark:\n\nNoted politician and journalist Arun Shourie pointed out that the \"Hindu rate of growth\" was a result of socialist policies implemented by governments:\n\n"}
{"id": "2327496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327496", "title": "Fairford Leys", "text": "Fairford Leys\n\nFairford Leys is a residential village in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, England, designed in the urban village style, with low-rise streets, geared to pedestrians more than cars. Developers are bound by a government design code to ensure architectural cohesion.\n\nFairford Leys is a private village consisting of 1,900 homes, on the western edge of Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, England. It has its own centre, centred around a square, hosting a number of traditionally fronted shops, award-winning hair salon, supermarket, three restaurants, a nursery, an ecumenical church and a community centre. It also has a private health club with swimming pool which opened in October 2003. The civil parish for Fairford Leys is Coldharbour which is an Aylesbury Vale district. Its northern portion is home to a modern industrial area.\n\nThe development is an example of an urban village, which is a town planning concept started in the UK in the late 1990s, with its roots in new urbanism and garden city ideals. The emphasis for this type of development is to focus on pedestrians over cars and other forms of community interaction. Fairford Leys is one of the first examples of a development planned using a Design Code, championed by John Prescott and the Labour government of the late 1990s. The aim of the code was to create an urban village development and it sets out design rules during, and also after, the construction phase, to ensure the individual developers all build to the same standard and to create cohesion to the design and appearance of the development as a whole. The driving force behind this was the original landowner, the Ernest Cook Trust. The architecture is inspired by traditional Aylesbury housing styles and pastiche Victorian lamp posts and railings. The centre of the estate is surrounded by the \"city wall\", a concept originating from the masterplanner John Simpson and inspired by medieval city walls, such as York. This consists of three- and four-storey townhouses and the main entrance to the centre is marked by two towers, loosely modelled on medieval gate towers.\n\nDevelopments in Fairford Leys are controlled by the 16-page guidelines, which are a summary of some of the important aspects of the original Design Code. They govern the look and materials used in several aspects of construction, including roof materials, chimneys, window materials, front boundary fences and planting, and front door colours. \n\nThe centre contains a higher density of housing, with larger detached properties at the edge of the estate. Originally the design included play areas, open spaces, playing fields and a golf course. The golf course has since been closed and fenced off due to the route of the impending HS2 crossing the area.\n\nFairford Leys has its own parish council (Coldharbour Parish), primary school, GPs' practice and neighbouring pharmacy, veterinary practice, Women's Institute, ecumenical church, and a community centre (known as the Fairford Leys Centre), which hosts a wide variety of events and activities, including dance classes, badminton, karate, children's parties, wedding receptions, corporate functions and council meetings. The main centre was officially opened in November 2004.\n\nSt Mary's Church of England School is a mixed, voluntary controlled, primary school, which has about 320 pupils from the ages of four to 11. It was purpose built for the Fairford Leys estate but the education authority (Bucks County Council) underestimated the number of children that would live within the Estate. Consequently, a number of children living within Fairford Leys cannot get a place. In 2009, Buckinghamshire County Council estimate that up to 44 children will not be able to take up a place.\n\nFairford Leys is served by a popular but infrequent bus service, the Silver Rider. It commenced in 2004 and runs directly to Aylesbury town centre in around 15 minutes, designed to run at times to suit commuter travel from Aylesbury Station to London. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327506", "title": "Louisville Ballet", "text": "Louisville Ballet\n\nThe Louisville Ballet is a ballet school and company based in Louisville, Kentucky and is the official state ballet of The Commonwealth of Kentucky. It is currently led by Artistic and Executive Director Robert Curran. More than 100,000 people attend the company's productions annually of which most are accompanied by the Louisville Orchestra. The company performs at three venues in the city, The Brown Theatre, The Kentucky Center, and, rarely, The Louisville Palace.\n\nThe Louisville Ballet was founded in 1952 and it achieved professional status and admitted its first students in 1975. It is the only regional company with which Mikhail Baryshnikov has performed in repertoire productions (He danced with the company during the 1978–79 and 1979–80 seasons). The Ballet has more than 60 world premieres to its credit with a repertoire of about 150 pieces choreographed by the likes of Sir Frederick Ashton, Erik Bruhn, George Balanchine, Antony Tudor, John Cranko, Jack Carter, Kurt Jooss, Choo San Goh, Jose Limon, Paul Taylor, David Parsons, Eugene Loring, Saeko Ichinohe and Domy Reiter-Soffer, along with Fokine and Bournonville ballets. The Ballet also presents several full length ballets each year including Swan Lake, The Sleeping Beauty, Coppelia, Romeo and Juliet, Cinderella, Giselle and Don Quixote. In addition to the regular subscription series, the Louisville Ballet presents The Nutcracker each holiday season in association with the Brown-Forman Corporation.\n\nThe Louisville Ballet building, designed by Louisville architects Bravura Corporation, is a $2.2 million facility built in 1995 houses two large rehearsal studios and administrative offices. The Louisville Ballet Center received the Honor Award for Excellence in Architectural Design by the Kentucky chapter of the American Institute of Architects and was featured in the May 1997 edition of Architecture Magazine. It is located at 315 East Main St. in downtown Louisville.\n\nThe Louisville Ballet School is the official school and training center connected with the Louisville Ballet. The Louisville Ballet Youth Ensemble is the student performing group of the School. Alumni of the Ensemble have gone on to dance professionally with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Ailey II, American Ballet Theatre, Aspen Santa Fe Ballet, Ballet Magnificat!, Barcelona Ballet (formerly Corella Ballet), Boston Ballet II, Colorado Ballet, Ft. Wayne Ballet, Houston Ballet, Louisville Ballet, Missouri Ballet Theatre, New York City Ballet, Peridance and Sarasota Ballet, and those who have continued their dance education at NYU, Fordham (Ailey), Butler University, Florida State, University of Arizona, Ohio State University, Pointe Park University and Southern Methodist University. Many students also went on to study with professional training programs including Boston Ballet, Harid Conservatory, Next Generation Ballet, Pacific Northwest Ballet, San Francisco Ballet and the School of American Ballet. The school also hosts a summer camp for aspiring dancers.\n"}
{"id": "2327510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327510", "title": "Touchwood, Solihull", "text": "Touchwood, Solihull\n\nTouchwood is a shopping centre in Solihull, West Midlands, United Kingdom.\n\nOpened in 2001 and costing £110 million to build, the centre was built on the former car parks behind the High Street.\n\nAround 251,000 cubic metres of earth were excavated to form the basements and over 4,000 tons support the Touchwood structure.\n\nTouchwood has a John Lewis department store, at , as well as 80 other stores, over 20 restaurants and a Cineworld nine-screen multiplex cinema. \n\nThe most successful retailing area of Solihull, Mell Square and Solihull High Street both now hosting empty units. \n\nThe Touchwood access also leads to Library Square, for the Solihull Central Library and Arts Complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327511", "title": "Harvey Brooks (bassist)", "text": "Harvey Brooks (bassist)\n\nHarvey Brooks (born Harvey Goldstein; July 4, 1944) is an American bass guitarist.\n\nBrooks came out of a New York music scene in the early 1960s. One of the younger players on his instrument, he was a contemporary of Felix Pappalardi and Andy Kulberg and other eclectic bass players in their late teens and early twenties, who saw a way to bridge the styles of folk, blues, rock, and jazz.\n\nAl Kooper gave Brooks his first boost to fame when he asked him to play as part of Bob Dylan's backing band on the sessions that yielded the album \"Highway 61 Revisited\" (1965) — in contrast to the kind of folkie-electric sound generated by the band on his previous album, \"Bringing It All Back Home\" (1965). Producer Bob Johnson and Dylan were looking for a harder, in-your-face electric sound, and Brooks, along with guitarist Michael Bloomfield and organist Al Kooper, provided exactly what was needed. Brooks was also part of Dylan's early backing band which performed at Forest Hills, Queens and the Hollywood Bowl in 1965. This band also included Robbie Robertson (guitar), Al Kooper (keyboards) and Levon Helm (drums).\n\nFrom the Dylan single and album, Brooks branched out in a multitude of directions, as he went on to play on records by folk artists including Eric Andersen at Vanguard Records, Richie Havens, Tom Rush and Jim & Jean at Verve Records, transitional electric folk-rockers such as David Blue (whose producer was looking for a sound similar to that on \"Highway 61 Revisited\"), and various blues-rock fusion projects involving Bloomfield and Kooper.\n\nIt was through his participation in The Electric Flag, an extension of Michael Bloomfield and Barry Goldberg's interests in blues, that Brooks's career took an unexpected turn. The Flag only lasted in its original line-up for about a year, and much of that time was spent recording a sound track album to the film \"The Trip\" (1967).\n\nAfter the Electric Flag disbanded, Brooks took up temporary residence at the Chateaux Marmont Hotel on the sunset strip. From there he recorded on Cass Elliot's \"Dream a Little Dream\" (1968), and with Nick Gravenites and Pete Welding he produced Quicksilver Messenger Service(1968) for Capitol Records. Brooks also played on The Doors \"The Soft Parade\" (1969) album on the songs \"Touch Me\", \"Tell All the People\", \"Wild Child\" and \"Wishful Sinful\". Producer Paul Rothchild wanted to give the Doors a fresh sound. He hired Harvey to play and help organize the rhythm tracks and Paul Harris to write some string and horn arrangements. Harvey also played live with the Doors at the Forum in Los Angeles and Madison Square Garden in New York and was on the Michael Bloomfield/Al Kooper/Steve Stills \"Super Session\" (1968) release. His song \"Harvey's Tune\" appeared on this album.\n\nHe moved east to meet Crosby, Stills & Nash in Sag Harbor, New York. Brooks and Paul Harris moved to John Sebastian's house for pre-production on \"John B. Sebastian\" (1970) album. The album was recorded at the Hit Factory.\n\nAfter buying a loft in what was to become Soho, Brooks got a call from Jack Gold, vice president of Columbia Records, offering him a job as staff producer. He connected with producer Teo Macero, who led him to Miles Davis. Brooks contributed to \"Bitches Brew\" (1970) and \"Big Fun\" (1974). On the sessions in August and November 1969, two bassists were used. Brooks played electric bass while Dave Holland simultaneously played acoustic bass.\n\nFrom the 1970s Brooks recorded on, \"New Morning\" by Bob Dylan, John Martyn, the Fabulous Rhinestones, Seals & Crofts \"Summer Breeze\" album, Paul Kantner's \"Blows Against the Empire\", Fontella Bass, John Sebastian, Loudon Wainwright III, John Cale, and Paul Burlison. Later he toured with Clarence Clemons and the Red Bank Rockers in 1982 and Paul Butterfield Blues Band in the late 1980s.\n\nHe played with Donald Fagen's musical project the New York Rock and Soul Revue from 1991–1992. relocated to Tucson Arizona in 1994 after a short stint with Danny Kortchmar's Slo Leak band in Westport CT. and has continued to perform and record.\n\nIn 2006, Light in the Attic, a Seattle-based record label, reissued the 1971 album \"In My Own Time\" by Karen Dalton, which was arranged and produced by Brooks. His last USA project was the 17th Street Band based in Tucson, Arizona. With his wife Bonnie and guitarist Tom Kusian he started 17th Street Records'with two releases in November 2009, distributed by City Hall Records: \"Positively 17th Street\" by the 17th Street Band and \"El Regalo, the Gift\" by Francisco Gonzalez.\n\nBrooks and his wife moved to Israel on August 4, 2009, living in Jerusalem writing his memoirs, and teaching, performing and recording in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. He was featured in a cover story at \"Bass Musician\" magazine, March 2011. His wife has written a children's book, \"Gramps Has a Ponytail\" (2012), using Brooks as a model for her musical gramps.\n\nFormer Van Halen bassist Michael Anthony has cited Brooks as a formative influence on his playing style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327518", "title": "Garfield (Pittsburgh)", "text": "Garfield (Pittsburgh)\n\nGarfield is a neighborhood in the East End of the City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. Garfield is bordered on the South by Bloomfield and Friendship (at Penn Avenue), on the West by the Allegheny Cemetery (at Mathilda Street), on the North by Stanton Heights (at Mossfield Street), and on the East by East Liberty (at Negley Avenue). Like many parts of Pittsburgh, Garfield is a fairly steep neighborhood, with north-south residential streets running at about a 20% incline from Penn Avenue at the bottom to Mossfield Street at the top. Garfield is divided into “the valley” and “the hilltop.”\n\nGarfield is part of District 9 on the Pittsburgh City Council, and is currently represented by Rev. Ricky Burgess.\n\nLike nearby Bloomfield and Friendship, the land comprising modern-day Garfield was stolen by Casper Taub from the local Delaware tribe. Taub sold it to his son-in-law, Joseph Conrad Winebiddle, in the late 18th century. About a hundred years later, Winebiddle's descendants broke the family estate into lots and sold them to new residents of an expanding City of Pittsburgh. The first owner of a lot in present-day Garfield bought his plot in 1881, on the day that U.S. President James Garfield was buried, so the neighborhood was named for the late President.\n\nGarfield's earliest settlers were predominantly blue-collar Irish laborers and their families, who worked in the mills and foundries down along the Allegheny River, shopped in local stores on Penn Avenue, and built and lived in modest brick foursquare homes on the streets running up from Penn Avenue. The community, then almost exclusively Catholic, built St. Lawrence O'Toole Parish on Penn Avenue in 1897. From 1880 until about 1960, the neighborhood remained as it began: a solid, working-class area. Neighborhood activist Aggie Brose described Garfield in 1960 as a place where \"You sponsored each other's kids, you went to all the weddings and funerals, you never wanted for a baby-sitter, you never had to call a repairman, you didn't need for a social. When you put the kids to bed, the women went out on the stoops.\" ()\n\nThings changed in the 1960s, when some Garfield residents began to leave the City for nearby suburbs in Shaler and Penn Hills. In response, the City's Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) used eminent domain and attempted to change nearby East Liberty from an urban shopping area, then the third-busiest retail center in Pennsylvania, to a suburban one. The URA knocked down many small shops, accessible on foot or by bus, and thereby opened land for larger ones, accessible by car. At the same time, the City's housing authority built several massive public housing complexes on Garfield's borders: Garfield Heights, a 600+ unit complex high up on Fern Street, and the East Mall, a 20+ story tower straddling Penn Avenue at the entrance to East Liberty.\n\nThese changes, designed to halt the slow trickle of Garfield residents to the suburbs, instead turned a trickle into a torrent. East Liberty lost most of its businesses, and the new housing projects, inhabited by poor African-Americans, unnerved Garfield residents. In 1969 the federal government gave the City funds to enforce housing codes in Garfield so that as old residents fled, their homes were not allowed to deteriorate. This move also backfired: long-time residents, told that homes built in 1900 (and often passed through families over the years) did not meet codes written in 1960, moved away rather than pay for upgrades.\n\nThus began a textbook case of white flight: in 1970, Garfield had a population of roughly 10,000 people, 80% of them white. In 2000, Garfield's population had been cut almost in half to 5,450 people, 83% of them black.\n\nTo halt what they perceived as the neighborhood's decline, in 1975 parishioners at St. Lawrence O'Toole founded the Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation, a Community Development Corporation that uses private and government funds and activism to encourage homeownership and business development. Over the years, the organization has built or renovated dozens of housing units, and renovated commercial properties for dozens of small businesses, from restaurants to art galleries to theater companies.\n\nIn the 1980s, a similar group called the Garfield Jubilee Association formed, with a goal of creating affordable housing. In recent years, the two groups have joined together in a joint project to build dozens of new single-family homes. In 2000, the BGC and Friendship Development Associates, Inc. formed the Penn Avenue Arts Initiative. The PAAI encourages artists to live and work along the Avenue by rehabbing properties, making small loans or grants for facade renovations, and organizing joint marketing events such as Unblurred, held the first Friday of each month, where the venues of Garfield and Friendship open for special events.\n\nEfforts by groups like these, along with a recent recognition that massive, 1960s-style social welfare projects often had negative consequences, have helped to revitalize the neighborhood. Commercially, Penn Avenue is recovering from the flight of local businesses in the 1970s and 1980s. Some bastions of the old neighborhood remain, as groups like the BGC and GJA, and FDA have worked to keep some banks and stores along Penn Avenue. Since 1990, these have been joined by newcomers: African-American barbershops and salons, tiny family-owned Vietnamese restaurants, and a series of arts-related businesses (e.g., theatres, galleries, an architecture studio, a glass factory, a coffeeshop, and much more) attracted by the PAAI.\n\nThere has also been some positive residential development: the East Mall and Garfield Heights Senior highrise was razed in 2005, and the townhouse units are scheduled to be demolished in 2007–2008, and replaced with mixed-income units, as well as new replacement homes scattered through the neighborhood. Visitors to Garfield today will see a neighborhood on the rise, a formerly blighted community that is now becoming a vibrant community, with a focus on the arts, while not forgetting its roots ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2327522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327522", "title": "Alexandra Tolstaya", "text": "Alexandra Tolstaya\n\nCountess Alexandra (Sasha) Lvovna Tolstaya (; 18 June 1884 – 26 September 1979), often anglicized to Tolstoy, was the youngest daughter and secretary of the noted Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy.\n\nThe youngest daughter of Leo Tolstoy (1828–1910) and of his wife Sophia (1844–1919), Alexandra was close to her father. In 1901, at the age of seventeen, she became his secretary. He appointed her as executor of his will, a task she had to undertake in 1910. Although Alexandra shared her father's belief in non-violence, she felt it was her duty to take part in the events of the First World War and served as a nurse on the Turkish and German fronts. This led to her being gassed and admitted to hospital herself. After the war, she worked on an edition of her father's writings. However, after allowing White Russians to meet in her Moscow home, she was arrested five times by the Bolsheviks and in 1920 was sent to prison for a year.\n\nIn 1921 she became the director of the Tolstoy museum at Yasnaya Polyana. She was given permission to leave the Soviet Union in 1929, and settled in the United States, where she gave lectures and worked as a chicken farmer. Some years into this life, she was visited by Tatiana Schaufuss, an old friend who had spent several years in prison and in exile in Siberia. Together, in 1939 they founded the Tolstoy Foundation. \n\nTolstaya became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1941, abandoning the use of the title of countess.\n\nIn 1974, at the age of ninety, Tolstaya received birthday greetings from President Nixon, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and others, and was interviewed by \"The New York Times\". She commented: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327523", "title": "Return of Django", "text": "Return of Django\n\nReturn of Django is a studio album by the Upsetters, released in 1969. The title is a reference to the 1966 spaghetti western \"Django\".\n"}
{"id": "2327526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327526", "title": "The Garden (Guns N' Roses song)", "text": "The Garden (Guns N' Roses song)\n\n\"The Garden\" is a song by the hard rock band Guns N' Roses released in 1991. It appears on the album \"Use Your Illusion I\" and features alternating lead vocals between Axl Rose and Alice Cooper.\n\n\"The Garden\" was written before Guns N' Roses released \"Appetite for Destruction\" in 1987, but was not included on that album. It was composed by Axl Rose, Del James and West Arkeen.\n\nAccording to Slash, as Rose's delivery while recording resembled Alice Cooper, the band decided to invite him as a guest. Cooper, who was also in Los Angeles at the time, got an invitation to go to the studio, and accepted to guest after hearing the track, recording his part three times. Rose's friend Shannon Hoon, the lead singer of Blind Melon, is also featured.\n\nThe song was never officially released as a single or sent to radio stations as a promo. However, the band did film and release a promo video to music video networks in 1993. It appeared as the B-side to the single Estranged in January 1994.\n\nThe clip depicts various band members in sections of New York City, specifically Times Square and Washington Square Park. It was released to promote the Use Your Illusion Tour. Due to various scenes taking place in strip clubs, the video was not shown very much on MTV. It appears on the band's \"Welcome to the Videos\". The band released the video on their official YouTube channel in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327533", "title": "Scratch the Upsetter Again", "text": "Scratch the Upsetter Again\n\nScratch the Upsetter Again is a studio album by The Upsetters, released in 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327543", "title": "Men and Women (poetry collection)", "text": "Men and Women (poetry collection)\n\nMen and Women is a collection of fifty-one poems in two volumes by Robert Browning, first published in 1855. While now generally considered to contain some of the best of Browning's poetry, at the time it was not received well and sold poorly.\n\n\"Men and Women\" was Browning's first published work after a five year hiatus, and his first collection of shorter poems since his marriage to Elizabeth Barrett in 1846. His reputation had still not recovered from the disastrous failure of \"Sordello\" fifteen years previously, and Browning was at the time comprehensively overshadowed by his wife in terms of both critical reception and commercial success. Away from the spotlight, Browning was able to work on a long-considered project. He had long been associated with the dramatic monologue, having written two early volumes of poems entitled \"Dramatic Lyrics\" and \"Dramatic Romances and Lyrics\", but with \"Men and Women\" he took the concept a step further.\n\nBrowning's \"Men and Women\" consists of fifty-one poems, all of which are monologues spoken by different narrators, some identified and some not; the first fifty take in a very diverse range of historical, religious or European situations, with the fifty-first – \"One Word More\" – featuring Browning himself as narrator and dedicated to his wife. The title of the collection came from a line in her \"Sonnets from the Portuguese\". Browning himself was very fond of the collection, referring to the poems as \"My fifty men and women\" (from the opening line in \"One Word More\"), and today, \"Men and Women\" has been described as one of Victorian England's most significant books.\n\nThirteen years after the publication of \"Men and Women\", Browning revisited the first edition, and made a reclassification of it. He separated the simpler rhymed presentations of an emotional moment, such as \"Mesmerism\" and \"A Woman's Last Word\", or the picturesque rhymed verse telling a story of an experience, such as \"Childe Roland\" and \"The Statue and the Bust\", from their more complex companions, such as \"Cleon\", \"Fra Lippo\", and \"Rudel\". The resulting collection of only twelve poems is typically found today in many abridged editions of \"Men and Women\", and in the somewhat more accurately titled volume, \"Transcendentalism: A Poem In Twelve Volumes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2327544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327544", "title": "Rhythm Shower", "text": "Rhythm Shower\n\nRhythm Shower is a studio album by The Upsetters, released in 1973. Originally released in a very limited Jamaican pressing with no sleeve, it became better known when re-released by the Trojan label as part of its originally 3 LP, later 2-CD set \"The Upsetter Collection\", first issued in 1986. \n\nMany of the rhythms on the album are known as those done by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry. \"Double Power\" versions \"Give Me Power\" by the Stingers, \"Lover Version\" features Perry's production of Chenley Duffus covering William Bell's \"I Forgot to Be Your Lover\" (he later gifted the rhythm to Winston \"Niney\" Holness, who passed it on to producer A Folder who enjoyed massive success with cuts of it by Delroy Wilson, Augustus Pablo, Tommy McCook and Jah Lloyd in 1975 and 1976), \"Connection\" versions the \"Space Flight\" rhythm, and \"Kuchy Skank\" is an Augustus Pablo version to \"Words of My Mouth\" by Sangie Davis and the Gatherers. \"Operation\" is an early example of the then-experimental technique of cutting together parts of different backing tracks to create a single track - it opens with a different dub of \"Give Me Power\", which then segues into a dub of The Ethiopians \"Love and Respect\", then a dub of Junior Byles \"Fever\", ending with the bass melodica cut to \"Give Me Power\", released in its own right on 45 as \"Tipper Special\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327550", "title": "Fluorescein isothiocyanate", "text": "Fluorescein isothiocyanate\n\nFluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) is a derivative of fluorescein used in wide-ranging applications including flow cytometry. First described in 1942, FITC is the original fluorescein molecule functionalized with an isothiocyanate reactive group (-N=C=S), replacing a hydrogen atom on the bottom ring of the structure. It is typically available as a mixture of isomers, fluorescein 5-isothiocyanate (5-FITC) and fluorescein 6-isothiocyanate (6-FITC). FITC is reactive towards nucleophiles including amine and sulfhydryl groups on proteins. It was synthesized by Robert Seiwald and Joseph Burckhalter in 1958. \n\nA succinimidyl-ester functional group attached to the fluorescein core, creating \"NHS-fluorescein\", forms another common amine reactive derivative that has much greater specificity toward primary amines in the presence of other nucleophiles.\n\nFITC has excitation and emission spectrum peak wavelengths of approximately 495 nm/519 nm, giving it a green color. Like most fluorochromes, it is prone to photobleaching. Because of the problem with photobleaching, derivatives of fluorescein such as Alexa 488 and DyLight 488 have been tailored for various chemical and biological applications where greater photostability, higher fluorescence intensity, or different attachment groups are needed.\n"}
{"id": "2327557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327557", "title": "Michael R. Levy", "text": "Michael R. Levy\n\nMichael R. \"Mike\" Levy (born May 17, 1946) is the founder of \"Texas Monthly\" magazine, and was publisher until retirement in August 2008.\n\nA native of Dallas, Levy's father was a plumber. Levy once drove a taxi, and also worked as a jailer at the Dallas County Jail. He is a graduate of St. Mark's School of Texas, the University of Pennsylvania, and the University of Texas School of Law. \n\nLevy founded Texas Monthly in 1973, when he was 27 years old. Currently read by over two million people each month, the magazine provides commentary on all things Texan.\n\nLevy has served on multiple boards, including the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Children's Defense Fund of Texas, St. Mark's School of Texas, and St. Stephen's Episcopal School, Austin, Texas. He has won awards from such institutions as the Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Esquire Magazine, Planned Parenthood, and St. Mark's.\n"}
{"id": "2327558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327558", "title": "The Upsetter", "text": "The Upsetter\n\nThe Upsetter is a studio album of Lee \"Scratch\" Perry productions, released in 1969. The album largely comprises instrumentals from Perry's studio band The Upsetters, but also features vocal tracks by Busty Brown and The Muskyteers (aka the Silvertones). The album was reissued in expanded form on compact disc in 2003.\n\nAll tracks composed by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry; except where indicated\n\n"}
{"id": "2327561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327561", "title": "Religions of the ancient Near East", "text": "Religions of the ancient Near East\n\nThe religions of the ancient Near East were mostly polytheistic, with some examples of monolatry (for example, Yahwism and Atenism). Some scholars believe that the similarities between these religions indicate that the religions are related, a belief known as patternism.\n\nMany religions of the ancient near East and their offshoots can be traced to Proto-Semitic religion. Other religions in the ancient Near East include Ancient Egyptian religion, the Luwian and Hittite religions of Asia Minor and the Sumerian religion of ancient Mesopotamia. Offshoots of Proto-Semitic religion include Assyro-Babylonian religion, Canaanite religion, and Arabian religion. Judaism is a development of Canaanite religion, both Indo-European and Semitic religions influenced the ancient Greek religion, and Zoroastrianism was a product of ancient Indo-Iranian religion primarily the Ancient Iranian religion. In turn these religious traditions strongly influenced the later monotheistic religions of Christianity, Mandeanism, Sabianism, Gnosticism, Islam, and Manicheanism, which inherited their monotheism from Judaism and Zoroastrianism.\n\nThe history of the ancient Near East spans more than two millennia, from the Bronze Age to the Early Iron Age, in the region now known as the Middle East, centered on the Fertile Crescent. There was much cultural contact, so that it is justified to summarize the whole region under a single term, but that does not mean, of course, that each historical period and each region should not be looked at individually for a detailed description. This article will attempt to outline the common traits of ancient Near Eastern religions, and refer to sub-articles for in-depth descriptions.\nThe ancient Near East includes the following subregions:\n\nThe earliest sources, from c. 2500 BC, allow glimpses of Sumerian religion and ancient Egyptian religion.\n\nEarly Hittite religion bore traits descended from Proto-Indo-European religion, but the later Hittite religions became more and more assimilated to Mesopotamian religion. Also the Persian Zoroastrianism shared origin with Indian Vedism and the Ancient Iranian religion. The Vedic religion is now generally accepted to be a predecessor of Hinduism, but they are not the same.\n\nAncient Greek religion and the following the Etruscan religion and the Religion in ancient Rome was strongly influenced by ancient Near Eastern religion, but is usually not included in the term. The Greco-Roman mysteries of the Hellenistic period were again consciously connected with ancient Egyptian religion.\n\nThe origins of the Roman Mithraism, however, are not resolved. There are theories of an origin in the Indian Vedic religion, the and the Greeco-Roman Religion like Orion.\n\nThere are broad practices that these religions often hold in common:\n\nTypically, ancient Near Eastern religions were centered on theocracies, with a dominating regional cult of the god of a city-state. There were also super-regional mythemes and deities, such as the God Tammuz and the descent to the underworld.\n\nDivinations:\n\nIdentification of the gods and goddesses with heavenly bodies—planets, stars, the sun and the moon—and to assigning the seats of all the deities in the Heavens is found in Assyro-Babylonian religion.\n\nThe personification of the two great luminaries—the sun and the moon—was the first step in the unfolding of this system, and this was followed by placing the other deities where Shamash and Sin had their seats. This process, which reached its culmination in the post-Hammurabic period, led to identifying the planet Venus with Ishtar, Jupiter with Marduk, Mars with Nergal, Mercury with Nabu, and Saturn with Ninurta.\n\nThe system represents a harmonious combination of two factors, one of popular origin, the other the outcome of speculation in the schools attached to the temples of Babylonia. The popular factor is the belief in the influence exerted by the movements of the heavenly bodies on occurrences on earth—a belief naturally suggested by the dependence of life, vegetation and guidance upon the two great luminaries. Starting with this belief the Priests and Priestesses built up the theory of the close correspondence between occurrences on earth and phenomena in the Heavens. The Heavens presenting a constant change even to the superficial observer, the conclusion was drawn of a connection between the changes and the ever-changing movement in the fate of individuals and of nature as well as in the appearance of nature.\n\nTo read the signs of the heavens was therefore to understand the meaning of occurrences on Earth, and with this accomplished, it was also possible to foretell what events were portended by the position and relationship to one another of the sun, the moon, the planets and certain stars. Myths that symbolized changes in season or occurrences in nature were projected on the heavens, which were mapped out to correspond to the divisions of the earth.\n\nAll the gods, demons and spirits had their places assigned to them in the heavens, and facts, including such as fell within the domain of political history, were interpreted in terms of astral theology. So completely did this system in the course of time sway men's minds that the cults and sects, from being an expression of animistic beliefs, took on the color derived from the \"astral\" interpretation of occurrences and doctrines. It left its trace in incantations, omens and hymns and gave birth to astronomy, which was assiduously cultivated because a knowledge of the heavens was the very foundation of the system of belief unfolded by the priests of Babylonia and Assyria.\n\nAs an illustration of the manner in which the doctrines of the religion were made to conform to the all-pervading astral theory, it will be sufficient to refer to the modification undergone in this process of the view developed in a very early period which apportioned the control of the universe among the three gods Anu, Enlil and Ea. Disassociating these Gods from all local connections, Anu became the power presiding over the Heavens, to Enlil was assigned the earth and the atmosphere immediately above it, while Ea ruled over the deep. With the transfer of all the Gods to the heavens, and under the influence of the doctrine of the correspondence between the heavens and the earth, Anu, Enlil and Ea became the three \"ways\" (as they are called) on the heavens.\n\nThe \"ways\" appear in this instance to have been the designation of the ecliptic circle, which was divided into three sections or zones—a northern, a middle and a southern zone, Anu being assigned to the first, Enlil to the second, and Ea to the third zone. The astral theology of the Babylonian-Assyrian religion, while thus bearing the ear-marks of a system devised by the priests, succeeded in assimilating the beliefs which represented the earlier attempts to systematize the more popular aspects of the religion, and in this way a unification of diverse elements was secured that led to interpreting the contents and the form of the religion in terms of the astral-theological system.\n\nOn the ethical sides, the religion of Babylonia more particularly, and to a less extent that of Assyria, advances to noticeable conceptions of the qualities associated with the Gods and Goddesses and of the duties imposed on man. Shamash, the Sun-God, was invested with justice as his chief trait, Marduk is portrayed as full of mercy and kindness, and Ea is in general the protector of mankind, a father who takes them under his protection. The Gods, to be sure, are easily aroused to anger, and in some of them the dire aspects predominated, but the view becomes more and more pronounced that there is some cause always for the divine wrath. Though, in accounting for the anger of the Gods, no sharp distinction is made between moral offences and a ritualistic oversight or neglect, yet the stress laid in the hymns and prayers, as well as in the elaborate atonement ritual prescribed in order to appease the anger of the Gods, on the need of being clean and pure in the sight of the higher powers, the inculcation of a proper aspect of humility, and above all the need of confessing one's guilt and sins without any reserve—all this bears testimony to the strength which the ethical factor acquired in the domain of the Religion.\n\nThis factor appears to less advantage in the unfolding of the views concerning life after death. Throughout all periods of Babylonian-Assyrian history, the conception prevailed of a large dark cavern below the earth, not far from the Apsu—the fresh water abyss encircling and flowing underneath the earth—in which all the dead were gathered and where they led a miserable existence of inactivity, amid gloom and dust. Occasionally a favoured individual was permitted to escape from this general fate and placed in a pleasant island. It would appear also that the rulers were always singled out for divine grace, and in the earlier periods of the history, owing to the prevailing view that the rulers stood nearer to the Gods than other mortals, the kings were deified after death, and in some instances divine honours were paid to them even during their lifetime.\n\nAncient Near Eastern religion knew an elaborate system of benevolent, neutral and malevolent demons (which more resembled Greek daemons than the Christian concept of evil demons), and much of medicine consisted of exorcisms, e.g. of Lamashtu, the hermaphroditic demoness responsible for complications at childbirth and infant deaths.\n\nIn Assyrian and Babylonian mythology the seven evil demons were known as \"Shedu\" or \"Lamassu\", meaning \"storm-demon\". They were represented in winged bull form, derived from the colossal bulls used as protective genii of royal palaces, the name \"Shed\" assumed also the meaning of a propitious genius in Babylonian magical literature.\n\nAncient Iranian lands had a diversity of spiritual beliefs, and the religions included Zoroastrianism, Mazdakism, Manichaeism, Yazdanism, Mandeanism, and others. Ancient Mitanni was centred in modern-day Kurdistan, and from excavations it was discovered to have a history of Zoroastrian practices.\n\nThe dominant religious rituals and beliefs of ancient Egypt merged and developed over time.\nAs an example, during the New Kingdom, the gods Ra and Amun were syncretized into a single god, Amun-Ra.\nSuch syncretism should be distinguished from mere groupings, also referred to as \"families\" such as Amun, Mut, and Khonsu. Over time, gods took part in multiple syncretic relationships, for instance, the combination of Ra and Horus into Ra-Herakty.\nSimilarly, Ptah, Seker, and Osiris became \"Ptah-Seker-Osiris\".\n\nThe deities worshipped in Canaanite religion during the Late Bronze Age notably included\nEl Elyon and his sons, the Elohim, the goddess Anat and Hadad, the storm god and heroic slayer of Yam. \nThe composition of the Hebrew Bible began centuries after the Bronze Age collapse, but many of these names are still reflected in Biblical Hebrew, including Elohim and the title Ba'al, originally a title of Hadad, as the rival or nemesis of Yahweh.\n\nHeavily influenced by Mesopotamian mythology, the religion of the Hittites and Luwians retains noticeable Indo-European elements, for example Tarhunt the God of thunder, and his conflict with the Serpent-God Illuyanka.\n\nTarhunt has a son, Telepinu and a daughter, Inara. Inara is involved with the Puruli spring festival. She is a protective Goddess (LAMMA). Ishara is a Goddess of the oath.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327564", "title": "Robert Fitzwalter", "text": "Robert Fitzwalter\n\nRobert Fitzwalter (died 9 December 1235) was the leader of the baronial opposition against King John, and one of the twenty-five sureties of \"Magna Carta\". He was feudal baron of Little Dunmow, Essex and constable of Baynard's Castle, in London, to which was annexed the hereditary office of castellain and chief banneret of the City of London. Part of the official aristocracy created by Henry I and Henry II, he served John in the wars in Normandy, in which he was taken prisoner by King Philip II of France and forced to pay a heavy ransom.\n\nFitzwalter was implicated in the baronial conspiracy of 1212. According to his own statement the king had attempted to seduce his eldest daughter, but Robert's account of his grievances varied from time to time. The truth seems to be that he was irritated by the suspicion with which John regarded the new baronage. Fitzwalter escaped a trial by fleeing to France. He was outlawed, but returned under a special amnesty after John's reconciliation with the pope.\n\nFitzwalter continued, however, to take the lead in the baronial agitation against the king, and upon the outbreak of hostilities in 1215 was elected \"Marshal of the Army of God and Holy Church\". It was due to his influence in London that his party obtained the support of the city and used it as their base of operations. The clause in \"Magna Carta\" prohibiting sentences of exile, except as the result of a lawful trial, refers more particularly to his case. He was one of the twenty-five barons appointed to enforce the promises of \"Magna Carta\", and his aggressive attitude was one of the causes which contributed to the revival of civil war later in 1215.\n\nHe was one of the envoys who invited Prince Louis to England, and was the first of the barons to do homage when Louis entered London. Slighted by the French as a traitor to his natural lord, he served Louis with fidelity until he was captured at the battle of Lincoln in May 1217. Released on the conclusion of peace, he joined the Fifth Crusade, but returned at an early date to make his peace with the regency. The remainder of his life was uneventful, and he died peacefully in 1235. He was the father of three children: Matilda, Robert, and Christina (who married William FitzGeoffrey de Mandeville, 3rd Earl of Essex). He is remembered as a champion of English liberty, and has also become associated with various legends, including that of Robin Hood.\n\nRobert Fitzwalter was the son of Walter Fitz Robert of Woodham Walter and his wife Maud (or Mathilde), the daughter of Richard de Lucy of Diss (a member of the de Lucy family). Robert was a feudal baron of the fourth generation after the Norman conquest, great-grandson of Richard fitz Gilbert (d. c. 1090). His paternal grandfather was Richard fitz Gilbert's son Robert Fitz Richard, steward of Henry I, to whom the king had granted the lordship of Dunmow and of the honour or soke of Baynard's Castle in the southwest angle of the City of London, to which the hereditary office of castellain and chief banneret of the City of London was annexed, both of which had become forfeited to the crown by William Baynard. While steward Robert may have been descended from the powerful Norman counts of Brionne, among the higher ranks of the nobility of the Norman Conquest, the house of Fitzwalter belongs properly to the administrative families, who in the latter part of the twelfth century had stepped into the place of the old feudal houses. The house of Fitzwalter's possession of the soke of Baynard's Castle, which grew into an ordinary ward, brought it into intimate relations with the Londoners. Robert Fitzwalter was himself engaged in trade, and owned wine ships which received special privileges from King John.\n\nNothing of Fitzwalter's birth and early life is recorded. A possible early record of him is a mention of a knight named \"Robert Fitzwalter\" at a tournament in Henry the Young King's retinue in 1180 at Lagny-sur-Marne. Fitzwalter was married to Gunnor or Gunnora, daughter and heiress of Robert de Valognes, some time before his father died in 1198. His eldest son, named Robert Fitzwalter, junior, was taken prisoner along with him at Lincoln, but died before him. At his death, his heir, Walter, was under age, so that the son who fought with him at Lincoln must have been dead. This Sir Walter Fitzwalter (also known as Fitz Robert) of Dunmow Castle (c. 1222–1258), married to Ida Longespée, must have been either a younger son or a grandson. After the death of Gunnor (she was alive in 1207) it is said that Fitzwalter married a second wife, Rohese, who survived him. He had also a daughter, Christina, who married William FitzGeoffrey de Mandeville, 3rd Earl of Essex.\n\nWhen Baron Walter died in 1198, Fitzwalter succeeded to his estates, being already more than of full age and married to his first wife, Gunnor. His marriage to Gunnor had brought him 30½ knight's fees, and he inherited more than 66 from his father. He also acquired two knight's fees through Gunnor's uncle Geoffry of Valognes, and about 1204 obtained livery of seisin of the lands of his own uncle, Godfrey de Luci, bishop of Winchester. Francisque Xavier Michel said that Fitzwalter came to be \"one of the greatest men in England, and one of the most powerful\". His lands were mainly situated in the north, so that his interests now became close to those of a faction called the \"Aquilonares\", whom he would later lead in the struggle against King John.\n\nIn the years following 1200, Fitzwalter is recorded as a participant in several lawsuits. In 1200 Fitzwalter was surety for half the fine incurred by his brother, Simon Fitzwalter, for marrying without royal licence. In 1201 he made an agreement in the curia regis with St Albans Abbey with respect to the wood of Northaw. Another suit sprang from his claim to the custody of the Hertford Castle as of ancient right. He withdrew this suit for a time, and in August 1202 King John made Fitzwalter warden of Hertford Castle by royal letters patent, releasing him from his family's debts to Jewish moneylenders as well.\n\nEarly in 1203 Fitzwalter was in attendance on the king in Normandy, in February and March at Rouen. Fitzwalter was made joint-governor of the castle of Le Vaudreuil (near the mouth of the Eure) with Saer de Quincy, later Earl of Winchester. After Easter King Philip II Augustus of France took the field, and despite being well fortified and supplied, the governors of Vaudreuil surrendered at the first summons. Philip shut them up in close confinement at Compiègne, where they remained until redeemed by a heavy ransom of five thousand marks. On 5 July John issued letters patent from Rouen to certify that they had surrendered the castle by his precept, witnessed by William Marshal, but in late November Fitzwalter's cousin William d'Aubigny was still engaged in selling some of Fitzwalter's lands to raise the ransom. The surrender of Vaudreuil has been ascribed to the cowardice of Fitzwalter and de Quincy, which contemporary sources mocked greatly. However, the actual reason for their actions, and those of the two kings, was mysterious at the time, and remains unknown. In October 1206 Fitzwalter witnessed the truce made between John and Philip Augustus at Thouars.\n\nThe misgovernment of John provoked Fitzwalter's profound resentment, and in 1212 he entered into intrigues with Eustace de Vesci and the Welsh prince Llewelyn ab Iorwerth against the king. According to his own statement the king had attempted to seduce his eldest daughter Matilda, but his account of his grievances varied from time to time. Several other barons later made similar accusations, and these stories were well recorded by monastic chroniclers, so later the story of Matilda developed into a complex legend. Financial factors, \"unjust exaction which reduced [the barons of England] to extreme poverty\", as the monk Roger of Wendover put it, were more likely the primary reason for the dissatisfaction of barons such as Fitzwalter.\n\nIn 1212, John's quarrel with Pope Innocent III and Philip Augustus reached a breaking point, and Innocent absolved the barons of England from their allegiance to John. John was preparing to march at Nottingham against his rebellious son-in-law Llewelyn ab Iorwerth. His suspicions that his barons were plotting to capture him were aroused by private intelligence, and he turned back to London with his foreign mercenaries, disbanding his regular forces. He demanded that each baron send a relative to him as a hostage. Most of the barons did so, but Fitzwalter and de Vesci decided to flee, to France and Scotland respectively. They were condemned to perpetual exile. But John was so much alarmed that he shut himself up from his subjects, and abandoned his projected Welsh campaign. John now seized upon Fitzwalter's estates, and on 14 January 1213 destroyed Baynard's Castle. He also demolished Robert's castle of Benington and his woods in Essex. Fitzwalter remained in exile until John's submission to the pope. Fitzwalter's sister, Alice Peche, was required to provide hostages to prove her loyalty. One hostage was her and Gilbert Peche's daughter, Alice.\n\nOn 13 May 1213 John promised peace and security to him as part of the conditions of his reconciliation with Rome, and on 27 May issued letters patent informing him that he might safely come to England. On 19 July his estates were restored. John also granted a hundred marks to his steward as compensation, and directed a general inquest into his losses like those made in the case of the clerks who had suffered by the interdict.\n\nFitzwalter, however, remained a vigorous opponent of John's later measures. Matthew Paris said that John specially hated him, Archbishop Stephen Langton, and Saer de Quincy. In August 1213, he was at St Paul's Cathedral in London when Archbishop Langton read a charter signed by Henry I and announced that services could be conducted ahead of the lifting of the interdict on England. On 4 November 1214 Fitzwalter met in secrecy with the Archbishop and the other barons at Bury St Edmunds. The assembled barons resolved to withdraw their fealty from King John and swore at the altar of the abbey church that they would wage war on John if he did not accept their demands of a charter by Christmas. The barons and the King both began to arm themselves, and John secured the support of the Pope and took up the cross as a crusader. By January, John still refused to accede to the barons' demands and when Fitzwalter and several other barons visited him in armour at the headquarters of the Knights Templar in England in London (the modern Inns of Court) he asked for a truce until Easter.\n\nIn 1215 Fitzwalter was the first mentioned in the list of barons who assembled on Easter week (19–26 April) at Stamford. He accompanied the revolted lords on the march to Brackley in Northamptonshire on 27 April. But John now formally refused to accept the long list of demands which they forwarded to him at Oxford. Thereupon the barons elected Fitzwalter their general, with the title of \"Marshal of the Army of God and Holy Church\". They solemnly renounced their homage to John and proceeded to besiege Northampton. They failed there and at Bedford, where Fitzwalter's standard-bearer was slain. But the adhesion of London secured their success. It was due to Fitzwalter's influence in London that his party obtained the support of the city and used it as their base of operations. On 17 May Fitzwalter entered the city at the head of the \"army of God\", though the partisans of John still held out in the Tower. Fitzwalter and the Earl of Essex specially busied themselves with repairing the walls of London, using for the purpose the stones taken from the demolished houses of the Jews.\n\nIn June, John met the barons at Runnymede, where the two sides agreed to the Great Charter, and the barons renewed their vows of fealty. In its final draft \"Magna Carta\" contained a clause prohibiting sentences of exile, except as the result of a lawful trial, which refers more particularly to Fitzwalter's case. Fitzwalter was one of the twenty-five executors appointed to see that its provisions were really carried out. For a short time nominal peace prevailed, and Fitzwalter now got back the custody of Hertford Castle. But the barons remained under arms, and Fitzwalter was still acting as \"Marshal of the Army of God and Holy Church\". He now made a convention with John, by which London remained in the barons' hands till 15 August. But Fitzwalter was so fearful of treachery that within a fortnight of the Runnymede meeting he thought it wise to postpone a tournament fixed to be held at Stamford on the Monday after the feast of Saints Peter and Paul (29 June) for another week, and chose as the place of its meeting Hounslow Heath, that the barons might be near enough to protect London.\n\nOn 26 August, John and the barons tried to arrange at a meeting at Staines. When this failed, the First Barons' War broke out. The twenty-five executors assigned to themselves various counties to secure them for their side. Fitzwalter, who with Eustace de Vesci was still the leading spirit of the movement, became responsible for Northamptonshire. On 17 September John granted Fitzwalter's Cornish estates to his young son Prince Henry. But the pope's annulling the charter had paralysed the clerical supporters of the popular side, and the thoroughgoing policy of the twenty-five under Fitzwalter's guidance had alienated of the more moderate men.\n\nFearing Archbhishop Langton might be forced to surrender his castle of Rochester, Fitzwalter, with the assent of the warden of the castle, Reginald de Cornhill, secretly occupied it with a large force. John's troops soon approached, and strove, by burning Rochester bridge and occupying the left bank of the way, to cut off Fitzwalter from his London confederates. But Fitzwalter succeeded keeping his position, though before long he was forced on 11 October to retreat to London, allow the royalists to occupy the town besiege the castle. John now tried to deceive him by forged letters. Fitzwalter, conscious of the weakness of his position, sought to negotiate.\n\nOn 9 November, Fitzwalter received with the Earl of Hertford and the citizens of London safe conduct for a conference, but nothing came of it. In vain the beleaguered garrison of Rochester bitterly reproached him for deserting them. On 10 November they were forced to surrender. On 16 December the barons, including Fitzwalter, were excommunicated by name. French help was now their only refuge.\nFitzwalter went over to France with the Earl of Winchester and offered the throne to Louis, the son of King Philip, putting into his hands twenty-four hostages and assuring him of the support of their party. Fitzwalter was back in England early in 1216. Louis landed in May, and as John made great progress in the east, Fitzwalter busied himself in compelling Essex and Suffolk, his own counties, to accept the foreign king. The tide of fortune now turned, but after John's death on 19 October Fitzwalter's difficulties increased. Gradually the English went over to the side of the new king Henry III. Those who remained in arms were not respected by the French, because of their betrayal of John.\n\nOn 6 December Louis captured Hertford Castle from the followers of the new king Henry. Fitzwalter naturally asked for the custody of a stronghold that had already been so long under his care. The French urged that a traitor to his own lord was not to be trusted, and Louis told him he must wait until the end of the war. Fitzwalter was too deeply pledged to Louis to join the deserters. He was sent from London on 30 April 1217 at the head of a strong French force to raise the siege of Mountsorrel in Leicestershire, now closely pressed by the Earl of Chester. On his way he rested at St Albans, where his hungry troops ate up all the supplies of the abbey, according to abbey chronicler Matthew Paris. He raised the siege of Mountsorrel and advanced to Lincoln. He was met by the regent, William Marshall, whose forces were now joined by the Earl of Chester with the army that had besieged Mountsorrel. Fitzwalter was anxious for an immediate battle.\n\nOn 20 May Fitzwalter fought in the Second Battle of Lincoln, in which the baronial forces were thoroughly defeated. Fitzwalter himself was taken prisoner along with his son and most of the leaders of his party. The Londoners still held out until Hubert de Burgh's great naval victory on 24 August. On 11 September the Treaty of Lambeth ended the struggle. But the reissue of the charter as the result of the treaty showed that Fitzwalter's cause had triumphed in spite of his personal failure. On 8 October 1217 Fitzwalter's release from prison was ordered, and on 24 January 1218 the king granted him his scutage. In July he received the custody of his nephew, Walter Fitzsimon Fitzwalter, whose father had died.\n\nLater in the year 1218 Fitzwalter witnessed the undertaking that the Great Seal of England was to be affixed to no letters patent or charters until the king came of age. But the Fifth Crusade must have offered a convenient opportunity to him and others. In 1219 he sailed for the Holy Land along with Earl Saer of Winchester and Earl William d'Aubigny of Arundel. He departed from Genoa in August, shortly after the main force of the crusade left Brindisi, and arrived in Acre some time in September. Before he arrived the crusading host had been diverted to the siege of Damietta. There he seems to have arrived along with Saer de Quincy and other English crusaders, at the same time as the cardinal legate Pelagius in the autumn of 1219. Saer de Quincy died on 3 November. This date makes impossible the statement of Walter of Coventry that they only arrived after Damietta had been captured. The town fell into the crusaders' hands on 6 November. Fitzwalter, therefore, though he is not mentioned, must have taken part in the latter part of the siege.\n\nThe crusaders remained in Egypt until August 1221. But Fitzwalter had gone home sick, probably at some earlier period. He spent the rest of his life peaceably in England, thoroughly reconciled to the government of Henry III. He must have by this time become well advanced in years. On 11 February 1225 Fitzwalter was one of the witnesses of Henry III's third confirmation of the great charter. In June 1230 he was one of those assigned to hold the assize of arms in Essex and Hertfordshire. According to Matthew Paris, he died on 9 December 1235, and was buried before the high altar at Priory Church in Little Dunmow. Administration of his goods and chattels was granted to his executors on 16 December 1235. He was described by Paris as a \"noble baron, illustrious by his birth, and renowned for his martial deeds\".\n\nA large legendary and romantic history gradually gathered round the memory of Fitzwalter, as the first champion of English liberty. A picturesque tale, first found in the manuscript chronicle of Dunmow, tells how Fitzwalter had a very beautiful daughter named Matilda, who indignantly rejected the immoral advances of King John. At last, as the maiden proved obdurate, John caused her to be poisoned, so that the bitterest sense of personal wrong drove Fitzwalter to take up the part of a constitutional leader. So generally was the story believed that an alabaster figure on a grey altar-tomb in Priory Church, Little Dunmow is still sometimes pointed out as the effigy of the unfortunate Matilda.\n\nSeveral poems and plays have been based upon this picturesque romance. In them, Matilda is curiously mixed up with Maid Marian, the mistress of Robin Hood. Such are the 1601 plays by Henry Chettle and Anthony Munday called \"The Downfall of Robert, Earl of Huntingdon, afterwards called Robin Hood, with his Love to Chaste Matilda, the Lord Fitzwater's daughter, afterwards his faire Maid Marian\", and \"The Death of Robin Hood with the lamentable Tragedy of Chaste Matilda, his faire Maid Marian, poisoned at Dunmowe by King John\". Michael Drayton also published in 1594 a poetical account, called \"Matilda, the faire and chaste Daughter of the Lord Robert Fitzwalter\", as well as two letters in verse, purporting to be written between her and King John. Before 1639 Robert Davenport wrote another play, \"The Tragedy of King John and Matilda\". It was also believed in the seventeenth century that Robert Fitzwalter, \"or one of his successors\", was the founder of the flitch of bacon custom in Little and Great Dunmow. Fitzwalter and King John are the two central characters in the comic monologue \"Magna Charter\" by Marriott Edgar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327567", "title": "Hi Honey, I'm Home!", "text": "Hi Honey, I'm Home!\n\nHi Honey, I'm Home! is an American television sitcom that ran from July 19, 1991, to July 12, 1992 for 13 episodes. Each week, a new episode of the series aired on ABC as part of its Friday night \"TGIF\" lineup. The same episode would re-air Sunday night on Nickelodeon as part of the channel's Nick at Nite lineup. ABC stopped airing the series after the sixth episode of the first season. The show's second and final season only aired on Nick at Nite before being canceled in July 1992. The series was taped before a live audience in Nickelodeon Studios at Universal Studios Florida.\n\n\nThe original unaired pilot featured two actors who were later recast. Actress Dee Hoty was originally cast as Elaine Duff, but was replaced by Susan Cella. Future Backstreet Boy A. J. McLean was originally cast as Sidney \"Skunk\" Duff and was replaced by Eric Kushnick. The pilot was then re-shot with the different actors and aired.\n\nThe original pilot eventually aired during Nickelodeon's \"Nick Knew Them When\" anniversary marathon on June 27, 1999, highlighting A.J. McLean's involvement in the program.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The original, unaired pilot aired on Nickelodeon on June 27, 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327568", "title": "Deesis", "text": "Deesis\n\nIn Byzantine art, and later Eastern Orthodox art generally, the Deësis or Deisis (, \"prayer\" or \"supplication\"), is a traditional iconic representation of Christ in Majesty or Christ Pantocrator: enthroned, carrying a book, and flanked by the Virgin Mary and St. John the Baptist, and sometimes other saints and angels. Mary and John, and any other figures, are shown facing towards Christ with their hands raised in supplication on behalf of humanity. \n\nIn early examples, it was often placed on the templon beam in Orthodox churches or above doors, though it also appears on icons and devotional ivories.\n\nAfter the development of the full iconostasis screen there was room for a larger \"Deesis row\" or \"Great Deesis\" of full-length figures, and the number of figures expanded, in both Byzantium and Russia. Usually this row is above the level of the doors, and usually below, sometimes above, the row depicting the Twelve Great Feasts. The central Christ is therefore above the main door in the screen. Soon seven figures, usually one to a panel, were standard, in order of proximity to Christ in the centre: on the left (Christ's right) Mary, the Archangel Michael and Saint Peter, and on the right John the Baptist, the Archangel Gabriel and Saint Paul. Especially in Russian examples, a number of saints of local significance are often included behind these, as space allows. Andrey Rublev's row for the Cathedral of the Dormition in Vladimir were 3.14 metres (over ten feet) high. In the Greek tradition the Apostles are more likely to occupy extra panels.\n\nThe presence of Mary and John, and other figures, is one of the differences with the Western \"Christ in Majesty\", where the Four Evangelists and/or their symbols are more commonly included around Christ. The Deesis composition is also commonly found in the West, especially those parts of Italy under Byzantine influence, but also the rest of Europe. It often forms part of a scene of the Last Judgement. The use of the image declined slowly throughout the Middle Ages, and it is never as common as the Western forms of Christ in Majesty.\n\nIn depictions of the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ on the cross is also very often flanked by the Virgin standing on one side, but Saint John the Evangelist on the other, not John the Baptist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327571", "title": "Kinesis (keyboard)", "text": "Kinesis (keyboard)\n\nThe Kinesis line of ergonomic computer keyboards is an alternative to the traditional keyboard design. Most widely known among these are the contoured Advantage line, which feature recessed keys in two bucket-like hollows which allow the fingers to reach keys with less effort as well as a central array of modifiers such as enter, alt, backspace, control, etc. where they can be pressed with the thumbs. All Kinesis keyboards (except the Essential) support the capability to re-map individual keys. Recent models also come with the ability to switch between the Dvorak layout with the press of a special key combination, though keycaps printed with dual-legend QWERTY/Dvorak letters are included only on specific models. Moreover, the keys are laid out in perfect vertical rows to avoid the need for lateral movements during typing.\n\nThe top row of keys, including the escape key and function keys, are small soft-touch keys with membrane dome switches. The remaining keys are standard size and each has its own Cherry MX brown key switch, providing a tactile feel, but no click. A piezo buzzer provides optional key click.\n\nThe Kinesis line of keyboards are marketed to those who type throughout the work-day, and thus perceive a higher risk for such injuries as RSI. The Kinesis was first used among computer programmers, who continue to be the primary market for the devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327572", "title": "Los Alerces National Park", "text": "Los Alerces National Park\n\nLos Alerces National Park () is located in the Andes in Chubut Province in the Patagonian region of Argentina. Its western boundary coincides with the Chilean border. Successive glaciations have molded the landscape in the region creating spectacular features such as moraines, glacial cirques and clear-water lakes. The vegetation is dominated by dense temperate forests, which give way to alpine meadows higher up under the rocky Andean peaks. A highly distinctive and emblematic feature is its alerce forest; the globally threatened alerce tree is the second longest living tree species in the world (>3,600 years). The alerce forests in the park are in an excellent state of conservation. The property is vital for the protection of some of the last portions of continuous Patagonian Forest in an almost pristine state and is the habitat for a number of endemic and threatened species of flora and fauna.\n\nDesignated a World Heritage Site in 2017, the park was created in 1937 to protect forests of alerce trees, called \"lahuán\" by the Mapuche people, and other examples of the flora of the Patagonian Andes. The National Park has the largest alerce forest in Argentina. Alerce is often compared in appearance to the Sequoia trees of the United States, reaching a very large size. It is one of the longest-living trees in the world; some in Chile are 3,600 years old. The alerce grows very slowly and belongs to the family Cupressaceae (cypresses). The alerce is restricted to a small range in Chile and Argentina and the species is endangered due to exploitation of the tree for lumber. \n\nThe best-known alerce forest in the park, reachable by boat and often visited by tourists, is at a boat dock called Puerto Sagrario at the northern end of Lake Menéndez. The largest known alerce tree in Argentina is located there. It is tall, in diameter, and 2,600 years old. Regular tours visit the forest. Taller and larger alerce trees are believed to exist on the southwestern arm of Lake Menéndez, but access to that area is restricted.\n\nThe virgin alerce forests in the park cover an area of on the two arms of Lake Menéndez and the upper part of Amutui Quimey Reservoir, and along the streams feeding into those lakes.\n\nLos Alerces National Park consists of two parts: the formally declared national park of and the adjoining Los Alerces National Reserve of . Almost all the development in the park is in the national reserve. A buffer area wide surrounds the three sides of the park which do not border on Chile. \n\nLos Alerces National Park is shaped like a rough rectangle, extending approximately north to south along the border with Chile and east to west. All of Los Alerces National Park is in the drainage basin of the Futaleufú River, although the river is called by several different names during its course in Argentina. A chain of lakes separated by short courses of turbulent river characterize the park. Lake Rivadavia is the beginning of the chain. The outflow from Lake Rivadavia is called the Rivadavia River which flows into the much smaller Green Lake. The outlet from Green Lake is called the Arrayanes River, which after receiving the outflow from Lake Menéndez continues on to Futalaufquen Lake. Below Futalaufquen Lake is Kruger Lake and the Frey River which flows into Amutui Quimey Reservoir, an artificial lake. The river known as the Futaleufú emerges below Amutui Quimey reservoir and becomes the southern boundary of the National Park. Scattered around the mountains and valleys of the park are a number of smaller lakes and streams.\n\nThe highest point in the Los Alerces National Park is Cordon de las Pirámides, in elevation. The lowest point in the park is about where the Futaleufú river crosses into Chile.\n\nThe lower elevations in Los Alerces National Park are classified as Oceanic climates, denominated Cfb, or humid continental climates, Dfb, in the Köppen climate classification system. Moisture-laden clouds from the Pacific Ocean strike the Andes on the Chilean-Argentine border and produce up to of precipitation annually, mostly in the form of rain at lower elevations and snow at higher elevations. Eastward from the crest of the Andes, in a rain shadow, precipitation decreases rapidly, falling to about at the eastern edge of the park. Temperatures in the park range from cold to moderate. Freezes can occur in any month of the year. At the park headquarters, the warmest month is January with average daily temperature of 24° celsius (75° fahrenheit) high and 8° celsius (46° fahrenheit) low at lower elevations of the park. The average temperatures in July, the coldest month, are 7° (45° fahrenheit) high and -1° (30° fahrenheit) low. Average temperatures decline with altitude. Timberline is about above which is bare rock, permanent or semi-permanent snowfields, and Torrecillas glacier between the two arms of Lake Menėnendez.\n\nIn the west of the park, there is high rainfall and Valdivian temperate rain forests below the higher elevations of the Andes. Much of the rest of the park is Patagonian forest similar to the Lanín and Nahuel Huapi National Parks, with coihues and lenga. Arrayán (\"Luma apiculata\") trees can be seen along the Arrayanes river.\n\nAlthough there is no true dry season, precipitation is heaviest in the southern hemisphere winter months of July through August.\n\nA hydroelectric dam, providing energy to industry in Puerto Madryn, has created the large Amutui Quimey Reservoir, which empties into the Futaleufú River which flows on to Chile.\n\nThere is good walking and fishing in the park, and boat trips on the lakes. The Torrecillas glacier can be seen from tour boats on Lake Menéndez.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327581", "title": "Media bias in the United States", "text": "Media bias in the United States\n\nMedia bias in the United States occurs when the US media systematically skews information, such as reporting news in a way that conflicts with standards of professional journalism or promoting a political agenda through entertainment media. Claims of media bias in the United States include claims of liberal bias and conservative bias. Such claims have increased as the US political parties have become more polarized. There are also claims of corporate bias, bias in reporting to favor the corporate owners of the media, and mainstream bias, a tendency for the media to focus on certain \"hot\" stories and ignore news of more substance. A variety of watchdog groups attempt to combat bias by fact-checking both biased reporting and unfounded claims of bias. Researchers in a variety of scholarly disciplines study media bias.\n\nBefore the rise of professional journalism in the early 1900s and the conception of media ethics, newspapers reflected the opinions of the publisher. Frequently, an area would be served by competing newspapers taking differing and often radical views by modern standards. In colonial Philadelphia, Benjamin Franklin was an early and forceful advocate for presenting all sides of an issue, writing, for instance, in his \"An Apology For Printers\" that \"...when truth and error have fair play, the former is always an overmatch for the latter.\"\n\nIn 1798, the Federalist Party in control of Congress passed the Alien and Sedition Acts designed to weaken the opposition press. It prohibited the publication of \"false, scandalous, or malicious writing\" against the government and made it a crime to voice any public opposition to any law or presidential act. This part of the law act was in effect until 1801.\n\nPresident Thomas Jefferson, 1801–1809, was the target of many venomous attacks. He advised editors to divide their newspapers into four sections labeled \"truth,\" \"probabilities,\" \"possibilities,\" and \"lies,\" and observed that the first section would be the smallest and the last the largest. In retirement he grumbled, \"Advertisements contain the only truths to be relied on in a newspaper.\"\n\nIn 1861, Federal officials identified newspapers that supported the Confederate cause and ordered many of them closed.\n\nIn the 19th century, the accessibility of cheap newspapers allowed the market to expand exponentially. Cities typically had multiple competing newspapers supporting various political factions in each party. To some extent this was mitigated by a separation between \"news\" and \"editorial\". News reporting was expected to be relatively neutral or at least factual, whereas editorial sections openly relayed the opinion of the publisher. Editorials often were accompanied by editorial cartoons, which lampooned the publisher's opponents.\n\nSmall ethnic newspapers serviced people of various ethnicities, such as Germans, Dutch, Scandinavians, Poles, and Italians. Large cities had numerous foreign-language newspapers, magazines and publishers. They typically were boosters who supported their group's positions on public issues. They disappeared as their readership, increasingly, became assimilated. In the 20th century, newspapers in various Asian languages, and also in Spanish and Arabic, appeared and are still published, read by newer immigrants.\n\nStarting in the 1890s, a few very high-profile metropolitan newspapers engaged in yellow journalism to increase sales. They emphasized sports, sex, scandal, and sensationalism. The leaders of this style of journalism in New York City were William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer. Hearst falsified or exaggerated sensational stories about atrocities in Cuba and the sinking of the USS Maine to boost circulation. Hearst falsely claimed that he had started the war, but in fact the nation's decision makers paid little attention to his shrill demands—President McKinley, for example, did not read the yellow journals.\n\nThe Progressive Era, from the 1890s to the 1920s, was reform oriented. From 1905 to 1915, the muckraker style exposed malefaction in city government and in industry. However, they tended \"to exaggerate, misinterpret, and oversimplify events,\" and were the target of complaints by President Theodore Roosevelt.\n\n\"The Dearborn Independent\", a weekly magazine owned by Henry Ford and distributed free through Ford dealerships, published conspiracy theories about international Jewry in the 1920s. A favorite trope of the anti-Semitism that raged in the 1930s was the allegation that Jews controlled Hollywood and the media. Charles Lindbergh in 1941 claimed American Jews, possessing outsized influence in Hollywood, the media, and the Roosevelt administration, were pushing the nation into war against its interests. Lindbergh received a storm of criticism; the Gallup poll reported that support for his foreign policy views fell to 15%. Hans Thomsen, the senior diplomat at the German Embassy in Washington, reported to Berlin that his efforts to place pro-isolationist articles in American newspapers had failed. \"Influential journalists of high repute will not lend themselves, even for money, to publishing such material.\" Thompson set up a publishing house to produce anti-British books, but almost all of them went unsold. In the years leading up to World War II, The pro-Nazi German-American Bund accused the media of being controlled by Jews. They claimed that reports of German mistreatment of Jews were biased and without foundation. They said that Hollywood was a hotbed of Jewish bias, and called for Charlie Chaplin's film \"The Great Dictator\" to be banned as an insult to a respected leader.\n\nDuring the American civil rights movement, conservative newspapers strongly slanted their news about Civil Rights, blaming the unrest among Southern Blacks on communists. In some cases, Southern television stations refused to air programs such as \"I Spy\" and \"\" because of their racially mixed casts. Newspapers supporting Civil rights, labor unions, and aspects of liberal social reform were often accused by conservative newspapers of communist bias.\n\nIn November 1969, Vice President Spiro Agnew made a landmark speech denouncing what he saw as media bias against the Vietnam War. He called those opposed to the war the \"nattering nabobs of negativism.\"\n\nStarting in the 21st century, social media became a major source of bias, since anyone could post anything without regard to its accuracy. Social media has, on the one hand, allowed all views to be heard, but on the other hand has provided a platform for the most extreme bias.\n\nIn 2010, President Obama said that he believed the viewpoints expressed by Fox News was \"destructive for the long-term growth\" of the United States.\n\nIn 2014, Pew Research Center found that the audience of news was polarized along political alignments.\n\nIn late 2015, President Trump started his campaign while addressing his concern with the media calling all information relayed on the media, \"fake news.\" This came shortly after the media began to carefully critique Trump's statements. Information circulated regarding Trump's previous sexual comments made towards women. At the same time, information regarding Clinton's email scandal also circulated in the media.\n\n2016 and onward, reports concerning \"fake news\" became more prominent. Social media played a big part in this and it is thought that the use of social media during the Presidential election played a large role in the election of Donald Trump.\n\nA 1956 American National Election Study found that 66% of Americans thought newspapers were fair, including 78% of Republicans and 64% of Democrats. A 1964 poll by the Roper Organization asked a similar question about network news, and 71% thought network news was fair. A 1972 poll found that 72% of Americans trusted CBS Evening News anchor Walter Cronkite. According to Jonathan M. Ladd's \"Why Americans Hate the Media and How it Matters\", \"Once, institutional journalists were powerful guardians of the republic, maintaining high standards of political discourse.\" Additionally, according to P. Bicak of Partisan Journalism (2018), within the 1988, 1992, and 1996 elections, there were evident paragraphs favoring the democratic and republican candidates.\n\nThat has changed. Gallup Polls since 1997 have shown that most Americans do not have confidence in the mass media \"to report the news fully, accurately, and fairly\". According to Gallup, the American public's trust in the media has generally declined in the first decade and a half of the 21st century. Again according to Ladd, \"In the 2008, the portion of Americans expressing 'hardly any' confidence in the press had risen to 45%. A 2004 Chronicle of Higher Education poll found that only 10% of Americans had 'a great deal' of confidence in the 'national news media,'\" In 2011, only 44% of those surveyed had \"a great deal\" or \"a fair amount\" of trust and confidence in the mass media. In 2013, a 59% majority reported a perception of media bias, with 46% saying mass media was too liberal and 13% saying it was too conservative. The perception of bias was highest among conservatives. According to the poll, 78% of conservatives think the mass media is biased, as compared with 44% of liberals and 50% of moderates. Only about 36% view mass media reporting as \"just about right\".\n\nA September 2014 Gallup poll found that a plurality of Americans believe the media is biased to favor liberal politics. According to the poll, 44% of Americans feel that news media are \"too liberal\" (70% of self-identified conservatives, 35% of self-identified moderates, and 15% of self-identified liberals), 19% believe them to be \"too conservative\" (12% of self-identified conservatives, 18% of self-identified moderates, and 33% of self-identified liberals), and 34% find it \"just about right\" (49% of self-identified liberals, 44% of self-identified moderates, and 16% of self-identified conservatives).\n\nIn 2016, according to Gottfried and Shearer, \"62 percent of US adults get news on social media,\" with Facebook being the dominant social media site. Again, this seemed to be a major contributor to the presidential election of Donald Trump. According to an article in the Journal of Economic Perspectives, \"many people who see fake news stories report that they believe them\".\n\nIn 2017, the trust in media by both Democrats and Republicans changed once again. According to a September 2017 Gallup poll, \"Democrats' trust and confidence in the mass media to report the news 'fully, accurately and fairly' has jumped from 51% in 2016 to 72% this year—fueling a rise in Americans' overall confidence to 41%. Independents' trust has risen modestly to 37%, while Republicans' trust is unchanged at 14%.\"\n\nIn 2017, a Gallup poll found that the majority of Americans view the news media favoring a particular political party; 64% believed it favored the Democratic Party, compared to 22% who believed it favored the Republican Party.\n\nAccording to Jonathan M. Ladd, \"Why Americans Hate the Media and How It Matters\", \"The existence of an independent, powerful, widely respected news media establishment is a historical anomaly. Prior to the twentieth century, such an institution had never existed in American history.\" However, he looks back to the period between 1950 and 1979 as a period where \"institutional journalists were powerful guardians of the republic, maintaining high standards of political discourse.\"\n\nA number of writers have tried to explain the decline in journalistic standards. One explanation is the 24-hour news cycle, which faces the necessity of generating news even when no news-worthy events occur. Another is the simple fact that bad news sells more newspapers than good news. A third possible factor is the market for \"news\" that reinforces the prejudices of a target audience. In 2014, \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"In a 2010 paper, Mr. Gentzkow and Jesse M. Shapiro, a frequent collaborator and fellow professor at Chicago Booth, found that ideological slants in newspaper coverage typically resulted from what the audience wanted to read in the media they sought out, rather than from the newspaper owners' biases.\"\n\nAs reported by Haselmayer, Wagner, and Meyer in Political Communication \"news value refers to the overall newsworthiness of a message and can be defined by the presence or absence of a number of news factors\" The authors contend that media sources shape their coverage in ways that are favorable to them, and are more likely to present messages from outlets their viewers/readers favor. They conclude that majority of what individuals see, read, and hear is pre-determined by the journalists, editors, and reporters of that specific news source.\n\n\"Primetime Propaganda: The True Hollywood Story of How the Left Took Over Your TV\", a 2011 book by Ben Shapiro, argues that producers, executives and writers in the entertainment industry are using television to promote a liberal political agenda. The claims include both blatant and subtle liberal agendas in entertainment shows, discrimination against conservatives in the industry, and misleading advertisers regarding the value of liberal-leaning market segments. As one part of the evidence, he presents statements from taped interviews made by celebrities and T.V. show creators from Hollywood whom he interviewed for the book.\n\nComic strips are divided into \"right\" and \"left\" on the popular web page GoComics. The \"Doonesbury\" comic strip has a liberal point of view. In 2004 a conservative letter writing campaign was successful in convincing Continental Features, a company that prints many Sunday comics sections, to refuse to print the strip, causing \"Doonesbury\" to disappear from the Sunday comics in 38 newspapers. Of the 38, only one editor, Troy Turner, executive editor of the \"Anniston Star\" in Alabama, continued to run the Sunday \"Doonesbury\", albeit necessarily in black and white. \"Mallard Fillmore\" by Bruce Tinsley and \"Prickly City\" by Scott Stantis are both conservative in their views. In older strips, \"Li'l Abner\" by Al Capp routinely parodied Southern Democrats through the character of Senator Jack S. Phogbound, but later adopted a strongly conservative stance. \"Pogo\" by Walt Kelly caricaturized a wide range of political figures including Joseph McCarthy, Richard Nixon, Hubert Humphrey, George Wallace, Robert F. Kennedy, and Eugene McCarthy. \"Little Orphan Annie\" espoused a strong anti-union pro-business stance in the story \"Eonite\" from 1935, where union agitators destroy a business that would have benefited the entire human race.\n\nEdward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky, in their book \"Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media\" (1988), proposed a propaganda model hypothesis to explain systematic biases of United States media as a consequence of the pressure to create a profitable business.\n\nPart of the propaganda model is self-censorship through the corporate system (see corporate censorship); reporters and especially editors share or acquire values that agree with corporate elites to further their careers. Those who do not are marginalized or fired. Such examples have been dramatized in fact-based movie dramas such as \"Good Night, and Good Luck\" and \"The Insider\" and demonstrated in the documentary \"The Corporation\". George Orwell originally wrote a preface for his 1945 novel \"Animal Farm\", which pointed up the self-censorship during wartime when the USSR was an ally. The preface was first published in 1972. It read in part: \n\nIn the propaganda model, advertising revenue is essential for funding most media sources and thus linked with media coverage. For example, according to Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting (FAIR.org), 'When Al Gore proposed launching a progressive TV network, a Fox News executive told \"Advertising Age\" (October 13, 2003): \"The problem with being associated as liberal is that they wouldn't be going in a direction that advertisers are really interested in... If you go out and say that you are a liberal network, you are cutting your potential audience, and certainly your potential advertising pool, right off the bat.\" An internal memo from ABC Radio affiliates in 2006 revealed that powerful sponsors had a \"standing order that their commercials never be placed on syndicated Air America programming\" that aired on ABC affiliates. The list totaled 90 advertisers and included major corporations such as Wal-Mart, GE, Exxon Mobil, Microsoft, Bank of America, FedEx, Visa, Allstate, McDonald's, Sony, and Johnson & Johnson, as well as government entities such as the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Navy.\n\nAccording to Chomsky, U.S. commercial media encourage controversy only within a narrow range of opinion, in order to give the impression of open debate, and do not report on news that falls outside that range.\n\nHerman and Chomsky argue that comparing the journalistic media product to the voting record of journalists is as flawed a logic as implying auto-factory workers design the cars they help produce. They concede that media owners and newmakers have an agenda but that the agenda is subordinated to corporate interests leaning to the right. It has been argued by some critics, including historian Howard Zinn and Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Chris Hedges, that the corporate media routinely ignore the plight of the impoverished while painting a picture of a prosperous America.\n\nIn 2008, George W. Bush's press secretary Scott McClellan published a book in which he confessed to regularly and routinely, but unknowingly, passing on misinformation to the media, following the instructions of his superiors. Politicians have willingly misled the press to further their agenda. Scott McClellan characterized the press as, by and large, honest, and intent on telling the truth, but reported that \"the national press corps was probably \"too\" deferential to the White House\", especially on the subject of the war in Iraq.\n\nFAIR reported that between January and August 2014 no representatives for organized labor made an appearance on any of the high-profile Sunday morning talkshows (NBC's \"Meet the Press\", ABC's \"This Week\", \"Fox News Sunday\" and CBS's \"Face the Nation\"), including episodes that covered topics such as labor rights and jobs, while current or former corporate CEOs made 12 appearances over that same period.\n\nIn a 1977 \"Rolling Stone\" magazine article, \"The CIA and the Media,\" reporter Carl Bernstein wrote that by 1953, CIA Director Allen Dulles oversaw the media network, which had major influence over 25 newspapers and wire agencies. Its usual \"modus operandi\" was to place reports, developed from CIA-provided intelligence, with cooperating or unwitting reporters. Those reports would be repeated or cited by the recipient reporters and would then, in turn, be cited throughout the media wire services. These networks were run by people with well-known liberal but pro-American-big-business and anti-Soviet views, such as William S. Paley (CBS), Henry Luce (\"Time\" and \"Life\"), Arthur Hays Sulzberger (\"The New York Times\"), Alfred Friendly (managing editor of \"The Washington Post\"), Jerry O'Leary (\"The Washington Star\"), Hal Hendrix (\"Miami News\"), Barry Bingham, Sr. (\"Louisville Courier-Journal\"), James S. Copley (Copley News Services) and Joseph Harrison (\"The Christian Science Monitor\").\n\nFive corporate conglomerates (AT&T, Comcast, Disney, Fox Corporation, and ViacomCBS) own the majority of mass media outlets in the United States. Such a uniformity of ownership means that stories which are critical of these corporations may often be underplayed in the media. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 enabled this handful of corporations to expand their power, and according to Howard Zinn, such mergers \"enabled tighter control of information.\" Chris Hedges argues that corporate media control \"of nearly everything we read, watch or hear\" is an aspect of what political philosopher Sheldon Wolin calls inverted totalitarianism.\n\nIn the United States most media are operated for profit, and are usually funded by advertising. Stories critical of advertisers or their interests may be underplayed, while stories favorable to advertisers may be given more coverage.\n\nSince the media is owned by the wealthy and by groups of people with a strong influence, these owners use the media as a safety tool. \"The guard dog metaphor suggests that media perform as a sentry not for the community as a whole, but for groups having sufficient power and influence to create and control their own security systems.\" The Guard Dog Theory states that, \"the view of media as part of a power oligarchy\".\n\nAcademics such as McKay, Kathleen Hall Jamieson, and Hudson (see below) have described private U.S. media outlets as profit-driven. For the private media, profits are dependent on viewing figures, regardless of whether the viewers found the programs adequate or outstanding. The strong profit-making incentive of the American media leads them to seek a simplified format and uncontroversial position which will be adequate for the largest possible audience. The market mechanism only rewards media outlets based on the number of viewers who watch those outlets, not by how informed the viewers are, how good the analysis is, or how impressed the viewers are by that analysis.\n\nAccording to some, the profit-driven quest for high numbers of viewers, rather than high quality for viewers, has resulted in a slide from serious news and analysis to entertainment, sometimes called infotainment:\n\nKathleen Hall Jamieson claimed in her book \"The Interplay of Influence: News, Advertising, Politics, and the Internet\" that most television news stories are made to fit into one of five categories:\n\nReducing news to these five categories, and tending towards an unrealistic black/white mentality, simplifies the world into easily understood opposites. According to Jamieson, the media provides an oversimplified skeleton of information that is more easily commercialized.\n\nMedia imperialism is a critical theory regarding the perceived effects of globalization on the world's media which is often seen as dominated by American media and culture. It is closely tied to the similar theory of cultural imperialism.\nSignificant writers and thinkers in this area include Ben Bagdikian, Noam Chomsky, Edward S. Herman and Robert McChesney.\n\nPolitical activist and one-time presidential candidate Rev. Jesse Jackson said in 1985 that the news media portray black people as \"less intelligent than we are.\" \"The IQ Controversy, the Media and Public Policy\", a book published by Stanley Rothman and Mark Snyderman, claimed to document bias in media coverage of scientific findings regarding race and intelligence. Snyderman and Rothman stated that media reports often either erroneously reported that most experts believe that the genetic contribution to IQ is absolute or that most experts believe that genetics plays no role at all.\n\nAccording to Michelle Alexander in her book \"The New Jim Crow\", in 1986, many stories of the crack crisis broke out in the media. In these stories, African Americans were featured as \"crack whores.\" The deaths of NBA player Len Bias and NFL player Don Rogers due to cocaine overdose only added to the media frenzy. Alexander claims in her book: \"Between October 1988 and October 1989, \"The Washington Post\" alone ran 1,565 stories about the 'drug scourge.'\"\n\nOne example of this double standard is the comparison of the deaths of Michael Brown and Dillon Taylor. On August 9, 2014, news broke out that Brown, a young, unarmed African American man, was shot and killed by a white policeman. This story spread throughout news media, explaining that the incident had to do with race. Only two days later, Taylor, another young, unarmed man, was shot and killed by a policeman. This story, however, did not get as highly publicized as Brown's. Taylor was white and Hispanic, while the police officer was black.\n\nResearch has shown that African Americans are over-represented in news reports on crime and that within those stories they are more likely to be shown as the perpetrators of the crime than as the persons reacting to or suffering from it.\n\nOne of the most striking examples of racial bias was the portrayal of African Americans in the 1992 riots in Los Angeles. The media presented the riots as being an African American problem, deeming African Americans solely responsible for the riots. However, according to reports, only 36% of those arrested during the riots were African American. Some 60% of the rioters and looters were Hispanics and whites, facts that were not reported by the media.\n\nConversely, multiple commentators and newspaper articles have cited examples of the national media under-reporting interracial hate crimes when they involve white victims as compared to when they involve African-American victims. Jon Ham, a vice president of the conservative John Locke Foundation, wrote that \"local officials and editors often claim that mentioning the black-on-white nature of the event might inflame passion, but they never have those same qualms when it's white-on-black.\"\n\nAccording to David Niven, of Ohio State University, research shows that mainstream American media show bias on only two issues: race and gender equality.\n\nIn a research conducted by Seong-Jae Min testing racial bias in stories of missing children in the media, African American children were less represented between 2005 and 2007. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, out of 800,000 yearly cases, 47% were \"racial minorities,\" and were under reported. According to Dixon and Linz, the news media often reports cases where children of color are criminals while often reporting cases where white children are victims of crime.\n\nAs with race, gender reporting is said to be biased, with negative stories about women being more likely to make the news. Positive stories about men are more often reported than positive stories about women, even though the majority of Americans are women. However, according to Hartley, young girls are seen as youthful and therefore more \"newsworthy\".\n\nThe 1996 Summer Olympic Games was a major event that showcased extreme gender bias, with male athletes receiving more television coverage than female athletes.\n\nNumerous books and studies have addressed the question of political bias in the American media. In general, print media is seen as having a slight liberal bias, with various broadcast and online outlets exhibiting both liberal and conservative bias. News organizations and proprietors are more likely to be conservative-leaning - for example, Rupert Murdoch self-identifies as a \"right-libertarian\". Murdoch has exerted a strong influence over the media he owns, including Fox News, \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"The Sun\".\n\nCommentary, editorial and opinion is more biased than factual news reporting in the mainstream media, and concerns have been raised as the lines between commentary and journalism are increasingly blurred. In reaction to this, there has been a growth of independent fact-checking and algorithms to assess bias.\n\nAccording to a study by Lars Willnat and David H. Weaver, professors of journalism at Indiana University, conducted via online interviews with 1,080 reporters between August and December 2013, 28.1% of journalists in the United States identify as Democrats and 7.1% as Republicans, whereas 50.2% identify as independents. Additionally, a 2018 Arizona State University and Texas A&M University study of 462 financial journalists found thirteen times more financial journalists identified as \"liberal\" as opposed to \"conservative\". The study found 58.47% of financial journalists surveyed identified as \"liberal\" while only 4.4% identified as \"conservative\".\n\nAn October 2017 Pew Research report found that 62% of stories involving Republican President Donald Trump during his first 60 days in office had a negative assessment, compared to only 5% of stories with a positive assessment. By comparison, the study found Democratic President Barack Obama received far more favorable coverage in his first 60 days in office. 42% of stories involving President Obama during this time period were identified as positive, while only 20% were identified as negative. A May 2017 study from Harvard University's Kennedy School’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy of President Trump's first 100 days in office also identified a similar negative tone in coverage. The study found that 93% of CNN & NBC coverage of President Trump during this time period was negative. Additionally, the survey also found 91% of CBS coverage was negative and that 87% New York Times coverage was negative during President Trump's first 100 days.\n\nAn October 2018 Rasmussen Reports poll of 1,000 likely voters found 45% of Americans believed when most reporters write about a congressional race, they are trying to help the Democratic candidate. Alternatively, only 11% believed reporters aimed to help Republican candidates.\n\nA 2020 study in \"Science Advances\" found no evidence of a liberal media bias in which stories journalists chose to cover in their reporting.\n\nPerceived liberal bias was cited by Roger Ailes as a reason for setting up Fox News. From the late 20th Century, a right wing media ecosystem grew up in parallel to mainstream journalism, leading to an asymmetric polarization in conservative media. While \"The Wall Street Journal\" always leaned toward conservative views supporting a natural hierarchy of wealth, it is nonetheless part of the journalistic mainstream, committed primarily to factual reporting. New right-leaning media outlets, including Breitbart News, NewsMax, and WorldNetDaily have instead a core mission to promote a conservative or right-wing agenda, often (unlike \"The Wall Street Journal\" and other mainstream conservative journals), supporting a natural hierarchy based on race, religion, nationality, or gender. Analysis of social media shares in the 2016 election cycle shows that consumers of conservative media are much less likely than consumers of partisan liberal media to share mainstream sources, leading to an echo chamber effect with high insularity and drifting towards extremes. Where mainstream and left-leaning media imposes reputational costs on those who propagate rumor, and coalescences around corrected narratives, the conservative media ecosystem creates positive feedbacks for bias-confirming statements as a central feature of its normal operation.\n\nResearch finds that Fox News increases Republican vote shares and makes Republican politicians more partisan. A 2007 study, using the introduction of Fox News into local markets (1996–2000) as an instrumental variable, found that in the 2000 presidential election \"Republicans gained 0.4 to 0.7 percentage points in the towns that broadcast Fox News\", suggesting \"Fox News convinced 3 to 28 percent of its viewers to vote Republican, depending on the audience measure\". These results were confirmed by a 2015 study. A 2014 study, using the same instrumental variable, found congressional \"representatives become less supportive of President Clinton in districts where Fox News begins broadcasting than similar representatives in similar districts where Fox News was not broadcast.\" A 2017 study, using channel positions as an instrumental variable, found \"Fox News increases Republican vote shares by 0.3 points among viewers induced into watching 2.5 additional minutes per week by variation in position.\" Another 2014 paper found Fox News viewing increased Republican vote shares among voters who identified as Republican or independent.\n\nKenneth Tomlinson, while chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, commissioned a $10,000 government study into Bill Moyers' PBS program, \"NOW\". The results of the study indicated that there was no particular bias on PBS. Tomlinson chose to reject the results of the study, subsequently reducing time and funding for \"NOW\" with Bill Moyers, which many including Tomlinson regarded as a \"left-wing\" program, and then expanded a show hosted by Fox News correspondent Tucker Carlson. Some board members stated that his actions were politically motivated. Himself a frequent target of claims of bias (in this case, conservative bias), Tomlinson resigned from the CPB board on November 4, 2005. Regarding the claims of a left-wing bias, Moyers asserted in a \"Broadcasting & Cable\" interview that \"If reporting on what's happening to ordinary people thrown overboard by circumstances beyond their control and betrayed by Washington officials is liberalism, I stand convicted.\"\n\nAccording to former Fox News producer Charlie Reina, unlike the AP, CBS, or ABC, Fox News's editorial policy is set from the top down in the form of a daily memo: \"[F]requently, Reina says, it also contains hints, suggestions and directives on how to slant the day's news—invariably, he said in 2003, in a way that was consistent with the politics and desires of the Bush administration.\" Fox News responded by denouncing Reina as a \"disgruntled employee\" with \"an ax to grind.\" Andrew Sullivan wrote of Fox that \"[o]ne alleged news network fed its audience a diet of lies, while contributing financially to the party that benefited from those lies.\" The same is true of Sinclair Broadcast Group, which notably instructed all its local news anchors to run a conservative message in the main news segment. Its rapid growth through station group acquisitions—especially during the lead-up to the 2016 presidential elections—had provided an increasingly large platform promoting conservative views.\n\nIn \"Network Propaganda\", Yochai Benkler, Robert Faris and Hal Roberts of Harvard's Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society use network analysis to analyze American media and explore why there is \"often no overlap, no resemblance whatsoever between the news events reported in mainstream print and broadcast coverage [...] and the topics that get broadcast as news on the Fox network and its fellows on the right\". By tracking citations and social media shares across various news outlets and correlating with editorial political leaning, they found that right-wing media sources had effectively segregated themselves into in an increasingly isolated silo, creating a propaganda feedback loop continually becoming more extreme and more partisan. They note that the right wing media \"punish actors – be they media outlets or politicians and pundits – who insist on speaking truths that are inconsistent with partisan frames and narratives dominant within the ecosystem\", and contrast this with a \"reality check dynamic\" that prevails in the mainstream media. They also note that liberal readers consume a much broader range of sources, whereas right wing media consumers rarely stray outside of the narrow right wing bubble.\n\nProgressive media watchdog group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) has argued that accusations of liberal media bias are part of a conservative strategy, noting an article in the August 20, 1992 \"Washington Post\", in which Republican party chair Rich Bond compared journalists to referees in a sporting match. \"If you watch any great coach, what they try to do is 'work the refs.' Maybe the ref will cut you a little slack next time.\" A 1998 study from FAIR found that journalists are \"mostly centrist in their political orientation\"; 30% considered themselves to the left on social issues compared with 9% on the right, while 11% considered themselves to the left on economic issues compared with 19% on the right. The report argued that since journalists considered themselves to be centrists, \"perhaps this is why an earlier survey found that they tended to vote for Bill Clinton in large numbers.\" FAIR uses this study to support the claim that media bias is propagated down from the management and that individual journalists are relatively neutral in their work.\n\nIn \"What Liberal Media? The Truth About Bias and the News\" (2003), Eric Alterman also disputes the belief in liberal media bias, and suggests that over-correcting for this belief resulted in the opposite.\n\nTech companies and social media sites have been accused of censorship by some conservative groups, although there is little or no evidence to support these claims.\n\nAt least one conservative theme - climate change denialism - is over-represented in the media, and some scientists have argued that media outlets have not done enough to combat false information. In November 2013, Nathan Allen, a Ph.D. chemist and moderator on Reddit's science forum published an op-ed that argued that newspaper editors should refrain from publishing articles from people who deny the scientific consensus on climate change.\n\nClaims of shadow banning of conservative social media accounts (manipulating algorithms to minimise the exposure and spread of specific content) were brought to the fore in 2016 when conservative news sites lashed out after a report from an unnamed Facebook employee on May 7 alleged that contractors for the social media giant were told to minimize links to their sites in its \"trending news\" column. Alex Breitbart, former editor-in-chief of Breitbart News, claimed that \"Facebook trending news artificially mutes conservatives and amplifies progressives.\" Facebook's response included a statement that they \"do not permit the suppression of political perspectives\" and that its trending news articles are selected by algorithms to prevent human bias from violating its policy of neutrality. The Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard investigated and found no evidence of shadow-banning of conservatives.\n\nConservative outlets like \"The Weekly Standard\" and \"Big Government\" have criticized fact checking of conservative content as a perceived liberal attempt to control discourse. A 2019 study found that fake news sharing was less common than perceived, and that actual consumption of fake news was limited. Another 2019 study found that older, more conservative people were more likely to have shared fake news during the 2016 election season than moderates, younger adults, or \"super liberals\". An Oxford study has shown that deliberate use of fake news in the U.S. is primarily associated with the hard right. According to a 2019 study of fake news on Twitter during the 2016 election season, 80% of \"all content from suspect sources was shared by less than 1 percent of the human tweeters sampled... Those users were disproportionately politically conservative, older and more highly engaged with political news\".\n\nThe term \"fake news\" has been weaponized with the goal of undermining public trust in news media. President Donald Trump has seized on the term \"fake news\" as a way of denigrating any story or outlet critical of him, even appearing to claim to have invented the term and handing out so-called \"Fake News Awards\" in 2017. Trump, followed by supporters such as Sean Hannity, uses the term \"fake news\" to describe any media coverage that casts him in a negative light. In 2018, Trump \"described what he called the 'fake news' of the American press as 'The Enemy of the American people'\", a phrase similar to one used by Stalin and other totalitarian leaders that also was reminiscent of Richard Nixon's inclusion of journalists on his \"enemies list\". In response, the United States Senate unanimously adopted a resolution which reaffirmed \"the vital and indispensable role the free press serves\" and was seen as a symbolic rebuke to Trump.\n\nIn the 19th century, many American newspapers made no pretense to lack of bias, openly advocating one or another political party. Big cities would often have competing newspapers supporting various political parties. To some extent this was mitigated by a separation between \"news\" and \"editorial\". News reporting was expected to be relatively neutral or at least factual, whereas editorial was openly the opinion of the publisher. Editorials might also be accompanied by an editorial cartoon, which would frequently lampoon the publisher's opponents.\n\nIn an editorial for \"The American Conservative\", Pat Buchanan wrote that reporting by \"the liberal media establishment\" on the Watergate scandal \"played a central role in bringing down a president.\" Richard Nixon later complained, \"I gave them a sword and they ran it right through me.\" Nixon's Vice-President Spiro Agnew attacked the media in a series of speeches—two of the most famous having been written by White House aides William Safire and Buchanan himself—as \"elitist\" and \"liberal.\" However, the media had also strongly criticized his Democratic predecessor, Lyndon Baines Johnson, for his handling of the Vietnam War, which culminated in him not seeking a second term.\n\nIn 2004, Steve Ansolabehere, Rebecca Lessem and Jim Snyder of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology analyzed the political orientation of endorsements by U.S. newspapers. They found an upward trend in the average propensity to endorse a candidate, and in particular an incumbent one. There were also some changes in the average ideological slant of endorsements: while in the 1940s and in the 1950s there was a clear advantage to Republican candidates, this advantage continuously eroded in subsequent decades, to the extent that in the 1990s the authors found a slight Democratic lead in the average endorsement choice.\n\nRiccardo Puglisi of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology looks at the editorial choices of \"The New York Times\" from 1946 to 1997. He finds that the \"Times\" displays Democratic partisanship, with some watchdog aspects. This is the case, because during presidential campaigns the \"Times\" systematically gives more coverage to Democratic topics of civil rights, health care, labor and social welfare, but only when the incumbent president is a Republican. These topics are classified as Democratic ones, because Gallup polls show that on average U.S. citizens think that Democratic candidates would be better at handling problems related to them. According to Puglisi, in the post-1960 period the \"Times\" displays a more symmetric type of watchdog behavior, just because during presidential campaigns it also gives more coverage to the typically Republican issue of Defense when the incumbent president is a Democrat, and less so when the incumbent is a Republican.\n\nJohn Lott and Kevin Hassett of the conservative think tank American Enterprise Institute studied the coverage of economic news by looking at a panel of 389 U.S. newspapers from 1991 to 2004, and at a subsample of the two ten newspapers and the Associated Press from 1985 to 2004. For each release of official data about a set of economic indicators, the authors analyze how newspapers decide to report on them, as reflected by the tone of the related headlines. The idea is to check whether newspapers display partisan bias, by giving more positive or negative coverage to the same economic figure, as a function of the political affiliation of the incumbent president. Controlling for the economic data being released, the authors find that there are between 9.6 and 14.7% fewer positive stories when the incumbent president is a Republican.\n\nAccording to Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, a liberal watchdog group, Democratic candidate John Edwards was falsely maligned and was not given coverage commensurate with his standing in presidential campaign coverage because his message questioned corporate power.\n\nA 2000 meta-analysis of research in 59 quantitative studies of media bias in American presidential campaigns from 1948 through 1996 found that media bias tends to cancel out, leaving little or no net bias. The authors conclude \"It is clear that the major source of bias charges is the individual perceptions of media consumers and, in particular, media consumers of a particularly ideological bent.\"\n\nIt has also been acknowledged that media outlets have often used horse-race journalism with the intent of making elections more competitive. This form of political coverage involves diverting attention away from stronger candidates and hyping so-called dark horse contenders who seem more unlikely to win when the election cycle begins. Benjamin Disraeli used the term \"dark horse\" to describe horse racing in 1831 in \"The Young Duke\", writing, \"a dark horse which had never been thought of and which the careless St. James had never even observed in the list, rushed past the grandstand in sweeping triumph.\" Political analyst Larry Sabato stated in his 2006 book \"Encyclopedia of American Political Parties and Elections\" that Disraeli's description of dark horses \"now fits in neatly with the media's trend towards horse-race journalism and penchant for using sports analogies to describe presidential politics.\"\n\nOften in contrast with national media, political science scholars seek to compile long-term data and research on the impact of political issues and voting in U.S. presidential elections, producing in-depth articles breaking down the issues.\n\nDuring the course of the 2000 presidential election, some pundits accused the mainstream media of distorting facts in an effort to help Texas Governor George W. Bush win the 2000 Presidential Election after Bush and Al Gore officially launched their campaigns in 1999. Peter Hart and Jim Naureckas, two commentators for Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR), called the media \"serial exaggerators\" and argued that several media outlets were constantly exaggerating criticism of Gore, like falsely claiming that Gore lied when he claimed he spoke in an overcrowded science class in Sarasota, Florida, and giving Bush a pass on certain issues, such as the fact that Bush wildly exaggerated how much money he signed into the annual Texas state budget to help the uninsured during his second debate with Gore in October 2000. In the April 2000 issue of \"Washington Monthly\", columnist Robert Parry also argued that several media outlets exaggerated Gore's supposed claim that he \"discovered\" the Love Canal neighborhood in Niagara Falls, New York during a campaign speech in Concord, New Hampshire on November 30, 1999, when he had only claimed he \"found\" it after it was already evacuated in 1978 because of chemical contamination. \"Rolling Stone\" columnist Eric Boehlert also argued that media outlets exaggerated criticism of Gore as early as July 22, 1999, when Gore, known for being an environmentalist, had a friend release 500 million gallons of water into a drought stricken river to help keep his boat afloat for a photo shot; media outlets, however, exaggerated the actual number of gallons that were released and claimed it was four billion.\n\nIn the 2008 presidential election, media outlets were accused of discrediting Barack Obama's opponents in an effort to help him win the Democratic nomination and later the Presidential election. At the February debate, Tim Russert of NBC News was criticized for what some perceived as disproportionately tough questioning of Democratic presidential contender Hillary Clinton. Among the questions, Russert had asked Clinton, but not Obama, to provide the name of the new Russian President (Dmitry Medvedev). This was later parodied on \"Saturday Night Live\". In October 2007, liberal commentators accused Russert of harassing Clinton over the issue of supporting drivers' licenses for illegal immigrants.\n\nOn April 16, 2008 ABC News hosted a debate in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Moderators Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos were criticized by viewers, bloggers and media critics for the poor quality of their questions. Many viewers said they considered some of the questions irrelevant when measured against the importance of the faltering economy or the Iraq War. Included in that category were continued questions about Obama's former pastor, Clinton's assertion that she had to duck sniper fire in Bosnia more than a decade ago, and Obama's not wearing an American flag pin. The moderators focused on campaign gaffes and some believed they focused too much on Obama. Stephanopoulos defended their performance, saying \"Senator Obama was the front-runner\" and the questions were \"not inappropriate or irrelevant at all.\"\n\nIn an op-ed published on April 27, 2008, in \"The New York Times\", Elizabeth Edwards wrote that the media covered much more of \"the rancor of the campaign\" and \"amount of money spent\" than \"the candidates' priorities, policies and principles.\" Author Erica Jong commented that \"our press has become a sea of triviality, meanness and irrelevant chatter.\" A Gallup poll released on May 29, 2008 also estimated that more Americans felt the media was being harder on Clinton than they were on Obama.\n\nIn a joint study by the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University and the Project for Excellence in Journalism, the authors found disparate treatment by the three major cable networks of Republican and Democratic candidates during the earliest five months of presidential primaries in 2007: \"The CNN programming studied tended to cast a negative light on Republican candidates—by a margin of three-to-one. Four-in-ten stories (41%) were clearly negative while just 14% were positive and 46% were neutral. The network provided negative coverage of all three main candidates with McCain faring the worst (63% negative) and Romney faring a little better than the others only because a majority of his coverage was neutral. It's not that Democrats, other than Obama, fared well on CNN either. Nearly half of the Illinois Senator's stories were positive (46%), vs. just 8% that were negative. But both Clinton and Edwards ended up with more negative than positive coverage overall. So while coverage for Democrats overall was a bit more positive than negative, that was almost all due to extremely favorable coverage for Obama.\"\n\nA poll of likely 2008 United States presidential election voters released on March 14, 2007 by Zogby International reports that 83 percent of those surveyed believe that there is a bias in the media, with 64 percent of respondents of the opinion that this bias favors liberals and 28 percent of respondents believing that this bias is conservative. In August 2008 \"The Washington Post\" ombudsman wrote that the \"Post\" had published almost three times as many page1 stories about Obama than it had about John McCain since Obama won the Democratic party nomination that June. In September 2008 a Rasmussen poll found that 68 percent of voters believed that \"most reporters try to help the candidate they want to win.\" Forty-nine (49) percent of respondents stated that the reporters were helping Obama to get elected, while only 14 percent said the same regarding McCain. A further 51 percent said that the press was actively \"trying to hurt\" Republican vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin with negative coverage. In October 2008, \"Washington Post\" media correspondent Howard Kurtz reported that Palin was again on the cover of \"Newsweek\", \"but with the most biased campaign headline I've ever seen.\"\n\nAfter the election was over, \"The Washington Post\" ombudsman Deborah Howell reviewed the \"Post\"s coverage and concluded that it was slanted in favor of Obama.<ref name=\"Howell 11/09/2008\">Deborah Howell, \"An Obama Tilt in Campaign Coverage,\" \"The Washington Post\", November 9, 2008; Page B06</ref> \"The \"Post\" provided a lot of good campaign coverage, but readers have been consistently critical of the lack of probing issues coverage and what they saw as a tilt toward Democrat Barack Obama. My surveys, which ended on Election Day, show that they are right on both counts.\" Over the course of the campaign, the \"Post\" printed 594 \"issues stories\" and 1,295 \"horse-race stories.\" There were more positive opinion pieces on Obama than McCain (32 to 13) and more negative pieces about McCain than Obama (58 to 32). Overall, more news stories were dedicated to Obama than McCain. Howell said that the results of her survey were comparable to those reported by the Project for Excellence in Journalism for the national media. (That report, issued on October 22, 2008, found that \"coverage of McCain has been heavily unfavorable,\" with 57% of the stories issued after the conventions being negative and only 14% being positive. For the same period, 36% of the stories on Obama were positive, 35% were neutral or mixed, and 29% were negative.) While rating the \"Post\"s biographical stories as generally quite good, she concluded that \"Obama deserved tougher scrutiny than he got, especially of his undergraduate years, his start in Chicago and his relationship with Antoin 'Tony' Rezko, who was convicted this year of influence-peddling in Chicago. The \"Post\" did nothing on Obama's acknowledged drug use as a teenager.\"\n\nVarious critics, particularly Hudson, have shown concern over the link between the news media's reporting and what they see as the trivialised nature of American elections. Hudson argued that America's news media elections coverage damages the democratic process. He argues that elections are centered on candidates, whose advancement depends on funds, personality and sound-bites, rather than serious political discussion or policies offered by parties. His argument is that it is on the media which Americans are dependent for information about politics (this is of course true almost by definition) and that they are therefore greatly influenced by the way the media report, which concentrates on short sound-bites, gaffes by candidates, and scandals. The reporting of elections avoids complex issues or issues which are time-consuming to explain. Of course, important political issues are generally both complex and time-consuming to explain, so are avoided.\n\nHudson blames this style of media coverage, at least partly, for trivialised elections:\n\"The bites of information voters receive from both print and electronic media are simply insufficient for constructive political discourse... candidates for office have adjusted their style of campaigning in response to this tabloid style of media coverage... modern campaigns are exercises in image manipulation... Elections decided on sound bites, negative campaign commercials, and sensationalised exposure of personal character flaws provide no meaningful direction for government\".\n\nStudies have shown that all 2016 candidates received vastly less media coverage than Donald Trump. Trump received more extensive media coverage than Ted Cruz, John Kasich, Hillary Clinton, and Bernie Sanders combined during a time when those were the only primary candidates left in the race. The Democratic primary received substantially less coverage than the Republican primary. Sanders received the most positive coverage of any candidate overall, whereas his opponent in the Democratic primary, Hillary Clinton, received the most negative coverage. Among the general election candidates, Trump received inordinate amounts of coverage on his policies and issues, as well as on his personal character and life, whereas Hillary Clinton's emails controversy was a dominant feature of her coverage, earning more media coverage than all of her policy positions combined.\n\nIn addition to philosophical or economic biases, there are also subject biases, including criticism of media coverage about foreign policy issues as being overly centered in Washington, DC. Coverage is variously cited as being 'beltway centrism', framed in terms of domestic politics and established policy positions, following only Washington's 'Official Agendas', and mirroring only a 'Washington Consensus'. Regardless of the criticism, according to the \"Columbia Journalism Review\", \"No news subject generates more complaints about media objectivity than the Middle East in general and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in particular.\"\n\nStephen Zunes wrote that \"mainstream and conservative Jewish organizations have mobilized considerable lobbying resources, financial contributions from the Jewish community, and citizen pressure on the news media and other forums of public discourse in support of the Israeli government.\"\nAccording to CUNY professor of journalism Eric Alterman, debate among Middle East pundits, \"is dominated by people who cannot imagine criticizing Israel\". In 2002, he listed 56 columnists and commentators who can be counted on to support Israel \"reflexively and without qualification.\" Alterman only identified five pundits who consistently criticize Israeli behavior or endorse pro-Arab positions. Journalists described as pro-Israel by Mearsheimer and Walt include \"The New York Times\" William Safire, A.M. Rosenthal, David Brooks, and Thomas Friedman although they say that the last is sometimes critical of areas of Israel policy); \"The Washington Post\"s Jim Hoagland, Robert Kagan, Charles Krauthammer and George Will; and the \"Los Angeles Times\" Max Boot, Jonah Goldberg, and Jonathan Chait.\n\nThe 2007 book \"The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy\" argued that there is a media bias in favor of Israel. It stated that a former spokesman for the Israeli consulate in New York said that: \"Of course, a lot of self-censorship goes on. Journalists, editors, and politicians are going to think twice about criticizing Israel if they know they are going to get thousands of angry calls in a matter of hours. The Jewish lobby is good at orchestrating pressure.\"\nJournalist Michael Massing wrote in 2006 that \"Jewish organizations are quick to detect bias in the coverage of the Middle East, and quick to complain about it. That's especially true of late. As \"The Forward\" observed in late April [2002], 'rooting out perceived anti-Israel bias in the media has become for many American Jews the most direct and emotional outlet for connecting with the conflict 6,000 miles away.'\"\n\n\"The Forward\" related how one individual felt: \"'There's a great frustration that American Jews want to do something,' said Ira Youdovin, executive vice president of the Chicago Board of Rabbis. 'In 1947, some number would have enlisted in the Haganah,' he said, referring to the pre-state Jewish armed force. 'There was a special American brigade. Nowadays you can't do that. The battle here is the hasbarah war,' Youdovin said, using a Hebrew term for public relations. 'We're winning, but we're very much concerned about the bad stuff.'\"\nA 2003 \"Boston Globe\" article on the Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America media watchdog group by Mark Jurkowitz argued that: \"To its supporters, CAMERA is figuratively—and perhaps literally—doing God's work, battling insidious anti-Israeli bias in the media. But its detractors see CAMERA as a myopic and vindictive special interest group trying to muscle its views into media coverage.\"\n\nIn 2003, a study released by Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting stated the network news disproportionately focused on pro-war sources and left out many anti-war sources. According to the study, 64% of total sources were in favor of the Iraq War, and total anti-war sources made up 10% of the media (only 3% of US sources were anti-war). The study stated that \"viewers were more than six times as likely to see a pro-war source as one who was anti-war; with U.S. guests alone, the ratio increases to 25 to 1.\"\n\nIn February 2004, a study was released by the liberal national media watchdog group FAIR. According to the study, which took place during October 2003, current or former government or military officials accounted for 76 percent of all 319 sources for news stories about Iraq which aired on network news channels.\n\nOn March 23, 2006, the US designated the Hezbollah affiliated media, Al-Nour Radio and Al-Manar TV station, as \"terrorist entities\" through legislative language as well as support of a letter to President Bush signed by 51 senators.\n\nA widely cited public opinion study documented a correlation between news source and certain misconceptions about the Iraq War. Conducted by the Program on International Policy Attitudes in October 2003, the poll asked Americans whether they believed statements about the Iraq War that were known to be false. Respondents were also asked for their primary news source: Fox News, CBS, NBC, ABC, CNN, \"Print sources,\" or NPR. By cross-referencing the respondents to their primary news source, the study showed that more Fox News watchers held the misconceptions about the Iraq War. Director of Program on International Policy (PIPA) Stephen Kull said, \"While we cannot assert that these misconceptions created the support for going to war with Iraq, it does appear likely that support for the war would be substantially lower if fewer members of the public had these misperceptions.\"\n\nIn November 2018, Senator Chris Coons joined Senators Elizabeth Warren, Marco Rubio, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers in sending a letter to the Trump administration raising concerns about China's undue influence over media outlets and academic institutions in the United States: \"In American news outlets, Beijing has used financial ties to suppress negative information about the CCP. In the past four years, multiple media outlets with direct or indirect financial ties to China allegedly decided not to publish stories on wealth and corruption in the CCP. In one case, an editor resigned due to mounting self-censorship in the outlet's China coverage.\"\n\nJonathan M. Ladd, who has conducted intensive studies of media trust and media bias, concluded that the primary cause of widespread popular belief in media bias is media telling their audience that other particular media are biased. People who are told that a medium is biased tend to believe that it is biased, and this belief is unrelated to whether that medium is actually biased or not. The only other factor with as strong an influence on belief that media is biased is extensive coverage of celebrities. A majority of people see such media as biased, while at the same time preferring media with extensive coverage of celebrities.\n\nKenneth Kim, in Communication Research Reports, argued that the overriding cause of popular belief in media bias is a media vs. media worldview. He used statistics to show that people see news content as neutral, fair, or biased based on its relation to news sources that report opposite views. Kim labeled this phenomenon HMP (hostile media perception). His results show that individuals are likely to process content in defensive ways based on the framing of this content in other media.\n\nAllSides ranks news sources on a left–right spectrum from a US perspective using its own proprietary methods. It does not claim accuracy. Its rankings of left to right are determined by several factors, including \"blind bias survey\", \"third party analysis\", \"editorial review\", \"community feedback\", and \"independent research\".\n\nAd Fontes Media publishes a regularly-updated chart ranking some of the larger American news sources by left or right wing bias and by accuracy.\n\nThe Pew Research Center produced a guide to the political leanings of readers of several news outlets as part of a larger report on political polarization in the US.\n\nReporters Without Borders has said that the US media lost a great deal of freedom between the 2004 and 2006 indices, citing the Judith Miller case and similar cases and laws restricting the confidentiality of sources as the main factors. They also cite the fact that reporters who question the American \"war on terror\" are sometimes regarded as suspicious. They rank the US as 53rd out of 168 countries in freedom of the press, comparable to Japan and Uruguay, but below all but one European Union country (Poland) and below most OECD countries (those that accept democracy and free markets). In the 2008 ranking, the U.S. moved up to 36, between Taiwan and Macedonia, but still far below its ranking in the late 20th century as a world leader in having a free and unbiased press. The U.S. briefly recovered in 2009 and 2010, rising to 20th place, but declined again and has maintained a position in the mid-40s from 2013 to 2018.\n\nBoth liberal and conservative fact-checking groups have grown up. Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR) and Media Matters for America work from a progressive viewpoint, Accuracy In Media and Media Research Center are conservative.\n\nGroups such as FactCheck argue that the media frequently get the facts wrong because they rely on biased sources of information. That includes using information provided to them from both parties.\n\n\"After the Press\" is a news blog that follows the press to stories of national interest across America and shows the side of the story that mainstream media does not air.\n\n\"The Bipartisan Press\" used natural language processing to build an algorithm that claims to be able to analyze media bias towards a certain direction when given text.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327583", "title": "Curse of the Hidden Mirror", "text": "Curse of the Hidden Mirror\n\nCurse of the Hidden Mirror is the fourteenth studio album by American hard rock band Blue Öyster Cult, released in 2001. The only single from the record was the poorly received \"Pocket\". Lackluster sales and poor relations led to the band being dropped by their label, Sanctuary Records. BÖC has not recorded a studio album or held a record deal since, though the band announced a deal with Frontiers Music in July 2019, with plans to release a new studio album in 2020.\nThe title of the album is taken from a song contained in the by the Stalk-Forrest Group, the band that would later become Blue Öyster Cult, recorded in 1970.\n\nJohn Shirley, an author of cyberpunk science fiction, wrote the lyrics for many songs of the album.\n\nThe song \"Out Of The Darkness\" was originally featured in the 1992 film \"Bad Channels\", which Blue Öyster Cult recorded the soundtrack for, although the song was not included in the soundtrack album for the movie. \"Showtime\" was originally written and recorded for \"Cultösaurus Erectus\" but did not make the final cut.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327584", "title": "Séanna Walsh", "text": "Séanna Walsh\n\nSéanna Walsh or Séanna Breathnach (born 1957) is a Sinn Féin member of Belfast City Council and a former volunteer in the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA).\n\nWalsh was born in the Short Strand area of East Belfast but for a time lived in Ravenhill Avenue until loyalists intimidated the Walsh family out of their home. Séanna’s great grandfather had been shot dead in the same area by B-Specials when Northern Ireland was founded.\n\nIn 1973, Walsh was arrested along with a number of fellow IRA men while robbing a bank and was sentenced to five years' imprisonment. In Long Kesh prison, where he was entitled to Special Category Status as an IRA prisoner, he met and befriended Bobby Sands.\n\nSéanna was released from prison in May 1976. Three months later he was arrested and charged with possession of a rifle and was sentenced to ten years in prison. By the time he arrived back in the H-Blocks, the British government had withdrawn Special Category status and the IRA members had commenced their blanket protest. Walsh refused to wear a prison uniform and went on to become one of the leaders of the blanket protest.\n\nWhen the hunger strike ended in late 1981, Walsh became the Officer Commanding (OC) of the IRA prisoners in the H-Blocks. He was released after seven years and seven months. Upon his release, he married Sinéad Moore, a former republican prisoner. They and had two daughters, the youngest of whom was only two weeks old when he was arrested again, caught making explosives and mortar bombs He was sentenced to twenty-two years in prison. While on remand in Crumlin Road Gaol, Walsh again became OC of the IRA prisoners.\n\nAt the age of forty-two, Walsh had spent over half his life, a total of twenty-one years, in jail. He was released along with other imprisoned IRA members under the provisions of the 1998 Belfast Agreement.\n\nIn July 2005, he appeared on a DVD reading out a statement from the IRA Army Council announcing the end to its armed campaign. In doing so, Walsh became the first IRA member since 1972 to represent the organisation without wearing a mask.\n\nIn 2012, Walsh, along with other former paramilitaries, of both sides, participated in the launching of the Irish language edition of the Department of Education's \"From Prison to Peace\" education pack, intended for 14–16 years old pupils.\n\nIn February 2015, along with three other former members of the IRA, he met, in Derry, four former British Army soldiers who had served in Northern Ireland during the Troubles. The men talked about the reasons they had taken up arms, the consequences of their decision, and the prospects for a lasting peace.\n\nIn 2012 Walsh was working for Sinn Féin as head of its Irish language department. In 2015 he was co-opted by the party onto Belfast City Council for the District Electoral Area of Collin to replace Bill Groves. He held his seat at the 2019 council elections.\n"}
{"id": "2327597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327597", "title": "Republican Party for Liberty", "text": "Republican Party for Liberty\n\nThe Republican Party for Liberty (, PRL) was a political party in Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso). The PRL was founded in 1959 by Nazi Boni as a reaction to the attempts by the Voltaic Democratic Union to create a one-party state. Boni built his new party largely out of the ashes of the defunct African Regroupment Party (PRA).\n\nPRL was short-lived and failed to make any major impact. Boni went into exile in Dakar, Senegal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327598", "title": "Soga no Kitashihime", "text": "Soga no Kitashihime\n\nSoga no Kitashihime gave birth to seven sons and six girls:\n\nThe exact year of her death is unclear, but in February 612 a large funeral was held and she was re-interred in Emperor Kinmei's tumulus.\n"}
{"id": "2327604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327604", "title": "Joey Jordison", "text": "Joey Jordison\n\nNathan Jonas \"Joey\" Jordison (born April 26, 1975), is an American musician, songwriter, record producer and multi-instrumentalist, best known for his work as the former drummer and co-songwriter for the American heavy metal band Slipknot as well as guitarist in the American horror punk band Murderdolls. Jordison played in Slipknot since their formation in 1995 until his departure from the band in December 2013. He was the drummer and founder of the American heavy metal band Scar the Martyr, which formed in 2013 and disbanded in 2016. He grew up in Waukee, Iowa with his parents and two sisters, and was given his first drum kit at the age of 8. He performed with many different bands early in his career; then in the summer of 1995, he joined the group The Pale Ones, which would later change their name to Slipknot. Of Slipknot's nine-member lineup, which lasted from 1999–2010, Joey was the third to join the band.\n\nWith Slipknot, Jordison performed on four studio albums, and produced the live album \"\". Outside his major projects, Jordison has performed with other heavy metal groups such as Rob Zombie, Metallica, Korn, Ministry, Otep and Satyricon. Jordison is also known for his session work, which includes performances on many albums for many different artists. Jordison uses several drum brands including Pearl and ddrum.\n\nHe currently plays with the band Sinsaenum.\n\nJordison was born in Des Moines, Iowa on April 26, 1975, to Steve and Jackie Jordison. He has two younger sisters. He grew up in a rural area outside of Waukee where he used to play basketball on the street in front of his house. He embraced music at an early age, which he attributes to his parents' influence: \"They always sat me down in front of the radio, rather than the TV.\" He played guitar until receiving his first drum kit as a gift from his parents at age eight, and started his first band while in elementary school.\n\nJordison's parents divorced when he was young. The children stayed with their mother. His mother remarried and set up a funeral parlor where Jordison would occasionally help. Jordison has stated that he felt a sudden responsibility to be the man of the house. During this time, he formed the band Modifidious, in which he played drums. He later described them as \"total speed-metal thrash\". The band helped Jordison break new ground, playing live as support to local bands including Atomic Opera, featuring Jim Root, and Heads on the Wall, featuring Shawn Crahan. He also played at a bowling center his family owned, on a night called \"Rock and Roll Bowl\". After a multitude of lineup changes – including Craig Jones and Josh Brainard, who would reappear in Slipknot – the band released two demos in 1993: \"Visceral\" and \"Mud Fuchia\".\n\nJordison cites Keith Moon, John Bonham, Peter Criss, Gene Krupa and Buddy Rich as his main influences, and said, \"I grew up listening to Mötley Crüe's \"Too Fast for Love\" and \"Shout at the Devil\".\"\n\nAfter leaving school, Jordison was hired by a local music store called Musicland. In March 1994, after a recommendation from his new friend, he got a job at a Sinclair garage in Urbandale. Jordison worked the night shift, which he preferred, as it left his weekends free and allowed him to spend time with his friends and listen to music while working. In early 1995, Modifidious disbanded because of a shift in interest from thrash metal to death metal in America. Following this Jordison joined a local band called The Rejects as a guitarist, with whom he only played a couple of shows. Jordison was also involved in a band with Paul Gray and vocalist Don Decker, named \"Anal Blast\". Gray also attempted to recruit him for another band, Body Pit, but he declined the invitation to remain in The Rejects. During the forming period of Slipknot, Paul recruited Joey to join a punk band called the Have Nots in the Spring of 1996. Joey would leave the Have Nots in February 1997 to \"focus on Slipknot\" but instead reformed the Rejects, which would play Des Moines up until Slipknot left to record Slipknot's self-titled album, which Paul played in after the Have Nots broke up.\n\nOn June 13, 2016, Jordison revealed that he suffers from transverse myelitis, a neurological disease that temporarily cost him the use of his legs and caused him to be unable to play the drums before rehabilitation.\n\nOn November 28, 1995, Mark Anthony Cadavos approached Jordison while he was working, offering him a position in a new project called The Pale Ones. Intrigued and at a point where he was \"lost\", Jordison attended rehearsals at Anders Colsefni's basement and immediately wanted to be part of this new band. Speaking of this moment he said, \"I remember trying so hard not to smile, so I didn't look like I wanted to join, I remained poker-faced, but I thought they ruled.\" A lot of Slipknot's early development was discussed by band members while Jordison worked night shifts at Sinclair's garage. Of the eventual nine members, Joey was the third to join the band. Slipknot would become pioneers to the new wave of American heavy metal. Jordison is accompanied by two custom percussionists, giving their music a feel that \"Rolling Stone\" touted as \"suffocating\".\n\nEach member of Slipknot is assigned a number; Joey was assigned \"#1\". Joey has produced one album with Slipknot: 2005 live album \"\". In August 2008, Jordison broke his ankle and Slipknot had to cancel some of its English tour dates. On August 22, 2009, Jordison was taken to the emergency room for a burst appendix, less than an hour before he was to take the stage for Auburn, Washington's KISW Pain in the Grass concert. As a result, Slipknot canceled following shows in August and September, to give Jordison time to recover.\n\nOn December 12, 2013, Slipknot announced through their official website that Jordison had left the band, citing personal reasons for his departure. In response, Jordison released a statement insisting that he had in fact been fired from the band and stated that Slipknot \"has been my life for the last 18 years, and I would never abandon it, or my fans\".\n\nAfter years of both sides being silent and evasive as to the reasons for his leaving the band, Jordison revealed in June 2016 that he suffered from transverse myelitis, a neurological disease that cost him the ability to play the drums toward the end of his time with Slipknot.\n\nWhile touring Ozzfest in 2001 to support Slipknot's studio album \"Iowa\", Jordison met Tripp Eisen, then of Static-X; the two discussed forming a side project. In 2002, Jordison revived his band The Rejects, renaming them the Murderdolls. Jordison became the Murderdoll's guitarist, and he recruited Wednesday 13 of Frankenstein Drag Queens from Planet 13 to play bass. Wednesday eventually became a vocalist, while drummer Ben Graves and bassist Eric Griffin completed the band's lineup. Murderdolls signed with Roadrunner Records and released an EP entitled \"Right to Remain Violent\" in 2002. The band returned in August 2002 with their debut album \"Beyond the Valley of the Murderdolls\". The band uses horror films, including \"Friday the 13th\" and \"Night of the Living Dead\", as an inspiration for their lyrics. On October 30, 2002, the Murderdolls made an appearance on an episode of Dawson's Creek entitled \"Living Dead Girl\". The band reunited in 2010 with only Jordison and Wednesday 13 remaining from the original line-up. The band release their second studio album \"Women & Children Last\" on August 31, 2010. The band embarked on the extensive Women & Children Last World Tour performing shows alongside many notable acts such as Guns N' Roses and performing around the world. The tour was sparked with many problems including the cancellation of many shows and repeated incidents of Jordison storming off stage, most notably in Bordeaux, France (attributed to extreme tinnitus) and Perth, Western Australia. The tour finished on April 24, 2011. This was considered to be the band's last outing as Wednesday 13 confirmed the band's split in an interview in March 2013.\n\nIn April 2013 details emerged of a new band featuring Jordison, Jed Simon and Kris Norris. Little else was released except that Jordison had performed most instruments in this project and that Chris Vrenna and an unknown vocalist were to complete keyboard and vocal work, respectively. On June 21 the band was named Scar the Martyr and the vocalist named as Henry Derek. On May 5, 2016, Jordison announced that the project had been disbanded.\n\nOn May 5, 2016 Joey Jordison announced in an interview on Sirius XM that he has launched a new band called Vimic.\n\nOn May 20, 2016 Joey Jordison announced a new extreme metal band Sinsaenum, dual fronted by Mayhem and Sunn O)))'s Attila Csihar along with Dååth and former Chimaira keyboardist Sean Zatorsky. It also includes Jordison on drum duties, DragonForce bassist Frédéric Leclercq on guitar, Stéphane Buriez from Loudblast on guitar and Seth's Heimoth on bass. They announced the launch of their debut album 'Echoes Of The Tortured' on July 29, and released their first single 'Army Of Chaos' on earMUSIC's YouTube channel. The second album, called 'Repulsion for Humanity', was released on August 10, 2018.\n\nIn 2001, Jordison worked on a remix of \"The Fight Song\" by Marilyn Manson. Jordison also appeared in the music video for Manson's cover of \"Tainted Love.\" Later in the year, Manson revealed that Jordison had been working with him on his album \"The Golden Age of Grotesque\". Jordison had in fact worked on guitars but the track did not appear on the album. In 2004, Jordison appeared on OTEP's album \"House of Secrets\", drumming on six tracks for the album. In 2008, Jordison appeared on Puscifer's album \"\"V\" is for Viagra. The Remixes\", with a remix of the track \"Drunk With Power.\" In 2010, Jordison recorded four additional songs with Rob Zombie for the re-release of his latest album \"Hellbilly Deluxe 2\".\n\nJordison has performed with other bands, solely as a touring member. While preparing for the Download Festival in 2004, Metallica drummer Lars Ulrich was hospitalized for an unknown illness. Metallica's vocalist James Hetfield searched amongst other bands performing at the festival to find a replacement for Ulrich; Jordison, Flemming Larsen (Ulrich's drum technician) and Dave Lombardo of Slayer volunteered. Jordison performed on 8 of the 13 songs that made up the set and was called the band's \"hero of the day\". In late 2004, Jordison performed with Satyricon on their tour of the United States when drummer Frost was refused entry into the country. The tour was cut short after guitarists Steinar Gundersen and Arnt Gronbech—who were also only touring members—were charged with sexually assaulting a fan in Toronto. In 2006, Jordison joined Ministry for their \"MasterBaTour 2006\", which consisted of sixty dates across the United States and Canada. He also appeared in the music video for their single \"Lies Lies Lies\". Korn recruited Jordison in 2007 to join them on tour when drummer David Silveria went on hiatus from the band. He also appeared in the music video for their single \"Evolution\". While touring with Korn, Jordison set a record by becoming the first musician ever to perform on five different occasions at the Download Festival in England. Jordison also began touring with Rob Zombie after Tommy Clufetos withdrew from the band. Although the position was initially only meant for a couple of months, Jordison stayed with the band for almost a year until the culmination of Zombie's Australian tour when he announced that he would be leaving to focus his time on the Murderdolls and Slipknot.\n\nIn August 2004, Jordison became involved in Roadrunner United, a celebration of Roadrunner Records 25th anniversary. As one of four \"team captains\" who wrote and produced material for the album, Jordison said of the experience, \"I thought it was a great idea and was really excited about it, because it was a chance to work with a lot of artists that I really respected while I was growing up.\" In 2007, 3 Inches of Blood recruited Jordison to produce their album \"Fire Up the Blades\". Jordison is a fan of the band and when he heard that Roadrunner wanted to have some demos produced he said; \"I was the first one to jump at it, I'm like; 'I want this fucking band'.\" From these demos the label commissioned a record. Vocalist Jamie Hopper said of Jordison, \"he's an amazing producer\".\n\nJordison endorses Pearl drums, hardware, rack system, pedals and percussion, Paiste cymbals, Evans drumheads, Pro-Mark drumsticks, ddrum triggers and Roland electronics. \n\nIn an interview (at the beginning of January 2018, published in the March 2018 edition of Rhythm Magazine) Joey talks about suffering from acute transverse myelitis with symptoms starting in 2010, but not being diagnosed for a long time. This progressed to the loss of use of his left leg. He has recovered fully with the aid of medical help and intensive work in the gym.\n\nIn August 2010 Jordison was voted the best drummer of the previous 25 years by readers of \"Rhythm\" magazine, ahead of drummers such as Mike Portnoy, Neil Peart, Phil Collins, and Dave Grohl. When asked to comment he stated \"I'm at a loss for words. This is beyond unbelievable. Something like this reminds me every day why I continue to do this.\"\n\nAs voted on by 6,500 drummers worldwide, Jordison won the Drummies Award for Best Metal drummer in 2010, while Mike Portnoy won the award for Best Progressive Rock drummer.\n\nIn September 2013 Jordison was named the world's greatest metal drummer by readers of Loudwire.\n\nOn 2016 Jordison was honored with The Golden God Award at the Metal Hammer Golden Gods Awards.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWith Sinsaenum \n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2327605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327605", "title": "Spider-Man: Chapter One", "text": "Spider-Man: Chapter One\n\nSpider-Man: Chapter One is an American comic book miniseries starring Spider-Man published by Marvel Comics for 13 issues (#1-12, with a #0 issue (April 1999) added between issues #6 (April 1999) and 7 (May 1999)) from December 1998 to October 1999. The entire miniseries was written and illustrated by John Byrne.\n\n\"Spider-Man: Chapter One\" #1-6, 0 and 7-12 (December 1998-October 1999) was a modern-day adaptation of many, but not all, of these particular issues that chronicled the early days of Spider-Man's superhero career:\n\nThe miniseries was a modest success. Some comic book fans objected to Byrne's perceived tampering with the classic Spider-Man stories produced by his creators Stan Lee and Steve Ditko and complained that the original 1960s stories did not require any updating at all. The editorial intention of the miniseries, however, was to be a re-telling of the character's early stories that was designed to attract new readers. Byrne would soon be drawing the relaunch of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" title with writer Howard Mackie.\n\n\"Spider-Man: Chapter One\", though not a sales record-breaker (possibly because it was sold only through the comic book direct market, which limited its exposure to potential new readers), finished out its run as planned, even adding a #0 issue (April 1999) between issues #6 (April 1999) and 7 (May 1999). Based on the miniseries' success, Byrne was later asked to do a second miniseries to be called \"Spider-Man: Chapter Two\", but refused the offer.\n\nSince Byrne left the Spider-Man titles, his successors have shied away from making any references to the miniseries, and according to \"Official Index to the Marvel Universe\" #1-14 (January 2009-February 2010), it is now Marvel's stance that the original stories have regained their canonical status.\n\n\"Spider-Man: Chapter One\" also brought controversy over the former ongoing series \"Untold Tales of Spider-Man\" (#1-25 (September 1995-October 1997); also including two \"Annual\"s (\"Annual '96\" and \"Annual '97\"), a #-1 issue (July 1997) that occurred between issues #22 (June 1997) and 23 (August 1997), a one-shot issue called \"Untold Tales of Spider-Man: Strange Encounter\" (February 1999) and stories in \"Amazing Fantasy\" #16-18 (December 1995-March 1996 (which preceded the series)) and \"The Amazing Spider-Man Annual\" #37 (2010 (which ended it)), where all the stories presented therein were brand-new stories also set in the early days of Spider-Man's superhero career, but taking place in-between the original stories by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko. The non-canonical \"Spider-Man: Chapter One\" ignores the canonical continuity of \"Untold Tales of Spider-Man\" entirely.\n\nSpider-Man's early adventures would be retold, again with a modern twist, in \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", an ongoing series that Marvel launched in October 2000 and that lasted until June 2011. This series sidestepped the canon/non-canon continuity question by setting its stories in an entirely new alternate universe (Earth-1610).\n\nYet another modern re-telling of the early Spider-Man stories came in 2004 with the launch of \"Marvel Age Spider-Man\" #1-20 (May 2004-March 2005), later relaunched as \"Marvel Adventures Spider-Man\" #1-61 (May 2005-May 2010). These two series, which were each aimed at young readers, also retold many of Lee and Ditko's original stories in all 20 issues of the \"Marvel Age Spider-Man\" series and the first three of the 61 issues of the \"Marvel Adventures Spider-Man\" series (as \"Spider-Man: Chapter One\" did), although both of the contemporary-set series were clearly meant to take place outside of the mainstream Marvel Universe continuity.\n\nA trade paperback collecting the entire miniseries was published in January 2012 ().\n\nA few of the supervillains' costumes from the miniseries were later briefly used for their mainstream Marvel Universe counterparts in a two-part story called \"Another Return of the Sinister Six\", which was chronicled in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" (vol. 2) #12 (December 1999; Part 1) and \"\" (vol. 2) #12 (December 1999; Part 2).\n\nIn \"Hulk Annual 1999\", Byrne revised the Hulk's origin, similar to what was done in \"Spider-Man: Chapter One\". In this revised origin, the gamma bomb that was being tested was now a gamma laser, and a Skrull was responsible for Rick Jones' presence on the base during the test. The Skrull also disguised himself as Igor Rasminsky (Drenkov in the original story), a fellow scientist working on the project. The contemporary setting removed the Cold War context of the original story and served as a tie-in to the miniseries \"\" #12-1 (March 2000-February 2001), created by Roger Stern and Byrne.\n\nThis storyline (which includes \"Spider-Man: Chapter One\" #1-6, 0 and 7-12, \"Hulk Annual 1999\" and \"Marvel: The Lost Generation\" #12-1) is currently designated as being set in the universe of Earth-98121 and is not part of the mainstream Marvel Universe of Earth-616.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327614", "title": "The Music Tapes", "text": "The Music Tapes\n\nThe Music Tapes is an experimental pop music and performance art project of Elephant 6 member Julian Koster (also of Neutral Milk Hotel). The Music Tapes is characterized by unusual orchestrations (such as singing saw and bowed banjo), the use of musique concrète and narrative storytelling, vintage home-recording practices, and musical inventions (like the 7-foot Tall Metronome and Static the Singing Television). They are also known for their unique live performances, such as the Caroling and Lullaby tours that bring them into the homes of fans, and theatrical shows like The Traveling Imaginary, which takes place in a circus tent.\n\nThe Music Tapes started life as a creative outlet for the 16-year-old Koster, who would create tapes of songs and stories, as means of escapism, which he would share with his friends, culminating in 'The American Phoam Rubber Co. Symphony Orchestra Proudly Presents the 2nd Silly Putty Symphony for Edison Wax Cylinder', which was essentially tape collages. In 1989, Koster formed the band Chocolate U.S.A., a more conventional indie pop band, which also included Bill Doss and Eric Harris, later (along with Koster, though somewhat unofficially) members of The Olivia Tremor Control. The band released two full albums, \"All Jets Are Gonna Fall Today\" and \"Smoke Machine\", before splitting in 1994, after which Koster chose to focus his creative efforts on the Music Tapes once more.\n\nTo date, the Music Tapes have released three proper full albums. The first, \"1st Imaginary Symphony For Nomad\" came out in 1999. A partial concept record, among its themes are the power of television, and the death of 1950's actor George Reeves, who played the superhero Superman, who Koster was entranced with as a child. The album took many years to assemble, being recorded in closets and cupboards, and mixing straightforward pop songs with collage and storytelling. Its release was followed by the \"House Capsule Tour\" in which Julian was joined by fellow Music Tapes Robbie Cucchiaro and Eric Harris.\n\nThe Music Tapes also released three 7\" records during this time-\"Please Hear Mr. Flight Control\", \"The Television Tells Us\" (which both pre-date \"1st Imaginary Symphony For Nomad\"), as well as a split 7\" entitled \"The Music Tapes and Dad\", with Dennis Koster, Julian's father and a renowned flamenco guitarist.\n\nThe Music Tapes were quiet for a number of years before \"Music Tapes For Clouds and Tornadoes\" was released on August 19, 2008 via Merge Records. It contained 14 songs, two with videos. Some of these songs existed back around the time of \"1st Imaginary Symphony for Nomad\".\n\nThe Music Tapes played Athens Popfest 2008 and participated in the Elephant 6 Holiday Surprise Tour that fall, which was organized by Koster himself. In the winter, Julian Koster performed some Music Tapes songs on a caroling tour (see Julian Koster for more information). Merge also released \"The Singing Saw at Christmastime\" on October 7. The album featured 12 Christmas songs performed on singing saw and was released under Julian Koster's name rather than The Music Tapes.\n\nFollowing \"Music Tapes For Clouds and Tornadoes\", the band began work on a tripartite \"Third Imaginary Symphony\", announcing that \"Mary's Voice\" would be the first of the three albums. The album was preceded in 2011 by \"Purim's Shadows (The Dark Tours the World)\", an EP including the single \"Nantasket\".\nThe band was chosen by Jeff Mangum of Neutral Milk Hotel to perform at the All Tomorrow's Parties festival that he curated in March 2012 in Minehead, England.\nMerge released \"Mary's Voice\" on September 4, 2012. According to Koster, the album was written and recorded in a carnival tent. Koster brought a larger version of said tent, the Traveling Imaginary, on the road for performances beginning in the winter of 2012-2013. The Traveling Imaginary is said to be the first incarnation of a series of larger-scale Music Tapes projects undertaken by the Orbiting Human Circus, a newly official artistic foundation led by Koster as Artistic Director. \n\nAs \"Mary's Voice\" is said to be the first of three albums comprising the \"Third Imaginary Symphony\", further albums from the series are anticipated. The band's album \"The 2nd Imaginary Symphony for Cloudmaking\", a story album consisting of the story of a boy named Nigh, who lives with his grandmother who is blind, was completed in 2001 but not officially released until 2017. The album features instrumentation by Koster to back the spoken word recording by Brian Dewan. The album has actually been finished since 2001 and put through two CD-R circulations and played on WNYC's Spinning on Air, but had yet to see an official release until 15 years later. About this, Julian stated: \"An official release shall be arranged for, but it's not yet as, in truth, I've been too wrapped up in making new things.\" The album was eventually released in July 2017 through Koster's podcast The Orbiting Human Circus. Another long-rumored record is the as-yet-untitled 'singing saw symphony' with Julian's father on flamenco guitar, though this has yet to see the light of day, and is under slow progress. Lastly, though certainly not least, is a film project, for which Julian was working with director John Cameron Mitchell, known for his film \"Hedwig and the Angry Inch\". The film was set to be an animation, with music by Koster, which iwa also about the boy named Nigh, although not many other details are known. All of these projects have been in the works since the late 1990s, and it is currently unknown whether any will be officially released. Mitchell, who has since worked on several other projects, later collaborated with Koster as a cast member on his \"Orbiting Human Circus\" narrative podcast.\n\n\n\n\nThe band also submitted a version of \"All Tomorrow's Parties\" to the Victor compilation album \"\", released in 2000\n\n"}
{"id": "2327617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327617", "title": "Hello Rockview", "text": "Hello Rockview\n\nHello Rockview is the third studio album by ska punk band Less Than Jake, released on October 6, 1998. Produced by Howard Benson, it is the band's second and final album on Capitol Records, and recorded at Mirror Image Studios in Gainesville, Florida. The album is the first to feature trombonist Pete Anna, who joined the band during its recording. The album is dedicated in memory of Niki Wood.\n\nThe album yielded two singles, \"History of a Boring Town\" and \"All My Best Friends Are Metalheads\", with \"History of a Boring Town\" reaching #39 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks Chart.\n\nThe lyrics of \"Hello Rockview\" follow four years of drummer and lyricist Vinnie Fiorello's life when arranged in a non-studio order and is named after one of Vinnie's oldest friends who was imprisoned at Rockview State Correctional Institution.\n\nThe CD booklet had the unorthodox format of a comic book. It was illustrated by Steve Vance, who would later illustrate the song artwork for \"The Ghosts of Me and You\" on \"Anthem\". Stylistically, it is similar to Dick Tracy. Each page is a separate song, with all dialog, thoughts, and captions being the lyrics to each song. The lyrics themselves all appear in proper order, but the order of the individual songs is different from that of the track list.\n\n\"NME\" listed the album as one of \"20 Pop Punk Albums Which Will Make You Nostalgic\", saying that it is \"A soundtrack to shoving your friends, listening to 'All My Best Friends Are Metalheads' and wondering how you ever liked pop punk which didn't have a trombone.\"\n\n(some versions of \"Hello Rockview\" came with a bonus disc of Less Than Jake's 1996 release \"Losing Streak\")\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327626", "title": "USS Bellatrix", "text": "USS Bellatrix\n\nUSS \"Bellatrix\" may refer to:.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327636", "title": "A Long Day's Night", "text": "A Long Day's Night\n\nA Long Day's Night is a live album by American hard rock band Blue Öyster Cult, recorded in Chicago, Illinois, on 21 June 2002. It is so named because that day was 2002's summer solstice, the longest day of the year.\n\nThe concert was released as a DVD and a CD; the CD does not include seven of the songs included on the DVD-release (\"E.T.I.,\" \"Harvester Of Eyes,\" \"Flaming Telepaths,\" \"Then Came The Last Days Of May,\" \"ME 262\" and the encore songs \"Dominance And Submission\" and \"The Red And The Black\"), while the CD-release featured \"Astronomy\", not available on the DVD.\n\nIn 2004, 10 tracks from this concert were released again as \"Extended Versions: The Encore Collection\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327640", "title": "Monpazier", "text": "Monpazier\n\nMonpazier is a commune in the Dordogne department in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in southwest France. The village is a member of the \"Les Plus Beaux Villages de France\" (\"The most beautiful villages of France\") association.\n\nIts inhabitants are called \"Monpaziérois\".\n\nMonpazier is a 13th-century bastide town begun in 1285, founded and built by King Edward I of England, who was also Duke of Gascony. It was home to Eleanor of Aquitaine and Richard II of England for a time (query - Eleanor dead before 1285). Nearby is the Château du Biron and the Dordogne River.\n\nThe parish church of Monpazier is St. Dominique, built from the 13th through the 16th centuries. The church was built in a rectangular parcel and adjoins with a corner of the marketplace. The apse was added in the fifteenth century and the choir was believed to have been completed in 1506.\n\nDuring the summer months, Monpazier hosts a number of events of interest to tourists, including a cycle race around the bastide (usually at the start of August), a Medieval day ('fete medieval'), a Kermesse and several specialist markets. Each July the Chorale of Monpazier gives a concert in the church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327651", "title": "Magic Carpet 2", "text": "Magic Carpet 2\n\nMagic Carpet 2: The Netherworlds is a 1995 video game, the sequel to the \"Magic Carpet\". It was developed by Bullfrog and published by Electronic Arts. It was re-released in 2013 on GOG.com with support for Windows and macOS.\n\nThe apprentice's master, who died after unleashing his deadly spell, was being spied upon by the Netherworld's ruler, Vissiluth, who is now intent on conquering the world of the living. It's once again up to this apprentice to stop him, by battling this demon.\n\nThe NPC wizards are now considered to be Vissiluth's lackeys. They are all based in a city just before Vissiluth's seat of power. After the enemy wizards are vanquished, the apprentice takes an underground passage to reach Vissiluth's citadel. After the apprentice destroys the citadel, Vissiluth emerges and the two do battle. Upon emerging victorious, a volcano spews out mana in all different colours.\n\n\"Magic Carpet 2\" fixed many of the design complaints present in the first \"Magic Carpet\". The basic concept of the game remains the same as \"Magic Carpet\", with the player being able to build a castle, collect mana, destroy creatures for their mana and battle rival sorcerers.\n\nIt featured the addition of night-time levels, and underground levels, which not only helped alleviate the repetitiveness of the preceding game, but also accompanied the storyline progression, which was mapped out before each level. Underground levels, however, do not have rival wizards. There are also several secret entrances to reach hidden levels, where the player can gain more spells and experience.\n\nAlso unlike its predecessor, the game proceeded by completing various missions such as reaching checkpoints and destroying specific buildings/monsters, rather than just simple accumulation of mana.\n\nThe multiplayer mode supported both modem and local area network play.\n\nA version for the Panasonic M2 was in the works, but it never released due to the system's cancellation.\n\nA \"Next Generation\" critic assessed that despite the improvements to the interface, addition of level objectives, modifications to the game engine, and improved graphics, \"Magic Carpet 2\" plays the same as the original \"Magic Carpet\". Concluding that \"if you loved the first \"Magic Carpet\", this one is definitely for you\", he gave it four out of five stars.\n"}
{"id": "2327654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327654", "title": "Field Marshals (Philippines)", "text": "Field Marshals (Philippines)\n\nField Marshal of the Philippines was a rank created in 1936 to be held by Douglas MacArthur.\n\nUS Army General Douglas MacArthur was the first and only field marshal in the history of the Philippine Army, a position he held while also acting as the Military Advisor to the Commonwealth Government of the Philippines with a rank of major general. President Quezon conferred the rank of field marshal on 24 August 1936 and MacArthur's duty included the supervision of the creation of the Philippines nation-state.\n\nMacArthur was accorded the rank as Military Advisor to the Commonwealth Government of the Philippines, which retained his services to form an army in response to the growing danger from Japan and the increasing likelihood of war in the Pacific.\n\nMacArthur retired from the United States Army as a major-general, having previously served as a full general while Chief of Staff of the United States Army. President Manuel L. Quezon then hired him as a military advisor and commissioned him a Field Marshal in the Philippine Army, a rank which had not previously existed. (MacArthur's wife found the situation amusing and often remarked that MacArthur had gone from holding the highest rank in the United States Army to holding the highest rank in a non-existent army.)\n\nPresident Quezon officially conferred the title of Field Marshal on MacArthur in a ceremony at Malacañan Palace on August 24, 1936. He was presented at that time with a gold baton and a unique uniform. Although unofficially considered as the five-star rank in the Armed Forces of the Philippines, MacArthur wore no special insignia as Field Marshal of the Philippines, except for a modification to his army officer's cap. To the standard gold-trimmed visor of a United States general's cap, MacArthur added gilt trim to the front body of the cap, above the visor. MacArthur referred to this modified headdress as his \"Philippine Field Marshal's cap\" and wore it for the duration of World War II and into the Korean War. However, the modified army headdress was against regulations, and MacArthur never officially obtained permission to wear this as a part of his uniform.\n\nOn December 31, 1937, MacArthur first retired from the U.S. Army and the Philippine Army. He ceased to represent the United States as military adviser to the government but remained in the Philippines as Quezon's adviser in a civilian capacity.\n\nIn July 1941, MacArthur was recalled to active duty as Supreme Allied Commander South West Pacific Area. For the duration of the war he continued to wear the \"Field Marshal's cap\".\n\nEmilio Aguinaldo, the first President of the Philippines, held an equivalent rank of five-star general under the title \"Generalissimo\" and \"Minister/Field Marshal\" as the first Commander-in-Chief of the AFP.\n\nAfter 1946, the rank of Field Marshal disappeared from the Philippine military and today is obsolete (the highest rank now obtainable is that of four-star general). In theory, the rank could again be conferred, but this would only be in the event of the Philippines' entering into a major war.\n"}
{"id": "2327680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327680", "title": "Gordon Gekko", "text": "Gordon Gekko\n\nGordon Gekko is a fictional character in the 1987 film \"Wall Street\" and its 2010 sequel \"\", both directed by Oliver Stone. Gekko was portrayed by actor Michael Douglas, whose performance in the first film won him an Oscar for Best Actor.\n\nCo-written by Stone and screenwriter Stanley Weiser, Gekko is said to be based loosely on several actual financiers, including Stone's own father Louis Stone and corporate raider Asher Edelman. According to Edward R. Pressman, producer of the film, \"Originally, there was no one individual who Gekko was modeled on,\" but added that \"Gekko was partly Milken\", who was the \"Junk Bond King\" of the 1980s.\n\nIn 2003, the American Film Institute named Gordon Gekko No. 24 on its Top 50 movie villains of all time.\n\nGekko has become a symbol in popular culture for unrestrained greed (with the signature line, \"Greed, for lack of a better word, is good\"), often in fields outside corporate finance.\n\nOn September 25, 2008, Michael Douglas, acting as a UN ambassador for peace, was at the 2008 session of the United Nations General Assembly. Reporters sought to ask him off-topic questions about Gekko. He was asked whether he \"bore some responsibility for the behavior of the greed merchants who had brought the world to its knees\". Trying to return to topic, Douglas suggested that \"the same level of passion Wall Street investors showed should also apply to getting rid of nuclear weapons.\" Douglas was also asked to compare nuclear Armageddon with the \"financial Armageddon on Wall Street\". After one reporter inquired, \"Are you saying, Gordon, that greed is not good?\" Douglas stated, \"I'm not saying that. And my name is not Gordon. It's a character I played 20 years ago.\"\n\nOn October 8, 2008, the character was referenced by Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd in his speech, \"The Children of Gordon Gekko\" concerning the financial crisis of 2007–2010. Rudd stated \"It is perhaps time now to admit that we did not learn the full lessons of the greed-is-good ideology. And today we are still cleaning up the mess of the 21st-century children of Gordon Gekko.\"\n\nIn the October 30, 2008 episode of American comedy series \"The Office\", Ryan Howard's Halloween costume is Gordon Gekko.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone cited Gekko's \"Greed is good\" slogan in a speech to the Italian Senate, saying that the free market had been replaced by a \"greed market\", and also blamed such a mentality for the 2007–2008 financial crisis.\n\nThe FBI has used Michael Douglas' Gekko for an anti-insider trading campaign.\n\nIn 2013, psychiatrists Dr. Samuel Leistedt and Dr. Paul Linkowski published a study of the portrayal of psychopaths in film, and cited the Gekko character as a realistic portrayal of the successful, \"corporate psychopath\": \"In terms of a ‘successful psychopath,\" they write, \"Gordon Gekko from Wall Street (1987) is probably one of the most interesting, manipulative, psychopathic fictional characters to date.\"\n\nThe character Gordon Gekko is commemorated in the scientific name of a species of gecko, \"Cyrtodactylus gordongekkoi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327684", "title": "Mark Jackson (musician)", "text": "Mark Jackson (musician)\n\nMark Jackson is a drummer, electronic percussionist and keyboard player, formerly a member of futurepop act VNV Nation. He is also an established professional Club DJ and remix artist. In November 2017, it was announced that he was leaving VNV Nation to pursue other projects.\n\nIn addition to his work with VNV Nation, Mark has been involved in numerous artistic collaborations with other musicians and producers in the electronic music scenes. Notably including vocal work with Rotersand, Reaper, Oliver Huntemann and The Parallel Project as well as live work and guest appearances with acts including Combichrist, Straftanz, Apoptygma Berzerk and Kloq.\n\nMark originates from Essex, England and worked as a Software developer, internet programmer and web designer for CompuServe, MSN and Microsoft. He played drums and keyboards as part of the electronic duo Manzero (1991–1993) and was vocalist and front-man for Faith Regime (1993–1995) before becoming a full-time musician with VNV Nation in 1996. He now lives in South-West France in the Basque Country region.\n\nA hobby of his is raising tarantulas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327685", "title": "1934 FIFA World Cup qualification", "text": "1934 FIFA World Cup qualification\n\nThe 1934 FIFA World Cup was the first World Cup for which teams had to qualify (in the inaugural World Cup of 1930, the participating teams were invited to play by FIFA). When 32 teams entered the 1934 competition, FIFA organized qualification (or preliminary) rounds to select 16 teams for the final tournament. Even Italy, the host of the World Cup, had to qualify (the only time the hosts had to qualify, and one of only two occasions on which the hosts have ever taken part in the qualification process), The previous champions, Uruguay, refused to defend their title because many European nations declined to take part in the 1930 FIFA World Cup held in Uruguay.\n\nA total of 27 teams played at least one qualifying match. A total of 27 qualifying matches were played, and 141 goals were scored (an average of 5.22 per match). The first match, between Sweden and Estonia, began in Stockholm on 11 June 1933, with Swedish player Knut Kroon scoring the first goal. The final match was played in Rome only three days before the start of the tournament on 24 May 1934, as late entrants the United States beat Mexico in a play-off to become the sixteenth and final team to qualify.\n\nListed below are the dates and results of the qualification rounds.\n\nChile, Peru and Turkey all withdrew before qualifying began, while Denmark, Finland, Latvia and Norway all withdrew before draw.\n\nThe 32 teams were divided into 12 groups, based on geographical considerations, as follows:\n\nThe 12 groups had different rules, as follows:\n\nKey:\n\nEstonia v Lithuania was not played since neither team could qualify with a win.\n\nSweden qualified.\n\n11-1 on aggregate; Spain qualified.\n\nItaly qualified, as Greece declined to play the second match.\n\nBulgaria withdrew, and the remaining matches were not played since Hungary and Austria were already assured of the top two spots.\n\nHungary and Austria qualified.\n\nPoland were unable to travel to Prague for the second match as the Polish government denied the team visas for political reasons. Therefore, Czechoslovakia qualified.\n\nRomania and Switzerland qualified.\n\nNetherlands and Belgium qualified (Belgium finished above the Irish Free State on goal average).\n\nGermany v France was not played since both teams were already assured of the top two spots.\n\nGermany and France qualified.\n\nPeru withdrew, so Brazil qualified automatically.\n\nChile withdrew, so Argentina qualified automatically.\n\n10-2 on aggregate; Cuba advanced to the Second Round.\n\n12-3 on aggregate; Mexico advanced to the Final Round.\n\nUnited States qualified.\n\nThe Palestine football team consisted exclusively of Jewish and British players. FIFA states in reference to the 1930s Palestine Mandate team that the 'Palestine team' that had participated in previous competitions in the 1930s was actually the forerunner of today's Israel team and as such bears no relation to the national team of the Palestinian authority. However, the region currently known as Palestine is considered \"one of the first Asian teams to compete in the FIFA World Cup qualifiers\".\n\n11-2 on aggregate; Egypt qualified.\n\nOnly six of the teams qualifying for the final competition – Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, France, Romania, and the USA – had already attended the World Cup in 1930. 5 of the 16 teams subsequently failed to qualify for the 1938 finals: Argentina, Austria, Egypt, Spain and United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327686", "title": "David Almond", "text": "David Almond\n\nDavid Almond FRSL (born 15 May 1951) is a British author who has written several novels for children and young adults from 1998, each one receiving critical acclaim.\n\nHe is one of thirty children's writers, and one of three from the UK, to win the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Award.\nFor the 70th anniversary of the British Carnegie Medal in 2007, his debut novel \"Skellig\" (1998) was named one of the top ten Medal-winning works, selected by a panel to compose the ballot for a public election of the all-time favourite. It ranked third in the public vote from that shortlist.\n\nAlmond was born in Newcastle upon Tyne in 1951 and raised in neighbouring Felling in Gateshead. His father was an office manager in an engineering factory and his mother a shorthand typist. He was raised Catholic at St Joseph's Catholic Academy and had four sisters and one brother. As a child, he dreamed of becoming a writer and \"wrote stories and stitched them into little books.\" He describes his childhood as one with \"much joy\" but also \"much sadness,\" losing his younger sister and father at a young age.\n\nHe was educated at the University of East Anglia and Newcastle Polytechnic. After graduating, Almond worked as a teacher for five years; he then moved to an artists' commune in Norfolk and concentrated on his writing. He returned to Newcastle and worked as a part-time special-needs teacher while editing the literary journal \"Panurge\".\n\nAlmond published his first collection of stories in 1985, \"Sleepless Nights.\" His second collection, \"A Kind of Heaven\", appeared in 1987. He then wrote a series of stories which drew on his own childhood, and which would eventually be published as \"Counting Stars\", published by Hodder in 2000. In the next seven years, four more novels by Almond made the Carnegie Medal shortlist of five to eight books. \nSince \"Skellig\" his novels, stories, and plays have also brought international success and widespread critical acclaim. They are \"Kit's Wilderness\" (1999), \"Heaven Eyes\" (2000), \"Secret Heart\" (2001), \"The Fire Eaters\" (2003), \"Clay\" (2005), \"Jackdaw Summer\" (2008), and \"My Name is Mina\" (2010), a prequel to \"Skellig\". He collaborates with leading artists and illustrators, including Polly Dunbar (\"My Dad's a Birdman\" and \"The Boy Who Climbed Into the Moon\"); Stephen Lambert (\"Kate, the Cat and the Moon\";) and Dave McKean (\"The Savage\", \"Slog's Dad\" and the forthcoming \"Mouse Bird Snake Wolf\"). His plays include \"Wild Girl, Wild Boy\", \"My Dad's a Birdman\", \"Noah & the Fludd\" and the stage adaptations of \"Skellig\" and \"Heaven Eyes\".\n\nAlmond's novel \"The True Tale of the Monster Billy Dean\" (2011) was published in two editions: Adult (Penguin Viking); and Young Adult (Puffin). 2012 publications include \"The Boy Who Swam With Piranhas\" (illustrated by Oliver Jeffers). In 2013, \"Mouse Bird Snake Wolf\" (illustrated by Dave McKean) was published.\n\nHis works are highly philosophical and thus appeal to children and adults alike. Recurring themes throughout include the complex relationships between apparent opposites (such as life and death, reality and fiction, past and future); forms of education; growing up and adapting to change; the nature of the \"self\". He won the Hans Christian Andersen Award for his writing, which biennially recognises the \"lasting contribution\" of one living author. (He had been one of five finalists in 2008.)\nThe jury president, Ms Zohreh Ghaeni from Iran, observed that Almond \"writes about children in crisis, while continuously giving hope to them\", and cited in particular his first two novels, \"Skellig\" and \"Kit's Wilderness\". She called \"bibliotherapy\" such as she attributed to Almond \"a vital activity for all children around the world.\"\nWhen it named him a finalist months before, the international jury cited his \"deeply philosophical novels that appeal to children and adults alike, and encourage readers by his use of magic realism\".\nFor his body of work Almond was also a British nominee for the Astrid Lindgren Award at the same time.\nHe is Professor of Creative Writing at Bath Spa University.\n\nAlmond's major awards include the Hans Christian Andersen Award, Carnegie Medal (\"Skellig\"); two Whitbread Awards; the U.S. Michael L. Printz Award for young-adult books (\"Kit's Wilderness\"); the Smarties Prize, ages 9–11 years (\"The Fire-Eaters\"); the U.S. Boston Globe–Horn Book Award, Children's Fiction (\"The Fire-Eaters\"); the Guardian Children's Fiction Prize (\"A Song for Ella Grey\");\nthe Katholischer Kinder-und Jugendbuchpreis (Germany); and a Silver Pencil and three Silver Kisses (Netherlands).\n\nThe \"Skellig\" prequel \"My Name is Mina\" (Hodder, 2010) was a finalist for three major annual awards: the Guardian Children's Fiction Prize,\nthe Carnegie Medal,\nand the (German) Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis.\n\n\n\n\n\nAlmond now lives in Newcastle upon Tyne. He has a daughter, Freya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327689", "title": "Michelle DaRosa", "text": "Michelle DaRosa\n\nMichelle DaRosa (née Nolan) is an American musician, formerly of the band Straylight Run, for whom she was a vocalist, guitarist, and pianist.\n\nMichelle DaRosa was born Michelle Nolan on September 13, 1980, in Rockville Centre, Nassau County, New York to Tom and Linda Nolan. Like her brother and former bandmate, John Nolan, she grew up in Baldwin, Nassau County, New York. She attended South Shore Christian School in Levittown, New York for her freshman and second years of high school. She then attended Baldwin High School in Baldwin, New York for her junior and senior years. During her junior and senior years of high school, Michelle also attended Nassau Tech in Westbury, New York to study cosmetology.\n\nShe provided background vocals for two of the songs off of Taking Back Sunday's debut album, \"Tell All Your Friends\" (\"Bike Scene\" and \"Ghost Man on Third\"). Also, Michelle was formerly a nanny, hairdresser, and a ballet dancer. She married fellow musician Jeff DaRosa (of the Dropkick Murphys) on October 6, 2006, and has since taken his last name. They live together in Boston.\n\nShe has been confused with another Michelle Nolan, a queer Seattle musician who has played bass for the bands Telepathic Liberation Army, Chromatics and Shoplifting.\n\nIn January 2006, Michelle made an appearance on MTV's \"Total Request Live\", singing back-up vocals for Coheed and Cambria's song \"The Suffering\". Michelle also contributed vocals on the song \"Lightning Strikes Twice in New York\" by the band Men, Women and Children.\n\nOn June 3, 2008, Michelle left Straylight Run on friendly terms to pursue a solo career. \nHer new band, Destry, featured Shaun Cooper, bassist of Straylight Run, and Sam Means, guitarist of The Format.\n\nShaun Cooper and Sam Means have since left Destry. Tyler Odom (ex-Northstar) has taken the place of Means, and Jeff DaRosa (Dropkick Murphys) can be seen on bass in place of Shaun Cooper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327691", "title": "Rosa Martinez", "text": "Rosa Martinez\n\nRosa Martínez (b. Soria, Spain) is an independent curator, art critic and international art advisor based in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nAs an independent curator, Rosa Martínez has organised international exhibitions, including the 51st Venice Biennale with \"Always a Little Further\" at the Arsenale (2005). The title of this exhibition was taken from a Corto Maltese book written by the Venetian-writer Hugo Pratt. In her curatorial statement Martínez elaborates on this by stating: \"Taking a fictional character as inspiration is a way of affirming that art is an imaginary construct and that fantasy helps us towards a better understanding of reality\".\n\nAdditionally, in 1997 she curated the 5th International Istanbul Biennial \"On Life, Beauty, Translations and other Difficulties\" and curated the exhibition \"Chacun à son gout\", which celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao (2007).\n\nAs an art advisor, Rosa Martínez has broadened the collection of the Istanbul Museum of Modern Art, where she was the Chief Curator from 2004 to 2007. Her collaboration with the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in 2007 helped to update its contemporary collection, including works by outstanding young artists. In 2009, Martínez contributed to a publication that shed light on significant works from the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao collection in different historical and artistic contexts.\n\nAs an art critic, she is a regular contributor to several newspapers and art journals, notably \"Le Monde diplomatique en español\", \"Flash Art International\", \"El País\", \"Atlántica\", \"Letra Internacional\" and \"La Guía del Ocio\". She has also written numerous essays for artists' catalogues.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327692", "title": "Robert Holmes", "text": "Robert Holmes\n\nRobert Holmes may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327712", "title": "Poul-Erik Høyer Larsen", "text": "Poul-Erik Høyer Larsen\n\nPoul-Erik Høyer Larsen (born 20 September 1965) is the current President of the Badminton World Federation and a retired Danish badminton player who won major international singles titles in the 1990s, and ranks among Denmark's badminton greats.\n\nHøyer Larsen competed in three Summer Olympics. In Barcelona 1992 he was defeated in quarterfinals by Ardy Wiranata. In Atlanta 1996 he won the gold medal in the men's singles after beating Dong Jiong in the final. In 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney he lost in the opening round.\n\nHe also won two All-England Open Badminton Championships in 1995 and 1996, and the European Badminton Championships in 1992, 1994 and 1996.\n\nHøyer became President of Badminton Europe in 2010. In February 2007 he was nominated Vice-President of the Danmarks Badminton Forbund. On 18 May 2013 Høyer was elected President of the Badminton World Federation.\n\nThe World Badminton Grand Prix sanctioned by International Badminton Federation (IBF) from 1983 to 2006.\n\n\"Men's singles\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2327717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327717", "title": "Ilse Witch", "text": "Ilse Witch\n\nIlse Witch is a fantasy novel by American writer Terry Brooks, the first book in The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara fantasy trilogy. First published in 2000, it was the first novel in which Brooks described the use of futuristic technology, including airships as well as robots and lasers from the Old World. A conversation between the Druid Walker Boh and the Shade of Allanon that was edited from \"Ilse Witch\" was published as part of \"Unfettered\", a collection of fantasy short stories.\n\nSet 130 years after the events of the Heritage of Shannara series, the Free-born and the Federation are still at war. The story follows a quest organized by Walker Boh, the last surviving Shannara Druid. Thirty years before the story begins, the Elven prince Kael Elessedil led an expedition in search of a legendary magic which was said to be the most ancient and powerful in the world.\n\nAt the beginning of the narrative, Kael is found floating in the sea of the Blue Divide; a map is found with him, covered with mysterious symbols. Walker is the only man who can read them.\n\nBut there is another: the Ilse Witch, a beautiful but twisted young woman who is as practiced in magic as Walker himself. She will stop at nothing to possess the map and the magic it leads to. To stop her, Walker must find the magic first.\n\nThus begins the voyage of the sleek, swift airship, the \"Jerle Shannara\". The company chosen by Walker must fly into the face of unknown terrors while the Ilse Witch and her dark allies pursue.\n\nThe main characters are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2327721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327721", "title": "New Grass Revival (1972 album)", "text": "New Grass Revival (1972 album)\n\nNew Grass Revival is the most commonly used title of an album recorded and released in 1972 by the progressive bluegrass band New Grass Revival on the Starday label. This album was also released under the titles, The Arrival of the New Grass Revival and Today's Bluegrass.\n\nThe New Grass Revival released another album titled \"New Grass Revival\" in 1986; due to personnel changes only Sam Bush was on both.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327733", "title": "Voltaic Solidarity", "text": "Voltaic Solidarity\n\nVoltaic Solidarity (in French: \"Solidarité Voltaïque\") was a political alliance in Upper Volta formed after the territorial elections in 1957. SV was constituted by the Social Party for the Emancipation of the African Masses (PSEMA), African Popular Movement (MPA) and the Voltaic Democratic Movement (MDV). SV demanded the resignation of the vice-president of the territory, Ouezzin Coulibaly. A motion of no-confidence was called for, but four SV deputes sided with the government and the motion was defeated. One of those four deputies was Maurice Yaméogo, who joined the African Democratic Rally.\n\nIn 1958 SV joined the African Regroupment Party.\n\nSource: Englebert, Pierre. \"La Revolution Burkinabè\". Paris: L'Harmattan, 1986.\n"}
{"id": "2327737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327737", "title": "George Herbert Stancer", "text": "George Herbert Stancer\n\nGeorge Herbert Stancer OBE (b. Pocklington, Yorkshire, England, 17 April 1878 –d. October 1962) was a notable English racing cyclist of the late 19th century who became one of the most notable administrators of the British Cyclists' Touring Club (CTC) after World War I. He is commemorated by the annual juvenile 10-mile GHS individual time trial championship.\n\nStancer was born in Pocklington, a village 14 miles east of York in Yorkshire. His father owned and ran the local newspaper, \"The Pocklington Weekly News\" and at 14 Stancer wrote cycling articles for it. He became a member of the Yorkshire Road Club in 1898 and remained with the club until his death. Like his friend, Frederick Thomas Bidlake, Stancer favoured the tricycle. Stancer and L.S. Leake beat the Road Records Association London-Brighton and back record on tandem tricycle in 1910, with 5 hours 59 minutes 51 seconds.\n\nHe was the first president of the Tricycle Association from 1944–1950. He worked as a journalist, editor of \"Cycling\" magazine for nine years. In 1920, he took over as president of the Cyclists Touring Club at a time when membership had dwindled to 8,500. By the time he retired in 1945, membership had exceeded 50,000.\n\n\"The Bicycle\" wrote: \"The new broom, if it went to work in unspectacular fashion, swept exceedingly clean. The five-shilling [25p] subscription was doubled, and although many heads were shaken at the 'folly' of such policy, its success was never in doubt, and membership figures ascended into the fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, and thirty thousand classes.\"\n\nHe became president of the Road Records Association after 34 years on its executive committee. He was an opponent of the revival of massed racing on the road when it was proposed by the British League of Racing Cyclists. His fear, and that of the National Cyclists' Union, was that asking the police for permission to hold a race ended the freedom of cyclists to hold races, or at any rate lone races against the clock, without interference. Under the headline \"A hopeless revolt\", he wrote in Cycling:\n\nThe cycling importer and wholesaler, Ron Kitching, said of him: \"He was a very proper gentleman; he never said a wrong word or got overheated.\" Stancer was awarded the Bidlake Memorial Prize, one of British cycling's top honours, in 1943.\n\nAfter his death, a trust fund was established to promote and encourage young cyclists. A national schools 10-mile time trial championship was instituted, adopted in 1970 by the Road Time Trials Council (today Cycling Time Trials).\n\nGHS leisure rides are promoted annually by Yorkshire Cycling Federation on a Sunday near his birthday.\n\nThere is a seat commemorating Stancer in the F.T. Bidlake memorial garden at Girtford Bridge on the Great North Road near Sandy, Bedfordshire. Bidlake was at one time Stancer's tandem partner.\n"}
{"id": "2327738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327738", "title": "West End Bar", "text": "West End Bar\n\nThe West End Bar, also known for a time as the \"West End Gate\", was located on Broadway near 114th Street in Morningside Heights, Manhattan, New York City. From its establishment in 1911, the bar served as a popular gathering place for Columbia University students, faculty and administration (its slogan was \"Where Columbia Had Its First Beer\"). The bar was also a meeting place for many Beat Generation writers as well as many 1960's student activists when they attended the university.\n\nIn the early 1940s, in the formative days of the Beat Generation, students including Allen Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac, and Lucien Carr spent hours at the bar discussing their studies and their futures. In the 1960s, the bar was host to student activists upset about racial discrimination in the area and US foreign policy regarding Vietnam. Mark Rudd, who led the Columbia branch of Students for a Democratic Society and was a prominent member of the Weather Underground after his expulsion from the university in 1968, spent time at the bar while a student.\n\nAfter closing for a year and a half, it was leased from Columbia University by a group led by Jeff Spiegel and his wife Katie Gardner, a graduate of Columbia's School of Journalism. They renovated The West End, making an effort to have it look like everyone thought it might have looked as an old Victorian era bar/restaurant. They expanded one room for catering, parties and even beer pong, a basement room for live Jazz, and a large side dining room that could be used late night, after the kitchen was closed, by drinkers and revelers.\n\nThe West End was popular with students, Columbia faculty and staff. For four years from 1990-1994, Jazz historian Phil Schaap continued to run a jazz program there, featuring giants of Jazz from the swing era including, on its opening night, Buddy Tate and Branford Marsalis. The jazz program was later discontinued as a nightly feature. Schaap started the jazz program when he was an undergraduate at Columbia in the 1970s.\n\nIn 2004, The West End began brewing its own beers including its very popular, nearly 10% \"Ker O'Whack\", named for Columbia dropout and author, Jack Kerouac. The West End in 1990 also became a full service restaurant, including a widely popular Sunday brunch. It installed flat screen monitors for sports events. \"Playboy Magazine\" featured The West End as \"College Bar of the Month\" in its February 2005 issue.\n\nThe West End \"qua\" West End was sold in April 2006 and was replaced in late 2006 by \"Havana Central at the West End\", part of the expanding \"Havana Central\" chain of Cuban restaurants. The Havana Central closed on May 28, 2014 when the lease ended. In September 2014, the space reopened as Bernheim & Schwartz Restaurant and Hall, which was described by its owners as a tribute to brewing in Manhattan, and especially to Bernheim & Schwartz, a brewery founded in 1903 and located at 128th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Bernheim & Schwartz closed in April 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327745", "title": "Army of Missouri", "text": "Army of Missouri\n\nThe Army of Missouri was an independent military formation during the American Civil War within the Confederate States Army, created in the fall of 1864 under the command of Maj. Gen. Sterling Price to invade Missouri. Price's Raid was unsuccessful, and his army retreated to Arkansas, where it was broken up and absorbed into the Confederate Army of the Trans-Mississippi. After the war, Price, accompanied by his subordinate Brig. Gen. Jo Shelby and several members of his former command, relocated to Mexico where they unsuccessfully sought service with the Emperor Maximilian prior to returning to civilian life in the United States.\n\nThe Army of Missouri traces its roots to the Missouri State Guard, which was created in 1861 under Sterling Price to enforce Missouri's official stance of \"armed neutrality\" in the conflict, while formally remaining in the Union. The Guard eventually became part of the Confederate States Army after engaging in skirmishes with the Union troops under Nathaniel Lyon who successfully removed elected Governor Claiborne Jackson and replaced him with a pro-Union governor. As the Missouri State Guard, they would win victories over the Union at the First Battle of Lexington and Wilson's Creek, where Lyon himself was killed.\n\nPrice and his State Guard troops were subsequently incorporated into Maj. Gen. Earl Van Dorn's Army of the West, where they suffered defeats at Pea Ridge, Arkansas, Iuka, Mississippi and Corinth, Mississippi. Following the Battle of Corinth, Price was sent back to Missouri by Confederate President Jefferson Davis but without any of the troops he previously commanded, who remained with Van Dorn. He raised a new force, and conducted operations in Arkansas in support of Southern efforts there.\n\nBy the late summer of 1864, a good portion of the Union Army in Missouri had been reassigned eastward to aid in efforts to seize Atlanta and to help in other campaigns. The Confederacy ordered Gen. E. Kirby Smith, commander of the Trans-Mississippi Department, to send his infantry across the Mississippi River to reinforce beleaguered Southern troops in the east. However, Smith had alternative plans. He desired to \"liberate\" Missouri from Federal control, seizing the key cities of St. Louis and the state capital at Jefferson City, reinstating the Confederate governor and his supporters. Smith decided to send a large force of mounted infantry and cavalry under former Missouri governor Sterling Price to carry out this plan, which he also hoped might wreck Union President Abraham Lincoln's hopes for reelection that fall. Price eagerly accepted his new assignment, having previously lobbied for just such an opportunity; he named his new command \"The Army of Missouri\".\n\nConsidering that St. Louis was originally defended by only 8,000 Union troops (later reinforced by other Federal formations under Maj. Gen. Andrew J. Smith), Smith's hopes were not entirely unfounded–at least in the beginning. Were Price able to seize his primary objective, with its huge arsenal and warehouses filled with supplies, Union successes in Georgia and Virginia might yet be offset, leading to a loss for Lincoln and snatching a Southern victory from the jaws of defeat.\n\nThe Army of Missouri was organized into three divisions, led by Maj. Gen. James F. Fagan, Maj. Gen. John S. Marmaduke and Brig. Gen. Joseph O. Shelby, all veterans of previous combat during the war. It fielded fourteen artillery pieces. A breakdown of the Army of Missouri by divisions, brigades and regiments may be seen here.\n\nPrice's men formed a rather motley crew, with a quarter of his force being made up of deserters. Hundreds of Price's men were barefoot, and most had no personal equipment such as canteens or cartridge boxes; many carried jugs for water, and stuffed ammunition in shirt and pants pockets. Nearly 4000 were unarmed, as Price was unable to procure sufficient small arms for his command. Price's orders were to strike first at St. Louis, then make for Jefferson City if that was too stoutly defended. From there Price was then to continue onward to the west, cross into Kansas and head south through the Indian Territory, \"sweeping that country of its mules, horses, cattle, and military supplies\".\n\nPrice's army left northeastern Arkansas on Friday, Friday, September 16, 1864. Advancing into Missouri, they chose to attack the Union garrison located at Ft. Davidson near Pilot Knob, where Price lost more than 1000 men and invaluable time engaging a target of little real significance. Unable to continue on toward St. Louis due to heavy Union reinforcement, Price turned west toward Jefferson City. Sharp skirmishes there convinced him that the capital could not be taken either, so Price continued further west toward Kansas City and nearby Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Minor clashes ensued between Price's force and Union elements at Boonville and Glasgow, and between one of Price's brigades and Unionist militia at Sedalia. All resulted in Confederate victories. As he made his way west, Price acquired an ever-expanding wagon train loaded down with looted and captured property and materiel, as well a large herd of horses and cattle. The presence of this cavalcade increasingly limited Price's tactical options, and it ultimately became what modern U.S. Army Major Dale Davis describes in his study of Price's Raid as \"an albatross to [his] withdrawal\" following his defeat at Westport (see below).\n\nUnion forces in Missouri, under the command of Maj. Gen. Samuel R. Curtis, were rapidly organizing to oppose Price's incursion. Curtis organized militia units in Missouri and Kansas, together with regular infantry and cavalry units, into the Army of the Border, which contained about 35,000 men in all. Meanwhile, Price's force was being steadily eroded by desertions, losses and disease; by the time of the pivotal Battle of Westport, it only numbered 8,500. In addition to dealing with Unionist militia and Curtis' force Price was also being pursued by Union Cavalry under Maj. Gen. Alfred Pleasonton, nominally under Curtis' command, but operating independently of Curtis' main element.\n\nPrice's first true test against this new Union force came at Lexington, where he drove elements of Curtis' army back toward the Little Blue River and the nearby city of Independence. Further triumphs at those two locations positioned Price's army near Westport, where Curtis' main army lay. Pleasanton finally caught up with Price at Independence, pinching the Army of Missouri between two Federal armies, each of which was larger than Price's own force. This brought on the Battle of Westport, also referred to as the \"Gettysburg of the West\", which saw Price's complete defeat and forced him to retreat southward through Kansas toward the Indian Territory (modern Oklahoma). Further defeats at the Marais des Cygnes River, Mine Creek, the Marmiton River and Newtonia followed, forcing Price to retreat all the way into Arkansas and eastern Texas (to avoid additional Federal troops at Fort Smith, Arkansas). The remnants of Price's weary army finally returned to Arkansas on December 2, having lost about 6,000 men. The Army of Missouri officially ceased to exist when these men were subsequently absorbed into the Army of the Trans-Mississippi where Price commanded its Cavalry Corps from December 3, 1864, to March 12, 1865.\n\nInstead of surrendering at the end of the Civil War in 1865, Price and his subordinate Jo Shelby led many of their remaining troops to exile in Mexico. Price hoped to find military service under the Mexican emperor Maximilian, but this was not to be, though Maximilian did give them land for a colony near Vera Cruz. With the failure of this colony a year or so later and the overthrow and execution of Maximilian by the legitimist government of Benito Juárez, Price, Shelby and most of their men chose to return to the United States. Price's and Shelby's adventure in Mexico later became an inspiration for the John Wayne and Rock Hudson movie \"The Undefeated\".\n\nIn his paper Assessing Compound Warfare During Price's Raid, written as a thesis for the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, Major Dale E. Davis postulates that Price's Army of Missouri failed in its campaign primarily due to Price's inability to properly employ the principles of \"compound warfare\". This requires an inferior power to effectively utilize regular and irregular forces in concert (such as was done by the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong against the French and Americans during the Vietnam War) to defeat a superior army. Davis also blamed Price's slow rate of movement for this outcome, and the close proximity of Confederate irregulars to his regular force.\n\nDavis observes that by wasting valuable time, ammunition and men in his relatively meaningless assaults on Fort Davidson, Glasgow, Sedalia and Boonville, Price offered Union General Rosecrans time he might not otherwise have had to organize an effective response. Price, wrote Davis, ought to have used Confederate bushwackers to harass Federal formations, forcing the Unionists to disperse significant numbers of troops to pursue them over wide ranges of territory–which would have reduced the number of effectives available to fight against Price's main force. Instead Price kept many guerrillas close to his army, even incorporating some into his ranks, largely negating the value represented by their mobility and small, independent formations. This in turn allowed Union generals to ultimately concentrate a force large enough to trap and defeat Price at Westport, effectively ending his campaign and leading to the demise of the Army of Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327746", "title": "Lake Maurepas", "text": "Lake Maurepas\n\nLake Maurepas ( ; ) is located in southeastern Louisiana approximately halfway between New Orleans and Baton Rouge directly west of Lake Pontchartrain.\n\nLake Maurepas was named for Jean-Frédéric Phélypeaux comte of Maurepas, an eighteenth-century French statesman, chief adviser to King Louis XVI.<br>\nJean-Frédéric was the son of Louis Phélypeaux comte de Pontchartrain for whom Lake Pontchartrain is named.\n\nLake Maurepas is a round-shaped, shallow, brackish tidal estuarine system. It is approximately 240 km. in area and has a mean depth of about 3.0 meters. The lake receives freshwater input through four river systems: Blind River, Amite River, Tickfaw River, and the Natalbany River. The average freshwater input to Lake Maurepas from these rivers and other minor terrestrial sources is less than 3,400 cubic feet per second (CWPPRA Environmental Workgroup, 2001). <br>\nAt the northeast, Lake Maurepas is connected to Lake Pontchartrain by Pass Manchac (comprising South Pass and the smaller North Pass). The land between these two passes forms Jones Island and the passes converge on the eastern side of the island into one unified Pass Manchac. Tidal exchange with Lake Pontchartrain through Pass Manchac is a more significant influence on Lake Maurepas’s volumetric and elevation characteristics than tributary freshwater discharge. The Manchac Swamp Bridge, which carries Interstate 55, traverses this area between Lakes Maurepas and Pontchartrain.<br>\nThe mean astronomical tide in Lake Maurepas is approximately 0.15 m (0.5 ft); however, greater tidal amplitudes are associated with meteorological events (i.e., winds) that influence both Lake Pontchartrain and Lake Maurepas. This results in interesting patterns of tidal exchange and, presumably, in situ mixing on weekly and fortnightly time scales. The lake’s salinity is directly influenced by exchange with Lake Pontchartrain. <br>\nSalinities in Lake Maurepas have been observed to range between 0 and 3 parts per thousand (Day et al., 2004). Typically, salinities are higher along the eastern shore, near Pass Manchac. Due to Lake Maurepas’s shallow depths, even relatively low energy wave action results in sediment resuspension and, therefore, relatively high turbidities and low transparencies which influence the degree to which primary production can occur in the water column and benthos.\n\nThe Maurepas Swamp Wildlife Management Area (WMA) is located approximately 25 miles northwest of New Orleans, along the south shore as well as south of Lake Maurepas, that is north of LaPlace and extends towards Sorrento. Initially the Richard King Mellon Foundation donated 61,633 acres to the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries (LDWF) for the Maurepas Swamp WMA. Subsequent acquisitions and donations brought the total to 122,098 acres. The swamp would benefit from \"cooperative freshwater reintroduction projects designed to revive the swamp and improved control of invasive plant species that have overtaken much of this important and scenic swamp.\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2327750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327750", "title": "Roland Penrose", "text": "Roland Penrose\n\nSir Roland Algernon Penrose (14 October 1900 – 23 April 1984) was an English artist, historian and poet. He was a major promoter and collector of modern art and an associate of the surrealists in the United Kingdom. During the Second World War he put his artistic skills to practical use as a teacher of camouflage.\n\nPenrose married the poet Valentine Boué and then the photographer Lee Miller.\n\nPenrose was the son of James Doyle Penrose (1862–1932), a successful portrait painter, and Elizabeth Josephine Peckover, the daughter of Baron Peckover, a wealthy Quaker banker. He was the third of four brothers; his older brother was the medical geneticist Lionel Penrose. \n\nRoland grew up in a strict Quaker family in Watford and attended the Downs School, Colwall, Herefordshire, and then Leighton Park School, Reading, Berkshire. In August 1918, as a conscientious objector, he joined the Friends' Ambulance Unit, serving from September 1918 with the British Red Cross in Italy. After studying architecture at Queens' College, Cambridge, Penrose switched to painting and moved to France, where he lived from 1922 and where in 1925 he married his first wife the poet Valentine Boué. \n\nDuring this period he became friends with Pablo Picasso, Wolfgang Paalen and Max Ernst, who would have the strongest influence on his work and most of the leading Surrealists.\n\nPenrose returned to London in 1936 and was one of the organisers of the London International Surrealist Exhibition, which led to the establishment of the English surrealist movement. Penrose settled in Hampstead, north London, where he was the centre of the community of avant-garde British artists and emigres who had settled there. He opened the London Gallery on Cork Street, where he promoted the Surrealists as well as the sculptor Henry Moore, to whom he was first introduced by his close friend Wolfgang Paalen, as well as the painter Ben Nicholson, and the sculptors Barbara Hepworth and Naum Gabo. \n\nPenrose commissioned a sculpture from Moore for his Hampstead house that became the focus of a press campaign against abstract art. Penrose and Boué's marriage had broken down in 1934 and they divorced in 1937. Penrose came to Cornwall, in June 1937, staying in his brother's home at Lambe Creek on the Truro River. He was accompanied by a group of surrealist artists; his new lover Leonora Carrington, Max Ernst, Eileen Agar, Lee Miller, Man Ray, Edouard Mesens, Paul Eluard, and Joseph Bard. Photographs of their stay can be seen at Falmouth Art Gallery.\n\nIn 1938, Penrose organised a tour of Picasso's \"Guernica\" that raised funds for the Republican Government in Spain. In the same year he had an affair with Peggy Guggenheim, when she met him at her gallery \"Guggenheim Jeune\" to try and sell him a painting by French Surrealist artist Yves Tanguy. Penrose told Guggenheim that he loved an American woman in Egypt and in her autobiography Guggenheim reports she told him to \"go to Egypt to get his ladylove.\" By 1939 Penrose had begun his relationship with the model and photographer Lee Miller; they finally married in 1947. They lived at 21 Downshire Hill, Hampstead, London, which now bears a blue plaque.\n\nPenrose remained close to his first wife. They met again in London during the war, and Valentine came to live with Roland and Lee Miller for eighteen months. Valentine died in Penrose's house in East Sussex 1978.\n\nAs a Quaker, Penrose had been a pacifist, but after the outbreak of World War II he volunteered as an air raid warden and then taught military camouflage at the Home Guard training centre at Osterley Park. This led to Penrose's commission as a captain in the Royal Engineers. \n\nHe worked as senior lecturer at the Eastern Command Camouflage School in Norwich, and at the Camouflage Development and Training Centre at Farnham Castle, Surrey. During his lectures, he used to startle his audiences by inserting a colour photograph of his partner Lee Miller, lying on a lawn naked but for a camouflage net; when challenged, he argued \"if camouflage can hide Lee's charms, it can hide anything\". Forbes suggests this was a surrealist technique being put into service. His lectures were respected by both trainees and colleagues. In 1941 Penrose wrote the \"Home Guard Manual of Camouflage\", which provided accurate guidance on the use of texture, not only colour, especially for protection from aerial photography (monochrome at that time).\n\nPenrose applied for a job at the Foreign Office, but was turned down because of a perceived security risk, possibly relating to the investigation of Lee Miller by MI5.\n\nAfter the war, Penrose co-founded the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London, with the art critic and writer Herbert Read in 1947. Penrose organised the first two ICA exhibitions: \"40 Years of Modern Art\", which included many key works of Cubism, and \"40,000 Years of Modern Art\", which reflected his interest in African sculpture. Penrose was a presence at the ICA for 30 years; he produced a number of books, which cover the works of his friends Pablo Picasso, Max Ernst, Joan Miró, Man Ray and Antoni Tàpies. He was also a trustee of the Tate Gallery; he organised a survey of Picasso's work there in 1960 and used his contacts to negotiate purchases of works by Picasso and the Surrealists at discounted prices.\n\nPenrose and Miller bought Farley Farm House in Sussex in 1949, where he displayed his valuable collection of modern art and in particular the Surrealists and works by Picasso. Penrose also designed the landscaping around the house as a setting for works of modern sculpture. In 1972, thieves broke into his London flat, stole a number of works, and then demanded a ransom. During a BBC TV interview, Penrose stated he would refuse all demands for a ransom. \n\nThe paintings were later recovered as a result of diligent police work. Some were damaged but were restored by the Tate Gallery. After the death of his wife, Penrose loaned several key paintings from her collection to the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art in Edinburgh, a practice that Penrose's descendants have continued with his collection.\n\nPenrose's former home at Farley Farm House – now owned by his son, Antony Penrose – is now a museum and an archive which is open to the public for guided tours on pre-determined days.\n\nHis bold and enigmatic surrealist paintings, drawings and objects are some of the most enduring images of the movement. He is remembered for his postcard collages, examples of which are found in major national collections across Britain. He was awarded the CBE in 1960, and he was knighted for his services to the visual arts in 1966. The University of Sussex awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Letters in 1980.\n\nPenrose is the uncle of the physicist and polymath Sir Roger Penrose. He and Lee Miller had a son, Antony Penrose, who continues to run Farley Farm House as a museum and archive.\n\nAn interview with Roland Penrose (and Lee Miller) recorded in 1946 can be heard on the audio CD \"Surrealism Reviewed\".\n\nA filmed interview between Roland Penrose and Antoni Tàpies was directed by James Scott in Spain in 1974. The film, not previously completed, is in pre-production in 2018. The footage is available for viewing through the Fundació Antoni Tàpies.\n\n\n\nODNB article by Richard Cork, 'Penrose, Sir Roland Algernon (1900–1984)', rev. \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\", Oxford University Press, 2004; online edn, May 2006 accessed 27 May 2009\n\n"}
{"id": "2327759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327759", "title": "Henle", "text": "Henle\n\nHenle can refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2327770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327770", "title": "The Bear That Wasn't", "text": "The Bear That Wasn't\n\nThe Bear That Wasn't is a 1946 children's book by film director and \"Looney Tunes\" alumnus Frank Tashlin.\n\nIn 1947, a new audio version was issued by MGM Records: 78 RPM, 25 minutes across two sides, narrated by Keenan Wynn.\n\nIn 1967, Tashlin's former Termite Terrace colleague Chuck Jones directed an animated short film based upon the book for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Incidentally, \"The Bear That Wasn't\" was the final animated short subject made by MGM and the second-to-last animated project for MGM (\"The Phantom Tollbooth\" would be the last). This was also the last time that Tanner the Lion was used in a MGM logo. Despite being credited as a producer, Tashlin had no involvement in the short. Chuck Jones credited him as a producer, so if the film won the Oscar for Best Short, Tashlin would receive an Oscar (in those days, Oscars for Best Short were given to producers, not the director). Frank Tashlin was dissatisfied with this film adaptation of his own book, feeling that the film did not present its original message very well.\n\nA bear settles down for his hibernation, and while he sleeps the progress of man continues. He wakes up to find himself in the middle of an industrial complex. He then gets mistaken by the foreman for a worker and is told to get to work. To this he responds, \"But I'm not a man, I'm a bear\". He is then taken to each of his successive bosses (general manager and a trio of vice-presidents), all of whom tell him their own version of him being a \"silly man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat\", reaching all the way up to an elderly president (who in the animated version is depicted as a dwarf whose face is never seen) of the factory who concludes he cannot be a bear because \"bears are only in a zoo or a circus; they're never inside a factory\". The bear is, by the president and his employees, taken to the zoo and hopes to gain support from his own species, but even the zoo bears claim that he is not a bear, because if he was \"he would be inside the cage here with us\" (in the animated version, a bear cub also repeats exactly the same claim of the bear being a \"silly man\"). Eventually he concludes that he must be a \"silly man\", and works hard at the factory to the satisfaction of the foreman and the other bosses all of whom shake hands as the bear works. A long time after, the factory closes when winter comes again and he was freezing in the cold snow, he wishes that he was a bear, but in the end discards his human items and finds a cave and enters, feeling comfortable and bear-like once more. As the bear is sleeping, the narrator reflects on the events of the year, concludes that even though all the bosses and even the zoo bears disbelieved that he was a bear, \"that didn't make it so; no indeed, he wasn't a silly man...and he wasn't a silly bear, either\".\n\nThough appearing as a children's book, this story takes a critical and satirical look at aspects of society. It revolves around the concept of people believing a repeated idea even though it may not be true. People have a tendency to shift their views if a concept is hammered into them over and over again, like the bear being told he is a \"silly man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat\". The bear eventually succumbs to this mistaken assumption, believing he \"is\" a man even though he had previously known otherwise, just as humans shift their views on a topic because of repetitive information, or because \"they all say it is true, therefore it must be\". Yet, in the end, the bear, who is cold in winter, reverts to what he \"really\" is – a bear – and finds shelter in a cave. This idea covers the concept of people never changing due to outside influence. Though a person may change for someone else, when placed in a difficult position, they revert to old habits – just like the bear hibernating. Whether something is fact or fiction, it is what it is and does not change – no matter how many people believe otherwise.\n\nThe book also presents a visual satire of corporate culture. Each time the bear appears before a higher-ranking man in the corporation, the offices get progressively more elaborate (for example, progressively more phones, more waste-baskets, more secretaries, all according to rank). There are also progressively more chins and less hair on each higher-ranking person as the bear ascends all the way to the president's office.\n\nTashlin's book inspired Swiss writer Jörg Steiner to create his children's book \"Der Bär, der ein Bär bleiben wollte\" (1976; German: \"The Bear Who Wanted to Stay a Bear\"), which was translated into English and published by Atheneum Books the next year as \"The Bear Who Wanted to Be a Bear\", whose cover states \"From an idea by Frank Tashlin\".\n\nA Belgian singer has also adopted the moniker \"The Bear That Wasn't\" for recording and released an album entitled \"And So It Is Morning Dew\" in 2010. The German book \"Der Bär, der ein Bär bleiben wollte\" on the other hand inspired German singer-songwriter Reinhard Mey to write a song of that name, appearing on his 1978 album \"Unterwegs\".\n\n\n\"The Bear That Wasn't\" is available on \"\", Disc 3 on the \"From the Vaults\" section and on the \"\" Blu-ray box-set on Disc 3 as a bonus feature. It is also available on the Boomerang subscription streaming service under Volume 6 of \"MGM Cartoons\" titled \"Bear That Wasn't\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2327779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327779", "title": "Antrax", "text": "Antrax\n\nAntrax is the second book in Terry Brooks' \"The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara\" fantasy trilogy. It was first published in 2001.\n\nThe voyage to find the lost magic takes the companions to the continent of Parkasia. Here, they are split up, and Walker, despite all his plans and his enormous power, finds himself caught and trapped by an unseen force, a supercomputer built by the ancient humans. Antrax was created to store data and information from its time and it is given a duty, an order to protect the information that it holds. However, when the Great War broke out, the last of its creators returned, and gave Antrax its final task: protect the information at all costs, no matter what the price. Antrax then began to build its own arsenal of defence mechanisms: lasers and Creepers.\n\nAbove Castledown, the crew of the \"Jerle Shannara\" find themselves besieged by evil forces, and the Ilse Witch confronts the Druid's protégé, Bek Ohmsford, who claims that she is actually Grianne Ohmsford, and that he is the brother she last saw as an infant - now a young man who carries the Sword of Shannara and wields the magic of the wishsong. Truls Rohk keeps protecting Bek buying him time till the Ilse Witch finally takes up the Sword of Shannara to realize the truth of her life.\n\nIn parallel plot Ahren Elessedil works his way in retrieving the lost elf stones, also Quentin Leah with the help of locals finally are able to kill the minion created by Antrax.\n\nMeanwhile, Walker realises that the 'magic' they have been searching for is actually the science of the Old World, stored on Antrax, which could be used to rebuild society with new technology. But there is no practical way to access this information, so Walker chooses to destroy the power-hungry computer, which is quickly becoming a danger to the whole world. However, he is mortally wounded in the process. In the end a fleet of airships reach Parkasia under leadership of Morgawr willing to kill all left of the company and take the magic for himself.\n\nIt is believed that Antrax was in fact initially known as Oronyx Experimental and appears in \"The Elves of Cintra\".\n\nThe main characters are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2327783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327783", "title": "Johnson (composer)", "text": "Johnson (composer)\n\nJohnson (26 March 1953 – 18 August 2011) was an Indian film score composer and music director who has given music to some of the most important motion pictures of Malayalam cinema, including those for \"Koodevide\", \"Namukku Paarkkan Munthiri Thoppukal\", \"Oru Minnaminunginte Nurunguvettam\", \"Vadakkunokkiyantram\", \"Perumthachan\", \"Njan Gandharvan\", \"Ponthan Mada\", and \"Bhoothakkannadi\". Regarded as one of the finest composers in the industry, he was noted for his lyrical and expressive melodies together with simple but rich tonal compositions of thematic music. Johnson is a recipient of National Film Awards twice and Kerala State Film Awards three times.\n\nHe started his career as an assistant to G. Devarajan in the 1970s, and debuted as an independent composer in late seventies with \"Aaravam\". He was a recurrent collaborator for directors Padmarajan, Bharathan, Sathyan Anthikkad, T. V. Chandran, Kamal, Lohithadas, Balachandra Menon and Mohan. He has composed music for more than 300 Malayalam films, the most by any composer except for Devarajan. He was the first Music Director from Malayalam cinema to be honored with the National film Awards. He died of a heart attack in Chennai on 18 August 2011.\n\nJohnson was born in Nellikkunnu near Trichur (Thrissur) in the state of Travancore-Cochin (now part of Kerala), on 26 March 1953. His father was a bank employee. His secondary education was at St. Thomas School in Thope, Trichur. Johnson was a singer in the choir of Nellikkunnu St. Sebastian's Church. He obtained training in guitar and harmonium from his colleagues during this early periods itself. He used to sing in youth festivals and musical shows and joined the orchestra team of some local troupes and played harmonium in many concerts. He also used to sing in female voice in \"ganamelas\" (a stage show where film songs are sung by local or professional artists).\n\nIn 1968, Johnson and his friends formed a club named Voice of Thrissur. Johnson was the main instrumentalist in the club where he played wide varieties of instruments – guitar, harmonium, flute, drums and violin.\n\nWithin a few years, the club became one of the most sought after musical troupes in Kerala, and had more than fifty members. This club used to give accompaniment music to playback singers Jayachandran and Madhuri in their musical shows. It was Jayachandran who introduced Johnson to G. Devarajan, one of the most prolific composers of South Indian cinema then. Devarajan literally adopted Johnson and brought him to Chennai in 1974. Johnson bought an accordion, during this period, from R. K. Shekhar (A. R. Rahman's father), and began assisting Devarajan in filmscoring and composing.\n\nJohnson began his independent career by composing the film scores of Bharathan's \"Aaravam\" (1978), \"Thakara\" (1980) and \"Chamaram\" (1980). He composed his first soundtracks for the film \"Inaye Thedi\", debut film of director turned still photographer Antony Eastman and actress Silk Smitha. It was Devarajan himself, who suggested Johnson to the director. Then came Bharathan's \"Parvathi\" and Balachandra Menon's \"Premageethangal\". \"Premageethangal\" was a notable success with four of its songs – \"Swapnam Verumoru Swapnam\", \"Nee Nirayoo Jeevanil\", \"Muthum Mudipponnum\" and \"Kalakalamozhi\" attaining cult status.\n\nHe came to prominence through his collaboration with Malayalam author and director Padmarajan. \"Koodevide\" was their first venture, which had one of the most famous songs of Johnson \"Aadivaa Kaatte\", a pathbreaking song in Malayalam music history. It was one of the first songs in Malayalam to so many western classical elements. The song was born out of Padmarajan's need for a western song for his innovative film. Song composition took place in Woodland's Hotel, Chennai. Another notable feature of this song was the lyrics by O. N. V. Kurup, who for the first time wrote lyrics for a pre-composed song. Johnson worked for 11 films with Padmarajan, including his last film \"Njan Gandharvan\". This productive collaboration saw the detailed screenplay and cinematography of Padmarajan become a fertile ground for expressive musical narration and thematic scores for Johnson. This is seen in some of the greatest motion pictures of Malayalam cinema, like \"Nombarathipoovu\" (1987). Another notable collaboration of Johnson was with director Sathyan Anthikkad, with whom he associated in almost 25 films. He was able to provide some of his most popular songs with Anthikkad and this combo is widely accepted to be one of the greatest director-composer collaborations in Malayalam cinema. Acclaimed Malayalam director Bharathan also collaborated with him in multiple films including \"Parvathy, Palangal, Ormakkayi, Kattathe Kilikkoodu, Ente Upasana, Oru Minnaminunginte Nurunguvettam, Ozhivukalam, Malootty, Chamayam\" and \"Churam\". His major other collaborations with directors include Mohan (\"Oru Katha Oru Nunakkatha, Sakshyam, Pakshe\" and \"Angane Oru Avadhikkalathu\"), Sibi Malayil (\"Kireedam, Chenkol, Dasaratham\" and \"Nee Varuvolam\"), Sreenivasan (\"Vadakkunokkiyantram\" and \"Chinthavishtayaya Shyamala\"), Lohithadas (\"Bhoothakkannadi\", Kamal (\"Peruvannapurathe Visheshangal, Shubhayathra, Ee Puzhayum Kadannu\" and \"Paavam Paavam Rajakumaran\"), and Balachandra Menon (\"Shesham Kazhchayil, Premageethangal, Kilukilukkam\", \"Kelkatha Shabdam\" and \"Nayam Vyakthamakkunnu\").\n\nHe is also noted for his collaboration with the Malayalam lyricist Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri. Their association began in 1989 with Sathyan Anthikkad's social satire \"Varavelpu\". Most of Johnson's notable works were in the late eighties and early nineties. In 1991, he scored a record number of 31 films, including 29 with Kaithapram. Johnson won National awards for two consecutive years. He won his first National Award for best music direction for the motion picture \"Ponthan Mada\" (1993). The next year he got his second National award for \"Sukrutham'for the background score.\n\nAfter an extremely successful career of more than a decade, Johnson took a sabbatical from film scoring by the end of the nineties. The quantity of his works began perishing during this time. By the beginning of the 2000s, he didn't sign any new projects that even his most noted collaborator Sathyan Anthikkad had to find a new composer. In 2003 he did the background score for the NFDC movie Parinamam (The Change) directed by P. Venu.In 2004, he sang the song \"Theekuruvi\" from \"Kangalal Kaidhu Sei\", which was composed by A. R. Rahman. Perhaps it is the only song recorded by him for any composer other than himself. He returned strongly to the field with \"Photographer\" in 2006, which fetched him numerous awards.\n\nJohnson has released four non-film albums. His first album \"Sneha Deepika\" was released in 1989 on Tharangini audios. It had nine Christian devotional songs – \"Aathma Swaroopa\", \"Unni Yesu Pirannu\", \"Manninum Poovinum\", \"Thumbapoo Polulla\", \"Bhoomikku Pulakam\", \"Manassakumengil\", \"Kulir Choodum\", \"Arthungal Innoru\" and \"Vidarnna Punchiri\". The featured artists were K. J. Yesudas, K. S. Chithra and Sujatha. His second album \"Onathappan\", a collaboration with M. G. Radhakrishnan and Berny-Ignatius, consisted of nine festival songs. The track \"Mundon Paadam\" was composed by Johnson, sung by M. G. Sreekumar and had lyrics penned by Bichu Thirumala. His third album \"Nannipoorvam Johnson\", consisted of twelve tracks – \"Chandanakkavilinnu\", \"Panineeru Peyyum\", \"Vasundhare\", \"Virunnu Vanna\", \"Prapanjam Sundaram\", \"Enthe Nee Varathe\", \"Nilasandhyayil\", \"Veruthe Onnu\", \"Ponnazhikkuttu\", \"Pranayappirave\", \"Kalindhi\", and an introductory speech by Sreenivasan. The lyricists were R. K. Damodaran, Gireesh Puthenchery, Kaithapram, Bichu Thirumala, M. D. Rajendran, K. Jayakumar, S. Ramesan Nair and Poovachal Khader and the songs were rendered by K. J. Yesudas, P. Jayachandran, K. S. Chithra, M. G. Sreekumar, Aparna Rajeev, Dr. Rashmi Madhu and Johnson himself. In 2009, he released his second Christian devotional album entitled \"Parishudhan\". It had eleven tracks – \"Vazhiyum Sathyavum Nee Thanne (Vijay Yesudas), \"Mullukal Kuthi\" (Chithra), \"Ariyathe Polum\" (G. Venugopal), \"Neethimanayavane\" (Sujatha), \"Traditional song\" (Louis), \"Mazhayum Veyilum\" (Rimi Tomy), \"Oru Viral Sparshathal (Sudheep), \"Loka Palaka\" (Chithra), Neethanthamam (Vijay Yesudas), and \"Kannukalil Theliyum\" (Manjari).\n\nHis skilful integration of textual rhythm of the lyrics together with rich tonal arrangement, redefined songwriting in Malayalam cinema, since the late 1980s. In his film scores, Johnson combines native South Indian melodic patterns with the harmonic structure of classical music and this has attained an expressive form of narration through film score. He composed for about 300 films, making him the second most composed music director in Malayalam, after his guru G. Devarajan. Though he has obtained no formal training in classical music, he was able to incorporate the beauty of Carnatic ragas in his songs. Most of his songs were composed on Kalyani raga.\n\nJohnson's favourite male singer was K. J. Yesudas, who has recorded many songs for him, while S. Janaki and K. S. Chithra were his favourite female singers. Chithra had some of her most noted songs with Johnson.\n\nJohnson is fondly called Johnson Master (Johnson Mashu) by Malayalee audiences. Even his contemporaries and competitors refer him with the tag 'Master' ('mash' in Malayalam).\n\nHis background scoring style has a cult following. His scores from Thoovanathumbikal, Manichitrathazhu, Thaniyavarthanam, Chitram, Bharatham, Aparan, Kireedam, Sukrutham are considered to be amongst the best.\n\nJohnson won his first National Film Award for the Best Music Direction for the film \"Ponthan Mada\" (1994) and the very next year he won his second National film award for the Best Background score for the film \"Sukrutham\" (1995) He was the first Malayalee music composer to receive a National award in music category and is also the only Malayalee music director who received two national awards in music category. This film has one song \"Adimarunge ayyayya\" (അടിമരുങ്ങേ അയ്യയ്യാ) lyrics by O. N. V. Kurup and sung by K. S. Chithra and chorus composed by Johnson. This is a folk song. National film award committee noted that he brilliantly integrated western folk tunes into this song. The award was given for best music direction and background score of this film. He has received three Kerala State Film Award for Best Music Director, for the films \"Ormakkayi\" (1982), \"Vadakkunokkiyantram\" and \"Mazhavil Kavadi\" (1989), and \"Angane Oru Avadhikkalathu\" (1999). He was awarded the Kerala State Film Award for Best Background Music for the films \"Sadayam\" (1992) and \"Sallapam\" (1996). He has thus received five Kerala State Film Awards in music category, an achievement he shares with Devarajan. He has received the Kerala Film Critics Awards four times, the most recent in 2008 for \"Gulmohar\". In 2007, he won the Mathruboomi Award for Best Music Director for \"Photographer\" (2006). He won the Mullasserry Raju Music Award for the song \"Enthe Kannanu Karuppu Niram\", also from the same film. In addition, he has received numerous other awards and nominations including Devarajan Master Memorial Award and Raveendran Master Memorial Award.\n\nJohnson, popularly known as 'Johnson Master' died at his home in Chennai on 18 August 2011 at the age of 58, due to a massive heart attack. Though he was suffering from various diseases for a long time, his death came suddenly. The Government of Kerala gave all official honours for his funeral which was held in his hometown, Thrissur. He is survived by his wife, Rani Johnson. On 25 February 2012, Renn Johnson, his son and an engineer by profession, worked at Connectivity Data Systems LLC died in a motor bike accident at Chennai. He was on the way to his office. His dead body was taken to Thrissur and was buried beside his father. At the time of Johnson's death, he was composing songs for 4 films, which were completed by his daughter Shan, who was a well-trained singer herself. Shan Johnson died in her rented flat in Chennai on 5 Feb, 2016, after suffering a massive heart attack. Her body was also taken to Thrissur, and was buried beside her father and brother.\n\nThe following lists out the films in which Johnson composed the background score but not songs.\n\n\nIn an interview with \"Malayala Manorama\", Johnson listed the following 13 songs as his favourite songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327786", "title": "Kevin Sharp (disambiguation)", "text": "Kevin Sharp (disambiguation)\n\nKevin Sharp (1970–2014) was an American country music singer.\n\nKevin Sharp may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327787", "title": "Eucharistic discipline", "text": "Eucharistic discipline\n\nEucharistic discipline is the term applied to the regulations and practices associated with an individual preparing for the reception of the Eucharist. Different Christian traditions require varying degrees of preparation, which may include a period of fasting, prayer, repentance, and confession.\n\nSufficient spiritual preparation must be made by each Roman Catholic prior to receiving Holy Communion. A Catholic in a state of mortal sin should first make a sacramental confession: otherwise that person commits a sacrilege. A sacrilege is the unworthy treatment of sacred things. Deliberate and irreverent treatment of the Eucharist is the worst of all sacrileges, as this quote from the Council of Trent shows:\n\n\"As of all the sacred mysteries ...none can compare with the ...Eucharist, so likewise for no crime is there heavier punishment to be feared from God than for the unholy or irreligious use by the faithful of that which...contains the very Author and Source of holiness.\" (De Euch., v.i).\n\nThe above applies to both Latin and Eastern rite Catholics. In addition, they abstain from food and drink (except water and medicine) for at least one hour before receiving, and believe truly in the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist. The discipline for Eastern Catholics generally requires a longer period of fasting and some Latin Catholics observe the earlier (pre-1955) discipline of fasting from the previous midnight.\n\nThe canonical discipline of the Latin Church is found in Book IV, Part I, Title III, Chapter I, Article 2 (Participation in the Holy Eucharist) of the 1983 Code of Canon Law. The particular applications of Canon 915 have been quite controversial in recent years, while canons 916 and 919 have not stirred as much controversy:\n\nThe Oriental canon law of the Eastern Catholic Churches has exactly the same rule regarding the obligation to receiving the sacrament of Penance or Reconciliation before taking Communion, while the rules regarding fasting, prayer and other works of piety vary somewhat in accordance with the tradition of each Eastern Church. The rules of the Eastern Catholic Churches of Byzantine tradition correspond to those of the Orthodox Church, as detailed in the next section.\n\nOrthodox Christians are required to fast from all food and drink and abstain from marital relations in preparation for receiving the eucharist. The fast commences, depending on local custom, no later than when the retiring to sleep the preceding evening and no later than midnight, or even from vespers or sunset the night before. The abstinence from marital relations extends through the preceding day (for which reason married priests may not celebrate the divine liturgy daily), and in some places (notably in Russia), a married priest sleeps in a separate bed from his wife the night before celebrating the liturgy. Fasting in monastic practice is often more strict. During this fasting period, many faithful keep a period of quiet reflection by, for example, abstaining from or limiting television and other entertainment, and by reading devotional literature. Fasting is relaxed for pregnant and nursing women, the ill, the elderly, and young children. It is a matter of some controversy whether or not a menstruating woman may receive the eucharist, with very traditional churches not allowing her to even enter the nave of the church or receive any of the sacraments except on her deathbed, while other churches may totally disregard this custom. Likewise, a man who is bleeding, for instance from a recently extracted tooth, also may not commune.\n\nOne who communes infrequently must go to confession beforehand, while one who communes on a regular basis does confess, but the frequency varies by local custom and whatnot. However, for those who are mentally or physically incapable of communicating their sins to a priest, absolution is given without confessing, and for babies and young children even absolution is dispensed with.\n\nIn some parts of the Russian church, there is a custom before receiving holy communion that, in addition to reading the evening and morning prayers and attending vespers the night before, reading three devotional canons and an akathist. The canons are usually to Christ, the Theotokos and the guardian angel. There is a custom, among those who have the liturgical resources, to chant the following canons according to the day of the week:\n\nFor Pascha (Easter) and Bright Week, this requirement is usually relaxed.\n\nIn all Orthodox churches, special prayers before and after communion are recited by the faithful before and after the Eucharist. In current practice, at least a portion of the pre-communion prayers are often recited during the divine liturgy. These prayers express humility and the communicants' sense of unworthiness for the gift they are about to receive. The post-Communion prayers are often read aloud by a reader or a member of the congregation after the liturgy and during the veneration of the cross, these prayers of thanksgiving expressing the communicants' joy at having received the holy mysteries \"for the healing of soul and body\".\n\nFrom the American \"Book of Common Prayer 1979\"\nThe Holy Eucharist is the sacrament commanded by Christ for the continual remembrance of his life, death, and resurrection, until his coming again. The Eucharist, the Church's sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving, is the way by which the sacrifice of Christ is made present, and in which he unites us to his one offering of himself. The Holy Eucharist is called the Lord's Supper, and Holy Communion; it is also known as the Divine Liturgy, the Mass, and the Great Offering.\n\nThe outward and visible sign in the Eucharist is bread and wine, given and received according to Christ's command. The inward and spiritual grace in the Holy Communion is the Body and Blood of Christ given to his people, and received by faith. The benefits we receive are the forgiveness of our sins, the strengthening of our union with Christ and one another, and the foretaste of the heavenly banquet which is our nourishment in eternal life.\n\nPrior to receiving the Eucharist, it is required that we should examine our lives, repent of our sins, and be in love and charity with all people.\nSaint Augustine's Prayer Book, which is used by many Anglicans of a High Churchmanship, requires a Eucharistic Fast to be held by Christians prior to receiving Holy Communion; it defines this as a \"strict fast from both food and drink from midnight\" that is done in \"in order to receive the Blessed Sacrament as the first food of the day\" in \"homage to our Lord\". It asks Anglicans to fast for some hours before the Midnight Mass of Christmas Eve, the first liturgy of Christmastide.\n\nIn the Lutheran tradition, the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ is believed to be really present in the sacrament of the Eucharist (see Sacramental union).\n\nLutherans are taught to prepare to receive this sacrament through prayerful reflection upon their sinful nature, their need for a Savior, the promise that their sins are forgiven for the sake of Jesus' death on the Cross, and that the Eucharist gives this forgiveness to them. \"Fasting and bodily preparation are indeed a fine outward training,\" Martin Luther said, \"but he is truly worthy and well prepared who has faith in these words, 'given and shed for you for the forgiveness of sins.\n\nAs such, many Lutherans receive the sacrament of penance before partaking of the Eucharist.\n\nThe Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the largest Lutheran denomination in the United States, practices open communion, offering the Eucharist to adults without receiving catechetical instruction, provided they are baptized and believe in the Real Presence.\n\nSome Lutherans practice closed communion, and require catechetical instruction for all people before receiving the Eucharist. Failing to do so is condemned by these Lutherans as the sin of \"unionism\". These Lutheran denominations restrict communicants to members of their own Synod and those churches and Synods with whom they share \"altar and pulpit fellowship\", which may mean excluding even other Lutherans from Eucharistic reception.\n\nThe timing of First Communion also varies. Historically, First Communion was delayed until after an individual had completed catechism classes and been confirmed, but gradually the timing of First Communion shifted so that it was administered before Confirmation rather than after, following the Roman Catholic tradition. In many Lutheran churches, the average age of first communion is somewhere between the ages of seven and ten, though a considerable number of Lutheran churches offer First Communion even earlier. In North America, the time for administering First Communion is usually determined by the parents in consultation with the local pastor, but some Synods may have guidelines which prevent communion before a specific minimum age.\n\n\"The Doctrines and Discipline of the Methodist Church\" specifies that \"Upon entering the church let the communicants bow in prayer and in the spirit of prayer and meditation approach the Blessed Sacrament.\"\n\nIn Methodism, the table is made available to all people, and none are turned away. This practice is referred to as keeping an \"Open table\". The general invitation is typically made in the ritual, \"Christ our Lord invites to his table all who love him, who earnestly repent of their sin and seek to live in peace with one another.\" All are free to communicate at the appropriate time.\n\nUnbaptized persons who respond to the invitation are urged to be instructed in and receive baptism as soon as possible, as Methodism recognises that in normal circumstances, baptism should be a prerequisite to a person's partaking in the Eucharist.\n\nAmong Presbyterians, there is neither requirement, nor prohibition, of any of the traditional understandings of what it means to \"make ready\": it is left to local custom. In modern times, there is no uniform practice of earlier patterns of fasting, public or private prayer, or the preparatory service (Vespers).\n\nHowever, the Westminster Larger Catechism has rather extensive instructions on how those who \"receive the sacrament of the Lord's supper are, before they come, to prepare themselves unto . . . .\" Specifically, they are to prepare \"by examining themselves of their being in Christ, of their sins and wants; of the truth and measure of their knowledge, faith, repentance; love to God and the brethren, charity to all men, forgiving those that have done them wrong; of their desires after Christ, and of their new obedience; and by renewing the exercise of these graces, by serious meditation, and fervent prayer.\"\n\nTherefore, the Presbyterian Church in America's Directory for the Worship of God advises that a week's notice be given to the congregation prior to the administration of the Lord's supper:\n\"It is proper that public notice should be given to the congregation, at least the Sabbath before the administration of this ordinance, and that, either then, or on some day of the week, the people be instructed in its nature, and a due preparation for it, that all may come in a suitable manner to this holy feast.\"\n\nThe Westminster Larger Catechism also provides extensive instructions on \"what is required of them that receive the sacrament of the Lord's supper\" \"during\" and \"after\" its administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327789", "title": "List of French billionaires by net worth", "text": "List of French billionaires by net worth\n\nThe following is a \"Forbes\" list of French billionaires is based on an annual assessment of wealth and assets compiled and published by \"Forbes\" magazine in 2019, according to \"Forbes\" list of billionaires.\n\nThe top ten richest French people according to Challenges are listed below\n\n"}
{"id": "2327814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327814", "title": "Morgawr (novel)", "text": "Morgawr (novel)\n\nMorgawr is the third book in the \"Voyage of the Jerle Shannara\" fantasy trilogy by Terry Brooks. It was first published in 2002.\n\nThe Morgawr is a centuries-old sorcerer of unimaginable might, who feeds upon the souls of his enemies. With a fleet of airships and a crew of walking dead men at his command, he is in relentless pursuit of the Jerle Shannara. His goal is twofold: to find and control the fabled 'magic' of Parkasia, and to destroy the Ilse Witch (his disciple) to keep her from using the magic to destroy him. He gets more annoyed when Ahren Elessedil escapes his imprisonment and the seer, Ryer Ord Star is able to lead him astray as directed by Walker even at his death.\n\nWhen Walker Boh persuades the witch to use the Sword of Shannara, she is exposed to its awesome power and forced to confront the truth of her horrifying deeds as the Ilse Witch, causing her to flee deep into her own mind. She has only one protector: her brother Bek, who is determined to redeem her. In the last stand taken by crew of Jerle Shannara, Redden Alt Mer alone destroys all of Morgawr's fleet after stealing the lead ship and using it against them. Bek and Rue kills the company of mwellret led by Cree Bega, while Cree Bega is killed by Ahren Elessedil. Bek finally reaches the confrontation of Grianne and Morgawr to find his sister already in trouble and triggers a feeble magic of his wish-song just enough to raise the spirit of castle, hence destroys the Morgawr.\n\nThey go home to the Four Lands. But rather than going home with Bek, Grianne Ohmsford will be going now to Paranor, for Walker charged her with a very important task before he died: she is to foster a new Druid order.\n\nThe main characters are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2327824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327824", "title": "Stanwick St John", "text": "Stanwick St John\n\nStanwick St John is a village, civil parish, former manor and ecclesiastical parish in the Richmondshire district of North Yorkshire, (formerly \"North Riding\" of Yorkshire), England. It is situated between the towns of Darlington and Richmond, close to Scotch Corner and the remains of the Roman fort and bridge at Piercebridge.\n\nThe name 'Stanwick' is thought to be derived from the Old Norse word 'steinvegges', meaning \"stone ways\". It has been established that in 1225, Stanwick was known as 'Steinweg'; a document of that date concerning a dispute over church revenue, which led to the church being attacked and the vicar barricading himself inside, refers to \"murder, fire and sacrilege within the church at Steinweg\".\n\nNot much remains of the once thriving settlement at Stanwick except the Church of St John the Baptist, the parish church, which dates from the 13th century, although large sections of it were rebuilt during a major restoration in 1867–8, to the designs of the architect Anthony Salvin's, under the auspices of the lady of the manor the Dowager Duchess of Northumberland who lived at the now demolished manor house of Stanwick Park. The remains of a 9th-century cross-shaft in the tower and a number of carved stones set into the walls suggest that an earlier building may have occupied the site. Its location within an unusual circular churchyard also hints at a possible pre-Norman Conquest burial ground. The church has not been used for regular services since 1990, but remains consecrated. By 1763 the Royal Arms had been painted above the Chancel (at a cost of £5), the church floor had been flagged, and new pews and a gallery under the tower built.\n\nCompletely surrounding the village of Stanwick St John are the Stanwick Iron Age Fortifications, a huge Iron Age hill fort system comprising six miles (10 km) of ditches and ramparts enclosing over of land. These massive fortifications are believed to have enclosed the ancient fort of Rigodunum, the capital of Brigantia and possible seat of Cartimandua, Queen of the Brigantes, or of Venutius her rival and former husband.\n\nTraces of early human occupation of the ancient site now known as Stanwick Camp are obviously apparent: the snaking dykes enclose a roughly triangular area of 300 hectares (740 acres) with an internal defensible sector, now a meadow known as \"The Tofts\" south of the church. Excavations in 1951 by Mortimer Wheeler and during the 1980s by Haselgrove, revealed traces of round houses both within the Tofts and outside the larger enclosed area. This suggests that from about 200 BC agrarian settlers began to establish what became the largest oppidum in the north of England. Traces of Samian ware and other rich goods in one of the round-house remains suggest that Cartimandua, Queen of the Brigantes, may have made it her residence, possibly only temporarily. According to Tacitus she made a pact with the rapidly advancing Romans under Petillius Cerealis. Rigodonum, a Brigantian fort of unknown location mentioned by Tacitus, was proposed by Wheeler as a likely candidate to have occupied the location now known as Stanwick. There are no signs in the archaeological record of battle having occurred here. The Romans established stations at Catterick to the south and at Piercebridge on the river crossing to the north but at about the same time (circa 70 AD) building activity seems to have stopped at Stanwick. Another contemporary walled ditch called \"Scots Dyke\" running from Stanwick southward to the River Swale at Richmond (and possibly also northward over the River Tees at Gainford, County Durham) may have formed part of a general defensive mechanism for the hill peoples in the area. A section of the defences was recreated by Wheeler (now an English Heritage visitor site near the village of Forcett) which shows how the ditch was at this point actually cut down into the sandstone to form a wall on the inner side. However, the long perimeter of the site (more than ) suggests that defence against a strong attack would hardly have been an option.\n\nFinds from the \"Stanwick Hoard\" discovered in 1854 are displayed in the British Museum in London.\n\nWhile Stanwick was never an important settlement after the Romans built and marched up what is now called Dere Street, from Catterick fort towards their river crossing at Piercebridge, it seems that the centre of the area below the Tofts, with its watermeadows, stream and pasture, which became built up into the circular, sacred island-like site visible today, provided a place for Christian worship and a burial ground as early as 500 AD. Traces of a small Iron Age village have been identified a little to the north-east of the church, and particularly in wet conditions early cultivation patterns are clearly visible in all the surrounding fields. Some very early carved stones with Viking ornamentation are visible set into the walls of the chancel and the porch, and an Anglo-Saxon cross-shaft with Celtic scrollwork stands in the church.\n\nAs recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086, before 1066 \"one Tor held 3 carucates of land here at Stanwegge\".\n\nIt became Stanwigs and then Stanwick, probably derived from 'stone walls'. By 1275 the Knights Templar took over the settlement, followed before 1348 by the Knights Hospitaller.\n\nBefore 1400 it was acquired by the \"de Catterick\" or \"Catherick\" family, lords of the manor of nearby Catterick, the village of which, with its Roman remains, lies some five miles (8 km) to the south. They built the manor house known as the \"Old Hall\", which is still in use, opposite the church in which survives the monumental brass of Elizabeth Catherick (died 1591).\n\nIn 1638 Anthony Catterick sold the manor of Stanwick for the sum of £4000 to his relative Hugh Smithson (1598–1670), created a baronet at the Restoration of the Monarchy in 1660, a Citizen of the City of London and member of the Worshipful Company of Haberdashers, whose mother was Eleanor Catterick, daughter and heir of George Catterick of Stanwick, wife of Anthony Smithson of Newsham anciently \"Newsham Broghton Lith\", in the Parish of Kirby Ravensworth, North Riding of Yorkshire. His grandfather had lived at Stanwick, so he was coming home. The manor was then 600 acres (about 250 hectares) and included four dwelling houses and six cottages. He married Dorothy Rawstorne (\"alias\" Royston), daughter of Jerom Rawstorne of Plaistow in Essex. The will proved on 22 November 1658 of \"Jeramy Rawstorne\" of London, a member of the Worshipful Company of Merchant Taylors survives in the Lancashire Archives (the family was also of New Hall, Preston Lancashire) summarised as follows: \n\nSir Jerome Smithson, 2nd Baronet (c. 1630 – 1684), son and heir, who married Mary Wingate, daughter and heiress of ... Wingate of Yorkshire.\n\nSir Hugh Smithson, 3rd Baronet (1657–1729), who married Elizabeth Langdale, a daughter of Marmaduke Langdale, 2nd Baron Langdale (1661–1703) of Holme in Yorkshire. His mural monument survives in Stanwick Church. He had two sons, who both predeceased him and four daughters, all nuns.\n\nSir Hugh Smithson, 4th Baronet (c. 1714 – 1786), grandson, only son of Langdale Smithson (2nd son of the 3rd Baronet) by his wife Philadelphia Reveley (whose portrait by Sir Godfrey Kneller survives), daughter of William Reveley of Newby Wiske, Yorkshire. He married Lady Elizabeth Seymour, the daughter and co-heir of Algernon Seymour, 7th Duke of Somerset (1684–1750) of Petworth House in Sussex, whose mother had been Lady Elizabeth Percy (1667–1722), the great heiress of the last Earl of Northumberland. Smithson inherited about half of the former Percy estates, includinhg Alnwick Castle in Northumberland and Syon House in Middlesex, and inherited his father-in-law's subsidiary title of Earl of Northumberland, created for him in 1749 with special remainder to Smithson, in anticipation of the Duke's death without a son and the passing of the Dukedom of Somerset to very distant Seymour cousins in Devon. In conformity with the Duke's wishes, Smithson adopted the surname Percy in lieu of his patronymic and adopted the Percy armorials. In 1766 he was created Duke of Northumberland.\n\nDespite the fact that the principal seat of Smithson, now 1st Duke of Northumberland, was at Alnwick Castle, sixty miles to the north, and that he had inherited other huge estates from his marriage, he was fond of his paternal seat of Stanwick and started to build a splendid new mansion called Stanwick Hall, half a mile to the south of the church, which he intended as a country retreat. The beck was bridged and a carriage drive was constructed to link with the neighbouring village of Aldbrough and Dere Street. The new Hall included a splendid summerhouse and was set in a deer park, as depicted in an oil painting now at Syon House by George Cuitt the Elder (1743–1818), born at nearby Moulton.\n\nStanwick became the seat of Algernon Percy, Lord Prudhoe (1792–1865), the second son of the 2nd Duke, who later became the 4th Duke in 1847. Between 1839 and 1842 he extended Stanwick, to the designs of Decimus Burton (1800–1881), which included the addition of north and east wings and improvement to the stables. In the 19th century new gardens were laid out, including an Italian-style sunken garden with fountain immediately south of the entrance; a splendid French walled garden (supposedly designed by an émigré French priest escaping the French Revolution), and a walled kitchen garden further to the east.\n\nIn 1842 Algernon Percy, Lord Prudhoe (1792–1865) married Lady Eleanor Grosvenor, daughter of Richard Grosvenor, 2nd Marquess of Westminster, and more alterations began at Stanwick Hall. Perhaps at this time the icehouse was sunk in the Tofts to the south-west of the church, with a handsome ornamental 'Deer Shelter' on top. He was a naval officer, explorer and social innovator, and expanded enormously his estates with revenue from coal mines and the railways. He was buried with much pomp in Westminster Abbey in 1865, having bequeathed a life-interest in the estate to his distraught and childless widow, who took up residence there six months after his death. The Darlington and Stockton Times reported her arrival as follows:\nHer Grace arrived at Bank Top (railway station) on the Scotch Express at 4.15, which for her special service stopped in the centre of the station, in order that she might quietly alight. That train usually merely rests at Darlington to take in water, and no passengers are either booked from or to that place. Her grace was attired in the deepest weeds, and wore a plain widower’s cap. She drove off to Stanwick in her brougham with a single pair of horses, and was received at her favourite home, which will be her future country residence, with the respectful and silent greeting of her tenants in the quietest and most unostentatious manner possible.\nShe did not pause; soon the church was rebuilt from its parlous condition, to the designs of Anthony Salvin, with many of the ancient stones from the older building and tombs being set in its walls and porch. A new Vicarage was built to the north and was presented with a portrait of the late Duke; lodges and stout residences for her butler and head gardener were added. In 1891 she commissioned a new church dedicated to St Paul to be built in the nearby village of Aldbrough St John, which manor was largely owned by the Dukes and traditionally had been the source of workers and services for the estate. An interesting record of Stanwick Hall and its estate was made in the February 1900 edition of the magazine \"Country Life Illustrated\"', which featured a lavishly illustrated article entitled 'Stanwick Park, Yorkshire – the seat of Eleanor, Duchess of Northumberland\". It included seven photographs of the house and gardens with statuary and ornamental ironwork. Only one of the photographs shows a person, namely Mr William Higgie, her head gardener, employed in 1866 and who remained in her service until shortly after her death in 1911.\nThe Dowager Duchess Eleanor lived to the age of 90, spending about half the year at Stanwick, when she saw to the spiritual needs of the community, reducing the number of pubs to one, supporting the school and dispensing charity to the deserving.\n\nAfter her death in 1911 the house was rarely used by the family, and served briefly as a hospital for wounded soldiers from the First World War. With the severe imposition of death duties after that war the upkeep of the house and grounds became uneconomic and in 1923 the then Duke put the estate up for sale. The farms and land found buyers but the mansion house did not and was demolished. Most of the ancillary buildings were however sold: the kitchen garden became a commercial enterprise and the cottages and outbuildings were converted into modern dwellings. The result was a small nuclear village of about ten houses which has since expanded slightly but still remains within the original estate boundaries.\n\nThe neighbouring estate of Carlton, half a mile to the north-east, had been subsumed by Stanwick Hall early in the nineteenth century and had served as the residence of the head estate manager, for stables and kennels and for associated staff accommodation. Its fate echoed that of Stanwick: the Hall was demolished by fire and is now similarly represented by a group of refurbished buildings, including icehouse and walled gardens. The only original dwellings are the gamekeeper's and kennelman's.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327825", "title": "Fly Through the Country", "text": "Fly Through the Country\n\nFly Through the Country is the title of the second studio album by the progressive bluegrass band New Grass Revival, released in 1975 on the Flying Fish label. It is also the title of the fifth song on the album.\n\nIn 1992, \"When the Storm is Over\" and \"Fly Through the Country\" were re-released on one CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327832", "title": "Pulgarcito (Spain)", "text": "Pulgarcito (Spain)\n\nPulgarcito (Spanish for \"Tom Thumb\") was a weekly illustrated magazine of Spain that was published by Editorial Bruguera (originally named \"El Gato Negro\", though it retained a black cat as its logo) from June 1921 to 1987.\n\nAn extremely popular periodical in its first years, \"Pulgarcito\" offered short stories, articles, pastimes, and jokes, with only a few comic strips. Economic difficulties caused by the Spanish Civil War led to only 13 issues being published between 1945 and 1947, though it recovered after 1952, with more prominence given to comic strips and a stable of new comic characters, including:\n\n\nBoth Ibáñez and Jan worked on \"Pulgarcito\" during its last years. With the demise of the Editorial Bruguera publishing house, \"Pulgarcito\" was discontinued.\n"}
{"id": "2327837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327837", "title": "Dhari Ali al-Fayadh", "text": "Dhari Ali al-Fayadh\n\nSheikh Dhari Ali al-Fayadh (c. 1918 – June 28, 2005) was the oldest Iraqi Member of Parliament until his assassination in 2005. He was believed to have been 87.\n\nFayadh had been the leader of a prominent tribe from southern Iraq, the Albu Amer, and was first elected to an Iraqi legislature by the monarchy before it was toppled in 1958. He was elected to the Iraqi Parliament in January 2005 as part of the majority-holding Shiite slate and he served as assembly speaker at one of the assembly's opening sessions.\n\nFayadh was killed, along with his son and two bodyguards, when a car bomb was rammed into his motorcade. Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's organization claimed the killing.\n"}
{"id": "2327841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327841", "title": "System.map", "text": "System.map\n\nIn Linux, the System.map file is a symbol table used by the kernel.\n\nA symbol table is a look-up between symbol names and their addresses in memory. A symbol name may be the name of a variable or the name of a function. The System.map is required when the address of a symbol name, or the symbol name of an address, is needed. It is especially useful for debugging kernel panics and kernel oopses. The kernel does the address-to-name translation itself when codice_1 is enabled so that tools like ksymoops are not required.\n\nThe following is part of a codice_2 file:\n\nBecause addresses may change from one build to the next, a new codice_2 is generated for each build of the kernel.\n\nThe character between the address and the symbol (separated by spaces) is the \"type\" of a symbol. The codice_4 utility program on Unix systems list the symbols from object files. The codice_2 is directly related to it, in that this file is produced by codice_4 on the whole kernel program just like codice_4 lists the symbols and their types for any small object programs.\n\nSome of these types are:\n\nAfter building the Linux kernel, codice_2 is located in the root of the source directory. However, some further software installation steps expect to locate the file elsewhere:\n\n"}
{"id": "2327842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327842", "title": "Briquet Griffon Vendéen", "text": "Briquet Griffon Vendéen\n\nA Briquet Griffon Vendéen is a breed of hunting dog originating in France. Prior to the first World War it was bred down in size by the Comte d’Elva from the Grand Griffon Vendéen. The Briquet Griffon Vendéen was almost extinct after World War II, but thanks to the effort of Hubert Dezamy, a French dog show judge, the breed was restored.\n\nThe Briquet Griffon Vendéen has a short head, low-set ears and a bushy double coat. It comes in solid or mixed colors, fawn, light brown, white and orange, white and gray and even tri-colored. They stand from 20 - 22 inches at the withers. They weigh from 48 to 53 lbs.\n\nThe Briquet is a passionate hunter with stamina and fortitude. It should be able to pick up a cold trail as well as a hot one. Like its close relations the other vendeen hounds, the Briquet relishes its time outdoors with its family. While they are not high-strung, they are lively and enthusiastic dogs. Bred to work in packs as well as on their own, they get along well with other dogs and are not overly possessive about anything. They are fine companion for children.\n\nGriffons do not particularly take to being told what to do. They do not mind being cajoled, bribed, or played with- and if these things lead them to do something their owner likes, then everyone is happy.\n\nAll the Griffons are keen hunters with strong instincts. They thrive on being able to follow their noses at least once a day. Provided with a large, safe area in which to sniff and explore to its heart's content, a Briquette will be a very happy dog- even if it is just once a week. Short of hunting opportunities, Griffons must have time outdoors. Long walks are most appreciated- bred as hunting dogs, they do not tire easily.\n\nThe tousled appearance of the Griffon comes naturally, and any trimming is highly discouraged. Its double coat must be brushed and combed. The burrs and mud it picks up in its travels need to be brushed off its legs and belly. Its long ears can harbor infection and should be cleaned regularly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327852", "title": "Byelorussian Harness Horse", "text": "Byelorussian Harness Horse\n\nThe Belarus Harness Horse, , is a Belarusian breed of draught horse. It was bred for use in agriculture, and is also used to produce mare's milk and horsemeat.\n\nThe Belorusskaya was bred in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, principally in the western part of what is now Belarus, which was for much of the twentieth century the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. The aim was to create an agricultural draught horse adapted to local conditions, capable of working on sandy, swampy or woodland terrain. Local mares, many of them of Polesian type, were put to imported stallions. The majority of these were of the Norwegian Dølehest draught breed, but there was also some Ardennes and Brabant influence. By the 1980s the breeding programme was close to completion; two volumes of the stud-book had been issued, in which 616 mares and 135 stallions were recorded. \n\nIn 1980 the total breed population was some 93000, of which almost 28000 were pure-bred.\n\nThe breed was officially recognised in Belarus in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "2327859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327859", "title": "Unified Democratic Party", "text": "Unified Democratic Party\n\nUnified Democratic Party (in French: \"Parti Démocratique Unifié\"), was, despite its name, not a political party but an electoral alliance of two parties, the Voltaic Democratic Party (PDV-RDA) and the Social Party for the Emancipation of the African Masses (PSEMA), ahead of the 1957 territorial assembly elections in Upper Volta. PDU won 33 out of 70 seats.\n\nAfter the elections PDU formed a government together with the Voltaic Democratic Movement (MDV). PDU held seven ministries and MDV five. The unity proved short-lived. PSEMA and MDV revolted against the vice-president Ouezzine Coulibaly and formed an opposition bloc, Voltaic Solidarity. Thus PDU was no more.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327862", "title": "Popeye Jones", "text": "Popeye Jones\n\nRonald Jerome \"Popeye\" Jones (born June 17, 1970) is an American professional basketball coach and former player. He is currently an assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).\n\nBorn in Dresden, Tennessee, Jones played college basketball for Murray State University. He finished his college career as a three-time All-Ohio Valley Conference selection, a two-time honorable mention All-America and was named OVC Player of the Year in 1990 and 1991. Jones was honored as the OVC's Athlete of the Year in 1991 and 1992. He is one of only ten MSU men's basketball players to have his jersey retired, his #54 hangs in the rafters of the CFSB Center in Murray, Kentucky. Jones ranks fourth on Murray State's all-time scoring list with 2,057 points. He is also Murray State's all-time leader in rebounds with 1,374, and led the nation in that category in the 1990–91 season. He is the only player in Murray State history to record more than 2,000 points and 1,000 rebounds.\n\nAfter college, he was selected by the Houston Rockets in the second round (41st overall) of the 1992 NBA draft, but his rights were traded to the Dallas Mavericks for those of former University of Michigan center Eric Riley. After playing professionally in Europe for a season, he played for the Mavericks for three seasons until being traded to the Toronto Raptors for Riley's former Michigan Wolverines teammate, shooting guard Jimmy King. Jones also played with the Boston Celtics, Denver Nuggets, Washington Wizards and Golden State Warriors. He had a second stint with the Mavericks during the 2002–03 season, but played in only 26 of 82 games.\n\nIn a game on March 10, 1994, Popeye Jones collected 12 offensive rebounds without a single defensive rebound. The 12 offensive boards without recording a defensive rebound stands as an NBA record since at least 1983.\n\nHis best season was in 1995–96 with the Mavericks when he averaged 11.3 points and 10.8 rebounds per game while making 14 of 39 three-point attempts, after averaging 10.3 points and 10.6 rebounds the previous year. He holds NBA career per game averages of 7.0 points and 7.4 rebounds. He once secured 28 rebounds in a single game for the Mavericks in the 1995-96 season, still a team record.\n\nFollowing his 11-year career year in the NBA, Jones decided to pursue coaching professional basketball. He first worked as a player development coach with the Dallas Mavericks. After spending the 2007–08 through the 2009–10 season with the Mavericks, he earned a coaching job with the New Jersey / Brooklyn Nets as an assistant coach.\n\nOn August 14, 2013, he was hired as an assistant coach for the Indiana Pacers. Popeye worked with All-Stars like Roy Hibbert and Paul George, and reached the Eastern Conference Finals his first two years with the team.\n\nHis nickname, Popeye, comes from the popular cartoon of that name. His mother chose the name once they got back from the hospital and Popeye was on TV.\n\nJones's son, Seth, is a professional ice hockey player who was drafted in the 1st round of the 2009 WHL Bantam Draft. He was taken 11th overall by the Everett Silvertips but later traded to the Portland Winterhawks. Seth was then taken with the #4 overall pick in the 2013 NHL Draft by the Nashville Predators. Seth was traded to the Columbus Blue Jackets on January 6, 2016 where he became an All-Star in 2017 and 2019. Jones' younger son Caleb was selected by the Edmonton Oilers in the fourth round, #117 overall, in the 2015 NHL draft.\n\nDuring Jones' tenure with Denver, he approached Joe Sakic of the Colorado Avalanche about his son playing ice hockey. Sakic advised the elder Jones to enroll his sons in skating classes first. In 2013, Seth Jones played for the United States under-20 ice hockey team which won gold at the world junior tournament. Caleb also was a member of the 2017 United States team which accomplished the same feat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327873", "title": "Bahnhofsviertel", "text": "Bahnhofsviertel\n\nThe Bahnhofsviertel (; literally: \"train station quarter\") is a city district of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It is part of the \"Ortsbezirk Innenstadt I\".\n\nThe Bahnhofsviertel was developed between 1891 and 1915. Along with the Westend, the Nordend and the Ostend, it is part of Frankfurt's dense inner city districts. The Bahnhofsviertel is known as one of Frankfurt's main entertainment and red-light districts (the latter esp. around Taunusstrasse), along with Alt-Sachsenhausen south of the river Main.\n\nThe Bahnhofsviertel is scarcely half a square kilometre larger than the Altstadt, making it the second smallest district of the city. The longest border line is just short of a kilometre long. Almost trapeze shaped, this district lies between the Alleenring to the west, Mainzer Landstraße in the north and the Anlagenring to the east. The Main river forms a natural border in the south. Adjacent districts to the west are the Gutleutviertel and the Gallus around Frankfurt Central Station, the Westend in the north and the Innenstadt in the east. To the south, on the opposite side of the Main, lies Sachsenhausen.\n\nThe area between the Frankfurt city wall and field of the gallows had hardly been constructed by the early nineteenth century. Only farming estates were to be found in this area. Near to the city gallows and as an unprotected site outside the city walls, it was left alone for a long time. As industrialisation came in, the city walls and its gallows were torn down to be replaced initially by villas with large gardens. The technical advances were especially noticeable here. When in 1839 the Taunus Railway was built to the town of Höchst, still part of the Duchy of Nassau, the original Taunus station (\"Taunusbahnhof\") was constructed on the Anlagenring. The track of the Taunus station ran through the middle of the district of today's station quarter. Later the stations of the Main-Neckar and Main-Weser lines were added to that. The western stations were grouped together until 1888, after which time they were replaced by the new Frankfurt central station, which was situated another 500m further west. Thus the railway tracks also became redundant, and the year 1889 was able to begin with a dividing up of the area. As there was still no significant residential zone existing in 1891, the area became the central site of the International Electro-Technical Exhibition led by Oskar von Miller. In the meantime, the large civil land development in the style of the Wilhelminian period was placed under monument protection. In the Second World War the quarter was not so strongly bombed as the inner city, but nevertheless many buildings were destroyed, particularly in the north. In the time of the occupation by the American armed forces the district developed an active nightlife, allowed soldiers free rein to endless brothels.\n\nThe Bahnhofsviertel is well connected to the public transport system because of its central location. The Hauptbahnhof, which borders the borough, offers connection to regional and long distance trains. Two tram lines (11 and 12) cross the Bahnhofsviertel on Münchner Straße. The \"Willy-Brandt-Platz\" U-Bahn station and Taunusanlage S-Bahn station are also easily reachable. The well-known meaning of Kaiserstraße has been lost among the street traffic, travel from the Alleenring to the Hauptbahnhof is no longer possible through the Kaisersack. Instead the main traffic vein today is Gutleutstraße, which flows into the theatre tunnel and offers a connection to the old part of town. The roads arrange in a chessboard-like fashion and make orientation easy. The wide east-west streets are constructed like boulevards and communicate the charm of a big city. Numerous nineteenth century buildings have survived through World War II and became chaste residential houses in the 1950s and 1960s, whilst several supplemented skyscrapers. Best known are the Silvertower and the Gallileo at Jürgen-Ponto-Platz (named after the murdered president of Dresdner Bank), the Skyper and the Gewerkschaftshaus in Wilhelm-Leuschner-Straße. The latter was built in 1931, (the architect was Max Taut), and was then the biggest skyscraper in the city. The best known of many hotels in the Bahnhofsviertel, the InterContinental, is also in Wilhelm-Leuschner-Straße.\n\nThere are no large parks but in the south of the district lies the Main Riverbank, one of the most popular green areas in Frankfurt. In 1860 a silted branch of the Main, the Kleine Main, was filled up and the offshore island Mainlust was connected to the main bank. On this land Sebastian Rinz, the city gardener, laid out a green area with Mediterranean vegetation which was soon named Nizza in common speech. The Frankfurt families Guaita and Loeen had already possessed large landscaped gardens in the climatically favoured area of the river west of the old city walls since the seventeenth century.\n\nFrankfurt's red-light district is in Bahnhofsviertel. The core of the district consists of Elbestraße, Moselstraße and Taunusstraße. The district was more and more dominated by prostitution, especially after 1945. The reason being that during World War II, the area was only slightly damaged by bombs, and that many of the hotels located there were used by the US occupation forces for the accommodation of military personnel. The great poverty of the German population and the in comparison very wealthy US soldiers formed the sociocultural background for the emergence of the red light district at this point.\n\nThere are a number of brothels in Frankfurt's Bahnhofsviertel. In 1969, the Frankfurt contractors received Willi Schütz's approval for the opening of the first large brothel at 49-53 Elbestraße. The project was supported by the then Frankfurt police chief Gerhard Littmann, who saw in the creation of an Eros Center in the vicinity of the city the only way to deal with the numerous complaints about \"commercial malnutrition\" in residential areas. The 180-room establishment now bears the name \"Crazy Sexy\" and is the largest brothel in Germany. In 2013, five percent of prostitutes came from Germany; most came from Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia. The \"Rote Haus\" at 34 Taunusstrasse has six floors 67 rooms. There are 14 brothels in the station district.\n\nIn the neighborhood there are occasionally large raids by the police. Counseling centers include the Diakonisches Werk operated Tamara project under the guidance of Doña Carmen.\n\nAir China and Syrian Arab Airlines operate their Frankfurt offices in a facility in Bahnhofsviertel. Other airlines with Frankfurt offices in Banhofsviertel include Aeroflot, China Airlines, and Iran Air.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327875", "title": "Monkey Magic (TV series)", "text": "Monkey Magic (TV series)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nU.S. \"(Monkey Magic TV)\" \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327879", "title": "When the Storm Is Over", "text": "When the Storm Is Over\n\nWhen the Storm is Over is the third studio album recorded by the progressive bluegrass band New Grass Revival, released in 1977 on Flying Fish Records. The album includes a mix of covers, both traditional and contemporary, as well as band-penned songs.\n\nIn 1992, \"When the Storm is Over\" and the band's preceding 1975 album \"Fly Through the Country\" were re-released together on a dual album CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327885", "title": "Andreas Pavel", "text": "Andreas Pavel\n\nAndreas Pavel is a German-Brazilian cultural producer and media designer who is generally credited with patenting the personal stereo, although his claim in the United Kingdom was revoked after Judges ruled his patent \"obvious and not significantly inventive\".\n\nBorn in Brandenburg an der Havel, Germany, Pavel was the son of a German industrialist and vice-president of the Federation of German in Industries. At six years of age, his family moved to Morumbi, São Paulo where his father took a managing position at Matarazzo Industries.\n\nHaving studied philosophy and social sciences at the Free University of Berlin, Pavel returned to Brazil in 1967 and started his professional career as head of programming of the newly founded public broadcasting station, TV Cultura. 1970 he took up editorial planning at Abril Cultural, where he edited partwork encyclopaedias for nationwide newsstand distribution, most notably the philosophical source collection \"Great Thinkers\" and a reference series of \"Brazilian Popular Music\".\n\nIn March 1977, Pavel filed the a patent application for his Stereobelt in Italy, followed by further applications in Germany, United States, United Kingdom, and Japan. Pavel subsequently tried to interest companies like Uher, Beyer, B&O, and Brionvega in manufacturing his device.\n\nIn 1989, Pavel started infringement proceedings against Sony in the UK. Four years later, the British patent was invalidated by a British judge. The exact settlement fee is not known, but European press accounts said that Pavel received a cash settlement in excess of $10,000,000 and is now also receiving royalties on some Walkman sales.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327886", "title": "Theanine", "text": "Theanine\n\nTheanine , also known as -γ-glutamylethylamide and \"N\"-ethyl--glutamine, is an amino acid analogue of the proteinogenic amino acids -glutamate and -glutamine and is found primarily in particular plant and fungal species. It was discovered as a constituent of green tea in 1949; in 1950, it was isolated from gyokuro leaves. Theanine provides a unique brothy or savory (umami) flavor to green tea infusions.\n\nThe name \"theanine\" without a prefix generally implies the enantiomer -theanine, which is the form found in tea leaves and as a dietary supplement ingredient. Most studies have used -theanine. The opposite enantiomer, -theanine, has been studied less.\n\nThe regulatory status of theanine varies by country. In Japan, -theanine has been approved for use in all foods. Restrictions apply to infant foods. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) considers it to be generally recognized as safe (GRAS) and allows its sale as a dietary supplement. The German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, an agency of their Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture, objects to the addition of -theanine to beverages. The European Food Safety Authority EFSA advised negatively on the use of L-theanine for improving cognitive function, alleviation of psychological stress, maintenance of normal sleep, and reduction of menstrual discomfort. Therefore, health claims for -theanine are not recognized in the European Union.\n\nThe chemical name \"N\"-ethyl--glutamine and other synonyms (see box) for theanine reflect its chemical structure. The name theanine, without prefix, is generally understood to imply the - (\"S-\") enantiomer, derived from the related proteinogenic L-amino acid glutamic acid. Theanine is an analog of this amino acid, and its primary amide, -glutamine (also a proteinogenic amino acid). Theanine is a derivative of glutamine that is ethylated on the amide nitrogen (as the name \"N\"-ethyl--glutamine describes), or alternatively, to the amide formed from ethylamine and -glutamic acid at its γ- (5-) side chain carboxylic acid group (as the name γ-L-glutamylethylamide describes).\n\nRelative to theanine, the opposite (-, \"R-\") enantiomer is largely absent from the literature, except implicitly. While natural extracts that are not harshly treated are presumed to contain only the biosynthetic - enantiomeric form, mishandled isolates and racemic chemical preparations of theanines necessarily contain both theanine and its -enantiomer (and from racemic syntheses, in equal proportion), and studies have suggested that the -isomer may actually \"predominate\" in some commercial supplement preparations. Amino acid racemization in aqueous media is a well-established chemical process promoted by elevated temperature and non-neutral pH values; prolonged heating of \"Camellia\" extracts—possible for oversteeped teas and in undisclosed commercial preparative processes—has been reported to result in increasing racemization of theanine to give increasing proportions of the nonnatural D-theanine, up to equal proportions of each enantiomer.\n\nTheanine is found primarily in plant and fungal species. It was discovered as a constituent of tea (\"Camellia sinensis)\" in 1949 and in 1950, a laboratory in Kyoto successfully isolated it from gyokuro leaf, which has high theanine content. Theanine is substantially present in black, green, and white teas from \"Camellia sinensis\" in quantities of about 1% of the dry weight. Deliberately shading tea plants from direct sunlight, as is done for matcha and gyokuro green tea, increases L-theanine content. The -enantiomer is the form found in freshly prepared teas and some, but not all, human dietary supplements.\n\nAs a structural analog of glutamate and glutamine, the theanine in preparations (teas, pure supplements, etc.) is absorbed in the small intestine after oral ingestion; its hydrolysis to -glutamate and ethylamine occur both in the intestine and liver. It can also cross the blood–brain barrier intact, and register pharmacological effects directly.\n\nTheanine is structurally similar to the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, and in accordance, binds to glutamate receptors, though with much lower affinity in comparison. Specifically, it binds to ionotropic glutamate receptors in the micromolar range, including the AMPA and kainate receptors and, to a lesser extent, the NMDA receptor. It acts as an antagonist of the former two sites and as an agonist of the latter site. Theanine also binds to group I mGluRs. In addition, it inhibits glutamine transporters and glutamate transporters, and thus blocks the reuptake of glutamine and glutamate. Lastly, theanine elicits umami taste, and this effect has been found to be a consequence of the fact that it directly binds to and activates the T1R1 + T1R3 heterodimer or umami (savory) taste receptor.\n\nTheanine increases serotonin, dopamine, GABA, and glycine levels in various areas of the brain, as well as BDNF and NGF levels in certain brain areas. However, its effect on serotonin is still a matter of debate in the scientific community, with studies showing increases and decreases in brain serotonin levels using similar experimental protocols. It has also been found that injecting spontaneously hypertensive mice with theanine significantly lowered levels of 5-hydroxyindoles in the brain. Researchers also speculate that it may inhibit glutamate excitotoxicity.\n\nAble to cross the blood–brain barrier, theanine has reported psychoactive properties. Theanine has been studied for its potential ability to reduce mental and physical stress, improve cognition, and boost mood and cognitive performance in a synergistic manner with caffeine.\n\nA Natural Standard monograph that reviews current research on theanine reports that it is likely safe in doses of 200–250 mg up to a maximum daily dose of 1,200 mg. Though some people use theanine for these purposes, Natural Standard rates the evidence to support the usage for anxiety reduction, blood pressure control, and mood improvement as \"unclear or conflicting scientific evidence\" and the evidence for improved cognition as \"fair negative scientific evidence\". Many of the studies of theanine were done in combination with caffeine as found in tea. While the studies found that the combination had some effect on mood, the studies found that theanine alone had little effect. A review by other researchers of a small set of trials concluded that there are benefits of L-theanine in reducing acute stress and anxiety in people with stressful conditions.\n\nIn 2001, the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (\"Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung\", BfR) objected to the addition of isolated theanine to beverages. The institute stated the amount of theanine consumed by regular drinkers of tea or coffee is virtually impossible to determine. While it was estimated the quantity of green tea consumed by the average Japanese tea drinker per day contains about 20 mg of the substance, there are no studies measuring the amount of theanine being extracted by typical preparation methods, or the percentage lost by discarding the first infusion. Therefore, with the Japanese being exposed to possibly much less than 20 mg per day, and Europeans presumably even less, it was the opinion of the BfR that pharmacological reactions to drinks typically containing 50 mg of theanine per 500 milliliters could not be excluded—reactions such as impairment of psychomotor skills and amplification of the sedating effects of alcohol and hypnotics.\n\nIn 2006, a study found no consistent, statistically significant treatment-related adverse effects on behavior, morbidity, mortality, body weight, food consumption and efficiency, clinical chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis in rats fed high doses of theanine for 13 weeks. Large studies in humans have not been undertaken; however, several smaller-scale studies (fewer than 100 participants) have shown increased alpha wave generation and lowered anxiety, along with benefits to sleep quality in people with ADHD.\n\nThe combination of theanine and caffeine has been shown to promote faster simple reaction time, faster numeric working memory reaction time and improved sentence verification accuracy. \n\nTheanine has been reported to raise levels of brain serotonin, dopamine, and GABA, with possible improvement in specific memory and learning tasks.\n\nA study of teabags sold in British supermarkets in 2011 found that the teabags containing the most -theanine per cup (24 mg versus 8 mg per cup) were the lower-quality brands containing black tea, with a supermarket brand of black tea having the highest theanine content. The study demonstrates that brewing time is a major determinant of the amount of l-theanine extracted. Addition of sugar and small quantities of milk make no significant difference, while larger quantities of milk reduced the measured theanine content.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "2327888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327888", "title": "Louisville Orchestra", "text": "Louisville Orchestra\n\nThe Louisville Orchestra is the primary orchestra in Louisville, Kentucky. It was founded in 1937 by Robert Whitney (1904–1986) and Charles Farnsley, Mayor of Louisville. The Louisville Orchestra employs salaried musicians, and offers a wide variety of concert series to the community, including classical programs featuring international guest artists, pops performances, and education and family concerts. In 1942 the orchestra adopted the name of the former Louisville Philharmonic Society (founded in 1866), which it kept until 1977 before reverting to its original name . The orchestra is the resident performing group for the Louisville Ballet and the Kentucky Opera, and presents several concerts across the Kentucky/Indiana area.\n\nThe orchestra performs its concerts at Whitney Hall (named for its founder) in the Kentucky Center for the Arts and The Brown Theatre . The current Music Director of the Louisville Orchestra is Teddy Abrams, who began his tenure in 2014 .\n\nTen years after its origin, the Orchestra launched First Edition Recordings, becoming the first American orchestra to own a recording label. In 1953, the Orchestra received a Rockefeller grant of $500,000 to commission, record and premiere 20th-century music by living composers, placing the Louisville Orchestra on the international circuit. Between 1955 and 1997 nearly 150 LPs were released, containing more than 450 compositions by living 20th Century composers . Forty-three of these recordings were subsequently issued on CD between 2003 and 2005 . The Louisville Orchestra has earned nineteen ASCAP awards for Adventurous Programming of Contemporary Music. The history of commissioned works project is detailed in the documentary film \"Music Makes a City\" .\n\nThe Louisville Orchestra was awarded grants from the Aaron Copland Fund for Music and the National Endowment for the Arts, both for the purpose of digitizing the master tapes and restoring the music scores for archiving the Orchestra's historic First Edition Records recordings. Some of the recordings were re-released on CD by Santa Fe Music on the First Edition Music label.\n\nThe Louisville Orchestra has performed for many events including \"A Festival for the Arts\" at the White House, the Inter-American Music Festival at the Kennedy Center, \"Great Orchestras of the World\" at Carnegie Hall, and toured Mexico City. In 2001, the Louisville Orchestra received the Leonard Bernstein Award for Excellence in Educational Programming, presented annually by ASCAP and the American Symphony Orchestra League to one orchestra in North America.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327889", "title": "Chris Bury", "text": "Chris Bury\n\nChristopher Robert \"Chris\" Bury (born December 10, 1953) is an American journalist best known for being a correspondent at ABC News \"Nightline\", where he also served as substitute anchor. Bury was also a national correspondent based in Chicago for \"World News with Diane Sawyer\" and \"Good Morning America\". He is now Senior Journalist in Residence at DePaul University in Chicago. Bury's recent work includes contributions to PBS NewsHour and Al Jazeera America. \n\nBury began his career in journalism in 1975 as a reporter for WCLX Radio in La Crosse, Wisconsin. From 1979 to 1980, he served as an instructor at Marquette University's College of Journalism.\n\nHe then moved on to Milwaukee station WTMJ-TV, where he served as a political and investigative reporter. In January 1981, he served as co-host and reporter for \"EXTRA,\" an award-winning television program at KTVI-TV in St. Louis. From 1981 to 1982, Bury was a reporter with KPRC-TV in Houston.\n\nIn 1982, he joined ABC News as a general assignment reporter based in Chicago. In 1992, Bury was assigned full-time coverage of Bill Clinton's Presidential campaign for \"World News Tonight\", and was relocated to \"Nightline\" in Washington, D.C. after the inauguration, where he served as a correspondent and anchor until 2007.\n\nBury received a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Southern Illinois University Carbondale and a Master of Arts in political science from the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nHe is married to radio news journalist Catherine Catalane; they have two sons, Jack and Charlie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327890", "title": "Popular Action Grouping", "text": "Popular Action Grouping\n\nPopular Action Grouping (in French: \"Groupement d'Action Populaire\"), was a political party in Upper Volta. GAP contested the 1970 elections, without any significant result.\n\nSource: Englebert, Pierre. \"La Revolution Burkinabè\". Paris: L'Harmattan, 1986.\n"}
{"id": "2327892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327892", "title": "Grand Griffon Vendéen", "text": "Grand Griffon Vendéen\n\nA Grand Griffon Vendéen is a breed of hunting dog originating in France. It was the first of the Vendée griffons to be bred from the Greffier whose lineage dates back to the 16th Century. There are also several other breeds of Griffons from Vendée, all of them smaller: the Briquet Griffon Vendéen, and the Grand and Petit Basset Griffon Vendéen. Related Griffon breeds include the Griffon Fauve de Bretagne, the Griffon Bleu de Gascogne and the Griffon Nivernais.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327897", "title": "Eugen Systems", "text": "Eugen Systems\n\nEugen Systems is a French video game developer based in Paris, France. It was founded in January 2000 by Alexis Le Dressay, a architect, and Cedric Le Dressay, a software engineer. The company currently focuses on developing real-time strategy games for the PC and Macintosh platforms, but also has developed games for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in the past.\n\nOn February 14, 2018, a statement was released through Le Syndicat des Travailleurs et Travailleuses du Jeu Vidéo (STJV, Union of Video Game Workers) in which 21 out of 44 workers claimed that Eugen Systems had denied overtime pay, delayed paychecks, reduced gross wages below French minimum wage requirements, and failed to honour contractual and collectively bargained obligations, and that they were going on strike until their demands were met. Eugen Systems released a statement denying the majority of these allegations, but admitting to two instances of delayed payrolls due to technical issues, rather than malicious intent. STJV set up a crowdfunding campaign to raise money to support the employees on strike. A statement from STJV a week later indicated that the strike was representative of a deeper lack of respect within the video game industry of programmers' experience and other abilities. Employees who were on strike met at each other's homes to support each other and plan meetings with the press, labour advocates, and politicians.\n\nStaff representative Félix Habert stated that it took two weeks for Eugen Systems leadership to approached him and others to resolve the issue and the first meeting did not take place until March 5. A statement from STJV about this meeting stated that Eugen Systems denied that the employees' contracts were accurate or enforceable, and that the following day they sent a proposal for ending the strike that was \"incomplete\" and \"not serious.\"\n\nFrench Deputy Sébastien Leclerc spoke out against the strike in favour of Eugen Systems, saying that the strike was motivated by the \"political positioning\" of the strikers and calling it a \"hostage taking\". Le Monde later revealed that Leclerc and the wife of the CEO of Eugen Systems knew each other very well and that she was one of his supporters during his 2017 election campaign, creating a conflict of interest in dealing with the strike.\n\nOn April 3, 2018, the strike was ended by employees saying: \"We do not think we will gain any additional ground with this strike, despite the fact our grievances are simply about conforming to labour laws and collective labour agreements\". Fifteen of the 21 employees sought to take their grievances to the French Labour Court. The website for collecting donations was shut down a few days after this announcement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327898", "title": "Twelve Level Cap and Rank System", "text": "Twelve Level Cap and Rank System\n\n, established in 603, was the first of what would be several similar cap and rank systems established during the Asuka period of Japanese history. It was adapted from similar systems that were already in place in Sui dynasty China, Paekche and Koguryŏ. The officials wore silk caps that were decorated with gold and silver, and a feather that indicated the official's rank. The ranks in the twelve level cap and rank system consisted of the greater and the lesser of each of the six Confucian virtues: , , , , and .\n\nThe twelve cap system was replaced in 647.\n\nThe primary distinction between this new system and the old \"kabane\" system by which a person's rank was determined based on heredity, was that the cap and rank system allowed for promotion based on merit and individual achievement. One of the more well known examples of promotion within the cap and rank system is that of Ono no Imoko. When Imoko was first sent as an envoy to the Sui court in 607, he was ranked Greater Propriety (5th rank), but he was eventually promoted to the top rank of Greater Virtue because of his achievements, particularly during his second trip to Sui in 608.\n\nThe following table lists the various ranks and the colors that were believed to have been assigned to each one.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327899", "title": "York School (California)", "text": "York School (California)\n\nYork School is a coeducational day school consisting of about 225 students on a hilltop near Highway 68 in Monterey, California.\n\nYork was founded in 1959 with 12 seventh-grade boys and two teachers. For the first year, only seventh-grade boys were admitted, but it was planned that a grade would be added each year as the class advanced until a full high school was in session. Later, the seventh grade was dropped.\nIt was decided that the Episcopal school would be called York after the Diocese of York in England, one of the oldest in existence. The coat of arms of the See of York was adopted as the school's slogan and is still in use today.\n\nYork started in Pacific Grove, but was soon moved to Monterey. Out of necessity, it was a day school until dormitories could be built in 1964. The same year, the new Laguna Seca campus was opened, where York remains today. Later, for various reasons, including financial constraints, York stopped accepting boarding students. The dorms were converted into classrooms and the boarders were sent to a house in Pacific Grove, called the “pink house,” where they finished their education as the last class to include boarding students.\n\nYork would see many more changes in the ensuing years. In 1970, York became coeducational. In 1973, it became non-diocesan. The land still belongs to the Episcopal Church and will return to the Church if York dissolves. However, York is not as closely affiliated with the Church as it had been in the past. As the school grew, more electives were added to the curriculum, such as art and choral music. Originally, York had no official sports teams, but in time various teams were formed. A chapel was built in 1981 in memory of a local philanthropist and in 1983 a locomotive bell was added to the chapel.\n\nIn 2003, York built an energy-efficient green-sciences building. It includes photo-voltaic solar panels that supply power for the building, recycled materials in the building itself, sensor controlled lighting, waterless urinals, and optimized framing that reduced lumber use in the project. There was limited site disturbance during construction of the science building. Some of the materials used were recycled, including insulation and lumber. In 2007 the York became the first school to be certified by the Monterey Bay Area Green Business Program.\n\nYork has a variety of sports for both boys and girls, for varsity and junior varsity divisions. During the Fall, students may participate in boys water polo, girls field hockey, girls tennis, girls volleyball, or boys and girls cross country. During the Winter, they may participate in soccer or basketball, which are divided into girls and boys teams. In Spring, students may join boys and girls lacrosse, track and field, and swimming, or boys tennis, girls softball, coed golf. The school's colors are red and black, and its mascot is the Falcon.\n\nYork offers a rigorous academic curriculum, a competitive athletic program, opportunities for individual and group participation in the arts, and a healthy variety of extracurricular activities and clubs. York's core curriculum, as determined by the school's graduation requirements, reflects a traditional liberal arts paradigm with an emphasis on math, history, English, foreign languages, and science. The students must also fulfill a fine arts and performing arts requirement. Modern languages studied include Spanish, Chinese, and French (German was formerly offered, but has since been phased out). Latin and ancient Greek are also offered. A variety of elective courses, including Asian History, Psychology, Cinema, American Government, and Economics, supplement the core curriculum. There is an average of 13 students per class, and the student-faculty ratio is 9:1.\n\nYork employs a unique seven-day rotating schedule of A through G days that allows students to take a maximum of seven classes. There are only six periods each day though, as each class only meets six times during the seven-day rotation. Additionally, the order of the classes rotates such that no class meets at the same time of the day during a given cycle.\n\n\n\n\nThrough an ambitious financial aid program that awards grants and loans to approximately 42 percent of its students' families, the school is able to enroll excellent students from across a spectrum of economic diversity. \n\nIn 1991, York was one of 222 public and private schools nationwide to be recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a Blue Ribbon School of Excellence. Over the past six years, approximately 43 percent of York's seniors have been honored by the National Merit Corporation as finalists, winners, or commended students. One hundred percent of York's graduates go to college, with a majority attending University of California campuses, top liberal arts colleges, or Ivy League schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327909", "title": "Ignorance Is Bliss (Face to Face album)", "text": "Ignorance Is Bliss (Face to Face album)\n\nIgnorance Is Bliss is the fourth studio album by the punk rock band, Face to Face. The album was released in 1999, and was a musical and lyrical departure from the pop-punk or skate-punk influenced music found on previous albums and EPs.\n\nThough an 'EconoLive 2' tour was done in promotion of the album, the band does not currently play any of the songs from the album while touring. Trever Keith flatly refused to play anything from this album on their minitour, according to an interview video on their official MySpace page. In 2012, the band had a change of heart and decided to go on tour and perform the entire album acoustically. This album's song \"The Devil You Know (God's A Man)\" is featured in the \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" first .\n\nThe album was reissued in 2012 on Trevor Keith's own label, Antagonist Records, with the songs from \"Why Aren't You Happy?\" EP as bonus tracks.\n\nReception was mainly positive and many noted the shift in style from skate punk to more alternative rock sound.\n\nAll tracks by Trever Keith and Scott Shiflett except where noted.\n\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n\nAlbum - \"Billboard\" (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2327910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327910", "title": "Voltaic Labour Party", "text": "Voltaic Labour Party\n\nVoltaic Labour Party (in French: \"Parti Travailliste Voltaïque\"), was a centre-left political party in Upper Volta. PTV contested the 1970 elections, without any significant result.\n\nPTV functioned as the political branch of the Voltaic Organization of Free Trade Unions (OVSL).\n\nSource: Englebert, Pierre. \"La Revolution Burkinabè\". Paris: L'Harmattan, 1986.\n"}
{"id": "2327911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327911", "title": "Danny Hogan", "text": "Danny Hogan\n\n\"Dapper\" Danny Hogan (ca. 1880 - December 4, 1928) was a charismatic underworld figure and boss of Saint Paul, Minnesota's Irish Mob during Prohibition. Due to his close relationships with the officers of the deeply corrupt St. Paul Police Department, Hogan was able to act as a go between, overseeing the notorious \nO'Connor System.\n\nKnown as the \"Smiling Peacemaker\" to local police officials, Police Chief John \"The Big Fellow\" O'Connor of Saint Paul allowed criminals and fugitives to operate in the city as long as they checked in with police, paid a small bribe and promised not to kill, kidnap, or rob within city limits. \n\nAround 1909, he permanently settled in Saint Paul, and turned to organizing major crimes from the sanctuary of the city. He became so closely connected to Saint Paul's political machine that the police not only feared him, but actively protected his associates. The Federal Department of Justice made repeated attempts to prosecute him, but failed to incarcerate him.\n\nHogan was described by the Justice Department as \"one of the most resourceful and keenest criminals\" in the nation. He acted as an \"ambassador\" for Chief O'Connor and the visiting mobsters. Hogan himself owned the Green Lantern saloon on Wabasha Street in Saint Paul, which was also an illegal gambling casino, and became a speakeasy during Prohibition. Hogan was involved in planning armed robberies in the towns surrounding the Twin Cities, and also in money laundering and casino gambling in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul area.\n\nOn December 4, 1928, Dapper Dan got behind the wheel of his Paige coupe and turned on the ignition. A bomb located beneath the floorboards detonated and blew off his right leg. He slipped into a coma at the hospital and died nine hours after the blast. He was given a funeral worthy of Prohibition-era Chicago and was buried in Calvary Cemetery. His widow, Leila Hogan, was heard to say, \"I am sure there will be justice. If Danny had lived, he would have gone on the one leg they left him and taken care of it himself.\" \n\nHogan's death was especially notable because it was one of the first instances of death by a car bomb. The most likely culprits in his assassination were rival mob figures.\n\nAlthough the murder is still considered unsolved, recently declassified FBI files reveal that the most likely person responsible was Harry Sawyer, Hogan's underboss. Sawyer was a gangster known as\n\"Harry Dutch\".\n\nAccording to the FBI files, Sawyer felt that Hogan had cheated him out of his cut from a nearby casino. In addition, Sawyer also resented the fact that Hogan never repaid the $25,000 which Sawyer had contributed to bail Hogan out of prison in 1924. Hogan's death marked the end of an era in Twin Cities crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327916", "title": "Pavel Sudoplatov", "text": "Pavel Sudoplatov\n\nLieutenant General Pavel Anatolyevich Sudoplatov (; July 7, 1907 – September 26, 1996) was a member of the intelligence services of the Soviet Union who rose to the rank of lieutenant general. He became involved in several famous episodes, including the assassination of Leon Trotsky in 1940, the Soviet espionage program which obtained information about the atomic bomb from the Manhattan Project, and Operation Scherhorn, a Soviet deception operation against the Germans in 1944. His autobiography, \"Special Tasks\", published in 1994, made him well known outside the USSR, and provided a detailed look at Soviet intelligence and Soviet internal politics during his years at the top.\n\nSudoplatov was born in Melitopol, Taurida Governorate, Russian Empire (in present-day Zaporizhia Oblast, Ukraine), to a Russian mother and a Ukrainian father, and was baptized into the Russian Orthodox Church. In 1919, at the age of 12, he left home and joined a Red Army regiment near Melitopol. After being assigned to company flags, he served in combat against both the White Army and the Ukrainian nationalist movement during the Russian Civil War.\n\nSudoplatov was recruited into the Cheka in 1921, at the age of fourteen, and was promoted to the Secret Political Department (SPO) of the Ukrainian State Political Directorate (OGPU) in 1927.\n\nHe transferred to the Soviet OGPU in 1933, moving to Moscow, and soon after became an \"illegal\", operating under cover in a number of European countries.\n\nOn May 23, 1938, he personally assassinated the Ukrainian nationalist leader Yevhen Konovalets in Rotterdam by giving him a box of chocolates containing a bomb.\n\nAccording to Sudoplatov, the order to murder Konovalets came directly from Joseph Stalin, who had personally told him: \"This is not just an act of revenge, although Konovalets is an \"agent\" of German fascism. Our goal is to behead the movement of Ukrainian \"fascism\" on the eve of the war and force these \"gangsters\" to annihilate each other in a struggle for power.\"\n\nAfter delivering the bomb to Konovalets, Pavel Sudoplatov calmly walked away and waited nearby to verify that it had successfully detonated. He then traveled on foot to Rotterdam's railway station and boarded a train for Paris. Then, with the assistance of the NKVD, Sudoplatov was smuggled to the Second Spanish Republic, where he briefly served in combat against Francisco Franco's Nationalists.\n\nDue to his sudden disappearance, both the Dutch police and the OUN immediately suspected Sudoplatov of Konovalets' murder. Therefore, a photograph of Sudoplatov and Konovalets together was distributed to every OUN unit. According to Sudoplatov\n\nIn the 1940s, SMERSH... captured two guerilla fighters in Western Ukraine, one of whom had this photo of me on him. When asked why he was carrying it, he replied, \"I have no idea why, but the order is if we find this man to liquidate him.\"\n\nIn the fall of 1938, he was made acting director of the Foreign Department of the NKVD (as the OGPU had by then become) after the purging of the previous head, in a set of purges which later culminated in the fall of Nikolai Yezhov (who was eventually replaced by Lavrentiy Beria). Shortly afterward, Sudoplatov narrowly escaped being purged himself.\n\nIn March 1939, Stalin rehabilitated Sudoplatov, promoting him to deputy director of the Foreign Department, and placed him in charge of the assassination of Trotsky, which was carried out in August 1940.\n\nIn June 1941, Sudoplatov was placed in charge of the NKVD's Administration for Special Tasks, the principal task of which was to carry out sabotage operations behind enemy lines in wartime (both it and the Foreign Department had also been used to carry out assassinations abroad). During World War II, his unit helped organize guerrilla bands, and other secret behind-the-lines units for sabotage and assassinations, to fight the Nazis. \n\nIn late July 1941, under the orders of Lavrentiy Beria, he met (in a Georgian restaurant in the centre of Moscow) with the Bulgarian ambassador, who was the representative of Germany in USSR, at the time. Sudoplatov asked the ambassador if Hitler would stop penetration of the USSR in exchange for giving Germany, a large part of the USSR. No one knows if this proposition was genuine or if it was an attempt of the USSR to gain time.\n\nIn February 1944, Beria allegedly named Sudoplatov to head the newly formed Department S, which, according to Sudoplatov, united both the army intelligence (GRU) and NKVD intelligence in an effort to aid and secure the Soviet atomic bomb project. Sudoplatov's exact role and contribution, as well as his claim that he \"engineered the theft of atomic secrets from the United States with the aid of four eminent scientists\" is under discussion, since, according to the Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia, Department S was established in September 1945, and Sudoplatov had limited access to the Soviet atomic effort from that time until October 1946 and did not have any access to foreign agents tasked with collecting the atomic intelligence. In 1995, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (F.B.I.) conducted an investigation and declared that it, \n\n...is not in possession of any credible evidence that would suggest that Neils (sic) Bohr, Enrico Fermi, Robert Oppenheimer, or Leo Szilard engaged in any espionage activity on behalf of any foreign power..., the F.B.I. has classified information available that argues against the conclusions reached by the author of 'Special Tasks.' The F.B.I., therefore, considers such allegations to be unfounded.\n\nIn the summer of 1946, Sudoplatov was removed from both posts, and in September he was placed in charge of another group at the newly renamed MGB, one which was supposed to plan sabotage actions in Western countries. In November, 1949, he was given a temporary job helping suppress a guerrilla Ukrainian liberation movement in Ukraine that was a relic of World War II.\n\nIn the spring of 1953, around the time of Stalin's death, Sudoplatov was appointed to head the yet-again renamed MVD's Bureau of Special Tasks, which was responsible for sabotage operations abroad, and ran networks of \"illegals\" who were given the task of preparing attacks on military establishments in NATO countries, in the event that NATO attacked the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter the fall of Lavrentiy Beria, Sudoplatov was arrested on August 21, 1953, as his alleged collaborator in crimes. He feigned madness to avoid being executed with Beria, and therefore he was tried only in 1958. He was accused, among other things, of involvement with the Mairanovsky's laboratory of death:\n\nAs established [during the court trial], Beria and his accomplices committed terrible crimes against humanity: they tested deadly poisons, which caused agonizing death, on live humans. A special laboratory, which was established for experiments on the action of poisons on living humans, worked under the supervision of Sudoplatov and his deputy Eitingon from 1942 to 1946. They demanded he provide them only with poisons that had been tested on humans...\n\nHe was sentenced to 15 years in prison. After serving the full term (during which time he was housed with a number of Stalin's top assistants, also imprisoned), he was duly released in August 1968.\n\nSudoplatov thereafter worked for some time as a German and Ukrainian translator, and also published - under the pen name \"Anatoliy Andreev\" - three books based on his activities during World War II.\n\nAfter an extensive letter-writing campaign, including a publicity effort during the glasnost era of the late 1980s, he was finally rehabilitated and cleared of wrongdoing on 10 January 1992 - after the December 1991 dissolution of the Soviet Union. In his memoirs, he wrote with bitterness about his rehabilitation:\n\nThe Soviet Union—to which I devoted every fiber of my being and for which I was willing to die; for which I averted my eyes from every brutality, finding justification in its transformation from a backward nation into a superpower; for which I spent long months on duty away from Emma and the children; whose mistakes cost me fifteen years of my life as a husband and father - was unwilling to admit its failure and take me back as a citizen. Only when there was no more Soviet Union, no more proud empire, was I reinstated and my name returned to its rightful place.\n\nIn 1994 Sudoplatov's autobiography, \"Special Tasks\", based partly on Sudoplatov's own memories and partly on some KGB documents, written with the help of his son Anatoliy and two American writers, was published; it caused a considerable uproar. In addition to extensive details of many Soviet intelligence-operations during Sudoplatov's career, and a similarly extensive discussion of the political machinations inside the intelligence services and the Soviet government, it claimed that a number of Western scientists who had worked on the atomic bomb project, such as Robert Oppenheimer, while not recruited agents for the Soviets, had provided important information. The American media initially treated this revelation as a scoop, but later the Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia and the F.B.I. disputed the claim, and American and Russian scientists and historians dismissed it.\n\nSudoplatov died on September 26, 1996, and was buried next to his wife in the New Donskoy Cemetery in Moscow.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327917", "title": "Vale of Tempe", "text": "Vale of Tempe\n\nThe Vale of Tempe () is a gorge in the Tempi municipality of northern Thessaly, Greece, located between Olympus to the north and Ossa to the south, and between the regions of Thessaly and Macedonia.\n\nThe valley is 10 kilometers long and as narrow as 25 meters in places, with cliffs nearly 500 meters high, and through it flows the Pineios River on its way to the Aegean Sea. In ancient times, it was celebrated by Greek poets as a favorite haunt of Apollo and the Muses. On the right bank of the Pineios sat a temple to Apollo, near which the laurels used to crown the victorious in the Pythian Games were gathered.\n\nThe Tempe Pass is a strategic pass in Greece since it is the main route from Larisa through the mountains to the coast. Though it can be bypassed via the Sarantoporo Pass, the alternative route takes longer. Because of this it has been the scene of numerous battles throughout history. In 480 BC, 10,000 Athenians and Spartans gathered at Tempe to stop Xerxes's invasion. However, once there, they were warned by Alexander I of Macedon that the vale could be bypassed and that the army of Xerxes was overwhelmingly large; accordingly, the Greeks retreated.\n\nThe US city of Tempe, Arizona, and the Sydney suburb of Tempe are two locations named after it, as is a farm in the Eastern Cape of South Africa, with nearby farms named Olympus and Ossa. The Vale of Tempe Road, tracing a small valley in Penang, Malaysia, and Tempe Terra on Mars are also named after it.\n\nIn legend, the Vale of Tempe was cut through the rocks by the trident of Poseidon. It was home for a time to Aristaeus, son of Apollo and Cyrene, and it was here that he chased Eurydice, wife of Orpheus, who, in her flight, was bitten by a serpent and died.\n\nDuring the Third Macedonian War in 169 BC the Romans broke through Perseus of Macedon's defences here and later defeated him in the Battle of Pydna. During the revolution of Andriskos in 148 BC the valley was the site of another conflict. There were other battles fought there during the barbarian raids that mark the end of the Roman era in Greece and in Byzantine and Ottoman times.\n\nIn the thirteenth century AD a church dedicated to Aghia (Saint) Paraskevi was erected in the valley. At the southern entrance of the valley lie the remains of the Ottoman-era Hasan Baba Tekke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327920", "title": "Viktor Hartmann", "text": "Viktor Hartmann\n\nViktor Alexandrovich Hartmann (Russian: Ви́ктор Александро́вич Га́ртман; 5 May 1834, Saint Petersburg – 4 August 1873, Kireyevo near Moscow) was a Russian architect and painter. He was associated with the Abramtsevo Colony, purchased and preserved beginning in 1870 by Savva Mamontov, and the Russian Revival.\n\nVictor-Edouard Hartmann was born in Saint Petersburg into a family of German ancestry. He was orphaned at a young age and grew up in the house of his mother's sister, L. Hemilian, and her husband , who was a well-known architect. He studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Saint Petersburg and at first started working by illustrating books.\n\nHe also worked as an architect and sketched, among other things, the monument to the thousandth anniversary of Russia in Novgorod, which was inaugurated in 1862. He made most of his water colors and pencil drawings on journeys abroad in the years 1864 to 1868. Together with Ivan Ropet, Hartmann was one of the first artists to include traditional Russian motifs in his work.\n\nSince Vladimir Stasov had introduced him to the circle of Mily Balakirev in 1870, he had been a close friend of the composer Modest Mussorgsky. Following Hartmann's early death from an aneurysm at the age of only 39, an exhibition of over 400 of his paintings was displayed in the Academy of Fine Arts in Saint Petersburg, in February and March 1874. This inspired Mussorgsky to compose his suite \"Pictures at an Exhibition\". Most of the works shown at the 1874 exhibition are now lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327924", "title": "Voltaic Regroupment Movement", "text": "Voltaic Regroupment Movement\n\nVoltaic Regroupment Movement(in French: \"Mouvement de Regroupement Voltaïque\"), was a political party in Upper Volta. It contested the 1970 elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327925", "title": "Ahuntsic-Cartierville", "text": "Ahuntsic-Cartierville\n\nAhuntsic-Cartierville () is a borough (\"arrondissement\") of the city of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The borough was created following the 2002 municipal reorganization of Montreal. It comprises two main neighbourhoods, Ahuntsic, a former village annexed to Montreal in 1910 and Cartierville, a town annexed to Montreal in 1916.\n\nAhuntsic-Cartierville is located in the north end of Montreal, on the banks of the Rivière des Prairies. It traces its history to the fortified Sault-au-Récollet settlement, which was established by the Sulpicians in 1696. This in turn led to the colonization of the area.\n\nOne of the oldest villages on the island of Montreal, Sault-au-Récollet still retains its village atmosphere with many houses dating from the 18th and 19th centuries. It was the original site of Fort Lorette, a trading post and mission for the conversion of the First Nations people of the area.\n\nIt grew prosperous in the 18th century with the construction of a mill on the rapids on the Rivière des Prairies (from which the village derives its name: Sault-au-Récollet, or Recollet Falls). A dam was built on the narrow arm of the river that passes between the village and Visitation Island, which splits the river in two at that point. A museum and cultural centre, the Maison du Pressoir, perpetuates this memory. A hydroelectric dam was built later and still exists further down the river.\n\nThe village and Île de la Visitation (Visitation Island) are surrounded by the green space of the Parc-Nature de l'Île de la Visitation. The village is noted for Visitation Church, one of the oldest churches in Montreal, which is a listed historical monument.\n\nCartierville grew as a suburb when it became in 1898 the north terminus of the Montreal Park and Island Railway tramway line, also known as the \"17-Cartierville\". Named in the honor of Sir George-Étienne Cartier, it became a village officially in 1906. During December 1912, it achieved city status. Two years later, the rural and agricultural part of Cartierville was granted independence from the city and was then known as Ville de Saraguay.\n\nOn 22 December 1916, the provincial government ordered the annexation of Cartierville to Montreal. The district was famous for the Belmont Park amusement park which operated from 1929 to the 1980s.\n\nNew Bordeaux (or simply Bordeaux) was originally part of the independent village of Cartierville until it became its own municipality in 1898. The district was originally named Saint-Joseph de Bordeaux until 1906. One year later, Bordeaux attained city status. On June 4, 1910, it was annexed by the larger City of Montreal. The district was home to Maurice Richard, writer Claude Jasmin and Comte Daeylar.\n\nThe municipality of the Village of Ahuntsic was founded on January 21, 1897, by a proclamation of the Quebec provincial government. The council of the new village operated until 1910, when the province passed laws creating the charter of the City of Montreal. It was then annexed and later combined with Nouveau-Bordeaux, forming the district of Ahuntsic-Bordeaux. The city of Cartierville and Sault-au-Récollet were added in 1918.\n\nIn 1952, following a land exchange, Ahuntsic took over part of Saint-Laurent. The Ahuntsic-Cartierville borough was part of the City of Montreal prior to January 1, 2002. For further reading on pre-merger Montreal, see Karen Herland's book \"People, Potholes and Politics\".\n\nIn 1914, the rural and agricultural part of the city of Cartierville became independent, forming its own city. It was only in 1964, that Saraguay joined itself to the City of Montreal under law 2926 approved by the lieutenant-governor of the province of Quebec.\n\nThe borough is located in the northern part of Montreal along the banks of the Rivière des Prairies, and includes some islands in the river such as Île aux Chats, Île Perry, and Île de la Visitation. It is bounded to the east by Montréal-Nord, to the southeast by the borough of Villeray–Saint-Michel–Parc-Extension, to the southwest by the borough of Saint-Laurent, and to the west by the borough of Pierrefonds-Roxboro. It has an area of 22.92 km² and a population of 125,160.\n\nThe borough's office is located at 555, rue Chabanel West, Montreal. The territory is divided into four districts.\n\nAs of the November 5, 2017 Montreal municipal election, the current borough council consists of the following councillors:\n\nFederally, the borough is in the riding of Ahuntsic-Cartierville. Provincially, the borough is divided between the Saint-Laurent, Acadie, and Crémazie electoral districts.\n\n \nAhuntsic-Cartierville is the fifth largest borough in Montreal by population. It had 126,891 people as of the 2011 census, accounting for 7.7% of the city of Montreal's population. The borough of Ahuntsic-Cartierville is spread over an area of and a population density of 5,252.1/km (13,603/sq mi).\n\nThe median age in the borough is 40.7. 16% of the population is under 15 years of age, 11% are between 15 and 24, 14% are between 25 and 34, 41% are between 35 and 64 and 18% of the population is over the age of 65.\n\nIn terms of mother tongue language, the linguistic makeup of the borough was 51.25% French, 10.18% Arabic, 5.09% Italian, 4.93% English, 4.10% Spanish, 2.85% Greek, 2.35% Creole, 2.12% Armenian, 1.06% Vietnamese, 1.03% Romanian, 1.00% Chinese, 0.79% Tamil, and 8.63% other languages not otherwise mentioned. In terms of multiple responses, 0.84% first learned both English and French, 2.67% French and a non-official language, 0.62% English and a non-official language, and 0.46% English, French and a non-official language.\n\nThe Collège de Bois-de-Boulogne and the Collège Ahuntsic are located in Ahuntsic-Cartierville. The borough has three libraries of the Montreal Public Libraries Network: Ahuntsic (adults and children), Cartierville (adults and children) and De Salaberry (children's only).\n\nThe \"Commission scolaire de Montréal\" operates French-language public schools in Ahuntsic-Cartierville.\n\nThe English Montreal School Board (EMSB) is in charge of English-language elementary and secondary schools in the borough of Ahuntsic-Cartierville. EMSB elementary schools include: John Caboto, Cedarcrest, Parkdale and Our Lady of Pompei.\n\nAhuntsic-Cartierville is served by three stations on the north-eastern part of the Montreal Metro's Orange line which runs underneath Berri Street. Henri-Bourassa station located on Henri Bourassa Boulevard, Sauvé station located on Sauvé Street, and Crémazie station located on Crémazie Boulevard.\n\nThe borough is also served by four commuter rail stations of the Réseau de transport métropolitain. Bois-de-Boulogne station and Chabanel station on the Saint-Jérôme line is located on Henri Bourassa Blvd, while Ahuntsic and Sauvé on the Mascouche line are near the Sauvé St. The Bois-Franc station on the Deux-Montagnes line is located on Henri Bourassa Blvd. in nearby Saint-Laurent.\n\nTwo major Autoroutes are located in the Ahuntsic-Cartierville. Autoroute15 (Laurentian Autoroute/Autoroute des Laurentides) runs north-south and Autoroute 40 (Metropolitan Autoroute/Autoroute Métropolitaine) runs east-west.\n\nMain streets or boulevards include Henri-Bourassa, Fleury, Sauvé, L'Acadie, Chabanel, Gouin, Saint-Laurent, Saint-Denis, Salaberry.\n\nSacré-Coeur Hospital and Fleury Hospital service the area. The CLSC also responds to citizen's health care needs.\n\nAhuntsic-Cartierville features large parks along its riverside, such as Île Perry and Parc de l'Île de la Visitation, which offer views of the river and of nearby Laval, Quebec. Ahuntsic Park and Marcelin-Wilson Park are the borough's main parks, which both have playgrounds, skate parks, and arenas housing ice skating rinks. Ahuntsic Park has a dog park, a community garden, water playground and large open-space field for outdoor seasonal events while Marcelin-Wilson Park has a swimming pool, tennis courts and soccer fields. The borough is also traversed by the Route Verte, a province-wide network of bicycle paths. The Complexe sportif Claude-Robillard, located at 1000 Émile-Journault Avenue, is one of the main sport complexes in the city. The Cartierville area to the west was formerly the home of the Belmont Park amusement park.\n\nThe Orioles de Montréal baseball team of the Ligue de Baseball Élite du Québec play their home games at Gary Carter Stadium (formerly Marcel-Clement Field) located in Ahuntsic Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327926", "title": "Ridley College", "text": "Ridley College\n\nRidley College (also known as RC, Ridley) is a private boarding and day university-preparatory school located in St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada, 20 miles (32 km) from Niagara Falls. The school confers the Ontario Secondary School Diploma and the International Baccalaureate diploma programme. Ridley is one of the oldest private schools in Canada, and has the largest boarding program in Ontario, with students representing over 61 countries.\n\nEstablished as an Anglican-affiliated all-boys school in 1889, Ridley became coeducational in 1973. The school is divided into ten houses, each of which serves as a residence and community for its students. All students take part in an extensive extracurricular program including sports (ranging from a beginner to varsity level), arts and theatre opportunities, student initiatives, and community service. Ridley's boarding program plays a dominant role in its curriculum, with faculty heavily involved in student life outside the classroom in roles such as housemasters, coaches, and advisors.\n\nRidley is a member of the Canadian Accredited Independent Schools, the Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference and competes in the Conference of Independent Schools of Ontario Athletic Association (CISAA) sports conference, of which it is one of four original founding schools. Ridley has an array of student clubs, many of which take part in both Canadian and international competitions. The school's overall curriculum emphasizes a balanced and disciplined combination of academics, athletics, school involvement, and community service. Ridley alumni are known as Old Ridleians, and are entitled to use the post-nominal letters “O.R.”\n\nEstablished in 1889, the school was founded by a group of Anglican clergymen seeking to provide boys in Ontario with an education that emphasized strong academic and religious values. Named after Bishop Nicholas Ridley, a 16th-century English churchman martyred during the Protestant Reformation, the school was originally known as Bishop Ridley College.\n\nThe school's first campus, known as the Springbank campus, was integrated into the then-recently closed hotel of the same name constructed in 1864 by Dr. Theophilus Mack on Yates Street in St. Catharines. The Reverend Dr. John Ormsby Miller, a highly regarded scholar and administrator, assumed his duties at the school's conception as the first headmaster of Ridley College.\n\nIn 1891, the first Ridley College Cross Country Run was held, which would go on to become one of the longest standing traditions at Ridley. In the same year, the first edition of \"ACTA Ridleiana\" was published, which at the time served as an alumni newsletter (it would later change to being the school's yearbook).\n\nIn 1903, the Springbank campus was destroyed as a result of a fire, resulting in the founders seeking a new site to restore it. The school was rebuilt at the site of its current campus, where the previous students of the Springbank campus would go to play sports. The address and street name of which soon became known as Ridley Road. The cornerstone of the Upper School building was laid in 1904, and the first dormitory, Dean's House, was built in 1907. Dr. Miller's 30-year tenure as headmaster would establish the foundations of the school. The oldest building remaining on campus is the cricket shed, which was already built as sports equipment storage for the students of the Springbank campus.\n\nIn 1907, the Ridley College Cadet Corps was officially recognized as Unit No. 162. The Corps was brought about by Colonel Thairs and Headmaster Miller. The first Inspection was held in 1908 with 40 cadets and in 1912, the Cadet Band was added. In 1917, the first Lower School Cross Country Run was held.\n\nThe school experienced rapid growth and expansion (both population and campus-wise) in the first half of the twentieth century, including the building of Ridley College Chapel and Dormitory Building by architects Sproatt and Rolph. The Memorial Chapel and two marble plaques were built by architects Sproatt and Rolph in 1921 to commemorate the sixty-one Old Ridleians who lost their lives in World War I. In the same year, Dr. Harry Griffith became the second headmaster of Ridley. In 1922, Gooderham House, donated by the Gooderham family, was opened. The Lower School opened in 1927 with a total of eighty students (sixty boarders, nineteen day boys and one day girl). It also became home to two Upper School dormitories, Mandeville House and Leonard House.\n\nA new dormitory, Merritt House, was built by architects Sproatt and Rolph during the Great Depression and, despite financial constraints, was opened in 1932. It was named after Thomas Rodman Merritt, Ridley's first president. In 1934, the Marriott Gates marking the entrance of the school were erected. A new gym was opened in 1939, which would later be named the Iggulden Gym. The gym accommodated swimming, squash, basketball, gymnastics, boxing and fencing, and was also home to a new stage for dramatic arts.\n\nThe Schmon Infirmary and the Memorial Great Hall were built in 1949, and in that year Dr. J. R. Hamilton became the third headmaster of Ridley. Hamilton was a Science teacher and housemaster prior to becoming Headmaster in 1949. Hamilton emphasized the importance of Ridleians understanding the world around them and established periods for discussions on current affairs and debate.\n\nThe Memorial Great Hall and its accompanying List of Honour plaque were dedicated in 1950 to Old Ridleians who died serving in World War II. The first issue of the \"Ridley Tiger\" was also published that year. It became the school's alumni newsletter, and \"ACTA Ridleiana\" became the school's yearbook.\n\nIn 1962, Mr. Ted Pilgrim became the fourth headmaster of Ridley. A gradual increase in overall enrolment had taken place in the late 50s and 60s, leading to the building of Arthur Bishop House in 1965. The residence accommodated seventy-four boys and was named after Ridley's sixth president, Arthur Leonard Bishop. The Memorial Chapel was expanded in the 1960s to accommodate increased enrolment.\n\nIn 1971, Mr. Richard Bradley became the fifth headmaster of Ridley. In September 1973, Ridley became co-educational, and eleven girls were enrolled and assigned to the first floor of Dean's House (which has since reverted to a boys' residence, given that several separate girls' residences were built). Also in 1973, the McLaughlin building was built, which was named after Col. Robert Samuel McLaughlin, who pledged CAN$900,000 from the McLaughlin Foundation. The building housed fifteen new classrooms, the new Matthews Library, a new art room, and a new biology laboratory. Today, the building is still home to the Matthews Library and classrooms. In September 1978, girls began boarding. Also that year, the Griffith Arena was opened.\n\nIn 1981, Dr. Jeremy Packard became the sixth headmaster of Ridley. In 1981, the National Film Board of Canada released the documentary film \"Ridley: A Secret Garden\" about the School. In 1986, the first Chimes Challenge was held, a sprinting competition which remains an annual tradition. In 1989, as the school marked its 100th year, the Second Century Building was officially opened and dedicated as Ridley's primary science and arts facility. In the same year, Mr. Douglas Campbell became the seventh headmaster of Ridley.\n\n1992 saw the official opening of the new headmaster's residence, Kenyon Lett House. In 1995, Mr. Rupert Lane became the eighth headmaster of Ridley. In 1999, the school underwent a critical transformation with the introduction of laptops to the classroom and curriculum.\n\nIn 2000, the book \"Ridley: A Canadian School\", by Richard Bradley (Ridley's fifth headmaster) and Paul Lewis, was published, detailing the history and traditions of the school. In 2004, Mr. Jonathan Leigh became the ninth headmaster of Ridley.\n\nIn 2010, the new Arena/Fieldhouse Complex was opened. In 2012, Mr. Edward Kidd became the tenth headmaster of Ridley, and the International Baccalaureate program was introduced to the school.\n\nThe Lower School is located across campus from the Upper School and the Memorial Chapel. The Lower School includes a split Junior and Senior Kindergarten class, one class per grade from Grades 1–6, two Grade 7 classes, and two Grade 8 classes.\n\nThere are 176 students in the Lower School, of which 7% are boarding students. The average class size is 16 students. Each year, the Lower School organizes a student council.\n\nFacilities within the Lower School building include a design shop, an art room, Grades JK-8 classrooms, a resource centre, and a boys' and girls' residence. Some facilities are shared with the Upper School, such as the music rooms and Mandeville Theatre in the Second Century Building, and the Memorial Chapel.\n\nStudents who complete their entire K-12 schooling career at Ridley, starting from the Lower School and proceeding to the Upper School, receive a special \"lifer\" prize at the end of Grade 12.\n\nThere are approximately 460 students in the Upper School, of which 61% are boarding students. The average class size is 18 students. The Upper School building, known as the School House, is considered the core of the campus. It is surrounded by the Memorial Chapel, the \"front circle\", the infirmary, and several dormitories. It is where the majority of the school's academic and administrative activities take place.\n\nThe ground floor (known as the \"first flat\") of School House includes the Memorial Great Hall where students and faculty dine, the Headmaster's office, the Matthews Library, and the History Wing in which history, economics, and other social science classes are located. There is also a direct, indoor pathway to the Memorial Chapel on this floor.\n\nThe floor above (\"second flat\") is home to mathematics classes, the Ross Morrow Theatre, guidance counselling offices, and the computer repair centre (known as the HelpDesk).\n\nThe top floor (\"third flat\") includes English classes and the school's finance and administration offices.\n\nFinally, the basement level of School House includes The Learning Centre, the school archives, sewing room, and a campus co-op store named Hank's.\n\nThe Second Century Building (\"2CB\") is home to the school's science, music, and performing arts facilities.\n\nFor each of the core science subjects (biology, chemistry, and physics), there is a classroom used for lectures with an accompanying lab room for applied lessons and experiments. There is a robotics lab, a design workshop, a studio art classroom, and various music rooms equipped with sound-proof walls.\n\nFinally, the Second Century Building is home to the Mandeville Theatre, which serves as the school's primary venue for musical, drama, and speaker events.\n\nThe Memorial Chapel was built during the 1920s, dedicated to the memory of Old Ridleians who died in World War I; The honour roll is engraved on two marble plaques. The chapel was enlarged during the 1960s.\n\nEach stained glass window is unique, bearing such non-traditional imagery as Ridley football helmets, but also more conventional Christian imagery.\n\nThe Chapel is equipped with a sound system, a new Yamaha grand piano and 2 pipe organs. The Ridley Pipe Organ is a Casavant Freres Opus 1099. It had a second manual keyboard added later in its life. The pipes for this added organ are located at the back of the Chapel, while the original four sets (great, choir, swell and pedal) are at the front. The Lower School chapel service includes at least one musical performance each Friday.\n\nGooderham house is a girls dormitory on campus that contains two houses; G-East and G-West. It is located to the right of the Upper School. G-East has the mascot of the crocodile, has the house colour of green, and supports the charity Start-Me Up Niagara. G-West has the mascot of the flamingo, has the house colour of pink, and supports the charity of Red-Roof Retreat.\n\nRidley enrolls students from throughout Canada (including Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and the Maritimes), the United States, Latin America, Africa, Europe, the Caribbean, East Asia, South Asia and the Middle East. With A diverse community of over 63 countries represented in the Academic year 2018-2019\nThere are various facilities located within the Campus including Ridley's 'Second Century Building' and 'The Iggulden Gym'. Ridley College employs WiFi networks within all facilities for extensive daily usage. Class sizes vary between 8 and 20 students per class.\n\nIn 2004 the school adapted to the 4-year programme of the Ontario Academic Curriculum but it continues to offer a fifth, “PG” (“post-graduate”) year. Ridley is a test administration site for the SSAT, SAT, and ACT.\n\nRidley College is accredited to the Canadian Association of Independent Schools (CAIS) and the Canadian Educational Standards Institute (CESI) under the Ridley College Board of Governors.\n\nAs a private, University-preparatory school, Ridley College is neither associated with nor accountable to any local school board.\n\nRidley College alumni pursue post-secondary degrees at top Canadian universities, including the University of Toronto, McGill University, Queen's University, the University of British Columbia, the University of Western Ontario, McMaster University, and the University of Waterloo. Recent U.S. and British university matriculants' destination schools include Harvard University, Spelman College, Yale University, Princeton University, Cornell University, Georgetown University, Oberlin College, Brown University, Oxford University, Cambridge University, Durham University, University of St Andrews, the London School of Economics, Imperial College, King's College London, University College London, and the University of Edinburgh.\n\nThe School's Latin motto is \"Terar Dum Prosim\", roughly translated as \"May I Be Consumed In Service\". The School uniform is known as ‘blues and greys’. The School Colours are orange and black, and the School mascot is the Tiger (known as ‘Hank’), which has been depicted in a large sculpture in front of School House.\nRidley's School Life philosophy could be said to embrace three essential qualities: academics, athletics, and citizenship.\n\nOne of Ridley's most notable traditions is the 'Snake Dance,' a school spirit-building celebration to inaugurate the fall sports season. Other traditions include: Mark Joslin Day, a day in honour of a former student where students purposely wear miss matched suits, an annual Cross-Country Run, intramural competition among dormitory residences for the Bradley Shield (girls') and Bermuda Cup (boys') trophies, the Chimes Challenge (a sprinting contest held during the midday chimes of the clock tower) and the annual Prize Day that concludes the school year, which is divided into three trimesters, known as the 'Michaelmas', 'Lent' and 'Trinity' terms. North American students typically return to their families during School holidays, and often international students who choose not to return to their home countries (or are unable due to time constraints) are billeted with Ridley families.\n\nThe School comprises a Lower School (Junior Kindergarten to grade 8, formerly the Middle School) and an Upper School (grades 9-12 and PG). Essential to School life is the Ridley residence system (see House system), in which both boarders and day students participate, supervised by Housemasters who are also members of the School's faculty and reside within the residences. The residences are named for prominent alumni.\n\nThe School has dining halls for both the Lower and Upper Schools. After school, intramural and inter-School sports fixtures are held as well as various non-sport activities.\n\nOften, alumni choose to have their weddings and baptisms take place in the Ridley College Chapel. The School faculty includes a full-time Chaplain, who also has academic duties.\n\nSocial discipline in the residential setting is based on the demerit system, and accumulations of demerits lead to the imposition of 'gatings', during which students are prohibited from leaving the campus and must 'check in' with the Master on Duty each half-hour, on the half-hour, when not engaged in classroom work or taking meals.\n\nUpon graduation from Ridley, graduates become entitled to use the post-nominal letters “O.R.” (“Old Ridleian”).\n\nThe Ridley College Robotics Team (1509 “Rmageddon”) was founded in 2009 by coaches Rodney Reimer and Scott McCambley. In its first year of existence, the team not only qualified but won the Excellence Award at the VEX Robotics World Championship. Since then, team 1509 has qualified and represented Ridley at the World Championship every single season; won a multitude of programming, driving, and engineering awards; and been present in the global leaderboards. Most recently, rmageddon advanced to the Semifinals at the 2015 VEX World Championship, placed 2nd in Canada (13th in the World) in the Programming Skills Challenge and came out as champion at the 2015 Ontario Provincial Championship, beating teams from all over the province.\n\nThe College's most successful team is proud to incubate and nourish successful computer scientists and engineers, who have gone to hold high Ridley's name at elite institutions such as the University of Western Ontario, Harvey Mudd, Georgia Institute of Technology, University of Toronto, University of Waterloo, and many more.\n\nThe school has several competitive athletic teams:\n\nThe Boys Basketball (First Team) is a very strong program at Ridley, winning numerous Canadian Independent Schools National Championships in the last few years (2015, 2016).\n\nSimilarly, the Ridley First Girls Basketball teams have won the Canadian Independent Schools National Championship in 2013, 2015, and 2016, along with CISAA titles in 2015, and 2016.\n\nThe varsity boys' rugby program went through a rebirth during the recent years, hosting the Canadian Independent School championships and medalling out of 15 teams, as well as ending up with a second-place finish in the CISAA rugby finals.\n\nOne of Ridley's most renowned athletics programs comprises its strong rowing traditions. Ridley has won the UK Royal Henley Regatta's prestigious Princess Elizabeth Challenge Cup four times, putting it in the same league as famous British schools such as Eton College and Pangbourne College, and the most of any Canadian boarding school, and it has trained numerous Canadian Olympic rowers. Ridley has previous Olympians as coaches, and competes in regattas internationally.\n\nOther sports including the boys' soccer team, Canadian Independent Schools National Champions in 2003, and the boys' ice hockey team, which competes in the highly competitive Midwest Prep Hockey League. The school also has an Under 14, an Under 16, and a Varsity squash team.\n\nGirls' sports include, but are not limited to, rugby, introduced in 2002; field hockey, volleyball, soccer, hockey, and tennis.\n\nThe Ridley College Tiger Swim Team has dominated in several categories in the All-Ontario (OFSSA) Championships. Their powerful Men's Team won the overall championship in 2006 over almost 300 other private \"and public\" Ontario schools. Their Women's Relay Team set successive back-to-back All-Ontario records in 2004 and 2005. The 2008 swim team dominated in all areas, from regional to provincial, breaking decade-old records.\n\nSport participation is an expectation for Ridley students, and participation is mandatory. For those students that do not wish to be on a competitive team, Ridley has set in place a \"Sports for Life\" program providing recreational, non-competitive sports opportunities. The program includes sports such as sailing, fencing, curling, running, tennis, and badminton (though most of these teams have competitive counterparts).\n\nA popular motto that students at the school go by in relation to sports, said by Ridley's Second Headmaster, Dr. Harry C. Griffith, is, “If you lose, say nothing. If you win, say less.\" Ridley's mascot, Hank, is depicted in a sculpture by artist Hugh Russel, an Old Ridleian.\n\nThe School maintains a well-established tradition of mandatory service in the Royal Canadian Army Cadets. Each year, all students, as cadets are required to parade in an inspection by a visiting Canadian or Commonwealth Inspecting Officer. Many Ridley Cadets down through the School's history have proceeded to distinguish themselves among Canada's Officer Corps. Ridley College is one of the two Cadet Corps in Canada that still continue to issue officer ranks to students within the corps. The Ridley College Cadet Corps No. 162 remains the largest cadet corps in Canada.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327929", "title": "Bockenheim (Frankfurt am Main)", "text": "Bockenheim (Frankfurt am Main)\n\nBockenheim is a city district of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It is part of the \"Ortsbezirk Innenstadt II\".\n\nBockenheim lies west of central Frankfurt and is the third largest district by population in Frankfurt after Sachsenhausen and the Nordend with approximately 35,000 inhabitants.\n\nBockenheim is bordered by the Goethe University, the Senckenberg museum and the Frankfurt Trade Fair in the south. The Bockenheimer Depot was the central tram depot, built around 1900, which is now a theatre, a venue of the Städtische Bühnen Frankfurt. Bockenheim also houses the global headquarters of the Hesse Bundesbank\n\nIn 2019, Albert Engelhardt published a mystery novel, \"Das andere Land oder Siesta am Kanakenbunker\", set in the district.\n"}
{"id": "2327932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327932", "title": "BarlowGirl", "text": "BarlowGirl\n\nBarlowGirl was an American Christian rock and CCM all-female band from Elgin, Illinois. The band was composed of sisters Alyssa (lead vocals, bass, keyboard), Rebecca (backing vocals, guitar), and Lauren (co-lead vocals, drums) Barlow. The band is best known for its radio singles \"Never Alone\" in 2004 and \"I Need You to Love Me\" in 2006, breaking records for the longest-charting No. 1 song on the Radio and Records Christian Hit Radio (CHR) chart and obtaining millions of views for their music videos on YouTube. The band also saw continued success with their \"Home for Christmas\" album. The band exceeded sales of one million compact discs by the end of 2008 and finished its career with over 1 million digital song downloads and 1.3 million compact disc sales.\n\nIn October 2012, BarlowGirl announced that they were \"retiring the band\".\n\nThe Barlows' father, Vince Barlow, created youth CDs at his church, Willow Creek Community Church in South Barrington, Illinois. He was hired to perform at events all over the United States. He brought his daughters as his backup band in the late 1990s. BarlowGirl began writing songs and performing them at his performances. The trio stopped touring with their father when Rebecca and Alyssa began college, but they did perform at his nearby concerts. The trio had written around ten songs by 2002.\n\nThe Barlow sisters were given a paid trip to the Gospel Music Association's Music in the Rockies seminar at Estes Park, Colorado, in mid-2002. The sisters were not informed that the seminar was a record industry event for unsigned artists, nor that it was a competition. They reached the finals of the event. Record companies became interested in the sisters after word of mouth spread about the seminar.\n\nThe group's name became famous before the group released their first CD. The group Superchick included a song titled \"Barlow Girls\" on their initial release, Karaoke Superstars, as a tribute to the actual Barlow sisters and their stand for purity, and effectively introduced the sisters to the music world.\n\nThe sisters were signed to Fervent Records on October 14, 2003. The band's name, BarlowGirl, is written and capitalized in camel case for branding.\n\nBarlowGirl released their first studio album \"BarlowGirl\" on February 24, 2004. The album included the longest-running No. 1 song in 2004 on R&R's CHR and CRW's Rock charts, \"Never Alone\" was named Song of the Year on each of these charts. The CD had sold over 250,000 units by April 2005, and featured the singles \"Never Alone\" and \"Mirror\". These No. 1 songs earned the trio four 2005 Gospel Music Association (GMA) awards (formerly the Dove Award) nominations, including the Best New Artist award, Best Rock Song, and Rock Album. The trio was the bestselling new Christian artist of 2004. BarlowGirl received a 2006 GMA award nomination for Rock/Contemporary Song of the Year for \"Mirror\". \"Never Alone\" was also featured on the WOW Hits 2005 CD.\n\nThe CD also featured a hidden track titled \"Image\", which listeners could only obtain via digital download by loading the CD into their computers and accessing a hidden website. It is the first of two occurrences where oldest sister and guitarist Rebecca sings a solo. She sings the middle part of each verse. \n\nThere is also a Family Christian exclusive version which contains the bonus track, \"We Pray\", which, among others, also features artists Mandisa, Jackson Waters, and Rebecca St. James.\nTheir second album, \"Another Journal Entry\", was released on September 27, 2005. The album debuted at No. 3 on Soundscan's Christian album chart, and had reached eighty-five on Billboard's Top 200 Current Albums chart by October 10, 2005. The trio was nominated for three additional 2006 GMA awards - \"Group of the Year\", \"Rock/Contemporary Album of the Year\", and \"Rock Recorded Song of the Year\" for \"Let Go\".\nThe trio are featured as guest vocalists on Big Daddy Weave's No. 1 radio single, \"You're Worthy of My Praise\", from their 2005 album \"What I Was Made For\".\n\nThe first single from the album, \"Let Go\", exceeded 200,000 downloads as the iTunes Store free single of the week. Their next single from the album, \"I Need You to Love Me\", quickly climbed to No. 1 on the Weekend 22 countdown in April 2006. The single held on to the No. 1 position on the R&R Christian Hit Radio chart for 9 weeks, and the CRW Christian Hit Radio chart for a record 13 weeks. The single was the most played song of 2006 on Christian Hit Radio as played on the Weekend 22. The band filmed a music video for their hit song \"Never Alone\" for release on mainstream radio and music video television channels, but it did not chart in the mainstream.\n\nThe members of BarlowGirl were the youth ambassadors for the National Day of Prayer in 2007. They recorded the song \"We Pray\" (written by Clint Lagerberg and Otto Price) for the event, along with other artists such as Rebecca St. James. The song is available on the Family Christian exclusive version of their self-titled album.\n\nBarlowGirl released \"Another Journal Entry: Expanded Edition\" in August 2006 including five bonus tracks: three acoustic versions of previous songs (\"On My Own\", \"I Need you to Love Me\", \"Porcelain Heart\"), a radio edit version of \"Never Alone\" and one new song, \"For the Beauty of the Earth\". The latter was included on the soundtrack of the 2006 film \"The Nativity Story\". Also included on the enhanced CD was their \"Never Alone\" music video.\n\nBarlowGirl again recorded with producer Otto Price for their third studio album \"How Can We Be Silent\". The album was released on July 24, 2007. It debuted at No. 1 on Billboard's Christian Chart and No. 40 on Billboard's Top 200 album chart, making it the first album by an all-female rock band to reach the top 40 on the Billboard 200 since \"Everything\" by the Bangles in 1989. Similarly to \"Another Journal Entry\", this album was released in a special edition variant known as \"How Can We Be Silent Premium Edition\". It was released concurrently with the regular edition, adding a new cover sleeve and bundling a 45-minute DVD. Singles from the album performed poorly on radio compared to earlier singles. The first, \"Here's My Life\", was released in June 2007. It peaked at No. 12 on R&R's Christian contemporary hit radio charts and at No. 29 on Billboard's Hot Christian Songs chart. \"Million Voices\" and \"I Believe In Love\" were released later that year, with no chart history available.\n\nBy 2008, BarlowGirl sold over one million compact discs. The band announced that it was back in the studio recording a Christmas album in March and April 2008. \"Home for Christmas\" was released on September 26, 2008. It peaked at No 180 on the \"Billboard\" 200 No. 15 on the Christian Albums chart and No. 2 on the 2008 Holiday Albums chart. The song \"Carol of the Bells/Sing We Now of Christmas\" on the album became one of the top 20 most downloaded Christmas songs on iTunes holiday section at one point in 2008.\n\nIn April 2008, the band Inhabited mentioned BarlowGirl in an \"uncensored\" remix of its \"Hush\" single. Inhabited released the album \"The Revolution\" in 2005 with then-fellow record label Fervent Records, but left the label in 2007 and signed with 7Spin Music for its album \"Love\" in 2008. The remix, which was a free download, included lyrics such as \"We're gonna beat that system in a round about way / Won't make sucky music so my records will play\" and \"Something more like BarlowGirl, do something right / Ain’t got nothing against ‘em but it just ain’t me\", causing controversy in the Christian music community. Inhabited responded by saying: \"it wasn't to bash or put them down, it just says our art is a different style. They have achieved great success, and we would wish them no less! Lastly, […] we thought [we made] a fun, cool remix. We have always been straightforward with our lyrics and always will be.\"\n\nBarlowGirl partnered with Dannah Gresh from Secret Keeper Girl to release an audio devotional, \"8 Great Dates for You and Your Daughter, Kit 2: Friendship Pak\", in 2008. The devotional was re-released as \"8 Great Dates: Talking with Your Daughter About Best Friends and Mean Girls\" in 2013.\n\nBarlowGirl's most recent album, \"Love & War\", was released on September 8, 2009. The song \"Beautiful Ending\" is on this album. BarlowGirl made a website for users to submit their beautiful ending. \"Beautiful Ending\" is the album's lead single. It peaked at No. 28 Billboard magazine's Christian Songs chart in November 2009 and reached the No. 3 position on the Christian contemporary hit radio charts. The second song \"Stay With Me\" was released in early 2010.\n\nAbout a year after the release of \"Love & War\", BarlowGirl released \"Our Journey... So Far\" on September 14, 2010. It contains songs from all of their previous albums, plus a FredTown Manilla remix of their greatest hit single to date \"I Need You to Love Me.\"\n\nThe sisters drafted new music in 2011, planning to return to the studio that year or in early 2012, though \"Hope Will Lead Us On\" would only be recorded much later after being initially previewed in concerts. From August 27 to 29, 2012, Alyssa Barlow shared some behind-the-scenes photos of the studio recording of \"Hope Will Lead Us On\" on Instagram. Lauren returned to the drums, Alyssa returned to the piano and Rebecca returned to the guitar. On October 24, 2012, BarlowGirl announced that it would be \"retiring the band\", without elaborating any future plans. On Monday, October 29, 2012, the trio made its final public appearance as with a live online chat and acoustic session where they premiered their final song \"Hope Will Lead Us On\".\n\nBarlowGirl was known as a Christian rock band. Their style includes three-part harmony mixed with rock guitars. Their songs range from ballads to guitar rock.\n\nThe ladies' lineup during their initial years featured Rebecca on guitar, Alyssa on bass, and Lauren on drums. BarlowGirl was therefore a power trio. During the \"Love & War\" era, however, Alyssa identified solely as a singer and keyboardist. This also occurred in some of BarlowGirl's older music as an example of breaking the power trio mold.\n\nLauren notes that she and her sisters listened to 50s and 60s music while growing up. The band lists the Beatles and the Mamas & the Papas as major influences because of their vocal harmonies. Before being known as BarlowGirl, the first song composed by the band was \"You Know\", which was only played live and was themed after \"MMMBop\" by Hanson. The song \"Our Worlds Collide\" on BarlowGirl's \"Love & War\" album was influenced by the Beatles, which was further reflected in live performances when the sisters preceded that song with a segue, a portion of \"If I Fell\" by the boy band. BarlowGirl performed an a cappella cover of \"I Will\" by the Beatles to Ustream during their final online concert in 2012, indicating that it was the first song that they learned to harmonize to.\n\nJamie Grace cites BarlowGirl and its debut album as a key influence in her music. Specifically, she enjoys the songs \"She Walked Away\", \"Mirror\", \"Clothes\" and \"Never Alone\". Jen Ledger of Skillet is also a BarlowGirl fan.\n\nAlyssa Katherine Nicole Barlow (born January 4, 1982) was the bass guitarist and keyboardist for BarlowGirl. She also splits lead vocals with her sister Lauren. Alyssa was homeschooled from the fourth grade on.\n\nWhen Alyssa was 17, she was diagnosed with Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy (RSD), following a sprained ankle. Barlow initially gave up when the doctors told her she would never walk normally again. She recalls God telling her: \"Put your crutches down. You're never gonna use them again.\" One year later, Barlow claimed that God completely healed her from RSD and from spiritual issues, and that her mother and dog would later receive physical healing as well.\n\nAlyssa Barlow made her first Instagram post on July 7, 2012. She used her account to share a behind-the-scenes look at the \"Hope Will Lead Us On\" studio recordings, which occurred from August 27 to 29, 2012. She reached 7,000 Instagram followers on December 17, 2017.\n\nLauren Ashley Nicole Barlow (born July 29, 1985) was the drummer for BarlowGirl. She also splits lead vocals with her sister Alyssa. Lauren is the youngest of the three and is also known as Lo-Lo and Odie. Barlow was homeschooled from the first grade on.\n\nBarlow was chosen as the general editor for the 2011 book \"Inspired by Tozer\", featuring around 60 members of the professing Christian community that were inspired by the author A.W. Tozer.\n\nOn March 4, 2015, Jen Ledger, the drummer from Skillet, posted a photo with Barlow. The photo gained over 17,300 likes and 200 comments on Ledger's page. Barlow uploaded a black and white version of that photo, gaining over 1,300 likes and 60 comments.\n\nRebecca \"Becca\" Elizabeth Marie Barlow (born November 24, 1979) sang background vocals and played both electric and 6- and 12-string acoustic guitars. She was homeschooled from the seventh grade on.\n\nIn her final appearance as a member of BarlowGirl, she stated that her dream guitar is a 1957 Gibson Les Paul \"Black Beauty\" with gold plating on the Bigsby pickups & bridge.\n\nBarlow also claimed to have recovered from an eating disorder, which she developed at around the age of 18. \"Every time I looked in the mirror, I told myself 'My goodness, how fat. You look terrible today.' It never seemed to get any better, and I felt worse and worse,\" she writes. Reading a magazine story about a woman's struggle with an eating disorder prompted Barlow to follow the same path. She ate very little and worked out \"for two or three hours per day\". Eventually she reached emotional exhaustion. \"When I was nineteen, I found myself one day with my cheek pressed against the cold tile of the bathroom floor, with nothing left to give, no energy no hope: I was done trying. As I lay there, God touched my heart. He revealed to me that all my destructive efforts to shrink my body were not making me feel any better about myself [...] I was so completely grateful for His healing that I pledged on that spot to love and serve Him for the rest of my life.\"\n\nRebecca is the quietest of the three Barlow sisters. As such, she rarely sang lead while in the band. On social media, she is less active compared to her younger sisters. Barlow reached 4,000 Instagram followers on December 7, 2017.\n\nThe band was notable for having a stance of sexual purity (abstinence), modesty and refusing to date. On June 3, 2003, BarlowGirl was quoted as saying, \"We believe that God has one perfect man already chosen for us; therefore we have no need to worry ourselves in searching for him. When the time is right, we know God will bring us together. In the mean time, we are not hiding in a closet avoiding all males, we are still living our lives, just without the pressure of having to have a boyfriend.\" In their 2004 song \"Average Girl\", the three sisters likened themselves to Princess Aurora from \"Sleeping Beauty\", falling into a deep sleep and resting in God until He sends a prince their way. The Barlows also relate to other Disney Princesses: Lauren likens herself to Ariel from \"The Little Mermaid\", while Alyssa likens herself to Belle from \"Beauty and the Beast\".\nSeveral times since 2006, the Barlows alternated between condemning \"the recreational dating scene\" and, per songs like \"Average Girl\", condemning all forms of dating. For example, the band's \"Secret Keeper Girl\" condemned recreational dating and compiled \"the BarlowGirl top 10 list of things to do instead of being boy crazy.\" One of the resources recommended by BarlowGirl was \"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\" by Joshua Harris, a book that recommended courtship over dating. On August 23, 2016, Harris partially recanted the teachings in his book. On November 1, 2016, a staff member for BarlowGirl confirmed that the purity doctrine once taught by the sisters \"doesn't reflect band member's [sic] current views\".\n\nIn a 2004 video for \"The Washington Post\", when interviewed about that year's United States presidential election, BarlowGirl replied: \"Um, well… we've always liked the Bush family.\" On December 15, 2008, the Barlows further praised the work of George W. Bush, thanking God for him \"in regards to the issue of abortion\" and praying for then-president-elect Barack Obama to \"have a change of heart towards the issue of abortion.\" In 2009, BarlowGirl licensed its cover of \"It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year\" for the program \"Christmas at the White House: An Oprah Primetime Special\", where Obama and his wife were interviewed. On November 10, 2016, BarlowGirl showed support for the \"Love Trumps Hate\" slogan: \"Hillary's campaign said it best […] I think we can all agree on that one phrase.\" During the inauguration of Donald Trump on January 20, 2017, Alyssa Barlow spoke favorably of Barack Obama and his two terms as President. BarlowGirl visited Jerusalem in May 2018.\n\nFrom 2006 to the band's demise, BarlowGirl partnered with Mercy Ministries, an organization which seeks to help women. The charity, however, has faced some controversy in the United States and in Australia. Despite this, the partnership remained and led to Lauren choosing Mercy founder Nancy Alcorn to be one of the 59 contributors for her book \"Inspired by Tozer\".\n\nOther ministry partners included the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (including the related Samaritan's Purse and its Operation Christmas Child project), International Justice Mission, Joshua Harris and Joyce Meyer Ministries.\n\nFollowing the release of \"How Can We Be Silent\", BarlowGirl led a short-lived Never Silence Life campaign in 2009 to express their pro-life views and their concern for the protection of prenatal life. Mercy also shares similar pro-life views. BarlowGirl and the Fisk Jubilee Singers recorded \"Tears Fall\" in 2009, a pro-life song available on the album \"Love & War\".\n\n\nGMA Dove Awards\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327936", "title": "Vern Yocum", "text": "Vern Yocum\n\nVern Yocum (April 15, 1909 - September 13, 1991) is best known as copyist and librarian for Frank Sinatra, Nat King Cole, and Nelson Riddle. Many of the top artists of the mid-20th century relied on Vern Yocum’s Music Service, which was walking distance from the Capitol Records Tower. His client list included: Frankie Laine, Billy Eckstine, Ella Fitzgerald, Rosemary Clooney, Mel Tormé, Peggy Lee, Steve Lawrence & Eydie Gorme, Keely Smith, Sammy Davis Jr., Trini Lopez, Nancy Wilson, Leslie Uggams, Roy Clark, and Julie Andrews.\n\nVern and his brother Clark (guitarist with Mal Halet and Tommy Dorsey and vocalist with The Pied Pipers) grew up singing and playing instruments in Pennsylvania Dutch Country until they were seduced by jazz. Vern left home two weeks before high school graduation to go on the road with Floyd Mills and the Marylanders and would subsequently play with many big bands, including Tal Henry, Bob Chester, Tony Cabot, Casa Nova, Red Nichols, Chico Marx, Tommy Dorsey, and Boyd Raeburn. During World War II he remained busy building big bands in the United States Navy. In the late 1940s Vern began to rely more and more on doing music preparation on the West Coast, which was something that he had done to earn money while in bands directed by Tommy Dorsey and Boyd Raeburn. By 1950 he had completely transitioned into this field after managing and playing with The Bob Keane (Keene) Band.\n\nYocum contributed significantly to the cause of many working musicians when he, Cecil Reed, and eleven other top musicians openly rebelled against American Federation of Musicians President James Petrillo in a representation dispute during the mid-1950s. They hosted the first meeting of what was to later become the Musician's Guild of America in his office. Later he served on the negotiation team and successfully contracted changes which are still in force today. His collection resides at the University of Arizona.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327942", "title": "Explosive: The Best of Bond", "text": "Explosive: The Best of Bond\n\nExplosive: the best of Bond is a compilation album by the crossover classical string quartet Bond. As well as the audio CD, the album also contains a DVD which has three music videos, a photo gallery, their complete discography, and all the tracks on Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound or 48kHz/16 bit PCM Stereo. The CD also contains three previously unreleased tracks. There is also a DualDisc edition of the album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327947", "title": "Carcharhinus", "text": "Carcharhinus\n\nCarcharhinus is the type genus of the family Carcharhinidae, the requiem sharks. One of 12 genera in its family, it contains over half of the species therein. It contains 35 extant and eight extinct species to date, with likely more species yet to be described.\n\n Type species\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327951", "title": "Wells &amp; Co", "text": "Wells &amp; Co\n\nWells & Co. (formerly Charles Wells Ltd) is the holding company of the Charles Wells Brewery and Pub Company (a pub chain). Charles Wells Ltd was founded in 1876 by Charles Wells in Bedford, England.\n\nThe Charles Wells Pub Company controls over 200 leased and tenanted public houses in England. The company also directly owns and manages 13 pubs in France (under the name John Bull Pub Company) and several managed houses in England under the Apostrophe Pubs and Pizza, Pots and Pints brands.\n\nCharles Wells sold its Bedford based brewery and most of its beer brands to Marston's in May 2017, for £55m. Brands sold to them included Young's, Courage and McEwan's beers, along with contract beers, such as Kirin Ichiban and UK distribution rights to Estrella, Erdinger, Founders Brewing Company, Devil's Peak Brewing Company and Small Town Brewery. Charles Wells did, however, retain its Charlie Wells brands.\n\nCharles Wells Ltd (also known as Charles Wells Brewery and Pub Company, and previously as Charles Wells Family Brewery) was founded by Charles Wells in 1876. In 1875, a two and a quarter acre site came to auction on the banks of the River Ouse as it ran through Bedford. This site contained both a coal depot and a brew house; included in the price were 35 pubs, mainly in Bedford and the surrounding area.\n\nWells thought that beer would always be in demand, and with the help of his father-in-law he purchased the site and began work to turn the small brew house into a fully fledged brewery which could serve the county.\n\nAs water is an essential ingredient for any beer, Wells believed that good quality water is vital to create the best beer. In 1902, Wells climbed a local hill a couple of miles from the brewery and sank his own well to tap into an underground reservoir of water, purified through layers of chalk and limestone. All beers to this day, both their own and under licence, are made with the certified mineral water drawn from this well.\n\nBy 1976, exactly 100 years since the company was established, the brewing operation moved from the Horne Lane site to a new site, the Eagle Brewery on Havelock Street. The move came about due to an increased demand for the company's beers, spurred on by a deal with Red Stripe brewery Desnoes & Geddes. This offered the company the chance to install the most up-to-date brewing equipment, and a state of the art bottling line.\n\nThe company is still in the family's hands, with the fifth generation coming into the business. There are currently six members of the family who work within the company, serving the Charles Wells Brewery, Charles Wells Pub Company, and John Bull Pub Company. Charles Wells Pub Company has an estate of more than 200 pubs predominantly based across the Eastern and Northern Home Counties regions, while Charles Wells beers are distributed through both the Charles Wells and Young's pub estates, as well as through various free houses\nCharles Wells, after whom the company is named, was born in Bedford in 1842; he left school at the age of 14 and ran away to sea by boarding the frigate 'Devonshire' which was bound for India. In the late 1860s, Wells was promoted to Chief Officer when he fell in love with and proposed to a Josephine Grimbley. Unfortunately, his prospective father-in-law put paid to his plans when he announced that no daughter of his would marry a man who would be away at sea for months at a time. And so Wells, desperate to marry his sweetheart, left his seafaring career and in 1876 established the Charles Wells Family Brewery to provide beer for the local population of Bedfordshire.\n\nThe Charles Wells Pub Company was formed as a distinct pub estate for Charles Wells Ltd when the parent company merged its brewing operations with London's Young's Brewery to form Wells & Young's Brewery. The pub company controls over 200 houses, all run on tenancy or lease agreements, and declared an operating profit of £6 million in December 2008. In 2013 the pub company announced its move into managed houses, with the first site set to open in 2014.\n\nThe company has become well known for the support it gives to its licensees and won the title of Pub Company of the Year (tenanted/leased 200+) at The Publican Awards for two years running - in 2009 and 2010. Charles Wells also won The Retention Award at the Springboard Awards for Excellence 2010 and 2012 and Best Recruitment Initiative in 2011 in recognition of its work in recruiting, training and supporting licensees. A further accolade was achieved at The Publican Awards 2014 when Charles Wells won the Best Pub Operations Team category for companies operating over 50 sites.\n\nIts five-day induction programme (CRISP – Charles Wells Retail Induction Support Programme) helps prepare licensees for every aspect of running their own business and is part of their comprehensive training schedule which is open to everyone.\n\nOn 23 May 2006 the company announced that it was to form a new joint venture brewing company with the Young & Co's brewery, who moved their brewing production from the Ram Brewery in Wandsworth. The firm was called Wells & Young's Brewing Co Ltd, with Charles Wells having a 60% stake and Young & Co 40%, it went into operation on 2 October 2006. In 2011, Charles Wells purchased Young's 40% share, moving the company into the sole ownership of Charles Wells of Bedford. Wells & Young's was responsible for brewing, distributing and marketing Charles Wells and Young & Co's brands at the Brewery in Bedford.\n\nFurther acquisition in 2011 saw the company buy McEwan's and Younger's beers as well as the Courage beers, extending its portfolio more widely across the UK.\n\nIn early 2015, the company went back to its roots and now trades as Charles Wells, once again, reuniting the different arms of the business under its founding name.\n\nIn May 2017, the company announced that it was selling the brewery and wine business to Marston's Brewery together with the Bombardier and McEwan's brands and rights to the Young's brands. It said it would set up a separate brewery in Bedford to brew Charles Wells-branded beers in two years' time.\n\nAfter the sale of its Eagle Brewery and most of its beer brands to Marston's, Charles Wells said that while it would now be focussing more on the pub side of its business, it would also build a small brewery in Bedford to produce beers exclusively for its own pub estate.\n\nThe new brewery is due to be completed in 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327954", "title": "Party of Independents (Upper Volta)", "text": "Party of Independents (Upper Volta)\n\nParty of Independents (in French: \"Parti des Indépendents\"), was a political party in Upper Volta, formed through a split in the Voltaic Democratic Union (UDV-RDA). The party contested the 1970 elections.\n\nSource: Englebert, Pierre. \"La Revolution Burkinabè\". Paris: L'Harmattan, 1986.\n"}
{"id": "2327960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327960", "title": "Plavka", "text": "Plavka\n\nPlavka Coleridge (née Lonich; born March 25, 1968) is an American singer of Croatian and Peruvian origin who lives in Los Angeles. She is best known for being the singer of the German trance act Jam & Spoon, whose classically infused trance sound dominated the international charts in the mid 1990s, as well as for her previous stint with The Shamen.\n\nPlavka is the daughter of a Peruvian mother and Croatian father. At age 21 she moved to London, where she was lead singer for the seminal British acid house band the Shamen. She sang on the group's first hit, \"Hyperreal\". They toured the UK and Europe with their traveling show, \"Synergy\", and recorded a John Peel session in the UK. In 1991, the Shamen with Plavka were covered by UK's \"Face\" magazine to take rave to Russia, touring as far as Siberia.\n\nPlavka was then poached by the management of Jam & Spoon to be their singer. Their first single, \"Right in the Night\", went top 10 in the UK and they performed on the UK music chart show \"Top of the Pops\". She sang on Jam & Spoon's hits \"Find Me (Odyssey to Anyoona)\" and \"Angel\" and on their album \"Kaleidoscope Skies\". The single, \"Kaleidoscope Skies\", was the first single off the album and made the top 20 in several European territories. She performed Jam & Spoon's final single \"Butterfly Sign\" at the New Pop Festival in Germany. Her interest in jazz singing later led her to acquiring a jazz residency at Annabel's, the private London members club. Plavka was nominated for Best Dance Act with Jam & Spoon at the first ever MTV European Music Awards held in Berlin.\n\nIn the early to mid-1990s, Plavka worked with, and dated, Caspar Pound, producer, composer and owner of Rising High Records. They formed Rising High Collective with producer Peter Smith. They were known for some very well regarded trance, ambient and house tracks in the underground electronic music scene. Their first single, \"Fever Called Love\", was a revolutionary track as it was the first techno dance production to have a vocal song. This underground hit garnered Rising High Collective live engagements across Europe and critical acclaim.\n\nPlavka has been featured as guest vocalist with DJ Ils (Razorblade), Nu Frequency (Love Sick) and J. Nitti (Surrender). She also penned the song \"Never Ever\" for the English band James Taylor Quartet (Acid Jazz Records). In May 2013, Jam & Spoon featuring Plavka re-released \"Right in the Night 2013\" with a mix by David May and Amfree. The video was shot in Salton Sea, California. The song was released by Sony Columbia and reached No. 1 in the European Dance Charts.\n\nPlavka now lives in Los Angeles. She married Christopher Coleridge in 2006 and they have a daughter. Her younger brother is guitarist Yogi Lonich who was a member of Buckcherry, Chris Cornell's live band, and Fuel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327964", "title": "WWFE", "text": "WWFE\n\nWWFE (670 AM), known as \"La Poderosa\", is a commercial radio station in Miami, Florida, broadcasting to the Miami-Fort Lauderdale area. WWFE's format is Spanish, with an emphasis on Cuban news and music.\n\n670 AM is a United States clear-channel frequency; WWFE must reduce nighttime power and use a highly directional antenna in order to prevent interference to the skywave signal of WSCR in Chicago, which is a Class A station on 670 AM. The other Class A station on this frequency is KDLG in Dillingham, Alaska.\n\n"}
{"id": "2327973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327973", "title": "Revolution Dub", "text": "Revolution Dub\n\nRevolution Dub is a studio album by Lee Perry & The Upsetters, released in Jamaica in 1975 in very small quantities. It features groundbreaking dub mixing, sound effects (including excerpts of British comedy recorded from various radio stations), heavy bass, vocals by Perry himself, and an early use of a drum machine in reggae.\n\nAll tracks composed by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327976", "title": "Pip Pyle", "text": "Pip Pyle\n\nPhillip \"Pip\" Pyle (4 April 1950 – 28 August 2006) was an English-born drummer from Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire, who later resided in France. He is best known for his work in the progressive rock Canterbury scene bands Gong, Hatfield and the North and National Health.\n\nPyle joined Phil Miller, a friend from kindergarten, and Phil's brother Steve, in forming Bruno's Blues Band, which rapidly evolved into Delivery. However, Pyle left the band in 1970 after arguing with singer Carol Grimes. He briefly played in blues band Chicken Shack and Steve Hillage's band Khan.\n\nIn 1971, drummer Robert Wyatt asked Pyle to play instead of him on one track of Daevid Allen's solo album \"Banana Moon\". From this, Pyle joined Allen in Gong. While only in the band for eight months, Pyle plays on both \"Camembert Électrique\" and \"Continental Circus\". Pyle was replaced by Laurie Allan, but rejoined Gong in 1989.\n\nIn 1972, Pyle worked with Paul Jones (who had been singing with Manfred Mann) and with British singer Bridget St John, before founding Hatfield and the North with the Miller brothers in 1972. Steve Miller was soon replaced in the band and the line-up eventually settled on Pyle, Phil Miller, Richard Sinclair and keyboardist Dave Stewart. \"Hatfield and the North\" was released in 1974, while a second album, \"The Rotters' Club\", followed the next year. As well as drumming, Pyle wrote many of the band's lyrics.\n\nFollowing Hatfield, Pyle joined Miller and Stewart in National Health as well as playing in other projects, including Soft Heap with Hugh Hopper, Elton Dean and Alan Gowen. He also played on \"Neil's Heavy Concept Album\" (1984), a spin-off from the television series \"The Young Ones\" with which Stewart was involved.\n\nIn 1984, Pyle met Sophia Domancich and the two had a relationship for many years. Pyle also started his own band, Pip Pyle's Equip'Out, including Domancich. Equip'Out released \"Equip'Out\", \"Up!\" and \"Instants\". He released one solo album, \"Seven Year Itch\", in 1998 with guests including Miller, Sinclair, Stewart, Dean (saxello), Hopper (bass), Jakko Jakszyk, Barbara Gaskin, John Greaves (vocals), François Ovide, Fred T. Baker (bass), Paul Rogers (double bass), Lydia Domancich (piano, Sophia's sister) and Didier Malherbe (alto sax). Pyle also played in Miller's band In Cahoots from 1982 to 2001, appearing on \"Cutting Both Ways\", \"Split Seconds\", \"Live 86-89\", \"Live in Japan\", \"Recent Discoveries\", \"Parallel\" and \"Out of the Blue\".\n\nHis last projects were his group Bash!, featuring the French guitarist Patrice Meyer, Fred Baker on bass and Alex Maguire on keyboards, and a Hatfield and the North reunion (also with Maguire). Bash! released the live album \"Belle Illusion\" (Cuneiform Records), but only played five live shows in total (including Progman Cometh), finding it difficult to attract interest from venues.\n\nIn 2005 Pyle joined Phil Miller and Richard Sinclair in a re-formation of Hatfield and the North, with Alex Maguire handling the keyboards. On 29 January, all three were reunited for the first time in fifteen years when Pyle sat in with the Richard Sinclair Band for a few old numbers (\"Above And Below\", \"Share It\", \"Halfway Between Heaven And Earth\" and \"Didn't Matter Anyway\") during a gig at Whitstable's Horsebridge Arts Centre. The rejuvenated Hatfield made its official live debut on 18 March 2005 at the Mean Fiddler in London, and a brief tour of Europe followed in June. More international touring followed in 2005-06, including dates in Japan, Mexico, the US and Europe. On 26 August 2006 Pyle played his last gig in Feerwerd (Groningen), Netherlands.\n\nHe died in Paris on 28 August 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327985", "title": "Near Myths", "text": "Near Myths\n\nNear Myths was a comic magazine published in Edinburgh during the late 1970s that only ran for five issues. The initial editor was Rob King and it was produced by Galaxy Media. It is important because it featured the first professionally published work of Grant Morrison, Graham Manley and Tony O'Donnell, and saw the start of Bryan Talbot's seminal graphic novel The Adventures of Luther Arkwright. Talbot took over as editor for the final issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2327987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327987", "title": "Pioneer (train)", "text": "Pioneer (train)\n\nThe Pioneer was an Amtrak passenger train that ran between Seattle and Chicago via Portland, Boise, Salt Lake City, and Denver.\n\nIn the 1960s, prior to the creation of Amtrak, two Union Pacific Railroad streamliners provided service to Portland via Boise: the \"City of Portland\" (from Chicago) and the \"Portland Rose\" (from Kansas City). Amtrak did not retain either train in 1971preferring the \"Empire Builder\" for Chicago–Pacific Northwest servicewith the result that train travel between the Pacific Northwest and Denver required either going west to California or east to Chicago.\n\nAmtrak sought to fill this gap in 1977 with the introduction of the \"Pioneer\" between Seattle and Salt Lake City.\nThe all-coach train operated on a daily 24-hour schedule with connections available in Ogden, Utah with the Chicago–San Francisco \"San Francisco Zephyr\". Meal service was provided in an on-board cafe, one of the then-new Amfleet dinettes. Coaches were reserved except between Portland and Seattle, where the \"Pioneer\" supplemented existing corridor service. In early 1977, Amtrak authorized approximately $500,000 to improve 13 stations along the route in Utah, Idaho, and Oregon. Work included installation of passenger shelters, platforms and rehabilitation of existing stations.\nRegular service began on June 7.\n\nThe \"Pioneer\" began exchanging a Seattle–Chicago through coach with the \"San Francisco Zephyr\" on April 26, 1981; this was supplemented by a through sleeping car on October 31, 1982. When the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad decided to join Amtrak in 1983, Amtrak renamed the \"San Francisco Zephyr\" to \"California Zephyr\", shifted it south to the Moffat Tunnel Route, and changed its interchange point with the \"Pioneer\" from Ogden to Salt Lake City, the \"Pioneer's\" terminus.\n\nOn June 17, 1991, the \"Pioneer's\" terminus and \"California Zephyr\" interchange point was moved from Salt Lake City to Denver, its route was changed to use the Union Pacific's Overland Route in Wyoming (which had last seen service in 1983), and a bus was added between Salt Lake City and the \"Pioneer\" at Ogden. This change was made for two reasons:\n\nThe \"Pioneer\" was reduced to thrice-weekly on November 4, 1993.\n\nIn January 1997, Amtrak announced that the \"Pioneer\" would end May 10, 1997, when a Congressionally-funded mandate to keep it operating expired. States affected were given until March 15 to submit funding proposals to keep the train operating. While visiting Pendleton, Oregon on February 22, Amtrak President Thomas M. Downs said the \"Pioneer\" could be converted to a coach-only Chicago–Portland mail-and-express train operating on an all-Union Pacific routing through Iowa and Wyoming (but missing Ogden) if interested states could provide about $4.8 million to fund the existing operation through that October when the new train could start.\n\nBy the March 15 deadline, state funding had not been secured even though the requested funding package had been reduced. Instead of seeking $4.8 million, Amtrak asked the Oregon legislature for $2.9 million in loan guarantees, which would have resulted in triweekly service between Portland and Salt Lake City through the October startup of a daily mixed train carrying express freight and passengers between Chicago and Portland via Omaha, Cheyenne, and Ogden. Oregon refused to provide the loan guarantees because it found Amtrak's collateral (ex-Santa Fe Hi-Level cars) unacceptable. On April 10, Union Pacific told Amtrak that the proposed express train would require $56 million in capital improvements. On May 10, 1997, the \"Pioneer\" made its last run, as did the \"Desert Wind\". It was reported in the December 1998 issue of Trains that a Chicago–Portland replacement for the Pioneer via Omaha and Cheyenne had been postponed.\n\nThe end of the \"Pioneer\" severed Wyoming from the national rail network, and also spelled the end of intercity rail service in the more populated portions of Idaho. To maintain service levels in the Seattle–Portland corridor, Amtrak instituted an additional corridor train between the two cities.\n\nThe original all-coach \"Pioneer\" had Amfleet coaches and a lounge. Amtrak added a Heritage Fleet sleeping car in 1978. With the start of through service with the \"San Francisco Zephyr\" in 1981 the \"Pioneer\" received bi-level Superliner coaches, but the single-level sleeping car and lounge remained until 1982, when the train went all-Superliner.\n\nIn accordance with the Passenger Rail Improvement Act of 2008 Amtrak evaluated the possibility of restoring service to the \"Pioneer\" and other discontinued long-distance routes. Amtrak considered four options for a restored \"Pioneer\", all of which would have through service to Chicago via the \"California Zephyr\":\n\nAccording to the study the projected farebox recovery ratio was \"significantly lower than the average fare box recovery for Amtrak long distance trains in FY2008 (51.8%). Fare box recovery for the two Seattle options (Options 1 and 2) is lower than all but one of Amtrak's 15 existing long distance routes, and the Portland options have a lower fare box recovery than any Amtrak long distance route.\" Amtrak projected lower ridership than in the mid-1990s owing to the proliferation of low-cost air travel between Seattle and Salt Lake City (particularly Southwest Airlines).\n\n"}
{"id": "2327992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327992", "title": "Arye Gross", "text": "Arye Gross\n\nArye Gross (born March 17, 1960) is an American actor, who has appeared on a variety of television shows in numerous roles, most notably Adam Greene in ABC Sitcom \"Ellen\".\n\nGross was born on March 17, 1960, in Los Angeles, California, the son of Sheri and Joseph Gross, who was an aerospace engineer and later worked in business.\n\nHe and Lisa Schulz, married in 1999, have a daughter, Sophia, born in 2006.\n\nGross attended public school and in 1977 was accepted to the University of California Irvine to study theater. Robert Cohen, then head of UCI's Drama Department later said, \"I remember him as an undergrad student actor and knew he was quite good.\" The following summer he was accepted in the Professional Conservatory program at South Coast Repertory (SCR) in neighboring Costa Mesa, where Lee Shallat-Chemel was then the program director. She remembered how he handled Edgar's \"nonsensical\" passages in \"King Lear\" during scene study. \"Arye found a visceral reality and the scene became filled with pathos and meaning. And it just blew me away. I had never seen, really, any actor do that.\" \n\nHe would be part of SCR's acting company for three years, which culminated in his role in the world premiere of L.J. Schneiderman's \"Screwball\". After that, Director Frank Condon invited him to work with Teatro Campesino under the direction of Luis Valdez, which he did for a year.\n\nGross has appeared in a number of stage productions with a variety of companies in the Los Angeles area, including LATC, Pasadena Playhouse, Odyssey Theater Ensemble, MET Theater and Stages Theater Center. Gross' stage credits include \"La Bete\" for the Stages Theatre Center, \"Room Service\" for the Pasadena Playhouse, \"Three Sisters\" for the Los Angeles Theatre Center, \"Taming of the Shrew\" and \"Much Ado About Nothing\" for the Grove Shakespeare Festival, \"Troillus and Cressida\" for the Globe Playhouse. He performed in Georges Feydeau's \"Sleep, I Want You to Sleep\" at the Stages Theatre Company, where he served as Managing Director.\n\nHe is a member of the Antaeus Theatre Company, where he appeared in \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\" and as the title character in \"Uncle Vanya\". His South Coast Repertory credits also include the world premieres of Richard Greenberg's \"Our Mother's Brief Affair\", and Donald Margulies' \"Brooklyn Boy\", which marked Gross' Broadway debut when it moved to New York. He also was in the 2016 world premiere of Eliza Clark's \"Future Thinking\".\n\nGross's best-known television role was on the ABC series \"Ellen\" as Adam Green for the program's first three seasons. Gross also starred in the short-lived series \"Citizen Baines\" with James Cromwell. Arye has made numerous guest appearances on a wide variety of television series, such as \"Diff'rent Strokes\", \"Knight Rider\", \"The Outer Limits\", \"Six Feet Under\", \"\", \"Friends\" and \"\". He also had a recurring role as Dr. Sidney Perlmutter on \"Castle\".\n\nGross also played the adult voice of Kevin Arnold on the pilot episode of \"The Wonder Years\" when it first aired after Super Bowl XXII. However, the narration was re-recorded using Daniel Stern's voice for the pilot when it subsequently re-aired, and Stern remained the narrator through the entire run of the series.\n\nIn 1999, Gross acted in and directed \"The Prince and the Surfer\"; this was his film directorial debut.\n"}
{"id": "2327994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2327994", "title": "Kentucky Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Kentucky Shakespeare Festival\n\nKentucky Shakespeare Festival is a non-profit, professional theatre company in Louisville, Kentucky that produces and performs the works of William Shakespeare. The main productions offered are the annual summer series of plays presented free to the public at the C. Douglass Ramey Amphitheater in the city's Central Park. This series, commonly called \"Shakespeare in Central Park\", sprung from an initial production in the park by The Carriage House Players in the summer of 1960. They also perform shows in other venues, as well as conduct educational programs related to acting and other theater-related skills.\n\nPrograms consist of theatre instruction combined with competitions, games, and activities designed to engage the campers. Summers often include field trips and will culminate in an invited performance, or \"Share Day\", for family and friends showcasing what the campers have been working on during their session.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328008", "title": "Andrzej Grubba", "text": "Andrzej Grubba\n\nAndrzej Grubba (14 May 1958 – 21 July 2005) was a Polish table tennis player.\n\nGrubba was born in Brzeźno Wielkie near Starogard Gdański. He was the recipient of numerous medals for the world competition in table tennis as well as for the European competition.\n\nHe was one of the best players in this field of sport in Polish history, together with Alojzy Ehrlich. Three times he was awarded bronze medals during the World Competition - in 1989 for single play, in 1985 for team tournament, in 1987 for double play with Leszek Kucharski. Three times Grubba took part in the Olympic Games.\nIn 1988 he won World Cup, in 1985 and 1989 he had 2nd place and in 1987 he was 3rd, in singles. In doubles Cup, with Leszek Kucharski had 3rd place.\nOne of the things Grubba was best known for was his ability to change playing hands mid-rally. He also won two English Open titles.\n\nHe died of cancer leaving a wife and two children.\n\nIn \"The Office\" episode \"The Deposition\" character Dwight mentions Andrzej Grubba as one of his table tennis heroes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328009", "title": "Starwood Festival", "text": "Starwood Festival\n\nThe Starwood Festival is a seven-day Neo-Pagan, New Age, multi-cultural and world music festival, taking place every July in the United States of America. The Starwood Festival is a camping event which holds workshops on a variety of subjects.\n\nThe Starwood Festival was founded in 1981 by the Chameleon Club, a recognized student organization at Case Western Reserve University, which later founded the Association for Consciousness Exploration (ACE). It has been operated by ACE since 1983 under its co-directors, Jeff Rosenbaum and Joe Rothenberg. It featured entertainment, public ceremonies, and classes on subjects such as sensory isolation, Kirlian photography, Neopaganism, shamanism, Wicca, holistic health, tarot divination, Thelema, and past life regression. Among the first guest speakers and entertainers were Jim Alan and Selena Fox (founders of Circle Sanctuary), Raymond Buckland, Lee Bryan Grotte (Foundation for Research in Medical Botany), and music by Chameleon and The Ancient Illuminated Seers of Bavaria.\n\nThe first Starwood was held July 24–26, 1981 at Coopers Lake Campground, the same site as the Society for Creative Anachronism's Pennsic War, in Slippery Rock, PA. From 1982 through 1985 it was held at Devil's Den Park in New Philadelphia, OH, a former state park run by Whispering Winds Nudist Camp. In 1986 and 1987 it was held at Bear Creek Amphitheatre (part of Bear Creek Resort Ranch KOA) in East Sparta, OH, and at Echo Hills Ski Resort in Logan, OH (on the Buckeye Trail) in 1988 and 1989. The event moved to Brushwood Folklore Center, a private campground in Sherman, New York from 1990 through 2009. Since 2010, Starwood has been held at Wisteria Campground in Pomeroy, Ohio.\n\nThe event began as a weekend festival, and grew over the years to a seven-day event. Attendance has grown from 185 in the first year to peak at around 1800 people in 2002, and has stayed between 1400 and 1600 since then. Since 1982, Starwood has been a clothing optional event, and skyclad attendance is common.\n\nStarwood offers approximately 150 workshops, on topics including alternative lifestyles, political & spiritual activism, spiritual traditions, consciousness-altering technologies and substances (such as biofeedback, sensory-isolation, mind machines, and entheogenic substances), martial arts & movement systems, history, magic, folklore, art & music, metaphysics and environmental issues.\nThere are classes on the drumming and dancing styles of Africa, South America, Ireland, the Middle East and elsewhere. All-night drummers’ bonfires are held each night of the event in at least two locations: the \"Paw Paw Patch\" for larger drums such as djembes, and the \"DidgeDome\" for smaller drums such as bongos and tablas, accompanied by didgeridoos and quieter instruments. There are concerts held every lunchtime, dinnertime, and evening, and all-night multi-media enhanced parties in an inflatable structure called the \"PufferDome\" and in an adjacent area called the \"G-Spot\". Starwood provides child care and children's classes and programs in a playground area called \"Kids' Village\", and a schedule of classes and activities for teenagers. There are several areas devoted to multi-cultural ceremonies and rituals, and a non-Native sweat lodge. Friday night features a multi-media presentation, (often including fireworks, lasers, fire dancing, and synchronized music), and on the final night a torchlight procession leads to a huge bonfire.\n\nStarwood is attended by people of all ages. Followers of diverse beliefs attend Starwood, including Wiccans, neo-druids, chaos magicians, Ásatrúar, ceremonial magicians, Buddhists, and those representing a variety of New Age spiritualities. According to the event organizers, the festival is designed for members of all spiritual paths to share their customs and beliefs. Some specific groups whose members regularly appear at and attend Starwood include the Church of All Worlds (CAW), the Church of the SubGenius, the Neo-Druidic group Ar nDraiocht Fein (ADF), and various Neopagan Covens and organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328019", "title": "International School Ho Chi Minh City", "text": "International School Ho Chi Minh City\n\nThe International School Ho Chi Minh City (ISHCMC) is an international school in District 2, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Founded\nin 1993, the International School Ho Chi Minh City (ISHCMC) is the first and\nmost established international school in Ho Chi Minh City. ISHCMC is a\nnon-denominational, co-educational and multicultural international school with\nover 50 nationalities represented.\n\nTeaching in the English medium, ISHCMC is the first school in Ho Chi Minh City certified to provide all three\nInternational Baccalaureate Programmes (Primary Years Program, Middle Years\nProgram and the IB Diploma) for students ages 2 to 18 years.\n\nThe school offers the International Baccalaureate Primary Years Programme to students in grades Kindergarten to Grade 5 (ages 2 to 12 years), the International Baccalaureate Middle Years Programme for students in grades 6 to 10 (ages 12 to 16 years) and the IB Diploma Programme or certificates for students in Grade 11 to 12 (ages 16 to 18 years).\nThe school is fully accredited IB World school, offering all three International Baccalaureate Programmes (Primary Years Programme, Middle Years Programme and the IB Diploma) for all students.\n\nFounded in 1993, ISHCMC was the first international school in HCMC, now with more than 1,300 students aged 2 to 18 years old representing over 50 nationalities. As the city’s first International Baccalaureate world school, a Culture of Achievement exists at ISHCMC, where students are energized, engaged and empowered to become active participants in their communities.\nThe academic year of 2017/18 welcomed the introduction of the brand new state-of-the-art ISHCMC Secondary Campus located less than 5 kilometers away from the ISHCMC Primary Campus. Both ISHCMC campuses are located in District 2.\nOur Secondary Campus was carefully designed to provide a safe and secure 21st century learning environment for 11-18 year olds, complete with the latest security and clean air systems.\nThe new facility allows students of both primary and secondary age to flourish on campuses that suit their respective educational needs. This will allow refurbishment and redevelopment of the existing campus as it is converted into a primary school facility that enables our younger students to fully beneﬁt from an inquiry based academic program.\n\nThe Primary Campus boasts facilities such as modern learning and collaboration areas, an indoor gymnasium, a large multi-purpose room, a 25m - 6 lanes swimming pool, a large outdoor pitch with an artificial grass playing surface and numerous covered and uncovered hard surface play and sports areas. There are also science labs, a Mac lab, a maker space, performing arts studios, a library media center, information technology labs, music rooms, art rooms, a canteen, a health clinic, an adventure playground, and a newly added early childhood center. These facilities help our students to become well-rounded, balanced individuals with a passion for learning in all its diverse forms.\n\nThis campus offers great opportunities for student learning through technologically advanced classrooms, collaborative learning spaces and senior student study areas. Unique facilities such as Vietnam’s first Innovation Center aim to prepare our students for the realities of the commercial world in the 21st century. Full scale musical productions are hosted in our brand new 350-seat theater with professional lighting and sound equipment, extending opportunities into the technical aspects of theatre productions. In line with our goal of producing well-balanced and healthy students, our new facility provides ISHCMC Secondary-aged students with a wide range of facilities to support their wellbeing. Sports facilities include multi-purpose courts, rooftop sports ﬁeld and 25m - eight-lane competitive swimming pool with seating.\n"}
{"id": "2328023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328023", "title": "Africa's Blood", "text": "Africa's Blood\n\nAfrica's Blood is a studio album by Lee Perry, released in 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328024", "title": "Uskoks", "text": "Uskoks\n\nThe Uskoks (, , singular: ; names in other languages) were irregular soldiers in Habsburg Croatia that inhabited areas on the eastern Adriatic coast and surrounding territories during the Ottoman wars in Europe. Etymologically, the word \"uskoci\" itself means \"the ones who jumped in\" (\"the ones who ambushed\") in Croatian Bands of Uskoks fought a guerrilla war against the Ottomans, and they formed small units and rowed swift boats. Since the uskoks were checked on land and were rarely paid their annual subsidy, they resorted to acts of piracy.\n\nThe exploits of the Uskoks contributed to a renewal of war between Venice and the Ottoman Empire (1571–1573). An extremely curious picture of contemporary manners is presented by the Venetian agents, whose reports on this war resemble a knightly chronicle of the Middle Ages. These chronicles contain information pertaining to single combats, tournaments and other chivalrous adventures.\n\nMany of these troops served abroad. After a series of incidents that escalated into the Uskok War (1615–1618), the Uskok activity in their stronghold of Senj mostly ceased.\n\n\nThe Ottoman conquest of Bosnia and Herzegovina during the early years of the 16th century drove large numbers of ethnic Croats from their homes, which in the town of Klis prompted the formation of the \"Uskok\" military. Large numbers of fugitives from Bosnia and Serbia fleeing the Ottomans, joined the ranks of the Uskok bands. In 1522 the border territory of Senj was taken over by the Habsburgs under the authority of Archduke Ferdinand, forming a state-controlled Militärgrenze, or Military Frontier. The Austrian Emperor Ferdinand I instituted a system of planting colonies of defenders along the Military Frontier. Moreover, the Uskoks were promised an annual subsidy in return for their services. Owing to its location, Klis Fortress was an important defensive position which stands on the route by which the Ottomans could penetrate the mountain barrier separating the coastal lowlands from around Split in Croatia, from Ottoman-held Bosnia. Numerous refugees from Ottoman areas began settling along this territory, crossing the border to escape Ottoman attacks. Christian guerilla resistance in Ottoman-occupied areas of Dalmatia and Bosnia caused these people to flee and settle down, first at the fortress of Klis along the Military Frontier, then at Senj. A body of these \"uskoks\" led by Croatian captain Petar Kružić used the base at Klis both to hold the Turks at bay, and to engage in marauding and piracy against coastal shipping. Although nominally accepting the sovereignty of the Habsburg Emperor Ferdinand I, who obtained the Croatian crown in 1527, Kružić and his freebooting Uskoks were a law unto themselves.\n\nAfter Petar Kružić's death, and the lack of water supply, the defenders of Klis finally surrendered to the Ottomans in exchange for their freedom. On March 12, 1537, the town and fortress was given up to the Ottomans, many of the citizens left the town while the Uskoks went to the city of Senj on the Adriatic coast, where they continued fighting the Ottomans. They may have started to gather around Senj as early as 1520 (Bracewell 1992). The Ottoman raids and destruction brought Senj natives together with those from the Habsburg lands, Dalmatians, Ragusans and Italians. At Senj, the Klis Uskoks were soon joined by other refugees from Novi Vinodolski in northwestern Croatia, from Otočac on the Gacka River, and from other Croatian towns and villages.\n\nThe new Uskok stronghold, screened by mountains and forests, was unassailable by cavalry or artillery. However, the fortress was admirably suitable to the lightly armed uskoks who were excellent in guerrilla warfare. The Martolos were employed by the Ottomans to discourage Uskok penetration of Turkish territory, which was not very profitable anyhow. Since the uskoks were checked on land and were rarely paid their annual subsidy, they resorted to acts of piracy. Large galleys could not anchor in the bay of Senj, which is shallow and exposed to sudden gales. So, the uskoks fitted out a fleet of swift boats, which were light enough to navigate the smallest creeks and inlets of the shores of Illyria. Moreover, these boats were helpful in providing the uskoks a temporary landing on shore. With these they were able to attack numerous commercial areas on the Adriatic. The uskoks saw their ranks swell as outlaws from all nations joined them. Eventually, the whole city of Senj lived from piracy. The expeditions were blessed in the local church and the monasteries of the Dominicans and the Franciscans received tithes from the loot.\n\nAfter the War of the Holy League in 1537 against the Ottoman Empire, a truce between Venice and the Ottomans was created in 1539. This led to the evacuation of all Uskoks in Dalmatia in 1541 where they had been defending a Christian enclave in the mountains during the war. Throughout the following years the Habsburgs were at arms with the Turks, giving the Uskoks the opportunity to repeatedly raid Bosnia and Dalmatia. The Uskoks were able to continue doing so up until 1547 when peace was established between the two, forcing the Uskoks to find other ways of making ends meet. As with other Slavic pirates, the Uskok territory was not suitable for any form of agriculture, forcing them to turn to piracy once more.\n\nBeginning as inland pirates, the Uskoci shortly turned to the seas once realizing the full potential of the geography of Senj. The land was protected by thick forests and mountains while the jagged cliffs near the seas prevented warships from entering. The seas in the Gulf of Quarnero were quite rough, which posed navigational hazards as further protection from their enemies. Uskoks began their attacks upon Turkish ships with boats large enough to hold thirty to fifty men.\n\nAfter 1540, however, Venice, as mistress of the seas, guaranteed the safety of Ottoman merchant vessels, and provided them with an escort of galleys. The uskoks retaliated by ravaging the Venetian islands of Krk, Rab and Pag. Moreover, they utilized the Venetian territories in Dalmatia as a springboard in order to launch attacks against the Ottomans.\nAfter 1561 the Uskoci attacked Christian shipping in Dubrovnik with numbers never exceeding 2000 men. By 1573 the Uskoks caused considerable concern in Venice with frequent attacks once Venetian attempts of protection had proven to be ineffective. The following years led the reputation of the Uskoks to spread, becoming the resort of refugees and outlaws of all kinds from all nations.\n\nMeanwhile, the corsairs of Greece and North Africa were free to raid the unprotected southern shores of Italy. Venice was besieged with complaints from the Porte, the Vatican, and the Viceroy of Naples with his sovereign, the King of Spain. A Venetian appeal to Austria for help met with little success, and the offenses of the uskoks against the Venetians were outweighed by their attacks against the Ottomans. Minuccio Minucci, a Venetian envoy at Graz, states that a share of the uskoks' spoils of silk, velvet and jewels, went to the ladies of the Archducal Court of Graz, where important matters between Venice and Austria were negotiated.\n\nFrom 1577 onwards, Venice endeavored to crush the pirates without offending Austria, enlisting Albanians in place of their Dalmatian crews, who feared reprisals at home. For a time the uskoks only ventured forth at night, during the winter season and even during stormy weather.\n\nIn 1592, a strong Ottoman army invaded Croatia hoping to capture Senj. Led by Telli Hasan Pasha, the beylerbey of Bosnia, the Ottomans managed to capture a number of uskok settlements, killing and enslaving the population. However, the army was routed and dispersed in the following year. Austria was involved in war with the Ottomans and the Venetian admiral Giovanni Bembo blockaded Trieste and Rijeka (Fiume), where the pirates forwarded their booty for sale. They also erected two forts to command the passages from Senj to the open sea. In 1600, the Prince of Senj was Mickael Radic. The Duke Micheal Radic, appointed as Prince of Senj on 1 December 1600 by King Rudolf in Graz. Prince Radic was Prince of Senj. Radic family is a Native noble family from Lika region; members of the family were Uskok military leaders at the headquarters in Senj.\nA raid by the Uskoks upon Istria resulted in an agreement between Venice and Austria, and Count Joseph de Rabatta was appointed to act as commissioner to those in Senj as well as the chief negotiator with the Venetians. Rabatta came to Senj in 1600 with a strong bodyguard detail, and was very energetic. His time ruling over the Uskoks was brutal where many Uskoks were hung or sent to fight in the Turkish war, revealing his favor towards the Venetian side. He soon lost all military support, giving the Uskoks the opportunity to overthrow his rule and was ultimately killed in January 1602, enabling Senj to return to its usual state, with the fugitive Uskoks returning to Senj where they resumed their acts of piracy.\nUp until 1611 the Uskoks were relatively undisturbed. Piracy was strictly forbidden at this point but it was tolerated in order to avoid payment of subsidies owed to those of Senj. A Venetian squadron intercepted an Uskok fleet in the spring of 1613 in response to the complaints regarding Uskok activity and, as reported, sixty Uskoks were beheaded with their heads then displayed in St. Mark's Square. In response to this offense the Uskok captured a galley of Venetians, slaughtered the crew, and used the blood of the victims to flavor their bread.\n\nThe uskoks would conduct such acts up until 1615 when their piracy went so far as creating an open war between Venice and Austria. Venice, frustrated with the piracy, launched an attack after the Archduke Ferdinand of Styria refused to reprimand the Uskoks. A peace treaty was signed in autumn 1617 which arranged for the Uskoks to be disbanded, as well as their ships and fortresses be destroyed. An agreement between the Habsburgs and Venetians in 1618 expelled the Uskoks from Senj, prompting migrations of Uskok families into the hinterland.\nThe Venetians nominated Marko Srdanovic Knew of Omis. Marko was born Srdan Kacic but the last name was changed to Srdanovic. This was because the Ottomans had given an order to kill every Kacic of the Omis Pirates.\n\nThe pirates and their families were, accordingly, transported to the interior, where they gave their name to the \"Uskoken Gebirge\", a group of mountains on the borders of Carniola now called Žumberak. They were also settled in the nearby White Carniola and Kostel in what is now Slovenia. Their presence has also been traced near Učka in Istria, where such significant family names as Novlian (from Novi Vinodolski), Ottocian (from Otočac) and Clissan (from Klis, older orthography), were noted by Italian historian in 1879.\n\nDetermining the exact national or ethnic composition of the Uskoks from Senj is extremely difficult since it is rarely recorded nationality of the Uskoks, (most commonly terms for Uskoks are \"Croats\", \"Slavs\", \"Morlachs\")Venetians are described Uskoks as Croats, Habsburg sources also identify Uskoks as Croats. The observers and same Uskoks used terms national and ethnic identity as a way to describe the origin of Uskoks. They use terms Croat, Slav and Morlach to connect the Uskoks with the rest population of the islands, the coast and the hinterland, but also to show difference between those Uskoks which belonged to other nationalities, Vlachs, Italians, Albanians, Germans and others. Venetian Republic at the end of the 16th century are concerned about the excellent relations between the Venetian Dalmatian peoples and Uskoks. According to them such relationships existed because of belonging to the same people.There were many Albanians among Uskoks as well and many islanders from Krk, Pag, Rab and residents of other Dalmatian islands. All Uskoks were Catholics, while newcomers to Senj Orthodox or Muslims immediately became Catholics. Uskoks marrying women from Senj area and much less from area of Venetian and Turkish Dalmatia The arrival and occurrence of the Uskoks cannot be identified with the migration of the Vlachs.\n\nAs a group whose central reason for being brought together was Christianity, the Uskoks' explanation for piracy and warfare rested in their religion. These people felt they were fighting a holy war against the Muslim enemy in defense of the boundaries of Christendom. Seeing that these people were once refugees from Ottoman nations, they were given no choice but to leave in order to continue following the religion they had been their entire lives. The Uskok people established a code to follow, holding Senj honor and its values in a central place of that code. Honor is what they believed to be the most important quality that a hero could have, which all Uskoks strived to be. Other important aspects of the Uskok heroic honor were loyalty to their city, army, and band; honorable attention to every knight and obligation; readiness to lay down their lives or spill their blood in time of war; experience in warfare; ability to benefit their city; success and glory in duels with the Turks and other enemies of the Christian faith; and severity in punishing those who were disobedient or rebellious. It was also made known the Uskok qualities that would cancel out one's honor: reluctance to shed one's own blood; failure to engage the enemy in battle; groundless boasting; avoidance of risks on the frontier; failure to take prisoners, trophies, or booty; meanness in rewards to comrades or spies; the absence of any general recognition of one's manliness; and the lack of battle scars or wounds.\n\nFrom these principles it is clear that the Uskoks admired the strength and arrogance of a hero and despised the weakness displayed by a coward. The importance of these principles was instilled in boys at a young age. Taught to take part in competitions, they would test their strength and dexterity through racing, fighting, and throwing stones at one another until blood ran. Over time, this code would be broken, ignored, and overlooked as the Uskok attitude and motives would change.\n\nToday, a historical unit of uskoks called \"Kliški uskoci\" (\"Uskoks of Klis\" | ) exists as a ceremonial regiment in honour of the national legacy of uskoks in Croatia. The unit of Klis Uskoks is founded by Croatian war veterans. After the Croatian War for Independence, the former soldiers wanted to revitalize the historical and cultural heritage of Klis, the town whose bloody history gave much inspiration during the war. The veterans participate in historical and cultural events to renew the memory of the Uskoks of Klis. They were among the six historic Croatian military units represented at the funeral of Otto von Habsburg in July 2011.\n\nOne Special Forces unit of Special Operations Command of Croatian Armed Forces is called Commando Uskok Company (\"Komando uskočka satnija\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328030", "title": "WHFT-TV", "text": "WHFT-TV\n\nWHFT-TV, virtual channel 45 (UHF digital channel 28), is a religious television station licensed to Miami, Florida, United States and also serving Fort Lauderdale. It is an owned-and-operated station of the Trinity Broadcasting Network (TBN), a Christian broadcasting ministry based in Costa Mesa, California. WHFT's studios and transmitter are located at the Lake Trinity Estates complex on Pembroke Road in Pembroke Park (with a Hollywood mailing address). The station also serves as the \"de facto\" TBN outlet for the West Palm Beach market.\n\nThe station first signed on the air in 1975 as WFCB-TV; it originally operated as a religious independent station that was owned by Florida Christian Television. The station aired programming for about five hours a day, running a few local church services, bible instruction programs, and programs from nationally known television evangelists. Florida Christian Television's owners were unable to keep the station solvent, so they put the station up for sale in early 1976, with a request to sell it to a Christian ministry.\n\nLeSEA Broadcasting acquired the station in July 1976. The station's call letters were changed to WHFT-TV (standing for \"World Harvest Florida Television\"). Initially, the station's schedule expanded to about eight hours a day with the addition of more Christian programming, much of it added by LeSEA, along with televangelist programs such as \"The 700 Club\". WHFT expanded its programming to about 18 hours a day in late August 1976. At that point, the station started carrying family-oriented general entertainment programming from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 to 7:00 p.m. weekdays and Saturdays from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (Sundays were reserved for religious programming). However, the station's conservative programming policies kept WHFT from making much headway against the market's dominant independent, WCIX (channel 6, now WFOR-TV on channel 4). Secular programs broadcast by the station at this time included \"Leave It to Beaver\", \"The Little Rascals\", Looney Tunes and Popeye animated shorts, \"The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show\", the live-action sitcom version of \"Dennis the Menace\", \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" and \"The Brady Bunch\".\n\nThe station was profitable at this time; however in 1980, the Trinity Broadcasting Network made a substantial offer to LeSEA to purchase WHFT; LeSEA agreed to the deal and sold the station to TBN. On July 25, 1980, the intellectual local unit of WHFT was shut down. The station's secular program inventory was sold to other stations; some eventually moved to new stations WDZL (channel 39, now WSFL-TV) and WBFS-TV (channel 33), while others never found any takers among Miami's television stations. Since 1980, the station has been a straight simulcast of the national TBN feed. Some of the religious programs that had aired on WHFT-TV under LeSEA ownership remained on the station as TBN had also carried these programs; other programs such as the \"PTL Club\" and \"The 700 Club\" were removed (however, TBN would acquire the rights to air \"The 700 Club\" a few years later).\n\n The station's digital signal continued to broadcasts on its pre-transition UHF channel 46. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 45.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328031", "title": "Harold Snoad", "text": "Harold Snoad\n\nHarold Edward Snoad (born 28 August 1935) is a British television producer, writer and director. For the television sitcom \"High & Dry\", written with writing partner Michael Knowles, Snoad used the pseudonym Alan Sherwood.\n\nBeginning his career in the 1960s, Snoad has worked on many comedy shows for the BBC, including the sitcoms \"Dad's Army\", \"Are You Being Served?\", \"Ever Decreasing Circles\", \"Don't Wait Up\" and \"Keeping Up Appearances\". With Michael Knowles, Snoad co-wrote the BBC Radio adaptations of \"Dad's Army\", and together they created the \"Dad's Army\" spinoff radio series \"It Sticks Out Half a Mile\".\n\nOn 6 July 1963, Snoad married Anna Christine Cadwallader. They have two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328034", "title": "Shirley Stelfox", "text": "Shirley Stelfox\n\nShirley Rosemary Stelfox (11 April 1941 – 7 December 2015) was an English actress, known for her portrayal of the character Edna Birch, moralising busybody in a Yorkshire village in the ITV soap opera \"Emmerdale\", and as Rose, the vampy sister of the snobby and overbearing Hyacinth Bucket in the first season of the comedy series \"Keeping Up Appearances\".\n\nStelfox was born at Dukinfield, Cheshire, on 11 April 1941. She suffered from bilateral amblyopia, which left her short-sighted. She studied at RADA, where her classmates included Edward Fox, John Thaw, and Sarah Miles. She was playing in pantomimes at the Old Chapel, Dukinfield, and in productions during the years of her study the town's Lakes Road secondary school.\n\nAfter the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art Stelfox started straight at the BBC in a play called \"The Case Before You\" in which she played a 15 year old arsonist - where the prompter did not respond to her long pauses. In December 1960, she appeared in her first episode of \"Coronation Street\". She would later play many different characters in the world-famous soap opera, including, in 1983, running a dating agency in which one of her customers was the entrance cue for Jack Duckworth. In 1983, Stelfox appeared in an episode of \"Grange Hill\" appearing as a Secretary at the school. She was the first actress to play Hyacinth Bucket's randy sister Rose in the first series of \"Keeping Up Appearances\", but was later replaced by Mary Millar. She appeared in several other well-known television series, including the successful \"Wicked Women\", \"Making Out\" with Margi Clarke, Mrs Parkin in \"Heartbeat\", - and Jean in \"Common as Muck\", \"Juliet Bravo\", \"Coronation Street\", \"The Bill\" and \"Crossroads\", and \"Inspector Morse\",\nShe played Jane Healy, Melanie Owen's mother, in an episode of \"EastEnders\". She appeared in the short-lived series \"Albion Market\".\nStelfox had a long life in different soap operas, briefly appearing in \"Crossroads\" (as a police officer), \"Owen MD\" and \"Family Affairs\". She had played in \"Brookside\" as Madge Richmond (1986–1987), where she depicted two-timed the widowed pensioner Ralph Hardwick (Ray Dunbobbin), and in 1999 she appeared in two episodes of \"EastEnders\" as Jane Healy. Among many others of one-off parts, she played as Alice Hobson in \"Hobson’s Choice\" (1967), Helen in \"Civvies\" (1992), Julie Clegg in \"Three Seven Eleven\" (1993–1994), Jean in \"Common as Muck\" (1994) and Mrs Nolan in \"Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married\" (1999–2000).\n\nShe made her debut on screen in David Lean’s 1954 romantic comedy \"Hobson’s Choice\" where she played together with Sir John Mills and Charles Laughton. Stelfox played the mother of Julie Walters and Victoria Wood in the TV film \"Pat and Margaret\" (1994). But her best-known film role came as the \"$2.00 Prostitute\" in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", a film adaptation of the George Orwell novel, starring John Hurt and Richard Burton. Somewhat typecast as a prostitute she played another in Terry Jones's comedy \"Personal Services\" (1987) based on the life of Madame Cyn, the brothel owner who entertained celebrities and politicians.\n\nOn the West End stage, Stelfox played Sue Lawson in \"Not Now\", Darling (Strand theatre, 1968) and Phoebe in \"Toad of Toad Hall\" (Duke of York’s theatre, 1970).\nStelfox portrayed a stand-up comedian in \"Stand Up Sweetie Pie\", directed by June Brown, the stalwart of EastEnders, who must have come across each other on set; it premièred in 1993 at the Nottingham Playhouse, rather than in the West End. She played a role of spidery Regan in King Lear at the Ludlow Festival in 1972 and at the Connaught Theatre, played Lady Macbeth in 1973, Titania in A Midsummer Night's Dream in 1978 and Yelena in Uncle Vanya in 1974.\nStelfox was married to Keith Edmundson for 3 years. She had a daughter, Helena from this marriage. She later married actor Don Henderson in 1979 and they were together until his death from throat cancer in 1997. They lived in Stratford-upon-Avon, where she helped raise Henderson's two children from his first marriage. She moved to rural Nottinghamshire after Henderson's death.\n\nStelfox died on 7 December 2015, aged 74, four weeks after being diagnosed with terminal ovarian cancer.\n"}
{"id": "2328043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328043", "title": "Trident Comics", "text": "Trident Comics\n\nTrident Comics was a comic book publishing company based in Leicester, UK, specialising in black and white comics created by new British talent. It was formed in 1989 as an offshoot of the company Neptune Distribution, and went out of business in 1992 when Neptune Distribution did.\n\nTrident Comic's aim was to provide creator-owned opportunities for not just established talent such as Neil Gaiman, Eddie Campbell and Grant Morrison, but new talent such as Mark Millar, Paul Grist and Dominic Regan. Trident Comics's main editor was Martin Skidmore, a British comic fan who had been previously best known for editing the fan-magazine, \"Fantasy Advertiser\", a title which Trident Comics published when Skidmore joined the company.\n\nIts first release in early 1989 was the \"Trident Sampler\", a 32 page free sampler issue featuring previews from forthcoming titles. This was followed shortly afterward by \"Trident\" #1. \"Trident\" was an anthology title, and its first issue featured work such as Eddie Campbell's \"Bacchus\", Neil Gaiman and Nigel Kitching's \"The Light Brigade\" and Grant Morrison and Paul Grist's \"St. Swithin's Day\".\n\n\"Trident\" proved successful and was followed shortly afterward by \"Saviour\" #1 by Mark Millar and Daniel Vallely. This was Millar's first published work and again proved successful for Trident Comics. In 1989, Trident Comics also launched \"Man-Elf\" (created by Michael Moorcock) as well as \"Fantasy Advertiser\" on a bi-monthly basis. However, this success was tempered by criticism of titles shipping late, something which began to affect its titles more and more.\n\nIn 1990, Trident Comics released its best known title, the collected and recoloured \"St. Swithin's Day\" by Morrison and Grist. It proved controversial due to its subject matter, it even had questions asked about it in the House of Commons. It quickly sold out and was one of the few titles Trident sent to a second print.\nAfter this success, 1990 saw more titles such as Paul Grist's \"Burglar Bill\", Mark Millar and Andrew Hope's, \"The Shadowmen\" and Eddie Campbell and Phil Elliott's \"Lucifer\".\n\nMany of these titles suffered from the late shipping that had been a problem previously with the company. This affected sales greatly as well as the reputation of Trident Comics. Another factor was Neptune also forming Apocalypse Ltd ( their main title was the weekly \"Toxic!\" )\nin 1991, this stretched all of Neptune's company's to their limit.\nEventually during 1992 Neptune Distribution went bankrupt and took Trident Comics and Apocalypse Ltd with them.\n\nSeveral Trident Comics titles did find new publishers, including \"St. Swithin's Day\" and \"Bacchus\", but many did not and remained unpublished.\n\nTitles published include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2328044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328044", "title": "Bob Ryan (meteorologist)", "text": "Bob Ryan (meteorologist)\n\nBob Ryan is a retired meteorologist who most recently forecasted for WJLA, the ABC affiliate in Washington, D.C. Prior to serving as the chief meteorologist at Washington NBC affiliate WRC-TV from 1980-2010, he was previously the \"Today Show's\" first on-air meteorologist, which was also the first network television meteorologist position. When Willard Scott replaced Ryan on \"Today\", he and Scott effectively exchanged jobs, with Ryan taking over the meteorologist position vacated by Scott on WRC.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" announced on February 5, 2010 that he was in discussions with rival station WJLA, and that he could switch stations because his contract had expired. As NBC continued to cut positions in its newsroom, Ryan's workload increased and he had to cover the forecasts at 4, 5, 6, and 11 o'clock, making Ryan think about switching stations. Together with Doug Hill, chief meteorologist at WJLA and Ryan's longtime friend, he could make up a weather team that could take over WRC's dominant position in the ratings. He officially left the station in the early morning of February 26, 2010 after his last forecast after the Olympics.\n\nIn May 2010, it was announced that Ryan would be joining WJLA. Ryan made his debut during WJLA's 5 p.m. newscast on May 17, 2010. Ryan was the 11 p.m. newscast's meteorologist.\n\nRyan has a Bachelor's Degree in physics and a Master's Degree in Atmospheric Science from the University at Albany. He worked as an atmospheric researcher at Arthur D. Little Inc. Afterwards, he became a meteorologist at WPRI-TV in Providence and WCVB-TV in Boston before working at \"The Today Show\" and finally at WRC.\n\nRyan is a past president of the American Meteorological Society, the first and only president to have worked in broadcast weather. He wrote and published the \"Weatherwise Almanac\", an annual meteorology almanac for 25 years that detailed weather events of the year, such as moon phases, meteor showers, solstices and equinoxes. It also contained historical reference information, such as average highs and lows for each day of the year and significant weather events that happened on that date in history.\n\nRyan retired from WJLA after 33 years of forecasting the weather on television on May 22, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328047", "title": "Bufali", "text": "Bufali\n\nBufali is a village and municipality about 3 km from Albaida and 78 km from the city of Valencia, Spain. It is situated in the Vall d'Albaida.\n\nIn the village itself there is the town hall which also houses the health centre, a small school a local shop and a pharmacy. There are small naves on the edge of the village which house some light industry. Behind the naves is Bufali station (parada), which is a stop on the Xàtiva–Alcoy service operated by RENFE. Bufali holds its Fiesta in August.\n"}
{"id": "2328052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328052", "title": "Agnes Lynch Starrett Poetry Prize", "text": "Agnes Lynch Starrett Poetry Prize\n\nThe Agnes Lynch Starrett Poetry Prize is a major American literary award for a first full-length book of poetry in the English language.\n\nThis prize of the University of Pittsburgh Press in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States was initiated by Ed Ochester and developed by Frederick A. Hetzel. The prize is named for a former director of the Press. It has recognized and supported emerging poets and made their work available to readers around the world.\n\nThe award is open to any poet writing in English who has not had a full-length book published previously. Entry requires the payment of a significant fee. A \"full-length book\" of poetry is defined as a volume of 48 or more pages published in an edition of 500 or more copies. The prize carries a cash award of $5,000 and publication by the University of Pittsburgh Press in the \"Pitt Poetry Series\". The winner is announced in the fall of each year.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328062", "title": "Jesus Day", "text": "Jesus Day\n\nJesus Day is a common term for the day of the March for Jesus held annually since the 1980s by some Christians in the United States on the Saturday before Pentecost Sunday. The main purpose is of demonstrating in public respect for Jesus by uniting with their communities in worship.\n\nTexas Governor George W. Bush signed a bill into law proclaiming June 10, 2000 to be \"Jesus Day,\" the event was observed in Austin that year. The Texas proclamation urged people to \"follow the example of Jesus\" to \"answer the call to serve those in need\". The proclamation received national attention when the \"New York Times\" ran an article on it. New York Times said that Jesus day is unconstitutional because it violated the first amendment of the US about the Church and State Separation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328064", "title": "Sandy Helberg", "text": "Sandy Helberg\n\nSandy Helberg (born May 28, 1949) is a German-born American actor.\n\nHelberg was born in Frankfurt, Germany, the son of Tonia (née Altman) and Sam Helberg. His parents were both Holocaust survivors from Poland who met in a concentration camp. They emigrated to the United States in 1950, where his father, originally a barber, eventually became a real estate developer in Toledo, Ohio, where Sandy and his brothers Ted and Tom were raised.\n\nHe relocated to New York City and studied acting with Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse. He performed stand-up comedy and was part of an improv group that appeared in clubs in Greenwich Village. He later moved to Los Angeles, becoming an original member of the Los Angeles improv group, The Groundlings. Acting in several comedy films, in particular three Mel Brooks films \"High Anxiety,\" \"History of the World, Part I,\" and \"Spaceballs\", he starred in the comedy films \"The Hollywood Knights\" and \"Up the Creek.\"\n\nHelberg wrote and starred in the short-lived 1977 syndicated TV series \"The Lorenzo and Henrietta Music Show\" and the 1979 CBS TV series \"Flatbush\". He has made numerous guest appearances on TV shows, including \"Trapper John, M.D.\", \"Remington Steele\", \"Newhart\", \"The Jeffersons\", \"M*A*S*H\", \"Married... with Children\", \"The Wonder Years\", \"Night Court\", \"Fernwood 2 Night\", \"Knight Rider\", \"Too Close for Comfort\", \"Get a Life\", \"House Calls\", \"Cybill\", and \"Days of Our Lives\" among others.\n\nHelberg co-starred in the NBC miniseries, \"79 Park Avenue\", and a CBS movie of the week, \"More Wild Wild West.\" He played Yeoman Purser Burl \"Gopher\" Smith in \"The Love Boat\" pilot; however, when it became an ABC television series, Fred Grandy took over the role.\n\nHelberg and his wife, Harriet Helberg, wrote episodes for such television series as \"The Golden Girls\", \"Perfect Strangers\", \"Dear John\", and \"Harry and the Hendersons\". He also co-produced \"USO Salute to the Troops\" for HBO/TBS.\n\nHelberg has been married to the former Harriet Birnbaum, a casting director, since 1975 and has two sons, Mason and actor Simon.\nSandy and Harriet adopted their granddaughter, Lily Rose Helberg, at four months old. Lily was born May 12, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2328066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328066", "title": "Dirty Vegas (album)", "text": "Dirty Vegas (album)\n\nDirty Vegas is the self-titled debut album by British house music trio Dirty Vegas, released in the United States on 4 June 2002 (see 2002 in music).\n\nThe album was successful in the United States, debuting at number 7 on the \"Billboard\" 200. It would spend 19 weeks on the chart and eventually going Gold. The album also spent 16 non-consecutive weeks at number-one on the \"Billboard\" Dance/Electronic Albums chart.\n\nThe album features the radio hit \"Days Go By\" which was also used in a commercial for the Mitsubishi Eclipse and in the video game, \"\". The album artwork is done by American artist Richard Phillips.\n\nFrontman Paul Harris had worked as a club DJ in Europe prior to forming Dirty Vegas, while Ben Harris worked at a Camden recording studio and Steve Smith was performing as part of a band called Higher Ground. After Higher Ground disbanded, Paul met Smith at a party in Switzerland; the two began performing together. Ben Harris later joined and the trio began to record songs together, the first of which was \"Days Go By.\"\n\nThe group released \"Days Go By,\" and the song's striking video was seen by an executive who worked for Mitsubishi Motors. He tracked the group down and got permission to feature the song in an ad for the company. Following the song's licensing, the group returned to the studio to record more songs for a full-length album. Ben Harris commented to MTV that, when recording the album, they were \"trying to not really fit anywhere,\" opting to attempt to create \"something unique\" instead. The group informed Billboard that they didn't have one specific songwriting strategy for the album: \"Ben and I might get a chord sequence going, and then Steve may add the lyrics - or vice versa. We handle it from many different angles.\" The album's recording was completed in October 2001, shortly before the Mitsubishi ad began running.\n\nThe album garnered generally mixed reviews from music critics. John Bush, writing for AllMusic, gave the album 2 and a half out of 5 stars, praising the album's production but criticizing the lyrics and Smith's vocals. John Aizlewood, writing for \"The Guardian\", compared the album to Air and Everything But the Girl and singled out \"7AM\", \"Throwing Shapes\", \"Candles\", and \"All or Nothing\" as highlights. Music critic Robert Christgau praised the album's catchiness but commented that \"Days Go By\" didn't stand out on the album the way it did in the Mitsubishi advertisements.\n\nThe album was released in the US on 4 June 2002. The album debuted at number 7 on the US \"Billboard\" 200, spending more than three months on the chart and eventually going Gold. The album also entered the Top 40 of the UK album chart.\n\nAll tracks written by Paul Harris, Ben Harris, and Steve Smith, except where noted.\n\nThe album was released in various countries in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "2328078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328078", "title": "Pilot error", "text": "Pilot error\n\nHistorically, the term pilot error has been used to describe an accident in which an action or decision made by the pilot was the cause or a contributing factor that led to the accident, but also includes the pilot's failure to make a correct decision or take proper action. Errors are intentional actions that fail to achieve their intended outcomes. Chicago Convention defines accident as \"An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft [...] in which [...] a person is fatally or seriously injured [...] \"except when the injuries are [...] inflicted by other persons.\"\" Hence the definition of the \"pilot error\" does not include deliberate crash (and such crash is not an accident).\n\nThe causes of pilot error include psychological and physiological human limitations. Various forms of threat and error management have been implemented into pilot training programs to teach crew members how to deal with impending situations that arise throughout the course of a flight.\n\nAccounting for the way human factors influence the actions of pilots is now considered standard practice by accident investigators when examining the chain of events that led to an accident.\n\nModern accident investigators avoid the words \"pilot error\", as the scope of their work is to determine the cause of an accident, rather than to apportion blame. Furthermore, any attempt to incriminate the pilots does not consider that they are part of a broader system, which in turn may be accountable for their fatigue, work pressure, or lack of training. The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and its member states, therefore adopted James Reason's model of causation in 1993 in an effort to better understand the role of human factors in aviation accidents.\n\nPilot error is nevertheless a major cause of air accidents. In 2004, it was identified as the primary reason for 78.6% of disastrous general aviation (GA) accidents, and as the major cause of 75.5% of GA accidents in the United States. There are multiple factors that can cause pilot error; mistakes in the decision-making process can be due to habitual tendencies, biases, as well as a breakdown in the processing of the information coming in. For aircraft pilots, in extreme circumstances these errors are highly likely to result in fatalities.\n\nPilots work in complex environments and are routinely exposed to high amounts of situational stress in the workplace, inducing pilot error which may result in a threat to flight safety. While aircraft accidents are infrequent, they are highly visible and often involve significant numbers of fatalities. For this reason, research on causal factors and methodologies of mitigating risk associated with pilot error is exhaustive. Pilot error results from physiological and psychological limitations inherent in humans. \"Causes of error include fatigue, workload, and fear as well as cognitive overload, poor interpersonal communications, imperfect information processing, and flawed decision making.\" Throughout the course of every flight, crews are intrinsically subjected to a variety of external threats and commit a range of errors that have the potential to negatively impact the safety of the aircraft.\n\nThe term \"threat\" is defined as any event \"external to flight crew's influence which can increase the operational complexity of a flight.\" Threats may further be broken down into environmental threats and airline threats. Environmental threats are ultimately out of the hands of crew members and the airline, as they hold no influence on \"adverse weather conditions, air traffic control shortcomings, bird strikes, and high terrain.\" Conversely, airline threats are not manageable by the flight crew, but may be controlled by the airline's management. These threats include \"aircraft malfunctions, cabin interruptions, operational pressure, ground/ramp errors/events, cabin events and interruptions, ground maintenance errors, and inadequacies of manuals and charts.\"\n\nThe term \"error\" is defined as any action or inaction leading to deviation from team or organizational intentions. Error stems from physiological and psychological human limitations such as illness, medication, stress, alcohol/drug abuse, fatigue, emotion, etc. Error is inevitable in humans and is primarily related to operational and behavioral mishaps. Errors can vary from incorrect altimeter setting and deviations from flight course, to more severe errors such as exceeding maximum structural speeds or forgetting to put down landing or takeoff flaps.\n\nReasons for negative reporting of accidents include staff being too busy, confusing data entry forms, lack of training and less education, lack of feedback to staff on reported data and punitive organizational cultures. Wiegmann and Shappell invented three cognitive models to analyze approximately 4,000 pilot factors associated with more than 2,000 U.S. Navy aviation mishaps. Although the three cognitive models have slight differences in the types of errors, all three lead to the same conclusion: errors in judgment. The three steps are decision-making, goal-setting, and strategy-selection errors, all of which were highly related to primary accidents. For example, on 28 December 2014, AirAsia Flight 8501, which was carrying seven crew members and 155 passengers, crashed into the Java Sea due to several fatal mistakes made by the captain in the poor weather conditions. In this case, the captain chose to exceed the maximum climb rate for a commercial aircraft, which caused a critical stall from which he was unable to recover.\n\nTEM involves the effective detection and response to internal or external factors that have the potential to degrade the safety of an aircraft's operations. Methods of teaching TEM stress replicability, or reliability of performance across recurring situations. TEM aims to prepare crews with the \"coordinative and cognitive ability to handle both routine and unforeseen surprises and anomalies.\" The desired outcome of TEM training is the development of 'resiliency'. Resiliency, in this context, is the ability to recognize and act adaptively to disruptions which may be encountered during flight operations. TEM training occurs in various forms, with varying levels of success. Some of these training methods include data collection using the \"line operations safety audit\" (LOSA), implementation of crew resource management (CRM), cockpit task management (CTM), and the integrated use of checklists in both commercial and general aviation. Some other resources built into most modern aircraft that help minimize risk and manage threat and error are airborne collision and avoidance systems (ACAS) and ground proximity warning systems (GPWS). With the consolidation of onboard computer systems and the implementation of proper pilot training, airlines and crew members look to mitigate the inherent risks associated with human factors.\n\nLOSA is a structured observational program designed to collect data for the development and improvement of countermeasures to operational errors. Through the audit process, trained observers are able to collect information regarding the normal procedures, protocol, and decision making processes flight crews undertake when faced with threats and errors during normal operation. This data driven analysis of threat and error management is useful for examining pilot behavior in relation to situational analysis. It provides a basis for further implementation of safety procedures or training to help mitigate errors and risks. Observers on flights which are being audited typically observe the following:\nLOSA was developed to assist crew resource management practices in reducing human error in complex flight operations. LOSA produces beneficial data that reveals how many errors or threats are encountered per flight, the number of errors which could have resulted in a serious threat to safety, and correctness of crew action or inaction. This data has proven to be useful in the development of CRM techniques and identification of what issues need to be addressed in training.\n\nCRM is the \"effective use of all available resources by individuals and crews to safely and effectively accomplish a mission or task, as well as identifying and managing the conditions that lead to error.\" CRM training has been integrated and mandatory for most pilot training programs, and has been the accepted standard for developing human factors skills for air crews and airlines. Although there is no universal CRM program, airlines usually customize their training to best suit the needs of the organization. The principles of each program are usually closely aligned. According to the U.S. Navy, there are seven critical CRM skills:\nThese seven skills comprise the critical foundation for effective aircrew coordination. With the development and use of these core skills, flight crews \"highlight the importance of identifying human factors and team dynamics to reduce human errors that lead to aviation mishaps.\"\n\nSince the implementation of CRM circa 1979, following the need for increased research on resource management by NASA, the aviation industry has seen tremendous evolution of the application of CRM training procedures. The applications of CRM has been developed in a series of generations: \nToday, CRM is implemented through pilot and crew training sessions, simulations, and through interactions with senior ranked personnel and flight instructors such as briefing and debriefing flights. Although it is difficult to measure the success of CRM programs, studies have been conclusive that there is a correlation between CRM programs and better risk management.\n\nCockpit task management (CTM) is the \"management level activity pilots perform as they initiate, monitor, prioritize, and terminate cockpit tasks.\" A 'task' is defined as a process performed to achieve a goal (i.e. fly to a waypoint, descend to a desired altitude). CTM training focuses on teaching crew members how to handle concurrent tasks which compete for their attention. This includes the following processes:\nThe need for CTM training is a result of the capacity of human attentional facilities and the limitations of working memory. Crew members may devote more mental or physical resources to a particular task which demands priority or requires the immediate safety of the aircraft. CTM has been integrated to pilot training and goes hand in hand with CRM. Some aircraft operating systems have made progress in aiding CTM by combining instrument gauges into one screen. An example of this is a digital attitude indicator, which simultaneously shows the pilot the heading, airspeed, descent or ascent rate and a plethora of other pertinent information. Implementations such as these allow crews to gather multiple sources of information quickly and accurately, which frees up mental capacity to be focused on other, more prominent tasks. \nThe use of checklists before, during and after flights has established a strong presence in all types of aviation as a means of managing error and reducing the possibility of risk. Checklists are highly regulated and consist of protocols and procedures for the majority of the actions required during a flight. The objectives of checklists include \"memory recall, standardization and regulation of processes or methodologies.\" The use of checklists in aviation has become an industry standard practice, and the completion of checklists from memory is considered a violation of protocol and pilot error. Studies have shown that increased errors in judgement and cognitive function of the brain, along with changes in memory function are a few of the effects of stress and fatigue. Both of these are inevitable human factors encountered in the commercial aviation industry. The use of checklists in emergency situations also contributes to troubleshooting and reverse examining the chain of events which may have led to the particular incident or crash. Apart from checklists issued by regulatory bodies such as the FAA or ICAO, or checklists made by aircraft manufacturers, pilots also have personal qualitative checklists aimed to ensure their fitness and ability to fly the aircraft. An example is the \"IM SAFE\" checklist (illness, medication, stress, alcohol, fatigue/food, emotion) and a number of other qualitative assessments which pilots may perform before or during a flight to ensure the safety of the aircraft and passengers. These checklists, along with a number of other redundancies integrated into most modern aircraft operation systems, ensure the pilot remains vigilant, and in turn, aims to reduce the risk of pilot error.\n\nOne of the most famous examples of an aircraft disaster that was attributed to pilot error was the night-time crash of Eastern Air Lines Flight 401 near Miami, Florida on 29 December 1972. The captain, first officer, and flight engineer had become fixated on a faulty landing gear light and had failed to realize that one of the crew had accidentally bumped the flight controls, altering the autopilot settings from level flight to a slow descent. Told by ATC to hold over a sparsely populated area away from the airport while they dealt with the problem (with, as a result, very few lights visible on the ground to act as an external reference), the distracted flight crew did not notice the plane losing height and the aircraft eventually struck the ground in the Everglades, killing 101 of the 176 passengers and crew. The subsequent National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) report on the incident blamed the flight crew for failing to monitor the aircraft's instruments properly. Details of the incident are now frequently used as a case study in training exercises by aircrews and air traffic controllers.\n\nDuring 2004 in the United States, pilot error was listed as the primary cause of 78.6% of fatal general aviation accidents, and as the primary cause of 75.5% of general aviation accidents overall. For scheduled air transport, pilot error typically accounts for just over half of worldwide accidents with a known cause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328079", "title": "Kingdom song", "text": "Kingdom song\n\nKingdom songs are the hymns sung by Jehovah's Witnesses at their religious meetings. Since 1879, the Watch Tower Society has published hymnal lyrics; by the 1920s they had published hundreds of adapted and original songs, and by the 1930s they referred to these as \"Kingdom songs\" in reference to God's Kingdom.\n\nWith the 1966 release of \"Singing and Accompanying Yourselves with Music in Your Hearts\", a policy was introduced to use only songs written by Witnesses. Subsequent collections were released in 1984 and in 2009, each retaining, retiring, or revising previous songs and introducing new songs. By 2019, the hymnal \"\"Sing Out Joyfully\" to Jehovah\" was available in over 200 languages, including several sign languages.\n\nIn addition to songbooks containing sheet music and lyrics, releases in various audio formats have included vocals in several languages, piano instrumentals, and orchestral arrangements.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Bible Students (from which Jehovah's Witnesses arose) used many well-known songs and melodies. They also used well-known melodies with their own lyrics. The prefaces of \"Songs of the Bride\" and \"Poems and Hymns of Dawn\" indicate that these hymnals include hymns adapted from other Protestant hymnals such as \"Hymns of the Morning\", \"Gospel Hymns\", \"Jubilee Harp\", \"Winnowed Hymns\", \"Epworth Hymnal\" and \"Songs of Pilgrimage\". These melodies were often works of famous composers, including Ludwig van Beethoven and Joseph Haydn. Lyrics were often also adapted from works of famous hymnal writers including Philip P. Bliss, Horatius Bonar, Fanny Crosby, Philip Doddridge, Thomas Hastings, John Newton, Isaac Watts and Charles Wesley.\n\nIn 1877, Charles Taze Russell and Nelson H. Barbour announced \"Songs of the Morning\" in their book \"Three Worlds\". \"Songs of the Bride\", a collection of 144 songs, was published in 1879. In 1890, \"Poems and Hymns of the Millennial Dawn\"—with 151 poems and 333 songs, most of which were well-known compositions—was released and became the group's official hymnal until 1928. This was followed by lyrics for 11 songs appearing in the February 1, 1896 issue of \"The Watchtower\", under the title \"Zion's Glad Songs of the Morning\", written by members of the denomination. A supplement of 81 songs was released in 1900, many written by a single individual, under the title \"Zion's Glad Songs\". Two revised editions of this hymnal were released between 1902 and 1908. In 1905, the 333 songs published in 1890 along with musical notation were released under the title, \"Hymns of the Millennial Dawn\". This book was released in a number of other languages, mainly in a shortened form. In 1925, \"Kingdom Hymns\" was published, with 80 songs intended for children and youths. In 1928 \"Songs of Praise to Jehovah\" was released, which included 337 songs.\n\nFollowing the adoption of the name \"Jehovah's witnesses\" in 1931, the \"Kingdom Service Song Book\" was released in 1944 (and revised in 1948), which included 62 songs. This was followed by the release of \"Songs to Jehovah's Praise\" in 1950, with 91 songs. Some of the music was from hymn tunes of other churches or based on themes from classical music;(for example, Beethoven's Piano Sonata no. 23 in F minor, op. 57 (\"Appassionata\"). Others used relatively new music, some of which is still used.\n\n\"Singing and Accompanying Yourselves with Music in Your Hearts\" was released in 1966, with 119 songs. Melodies identified as not having been written by Jehovah's Witnesses were not retained. For the first time, a policy was adopted of including only material written and composed by Jehovah's Witnesses, though some songs composed by non-Witnesses were unintentionally included.\n\nIn 1984, \"Sing Praises to Jehovah\" was released, with 225 songs. It was subsequently introduced in many other languages. Many songs in \"Sing Praises to Jehovah\" were present in the previous two books; some that were found not to have been written by members of Jehovah's Witnesses were excluded.\n\nIn 2009, the release of a new hymnal, \"Sing to Jehovah\", was announced. It contains 135 songs, including 42 new songs, and alterations to the melodies and lyrics of others. Reduced editions comprising 55 songs are available in less common languages. Six volumes of orchestral and vocal arrangements based on 114 songs from \"Sing to Jehovah\" have also been released. On October 4, 2014, a revised edition of the songbook was announced, with a number of new songs. On February 5, 2016, an additional 5 songs were released.\n\nA new songbook entitled \"\"Sing Out Joyfully\" to Jehovah\" containing 151 songs, including 19 new songs and excluding 3 songs of the previous hymnal, was released at the annual meeting of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania on October 1, 2016. One objective of the revision was to update phrasing to be consistent with renderings in the 2013 revision of the \"New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures\".\n\nA series of light orchestral arrangements of Kingdom songs entitled \"Kingdom Melodies\" was first released in 1980. The earlier recordings in the series were from the 1966 hymnal \"Singing and Accompanying Yourselves With Music in Your Hearts\", and the later ones from \"Sing Praises to Jehovah\".\n\nInstallments of \"Kingdom Melodies\" were issued in cassette and phonograph formats annually during the 1980s. From 1996 to 2000, the series was re-issued as nine volumes on CD. In 2006, the series was released on CD in MP3 format. Since September 2008, the songs have also been made available for download.\n\nTypically, Jehovah's Witnesses sing three songs at their meetings for worship. The entire congregation sings, accompanied by an orchestral recording. Meetings open and close with a song and prayer, along with a song during an interlude between the two or three sections of the meeting. Songs are selected to match the theme of the meeting program. The song used to introduce the public talk is normally chosen by the speaker. Songs are also used at assemblies and conventions, and sometimes at different events at Watch Tower Society branch offices. Jehovah's Witnesses' publications also suggest that Witnesses listen to this music in their personal time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328088", "title": "Right in the Night", "text": "Right in the Night\n\n\"Right in the Night (Fall in Love with Music)\" is a song by German electronic music duo Jam & Spoon, released as the second single from their album \"Tripomatic Fairytales 2001\". It is a Eurodance song with elements from progressive and vocal trance. It is based on \"Leyenda\" by the classical composer Isaac Albéniz and features vocals by American vocalist Plavka, with lyrics by Nosie Katzmann. The flamenco-styled riff in the song is played by El Mar, who was trained as a classical guitarist. \n\nThe single was released in October 1993 on the German label Dance Pool. It is widely regarded as one of the biggest electronic music anthems of the 1990s, reaching number one in Finland, Greece and Spain, as well as number two in Australia, Iceland and Italy in 1994. On the Eurochart Hot 100, \"Right in the Night\" peaked at number four. On the UK Singles Chart, the song originally peaked at number 31, but after a re-release in 1995 it reached a new peak of number 10. It has been extensively anthologised, further indicating the song's significance in trance music's evolution.\n\nJam & Spoon and Plavka performed the song on many different European TV-shows and concerts, like the British music chart television programme \"Top of the Pops\", the Italian singing competition Festivalbar and the Finnish 1994 national final of Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nLarry Flick from \"Billboard\" described the song as a \"jumpy, disco/pop ditty that strobes with bright synths and a killer hook.\" He noted that \"at first, singer Plavka will have you thinking of Madonna, though her own unique tones and nuances eventually shine through. She has a field day with the song, more than holding her own against the track's busy array of sound effects.\" In an 1997 review, the magazine described it as a \"percolating ditty [that] was years ahead of its time, since the groove and synths sound as fresh as ever. And the splashes of flamenco guitars are an enticing flavor\". Dave Sholin from the \"Gavin Report\" wrote that \"this high-energy tune should have no trouble making its way up the chart soon.\" \"Music & Media\" commented that \"this fast but mellow house track with ambient works so well that it should go a long way to establish this well-reputed remix and production duo as artists in their own right.\" Wendi Cermak from \"The Network Forty\" wrote that \"this is signature Jam & Spoon with its ethereal trance/ambient electronic rhythms, light female vocals and their excellent guitar work on the intro\".\nThe music video of \"Right in the Night\" was directed by Matt Broadley. There are two different versions of the music video.\n\nGerman CD maxi 1\n\nGerman CD maxi 2\n\nDanish recording artist Whigfield covered \"Right in the Night\" in 2007. It was released on 10 July 2008 as the second single from her greatest hits album \"All in One\".\n\n\nOther official versions:\nOn 26 April 2013, a remix version by David May and Amfree entitled \"Right in the Night 2013\" was released by Epic Records.\n\nCD single\n\nDigital download\n\n"}
{"id": "2328090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328090", "title": "Kung Fu Meets the Dragon", "text": "Kung Fu Meets the Dragon\n\nKung Fu Meets the Dragon is a studio album by The Mighty Upsetter, released in 1975.\n\nA martial arts-themed project, this very rhythmic LP is largely made up of instrumental versions of some of Perry's productions (Roy Shirley's \"Hold Them\", Linval Thompson's \"Kung Fu\") and other musical pieces, enriched with Perry's trademark use of percussions and production tricks (phasing, dubbing and so on) and talkover inspired by the wave of martial arts movies that were popular at the time of recording. \nRecorded at Perry's own Black Ark Recording Studios, it notably features ace Jamaican polyinstrumentalist Augustus Pablo on melodica (and presumably keyboards, too), his gentle playing adding some otherworldly melodic content to the sparse sound. \nProduction values similar to the following, recently recognised as groundbreaking \"Revolution Dub\" (Perry's subsequent record, reissued in the '80s on Island Records worldwide).\n\nThe album was reissued in 2013 on LP through Secret Records.\n\nAll tracks composed by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, except where indicated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328106", "title": "Robert Sale", "text": "Robert Sale\n\nMajor-General Sir Robert Henry Sale GCB (19 September 1782 – 21 December 1845) was a British Army officer who commanded the garrison of Jalalabad during the First Afghan War and was killed in action during the First Anglo-Sikh War.\n\nHe entered the 36th Regiment of Foot in 1795, and went to India in 1798, as a lieutenant of the 12th Foot. His regiment formed part of Baird's brigade of Harris's army operating against Tippoo Sahib, and Sale was present at Malavalli and the Battle of Seringapatam, subsequently serving under Colonel Arthur Wellesley in the campaign against Dhundia. A little later the 12th was employed in the difficult and laborious attack on Paichi Raja. Promoted captain in 1806, Sale was engaged in 1808–1809 against the Raja of Travancore, and was at the two actions of Quilon, the storm of Travancore lines and the battle of Killianore. In 1810 he accompanied the expedition to Mauritius, and in 1813 obtained his majority. After some years he became major in the 13th Regiment of Foot, with which regiment he was associated for the rest of his life.\n\nIn the First Burmese War he led the 13th in all the actions up to the capture of Rangoon, in one of which he killed the enemy's leader in single combat. In the concluding operations of the war, being now lieutenant-colonel, he commanded a brigade, and at Malown (1826) he was severely wounded. For these services he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the Bath (CB). In 1838, on the outbreak of the First Anglo-Afghan War, Brevet-Colonel Sale was assigned to the command of the 1st Bengal brigade of the army assembling on the Indus. His column arrived at Kandahar in April 1839, and in May it occupied the Herat plain. The Kandahar force next set out on its march to Kabul, and a month later Ghazni was stormed, Sale in person leading the storming column and distinguishing himself in single combat. The place was well provisioned, and on its supplies the army finished its march to Kabul easily. For his services Sale was made a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB) and received the local rank of major-general, as well as the Shah's order of the Durrani Empire. He was left, as second-in-command, with the army of occupation, and in the interval between the two wars conducted several small campaigns ending with the action of Parwan which led directly to the surrender of Dost Mohammad Khan.\n\nBy this time the army had settled down to the quiet life of cantonments, and Lady Sale and her daughter came to Kabul. But the policy of the Indian government in stopping the subsidy to the frontier tribes roused them into hostility, and Sale's brigade received orders to clear the line of communication to Peshawar. After severe fighting Sale entered Jalalabad on 12 November 1841. Ten days previously he had received news of the murder of Sir Alexander Burnes, along with orders to return with all speed to Kabul. These orders he, for various reasons, decided to ignore; suppressing his personal desire to return to protect his wife and family, he gave orders to push on, and on occupying Jalalabad at once set about making the old and half-ruined fortress fit to stand a siege. There followed a close and severe investment rather than a siege, and the garrison's sorties were made usually with the object of obtaining supplies.\n\nAt last General Pollock and the relieving army appeared, only to find that the garrison had on 7 April 1842 relieved itself by a brilliant and completely successful attack on Akbar Khan's lines. His wife, who shared with him the dangers and hardships of the Afghan war, was among Akbar's captives. Lady Sale and her daughter were rescued by the general in person, advancing into hostile territory at the head of a detachment of cavalry. Amongst the few possessions she was able to keep from Afghan plunderers was her diary (\"Journal of the Disasters in Afghanistan\", London, 1843\n\nSir Robert Sale was promoted within the Order of the Bath to Knight Grand Cross (GCB); a medal was struck for all ranks of defenders, and salutes fired at every large cantonment in India. Pollock and Sale after a time took the offensive, and after the victory of Haft Kotal, Sale's division encamped at Kabul again. At the end of the war Sale received the thanks of parliament. \n\nIn 1845, as quartermaster-general to Sir Hugh Gough's army, Sale again took the field. At Moodkee (Mudki) he was mortally wounded and died on 21 December 1845.\n\nSir Robert and Lady Sales had the following children\n\nThe city of Sale, Victoria, Australia was named after Sir Robert Sale in 1851.\n\nTwo successive public houses in Bolton, Greater Manchester were named after Sir Robert. The latter pub closed in the 1880s. \n\nW. L. Walton was a landscape artist, working in London, who exhibited between 1834 and 1855. He made the lithographic plates for General Sale's Defence of Jalalabad (c. 1845).\n\n"}
{"id": "2328108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328108", "title": "On the Up", "text": "On the Up\n\nOn the Up is a British situation comedy written by Bob Larbey, about the failure of a millionaire's marriage, and his relationship with his assorted live-in staff. The programme was first broadcast on BBC1 between 1990 and 1992.\n\nTony Carpenter is a self-made millionaire who turned his South London minicab firm into a successful chauffeur-driven car service. He lives in a large detached mansion in Esher, surrounded by Rolls Royces and BMWs, with a domestic staff who respect him, and whom he adores; Witty and insolent butler/driver Sam (who is also a childhood friend of Tony), acerbic secretary Maggie and cook Mrs Wembley (responsible for the series' catch-phrase of \"Just the one\", used to respond to the offer of a sherry even if it was her third or fourth).\n\nDespite all these advantages, Tony's life is full of conflict:\n\n\nThe third series ended with Tony looking set to enter a happy relationship with new love interest Jane Webster, a single mother from Stephanie's school, as well as romantic interests for all three staff, but also closes on a slight cliffhanger as it is displayed that Tony and Ruth still share feelings for each other. \nA fourth series was initially planned, and was mentioned in in-house BBC literature for the Autumn 1993 season on BBC One, but never came to fruition.\n\n\n\nThe open titles are accompanied by the 1st movement of the Handel concerti grossi Op.6 No.11 in A major – a classical instrumental piece, played by the Guildhall String Ensemble. However, the closing credits are accompanied by Dennis Waterman's rendition of the series' custom theme tune. This continues a pattern from \"Minder\" and \"Stay Lucky\", shows in which he also starred and sang the theme tune.\n\nThe series performed reasonably well, pulling in decent viewing figures and receiving generally good reaction from the public.\n\n\nDVD editions of the individual series, and as a Box Set, are available.\n\nMrs. Wembley's catch-phrase, \"Just the One\", in particular, became associated with the series and entered common British lexicon for a time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328113", "title": "Senneville, Quebec", "text": "Senneville, Quebec\n\nSenneville () is an affluent on-island suburban village on the western tip of the Island of Montreal. It is the wealthiest town in the West Island.\n\nSituated close to the city of Montreal, it was historically a popular location for the country houses of wealthy Montrealers. Attractions include multiple golf clubs, a yacht club, and La Ferme du Fort Senneville, an organic demonstration farm. The Morgan Arboretum was founded here in 1953, and is today managed by Macdonald College; an important bird sanctuary, it is open to the public year-round. Fort Senneville was constructed here in 1671, but its ruins are on private land and are not accessible to the public. The historic core of the village was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 2002.\n\nOn January 1, 2002, as part of the 2002–2006 municipal reorganization of Montreal, Senneville was merged into the city of Montreal and became part of the borough of Pierrefonds-Senneville. However, after a change of government and a 2004 referendum, it was re-constituted as an independent village municipality on January 1, 2006.\n\nAll of Senneville lies over dolomite. In contrast to the monotony of this bedrock, there are many types of soil in the municipality. Clay is common near the northeastern corner and part of the western shores. Sand dominates many inland areas; it is rapidly drained in places but often has impeded drainage due to the type of hardpan which develops in podzols. Near-shore areas along the northern margin have extensive areas of glacial till which forms a calcareous well-drained loam.\n\nThe loamy slopes overlooking Lac des Deux Montagnes are excellent for fruit trees and tender plants due to fertile soils, good drainage, and the moderating effect on microclimate provided by the lake.\n\nMeaning “Born under the lily [of France], flourishes under the maple [of Canada]”, this phrase captures the history of Senneville.\n\nThe current mayor of the Village of Senneville is Julie Brisebois. \n\nIn addition, there are six municipal councillors:\n\nAs of the census of 2001, there were 970 people, 360 households, and 305 families residing in the village. The population density was 129.51/km² . There were 371 housing units at an average density of 49.53/km². The racial makeup of the village was 95.88% White, 1.89% Black Canadian, 1.55% Aboriginal, 2.06% Asian Canadian, and 1.03% Latin American.\n\nIn the village the population was spread out with 16.0% under the age of 15, 12.9% from 15 to 24, 39.7% from 25 to 44, 34.5% from 45 to 64, and 15.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 45 years. For every 100 females there were 100.0 males. For every 100 females age 15 and over, there were 103.7 males.\n\nThere were 360 households out of which 34.7% had children living with them, 70.8% were married couples living together, 0.0% had a female lone-parent as a householder, and 18.1% of all households were made up of individuals. The average married-couple family size was 3.0.\n\nChristians made up 84.0% of the population, or 66.5% Catholic, 16.5% Protestant, 1.0% Orthodox Christian, and 0.0% other Christian. Other religions in the village include 3.6% Jewish, 2.1% Eastern religions, and 0.0% other religions. 9.8% of the population claimed to have no religious affiliation.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $95,347, and the median income for a family was $104,199. Males had an average income of $84,467 versus $47,349 for females. About 1.8% of the labour force was unemployed. The largest occupation categories were 31.8% employed in management occupations, 16.4% sales and service occupations, and 12.7% in social science, education, government service and religion occupations.\n\nThe 2006 census found that 55% of residents spoke English, and 36% spoke French, as their mother tongue. The 2011 census found that 48.37% of residents spoke English and 34.78% spoke French, as their mother tongue.\n\nThe Commission scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys operates Francophone public schools. It operates the École secondaire Saint-Georges.\n\nThe Lester B. Pearson School Board (LBPSB) operates Anglophone public schools in the area.\n\nNotable past and present residents include Christopher Plummer, Corey Hart, Lino Saputo, Janina Fialkowska and Ken Dryden.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328120", "title": "Proton-exchange membrane", "text": "Proton-exchange membrane\n\nA proton-exchange membrane, or polymer-electrolyte membrane (PEM), is a semipermeable membrane generally made from ionomers and designed to conduct protons while acting as an electronic insulator and reactant barrier, e.g. to oxygen and hydrogen gas. This is their essential function when incorporated into a membrane electrode assembly (MEA) of a proton-exchange membrane fuel cell or of a proton-exchange membrane electrolyser: separation of reactants and transport of protons while blocking a direct electronic pathway through the membrane.\n\nPEMs can be made from either pure polymer membranes or from composite membranes, where other materials are embedded in a polymer matrix. One of the most common and commercially available PEM materials is the fluoropolymer (PFSA) Nafion, a DuPont product.\n\nProton-exchange membranes are primarily characterized by proton conductivity (σ), methanol permeability (\"P\"), and thermal stability.\n\nPEM fuel cells use a solid polymer membrane (a thin plastic film) as the electrolyte. This polymer is permeable to protons when it is saturated with water, but it does not conduct electrons.\n\nProton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) are believed to be the most promising type of fuel cell to act as the vehicular power source replacement for gasoline and diesel internal combustion engines. They are being considered for automobile applications because they typically have a low operating temperature (~80 °C) and a rapid start-up time, including from frozen conditions. PEMFCs operate at 40–60% efficiency and can vary the output to match the demands. First used in the 1960s for the NASA Gemini program, PEMFCs are currently being developed and demonstrated from ~100 kW cars to a 59 MW power plant.\n\nPEMFCs have some advantages over other types of fuel cells such as solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC). PEMFCs operate at a lower temperature, are lighter and more compact, which makes them ideal for applications such as cars.\nHowever, some disadvantages are: the ~80 °C operating temperature is too low for cogeneration like in SOFCs, and that the electrolyte for PEMFCs must be water-saturated. However, some fuel-cell cars, including the Toyota Mirai, operate without humidifiers, relying on rapid water generation and the high rate of back-diffusion through thin membranes to maintain the hydration of the membrane, as well as the ionomer in the catalyst layers. \n\nHigh-temperature PEMFCs operate between 100 °C and 200 °C, potentially offering benefits in electrode kinetics and heat management, and better tolerance to fuel impurities, particularly CO in reformate. These improvements potentially could lead to higher overall system efficiencies. However, these gains have yet to be realized, as the gold-standard perfluorinated sulfonic acid (PFSA) membranes lose function rapidly at 100 °C and above if hydration drops below ~100%, and begin to creep in this temperature range, resulting in localized thinning and overall lower system lifetimes. As a result, new anhydrous proton conductors, such as protic organic ionic plastic crystals (POIPCs) and protic ionic liquids, are actively studied for the development of suitable PEMs.\n\nThe fuel for the PEMFC is hydrogen, and the charge carrier is the hydrogen ion (proton). At the anode, the hydrogen molecule is split into hydrogen ions (protons) and electrons. The hydrogen ions permeate across the electrolyte to the cathode, while the electrons flow through an external circuit and produce electric power. Oxygen, usually in the form of air, is supplied to the cathode and combines with the electrons and the hydrogen ions to produce water. The reactions at the electrodes are as follows:\n\nThe theoretical exothermic potential is +1.23 V overall.\n\nIn 2014, Andre Geim of the University of Manchester published initial results on atom thick monolayers of graphene and boron nitride which allowed only protons to pass through the material.\n\nPEM fuel cells have been used to power everything from cars to drones. 3,000 fuel cell cars will be sold or leased in 2016 globally, with 30,000 intended for 2017. Ballard Power Systems has developed a completely viable commercial market supplying forklifts.\n\nPEM is used in devices for hydrogen production for hydrogen water. \nTo prevent from production of ozone at the oxygen electrode this contact (of this electrode) to the water is 'out-sourced,' which does not produce oxygen as the usual electrolysis technique, and this does prevent production of ozone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328126", "title": "Sam Kelly", "text": "Sam Kelly\n\nRoger Michael Kelly (19 December 1943 – 14 June 2014), known by the stage name Sam Kelly, was an English actor who appeared in film, television, radio and theatre. He is best known for his roles as Captain Hans Geering in \"'Allo 'Allo!\", Warren in \"Porridge\", Sam in \"On The Up\", and Ted Liversidge in \"Barbara\".\n\nKelly was born in Salford, Lancashire on 19 December 1943. He attended the Liverpool Collegiate School and was a chorister at Liverpool Cathedral, where he showed early acting talent by reciting monologues. He worked for three years in the Civil Service in Liverpool before training as an actor at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. After graduating in 1967, he appeared in repertory theatres around the UK.\n\nHis early roles included playing a film director in \"Tiffany Jones\" (1973) and appearances in two of the later \"Carry On\" films, \"Carry On Dick\" (1974) and \"Carry On Behind\" (1975). He then had a significant role in the British sitcom \"Porridge\" as the affable and high spirited Slade Prison inmate Bunny Warren who relies on fellow prisoners to read his letters from home and blames his incarceration on his inability to read. In the sitcom \"'Allo 'Allo!\" he played German officer Captain Hans Geering, leaving after the third series (something he later said that he regretted doing). He played the law-stationer Mr. Snagsby in the 1985 BBC adaptation of \"Bleak House\". In \"On the Up\" he played Dennis Waterman's chauffeur and he appeared in \"We'll Think of Something\" as Les Brooks. In 1990–92, he co-starred in the comedy television series \"Haggard\". In 1994, he appeared as Mr. Mould, the undertaker, in the BBC mini-series \"Martin Chuzzlewit\". From 1995 to 2003, he played Barbara's husband Ted in the British sitcom \"Barbara\".\n\nIn 1996, Kelly appeared at the National Theatre in Helen Edmundson's adaptation of Leo Tolstoy's \"War and Peace\". He played Bernard in \"Holding On\" (1997) and Carl Langbehn in the five-part television drama \"Christabel\" (1988). He appeared in \"Midsomer Murders\" episode \"Down Among the Dead Men\" as Jack Fothergill and as the eccentric impoverished ghostwriter, Majors, in the \"Inspector Morse\" episode \"Second Time Around\".\n\nKelly went on to play Sir Joseph Porter in \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" with the new D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in 2002, having taken the role of Monsieur Jourdain \"as a kind of Baroque Blackadder\" in the 1912 version of Strauss's \"Ariadne auf Naxos\" with Scottish Opera at the 1997 Edinburgh Festival.\nIn 1998, Kelly appeared as George Spelvin in a concert version of \"Strike Up the Band\" at the Barbican in London and also was seen in an episode of the first series of \"Cold Feet\", playing Algernon Gifford.\n\nOn radio, he played the part of Carter Brandon in the BBC Radio 4 series of the continuing adventures of Uncle Mort and Carter Brandon in \"Uncle Mort's South Country\" and \"Uncle Mort's Celtic Fringe\". These were written by Peter Tinniswood.\n\nIn 2004, he appeared in \"EastEnders\" playing Stan Porter, and he also appeared in the comedy series \"Black Books\" as the father of Manny. In 2006 he appeared as the villain Guy Carse in \"New Tricks\".\n\nKelly starred in Jean-Paul Sartre's play \"Kean\" alongside Antony Sher at the Theatre Royal, Bath, and in the West End in May 2007. In December 2007, a car struck and injured Kelly in the West End. He was to have performed in the \"Doctor Who\" episode (\"Midnight\") filmed in that month, but the role was taken by David Troughton instead. Kelly though did act in the \"Doctor Who\" audio dramas \"The Holy Terror\" and \"Return to the Web Planet\" by Big Finish Productions.\n\nIn 2008, he guest starred in the \"Sapphire and Steel\" audio drama \"Remember Me\".\nIn November 2008, he starred in the title role of Christopher Reason's radio dramatisation of Jaroslav Hašek's \"The Good Soldier Švejk\", broadcast on BBC Radio 4.\n\nFrom May 2009, Kelly starred as the Wizard in London's West End Theatre production of the \"Wizard of Oz\" inspired musical \"Wicked\", replacing Desmond Barrit. From 27 March 2010 he was succeeded by Clive Carter.\n\nHe worked with director Mike Leigh on several occasions, including \"Grown-Ups\" (1980), \"Topsy-Turvy\" (1999), \"All or Nothing\" (2002) and on stage at the National Theatre in \"Grief\" (September 2011).\n\nKelly's later roles were as the ARP warden in \"Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang\", and as the old boatman, John Merdell, in the ITV production of \"Dead Man's Folly\" in the final (2013) series of \"Poirot\", the last episode of the series to be filmed.\n\nOn 23 July 2010, Kelly starred as Martin in the sitcom \"My Family\" and in the \"Heartbeat\" episode \"Deadlier Than the Male\". He also starred in \"When We Are Married\" at London's Garrick Theatre and in Mike Leigh's movie for the 2012 Olympics, \"A Running Jump\". He opened at the National Theatre on 21 September 2011, in Mike Leigh's play, \"Grief\", starring with Lesley Manville. His final film role was a cameo as a theatre actor in Mike Leigh's 2014 film \"Mr. Turner\".\n\nKelly was in a long-term relationship with journalist and psychotherapist Grace Pieniazek until her death in 2009.\n\nKelly returned to \"Wicked\" as the Wizard on 18 November 2013.\n\nIt was reported in January 2014, that Kelly had temporarily departed the production due to ill health, and that his replacement from 17 February 2014, would be Martyn Ellis. He was admitted to a hospice on 13 June 2014 and died early the next morning aged 70 after a long battle with cancer.\n"}
{"id": "2328127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328127", "title": "Nosie Katzmann", "text": "Nosie Katzmann\n\nNosie Katzmann (born Jürgen Katzmann in 1959) is a German dance music songwriter and producer.\n\nHe is known for writing songs for several European dance acts like Culture Beat and Captain Hollywood Project, for whom he contributed various chart hits, among them \"Mr. Vain\", \"More and More\" and others. \"More and More\" was his first No. 1 in Germany. In 1993, \"Mr. Vain\" became his biggest hit so far, topping the charts in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328142", "title": "Bertrand Newton", "text": "Bertrand Newton\n\nBertrand Newton is a fictitious character created by Australian comedian Charles Firth for his satirical book American Hoax, the name being a play on Australian television celebrity Bert Newton. In this book Newton was described as the founder the fictitious American 527 Political Action Committee (PAC) \"AdBack\", and also author of an influential booklet on political advertising titled \"How to Change the World One Ad at a Time\" (2004).\n\nBorn in the USA in 1972, Newton started out as a student activist in the early 1990s, during which time he got involved in the anti-Gulf War \"No Blood For Oil\" coalition at Berkley Campus of UCLA. The formation of this group split the movement and ultimately led to his expulsion from the Californian Peace Coalition. He later studied at Oxford University in England and became an advertising executive.\n\nNewton became wealthy creating ads for technology companies during the dot-com boom, before quitting advertising during the post-boom downturn. He then began using his talents and wealth to use the power of modern advertising to bring about political change to make the world a better place.\n\n\"AdBack\" was one of a raft of non-profit companies that were formed to support the Democratic Party in the 2004 Presidential elections. The motto of the organization was \"dedicated to changing the world one ad at a time\". The non-profit company designed advertisements for several niche markets during the elections, including the award winning \"GayBack\" Television commercial that aired in the crucial swing state of Ohio.\n\nNewton's philosophy on political advertising, and organising methods, have their roots in organizations like MoveOn.org, and have been closely connected to George Soros's Open Society Foundation project.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328144", "title": "John Abraham (politician)", "text": "John Abraham (politician)\n\nJohn Abraham (\"fl.\" 1672 – 1689) was a governor of the now abandoned Hudson's Bay Company settlement at Port Nelson (or Fort Nelson) on Hudson Bay, located in the northern part of the modern province of Manitoba.\n\nImmediately after joining the HBC in 1672, Abraham was sent to Hudson Bay, where he served under Governor Charles Bayly until 1678. In 1679, possibly as a result of Abraham's accusations of mismanagement, Bayly was recalled to London and replaced by John Nixon. Abraham held the position of Nixon's second-in-command until 1681, when he was assigned to The Diligence under the command Captain Nehemiah Walker.\n\nIgnoring Nixon's criticisms of him, the HBC promoted Abraham to Captain of \"The George\" in 1683 and set sail for Port Nelson, where a fort had been established the previous year by Governor John Bridgar. Upon his arrival, Abraham discovered that the HBC's post had been routed by Pierre Esprit Radisson and Médard des Groseilliers, French agents competing with the HBC. Due to this and the fact that Bridgar had been captured and taken to Quebec by Radisson and Des Groseilliers, Abraham assumed command of Port Nelson. He spent the next winter contending with Jean-Baptiste Chouart, Des Groseilliers's son, for control of the region. Abraham decided to sail back to England in the spring of 1684, but returned to Port Nelson when he received a commission as governor from the HBC while en route. During his first official weeks as governor Fort York was constructed under the supervision of George Geyer. Also during this time, Abraham repulsed an attack carried out by Claude de Bermen de la Martinière of the French La Compagnie du Nord. The following winter saw minor skirmishes and increased tensions with the French.\n\nIn 1685, the HBC committee decided to replace Abraham with Governor Thomas Phipps because he had abandoned Port Nelson in 1684 before receiving word from England. He acted as Phipps deputy until 1688, when he was recalled. The HBC decided to do this for two reasons: they considered his opposition to the French in the winter of 1684-85 had been unjustified considering his stronger position and certain reports he had made lead them to believe that he was planning to mount an interloping expedition. These fears did not prove unfounded when, in 1688, Abraham, along with John Outlaw, sailed \"The Mary\" to Hudson Bay intent on infringing upon the HBC's charter. However, the expedition did not go as planned when \"The Mary\" was wrecked by ice in the Hudson Strait. Before the ship sank, her crew and supplies were rescued by John Marsh, who had been tasked by the HBC settle in Albany River. Despite the English and French crowns enjoying a rare peace, Marsh's colony clashed with the local French and Abraham was given up as a hostage. At some point during his captivity, Abraham switched his allegiance and proceeded to prey upon English ships on the St. Lawrence River for the remainder of his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328163", "title": "Queen City Kids", "text": "Queen City Kids\n\nQueen City Kids (QCK) is a band from Regina, Saskatchewan.\n\nThe four current members of QCK met while in high school in Regina, and formed a band in December 1968 originally called Cambridge. They were together as a bar band for 12 years before getting signed without a member change.\n\nIn 1970 the band played at the annual Pile of Bones Day festival in Wascana Park in Regina. After such success and a good response from the crowd, the boys decided to push forward and work harder. The VIP’s won the 2nd place for the 1971 Saskatchewan Homecoming talent contest.\nThey interpreted many songs by the Beatles as well other British songs. As they had a lot of British rock influence, they wanted a new name and image that would resemble that of a British band. Jeff came up with a new name, Cambridge, which was taken up soon after the suggestion.\nCambridge auditioned for Nellis booking agency, once successful, they were booked to play for small gatherings all over Saskatchewan during the early and mid 70s.\n\nWith their growing success Cambridge decided to audition at The Quicksilver Talent Agency for representation. The agency was responsible for the bookings of local bands that boys considered as role models: such as Wascana, Eden and Sunband. A call was made to the co-owner Don Hergott; a meeting was set up at the Regina Inn coffee house. From that moment on, Cambridge was to be exclusively booked by The Quicksilver Talent Agency.\n\nIn 1976, the band caught Gary Stratychuk’s eye (the manager of Wascana), Gary booked Cambridge to open for Rush at the Trianon ballroom. Rush requested Cambridge for their next Saskatchewan tour.\n\nThe members of Rush offered a lot of good advice to the boys, including the necessity of having a good manager, Gary Stratychuk was mentioned by a member of Rush.\nGary signed Cambridge with great ambition and a personal goal to take these young talented boys to the top.\nThe boys needed a new name for their band, as they would now be writing their own songs, they wanted a name that had something to do with where they came from rather than their previous British influence. Queen City Kids was suggested, without further questions the band celebrated their rebirth into the world of music.\n\nGary tried to get record contracts for the QCK, but was unsuccessful, so the band decided to take matters into their own hands. They would produce and release an album independently. Gene Martynek, a successful producer, agreed to produce their independent album. When CBS records heard about Gene’s interest, CBS offered The Queen City Kids a multi album deal with Gene as the producer.\n\nTheir first album was to be recorded at Century 21 studios in Winnipeg. The Queen City Kids realized that studio work is very different from live performances. The boys needed to brush up their technique. With the help of Gene, in 1981 they put out an album (Queen City Kids) with many interesting sounds and styles which made it hard to categorize the band. The album reached the number one spot in Regina and Winnipeg. The album was later certified gold.\n\nAfter their first album, they toured with the likes of April Wine, Ozzy Osbourne, Streetheart, Joan Jett and Blue Öyster Cult,\n\nAfter a hard year in 1981 of non-stop touring across Canada, they stopped to work on their second album, Black Box. CBS records (Columbia records at the time) needed the album in a hurry to be able to release it in the United States. QCK searched for an American producer that would help them get a hit in the south. Rob Freeman, a New York engineer took on the responsibility to make this album work. Rob Freeman’s objective was to find an ambient room to be able to get an echo and lots of reverb on the tracks to simulate a rock concert’s sound and feel. They used an abandoned bank building in downtown Winnipeg, Manitoba, to get the live feel they felt was lacking in their first effort. They started recording in January 1982. The album was released in 1982 and spawned a hit with \"Dance\", the first single. But the US break they were looking for failed to materialize. CBS records released very few Black Box albums in the states and did close to nothing to support this up-coming band. It was clear that CBS would not release another album for them, and in 1983 they called it quits.\n\nChuaqui formed Straw Dogs, Germain and Donnelly formed Love Active with Models guitarist Larry Bourke and vocalist–guitarist Kim Albright; both bands played frequently in Saskatchewan and the west. A few years ago the four members got back together for a reunion show in Saskatchewan and since then have done occasional and well attended gigs in their hometown and area. Most recently, Chuaqui has signed a record deal with Gene Simmons, under his stage name, Bag. As Bag, Chuaqui wrote songs for Gene Simmons' solo album Asshole and the box set Vault, and released a self titled album in 2005 on Sanctuary Records where Simmons co-wrote one song. Also spent much time playing for their old fans within Saskatchewan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328170", "title": "John Anthony McGuckin", "text": "John Anthony McGuckin\n\nJohn Anthony McGuckin (born 1952) is a theologian, church historian, Orthodox Christian priest and poet.\n\nMcGuckin attended Heythrop College from 1970 to 1972, graduated from the University of London with a divinity degree in 1975, and received a Certificate in Education from the University of Newcastle upon Tyne in 1979, his Ph.D. from Durham University in 1980, and an M.A. in Educational Studies from the University of Southampton in 1986.\n\nMcGuckin was a Reader in Patristic and Byzantine theology at the University of Leeds. Most Recently, McGuckin was the Nielsen Professor of Early Church History at Union Theological Seminary and Professor of Byzantine Christian Studies at Columbia University in New York City.\n\nHe is an Archpriest of the Romanian Orthodox Church, and rector of the Orthodox Church in Lytham St. Annes, England. He currently serves on the faculty of church history at Oxford University, and is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society of the United Kingdom.\n\nHe has written books on Church Fathers such as Cyril of Alexandria, Gregory of Nazianzus and Origen, among others. His work includes New Testament interpretation, patristics, the history of the Byzantine Empire, and Orthodox theology. He is a scholar of Eastern Christian history.\n\nHe is a Fellow of both the Royal Society of Arts and the Royal Historical Society. He is director of the Sophia Institute: International Center for Orthodox Thought and Culture, which has its offices on the Union Seminary campus in Manhattan. In 1992 he was given the award of the Brotherhood of Peter Mohyla for his educational services at the Mohyla Academy in the newly independent Ukraine, and gave a course of lectures in Patristic Theology in the Academy buildings after they had been taken back from the possession of the Naval Academy. He was awarded the Jeweled Cross of Moldavia and Bukovina by Romanian Patriarch Daniel in 2007 for his services to the church and the academy. On 31 January 2014 McGuckin was awarded the Jeweled Cross by Metropolitan Tikhon of Washington for his services to Church and Academy. On the occasion of his delivering the 31st Annual Schmemann lecture at St. Vladimir's in 2014 he was awarded the Doctorate of Divinity Honoris Causa and in 2015 he received an Honorary Doctorate from the Andrei Saguna School of Theology in Sibiu's Lucian Blaga University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328177", "title": "Jenna Russell", "text": "Jenna Russell\n\nJenna Johan Russell (born 5 October 1967) is an English actress and singer. She has appeared on the stage in London in both musicals and dramas, as well as appearing with the Royal Shakespeare Company. She performed the role of Dot in \"Sunday in the Park with George\" in the West End and on Broadway, receiving the Tony Award nomination and the 2006 Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical for her role. She has also appeared in several television series, including \"Born and Bred\" and \"EastEnders\".\n\nRussell was born in London, grew up in Dundee, and attended the Sylvia Young Theatre School.\n\nIn 1985, Russell appeared as Matthew's girlfriend Christine in the ITV comedy \"Home to Roost\".\n\nRussell began her career as an understudy for Eponine and Fantine and later took over Fantine in \"Les Misérables\" and performed with the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) for the first portion of her career. Plays there included \"The Beggar's Opera\" as Lucy Lockit in April 1992 and again in April 1993 at the Barbican Centre. She also appeared in the RSC production of Alan Ayckbourn's \"Wildest Dreams\" at the Barbican in December 1993.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1992 she played one of the lead characters, Maggie Lomax, in primetime BBC TV comedy \"On the Up\". She also sang the theme song to \"Red Dwarf\", a recording that has been used for all twelve of the show's series produced over the last 29 years.\n\nShe performed in three shows at The Bridewell Theatre: \"On a Clear Day You Can See Forever\" as Daisy (January 2000), \"Hello Again\" (March 2001) and a concert, \"The Cutting Edge\" in June 2000. Other stage work includes Samantha Lord in \"High Society\" at Sheffield Crucible, Young Sally in \"Follies\" at the Shaftesbury Theatre in 1987, Bertrande in \"Martin Guerre\" at the West End's Prince Edward theatre (1998), Felicity in \"Landslide\" at the West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds, and \"Three Sisters\" at the Royal Court.\n\nShe left the cast of \"Songs for a New World\" during rehearsal to play Deborah Gilder in the television series \"Born and Bred\" in 2002 through 2005.\n\nIn 2005 she appeared as the Floor Manager in the \"Doctor Who\" episodes \"Bad Wolf\" and \"The Parting of the Ways\". Also in 2005, she played the lead role of Sarah Brown in the West End production of \"Guys and Dolls\" opposite (at various times) Ewan McGregor, Nigel Harman, Sarah Lancashire, Jane Krakowski and Nigel Lindsay. She received a nomination for the 2006 Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical for this role. In 2006, she took over from Anna-Jane Casey as Dot/Marie in the London revival of \"Sunday in the Park with George\", by Stephen Sondheim for which she won the 2007 Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical.\n\nShe subsequently played Amy alongside Felicity Kendal in the West End revival of the play \"Amy's View\" in 2006. In 2008, Russell reprised her role as Dot in the Broadway transfer of \"Sunday in the Park with George\". The production opened on 21 February 2008 and ran until 29 June 2008 at Studio 54. Russell won the Theatre World Award and received Drama Desk Award and Tony Award nominations for Best Actress in a Musical, losing to Patti LuPone.\n\nIn 2009 she appeared in the inaugural episode of the resurrected TV series \"Minder\" as Petra.\n\nRussell has appeared in \"Into the Woods\" twice. For the Donmar Warehouse production in 1998, she played Cinderella. For the Regent's Park Open Air Theatre in 2010, she played the role of the Baker's Wife.\n\nIn August 2012, Russell took to the London stage again at the Soho Theatre in \"Soho Cinders\". She then played the role of Mary in Stephen Sondheim's \"Merrily We Roll Along\" at the Harold Pinter Theatre in London's West End, following a run at the Menier Chocolate Factory.\n\nFrom February 2014 she appeared as Penelope Pennywise in the London production of \"\" at the St. James Theatre. She reprises the role for the West End production at the Apollo Theatre from September 2014.\n\nIn January 2016 she starred with Sheila Hancock in the first UK production of \"Grey Gardens\" at The Southwark Playhouse to sell-out audiences.\n\nIn December 2016 she took over from previous actress Susan Tully in the role of Michelle Fowler in BBC One soap-opera \"EastEnders\". In 2018 Russell decided to leave \"EastEnders\" to pursue other work. Her last appearance aired on Tuesday 17 April 2018.\n\nRussell is the partner of actor Raymond Coulthard, and they are the parents of a girl. Russell relates that she was in the early stages of her pregnancy when she appeared in \"Sunday\" on Broadway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328179", "title": "Robert Christison", "text": "Robert Christison\n\nSir Robert Christison, 1st Baronet, (18 July 1797 – 27 January 1882), was a Scottish toxicologist and physician who served as president of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh (1838–40 and 1846-8) and as president of the British Medical Association (1875). He was the first person to describe renal anaemia.\n\nChristison was born at 144 Nicolson Street in Edinburgh, the son of Prof Alexander Christison FRSE (1753–1820). He was a twin, his elder brother (by a few minutes) being later Rev. Alexander Christison (1797–1874). He attended the Royal High School before studying Medicine at University of Edinburgh, graduating in 1819. At this time the family were living at 4 Argyll Square.\n\nHe then spent a short time in London, studying under John Abernethy and Sir William Lawrence, and in Paris, where he learnt analytical chemistry from Pierre Robiquet and toxicology from Mathieu Orfila. In 1822 he returned to Edinburgh as professor of medical jurisprudence, and set to work to organise the study of his subject on a sound basis. On poisons in particular he speedily became a high authority; his well-known treatise on them was published in 1829, and in the course of his inquiries he did not hesitate to try such daring experiments on himself as taking large doses of Calabar bean (Physostigmine). In 1827, he was appointed physician-in-ordinary to the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, a position he held until 1832. His attainments in medical jurisprudence and toxicology procured him the appointment, in 1829, of medical officer to the crown in Scotland. From that time until 1866 he was called as a witness in many celebrated criminal cases, including the Burke and Hare murders.\n\nIn 1832, Christison gave up the chair of medical jurisprudence and accepted that of medicine and therapeutics, which he held until 1877; at the same time he became professor of clinical medicine, and continued in that capacity until 1855. At this time his address is listed as 3 Great Stuart Street on the Moray Estate, a very large Georgian townhouse in the west end of Edinburgh, a highly desirable area.\n\nHis fame as a toxicologist and medical jurist, together with his work on the pathology of the kidneys and on fevers, secured him a large private practice, and he succeeded to a fair share of the honors that commonly attend the successful physician, being appointed physician to Queen Victoria in 1848 and receiving a baronetcy in 1871. Among the books which he published were a treatise on \"Granular Degeneration of the Kidneys\" (1839), and a \"Commentary on the Pharmacopoeias of Great Britain\" (1842).\n\nChristison was a strong opposer of women in the field of medicine, a view in Edinburgh eventually undermined by his colleague, Patrick Heron Watson's admission of women students to his extra mural surgery classes. A further (still controversial) proposal was his creation of a system of Lethal injection (through the discovery of Physostigmine in 1846) for human execution, in place of hanging. For various reasons, although this seems to pre-date its introduction into American use by 40 years, the method never appealed to British sensibilities.\n\nChristison served as Vice President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 1845–1868 and was its President from 1868 to 1873.\n\nSir Robert Christison, who retained remarkable physical vigour and activity until extreme old age, died at home, 40 Moray Place in Edinburgh on 27 January 1882. He is buried in New Calton Cemetery in a family plot created by his father, Alexander Christison (who is buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard and only memorialised here), on one of the south-facing terraces.\n\nSir Robert Christison was unequivocally opposed to the notion of women studying medicine and qualifying as doctors and led the campaign against Sophia Jex-Blake and the Edinburgh Seven. He was an influential figure both within the University and in the wider civic life of Edinburgh; his opinion was held in high regard.\n\nWhen the Senatus met on 9 April 1870 to discuss the issue of Edith Pechey's right to a Hope Scholarship having come top of the class in the Chemistry exam, he made his opinions very clear.\n\nHe shared the view of many of his contemporaries that Nature intended women to be mothers and housekeepers, and lacked the intellectual ability and stamina of men. Consequently, if women were to enter any learned profession in significant numbers they would lower its standards.\n\nHis influence was largely responsible for the eventual decision taken by the University not to allow the women to graduate.\n\nJames Stansfeld, who had been very closely associated with the London campaign (following the failure of the Edinburgh campaign) wrote, in his brief history of the events, in 1877:\n\n″Dr Sophia Jex-Blake has made the greatest of all contributions to the end attained. I do not say that she has been the ultimate cause of success. The ultimate cause has been simply this, that the time was at hand. It is one of the lessons of the history of progress that when the time for reform has come you cannot resist it, though if you make the attempt, what you may do is to widen its character or precipitate its advent. Opponents, when the time has come, are not merely dragged at the chariot wheels of progress - they help to turn them. The strongest forces, whichever way it seems to work, does most to aid. The forces of greatest concentration here have been, in my view, on the one hand the Edinburgh University led by Sir Robert Christison, on the other the women claimants led by Dr Sophia Jex-Blake.″\n\nChristison's wife was Henrietta Sophia Brown (1799–1843).\n\nTheir children included Sir Alexander Christison (who inherited the baronetcy) and Dr David Christison MD LLD (1830-1912).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328194", "title": "Kentucky Science Center", "text": "Kentucky Science Center\n\nThe Kentucky Science Center, previously known as the Louisville Museum of Natural History & Science and then Louisville Science Center, is Kentucky's largest hands-on science museum. Located in Louisville, Kentucky's \"Museum Row\" in the West Main District of downtown, the museum operates as a non-profit organization. It was founded in 1871 as a natural history collection, and now more than half a million people visit the museum annually. More students in Kentucky take field trips to the Kentucky Science Center than to any other destination.\n\nThere are about 550,000 visitors annually. A special hands-on area, featuring six educational activity sections, for children under seven was renovated and renamed \"KidZone\" in 1998.\n\nThe building itself is located at 727 West Main Street, and takes up 150,000 sq ft (14,000 m). The distinctive cast-iron facade limestone building was originally built in 1878 as a dry goods warehouse. The city purchased the property in 1975 and the museum moved into the premises in 1977, subsequently winning several design awards for its preservation of this venerable building. A four-story digital theater was added in 1988 and renovated in early 2014. Three million people have seen at least one of the 45 different films shown there.\n\nThe lobby area; the pendulum has been a fixture of the building for decades.\n\nOn January 11, 2007 it was announced that the Kentucky Science Center would acquire the Alexander Building which was built in 1880 and is adjacent to the current buildings.\n\nIn 2009 the center opened a Science Education Wing on the building's first floor. The wing includes four science-workshop labs equipped for \"hands-on participation\". The five-story Alexander Building totals nearly 37,000 square feet (3,400 m).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328196", "title": "Wells Cathedral School", "text": "Wells Cathedral School\n\nWells Cathedral School is a co-educational independent school located in Wells, Somerset, England. The school is one of the five specialist musical schools for school-age children in the United Kingdom, along with Chetham's School of Music, the Yehudi Menuhin School, the Purcell School and St. Mary's Music School, Edinburgh. The Head Master, Alastair Tighe, is a member of the Headmasters' Conference.\n\nWith links to a school founded in AD 909, Wells is one of the oldest extant schools in the world. The School admitted girls in 1969 and has over 700 pupils aged between 3 and 18. The School has a musical emphasis and specialises in combining high-level musical tuition with a general academic education, as well as sports.\n\nSituated within the city of Wells, the School's boarding houses line the northern parts of the city and the Music School retains close links with Wells Cathedral. The Vicar's Chapel and Library in Vicars' Close was built c1424-1430. The lower floor was a chapel, with a spiral stair leading up to the library. It is now used by the School.\n\nDe Salis House and De Salis Cottage were built in the late 14th century. The Rib was built in the 15th century and is a Grade II* listed building. Cedars House was built in 1758 for Charles Tudway, the Member of Parliament for Wells and now forms part of the school. Claver Morris House was built as a canonical house in 1669 by Dr Claver Morris, while Plumptre dates from 1737 and was built for Dr Francis White. No.11 The Liberty was built as a Canonical house in the mid 18th century and it now forms part of Wells Cathedral Junior School. No 23 The Liberty was built in 1819 for the Chapter Clerk, William Parfitt, and the 15th century Polydor House formerly belonged to the organists.\n\nThe red brick Cedars Cottage, which was built as a coachman's cottage the former stables and coach house were built in the mid to late 18th century, around the same time as Mullins. Ritchie House was built a little later around the end of the 18th century or the beginning of the 19th. Ritchie Hall became part of the School on its rebuilding in 1884 but incorporates part of a 12th-century Canon's Barn, while St Andrew's Lodge was built in 1713 as part of a charity school.\n\nWells Cathedral School is supposed to be the fifth oldest independent school in the country. It cannot be proven, however, that the School has existed continually since the date of its supposed foundation in the tenth century, and there was certainly a hiatus during the 1880s, after which it was refounded.\n\nThe current Head Master is Alastair Tighe with Julie Barrow as Head of the Junior School, and Mark Stringer as Director of Music. Tighe has been Head Master since September 2018 and was previously Deputy Head (Academic) at Bedford School where he was for 5 years.\n\nThe Royal Family holds links with the school, many of the buildings being opened by\nQueen Elizabeth, The Queen Mother on 6 July 1979. Queen Elizabeth II visited the school during her Silver Jubilee tour in 1977. The Countess of Wessex visited Wells on 18 October 2007 and has done so several times subsequently, including most recently in September 2019 to help mark the 25th anniversary of the foundation of the Girl Choristers and the establishment of Cedars Hall.\n\nIn 1969 it was among the first independent schools in the country to become coeducational when the junior school admitted girls. The following year, girls were admitted to the Senior School and it became fully coeducational.\n\nIn 2005, the School was one of fifty independent schools to be found guilty of operating a price-fixing cartel, discovered by \"The Times\", under which schools had made fee increases or decreases concurrently, thus minimising competition. Each school was required to pay a nominal penalty of £10,000 and all agreed to make ex-gratia payments totalling £3 million into a trust designed to benefit pupils who attended the schools during the period in respect of which fee information was shared. The discovery by \"The Times\" was made shortly after new Office of Fair Trading directives prohibiting such sharing of information a directive not clearly communicated according to the schools concerned, a fact omitted by many tabloids.\n\nDistinguished musicians visit the School to give masterclasses. The Music School has several main practice areas including the historic Vicars' Close, and caters for specialist, special provision and general musicians. The whole School comprises pre-prep, Junior School, and Senior School which includes a Sixth Form.\n\nThe Music School was formerly the house of the Archdeacon of Wells. It was rebuilt by Archdeacon Andrew Holes between 1450 and 1470, possibly retaining some 13th century work and further restoration was undertaken by Edmund Buckle in 1886. It is a Grade II* listed building.\n\nThe chorister and choral conductor Peter Stanley Lyons was Director of Music and Deputy Headmaster of Wells Cathedral School, and Master of the Choristers at Wells Cathedral, from 1954 to 1960. The choral conductor James William Webb-Jones was Headmaster of Wells Cathedral School from 1955 to 1960.\n\nThe School's connection with the Cathedral offers a range of opportunities. There is a School service every Sunday evening and Monday morning in the Cathedral, as well as music concerts. Chapel, chamber and cathedral choir rehearsals and performances are performed in both the cathedral and the Music School. Government funding of £3.5 million was obtained in 2008 to build a new concert hall and classrooms at Cedars Hall.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328197", "title": "Judy Buxton", "text": "Judy Buxton\n\nJudith Catherine Buxton (born 1949 in Croydon) is an English actress.\n\nShe graduated from the Rose Bruford College. She then was a regular in the television series \"General Hospital\" playing nurse Katy Shaw and had a small part in \"The Sweeney\". She joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1979, where she played principal roles until 1982. Her “memorable...and exceptional” performance of Iphigenia in \"The Greeks\" and Juliet in \"Romeo and Juliet\" were particularly notable. \"Time magazine\" critic T.E. Kalem wrote of her “unforgettable” portrayal of Iphigenia: “...as Buxton reaches the heartbreaking conclusion that the one life she has to give for Hellas is the noblest life to have lived, she radiates a great and unforgettable purity of spirit.”\n\nShe later worked mainly in television, playing Ruth in the television comedy \"On the Up\", Inga, Roj Blake's cousin in \"Blake's Seven\" and Susan Protheroe in \"By The Sword Divided\". In 2006 she was in the cast of a well-received UK touring production of Noël Coward’s \"Star Quality\". She appeared in two series-three episodes of \"Rising Damp\", as Caroline Armitage.\n\nBuxton is married to Jeffrey Holland, best known as Spike in \"Hi-de-Hi!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2328199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328199", "title": "Grandison Fairchild", "text": "Grandison Fairchild\n\nGrandison Fairchild (1792–1890) was an American reformer and active in the founding of Oberlin College. \n\nHe was born in Sheffield, Massachusetts and died in Brownhelm, Ohio.\n\nGrandison and his family settled in the wilderness in Ohio about 1818. \n\nHis sons became presidents of various educational institutions. James was president of Oberlin for a quarter of a century. Henry was president of Berea College at Berea, Kentucky. George was president of Kansas State University. Grandison Fairchild, a devout Christian, once jokingly expressed regret that all of his sons had not become full-time ministers. \"They all petered out as college presidents,\" he is reported to have said.\n"}
{"id": "2328203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328203", "title": "Yusuf Hamied", "text": "Yusuf Hamied\n\nYusuf Khwaja Hamied (born 25 July 1936) is a Polish-born-Indian scientist, billionaire businessman, the chairman of Cipla, a generic pharmaceuticals company founded by his father Khwaja Abdul Hamied in 1935. He is also an elected fellow of the Indian National Science Academy.\n\nHamied was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, and raised in Bombay (now Mumbai). His Indian Muslim father and Russophone Lithuanian Jewish mother, Luba Derczanska met in pre-war Berlin, where they were university students. Hamied was educated at the Cathedral and John Connon School and St. Xavier's College, Mumbai. He later went to England and earned a PhD in chemistry from Christ's College, Cambridge. He uses his chemistry notebooks from Cambridge when he develops new syntheses of drugs.\n\nHamied is best known outside India for defying large Western pharmaceutical companies in order to provide generic AIDS drugs and treatments for other ailments primarily affecting people in poor countries. Hamied has led efforts to eradicate AIDS in the developing world and to give patients life-saving medicines regardless of their ability to pay, and has been characterized as a modern-day Robin Hood figure as a result.\n\nHamied stated, \"I don't want to make money off these diseases which cause the whole fabric of society to crumble\".\n\nIn September 2011, in a piece about how he was trying to radically lower costs of biotech drugs for cancer, diabetes and other noncommunicable diseases, \"The New York Times\" wrote of Hamied:\nDr. Yusuf K. Hamied, chairman of the Indian drug giant Cipla Ltd., electrified the global health community a decade ago when he said he could produce cocktails of AIDS medicines for $1 per day — a fraction of the price charged by branded pharmaceutical companies. That price has since fallen to 20 cents per day, and more than six million people in the developing world now receive treatment, up from little more than 2,000 in 2001.\nHamied has also been influential in pioneering development of multi-drug combination pills (also known as fixed-dose combinations, or FDCs), notably for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), asthma and other ailments chiefly affecting developing countries, as well as development of pediatric formulations of drugs, especially those benefiting children in poor settings. These innovations have greatly expanded access to medicine and increased drug safety by ensuring proper dosages are taken. He is also highly regarded for his role in expanding the production of bulk drugs and \"active pharmaceutical ingredients\" (APIs, the active chemical components in medicines) in India.\n\nIn 2009 the \"Yusuf Hamied Centre\" was opened at Christ's College, Cambridge. The centre features a bronze portrait bust of Hamied by fellow Christ's College alumnus, Anthony Smith.\n\nHamied has been the subject of in-depth profiles in \"The New York Times\", \"Time\" magazine, \"The Guardian\", \"Le Monde\", \"The Economist\", the \"Financial Times\", \"The Times (London)\", \"Corriere della Sera\", \"Der Spiegel\", \"Wired\" and numerous other leading publications, as well as on television outlets such as \"ABC News\", the BBC, CNN and CBS' \"60 Minutes\".\n\nIn February 2013, Hamied announced his retirement plans from Cipla after remaining managing director of the company for 52 years. That year, \"Forbes\" magazine included him in its list of richest Indians.\n\nHe was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour by Government of India in 2005.\n\nHamied was awarded the 'CNN-IBN Indian of the Year' in the category of business by CNN-IBN in 2012 \"for taking on multinational pharma companies and making some of the essential drugs more affordable to the masses in the developing countries.\" In late 2013, he was also named one of the India's \"25 Greatest Global Living Legends\" by news broadcaster NDTV. He was also recently interviewed for the Creating Emerging Markets project at the Harvard Business School, discussing at length his strategies to provide AIDS treatments and other drugs to help treat poor people in the developing world.\n\nHamied's role in the battle for mass antiretroviral treatment in Africa is portrayed in the documentary Fire in the Blood (2013 film). In its review of the film, India Today noted that \"the story of Yusuf Hamied will make every Indian proud as he was the only man who decided to walk against the tide and sell drugs to save lives without focusing on profits.\"\n\nHamied is married to Farida and they have no children. They live in London and Mumbai.\n\nHis younger brother, M. K. Hamied, is Cipla's non-executive vice-chairman. The latter has three children, including Samina Vaziralli, who is expected to take over leadership of Cipla in the future.\n\nIn January 2016, \"Forbes\" estimated Hamied's net worth at US$1.45 billion.\n"}
{"id": "2328212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328212", "title": "James Fairchild", "text": "James Fairchild\n\nJames Harris Fairchild (1817–1902) was an American educator, author, and third president of Oberlin College.\n\nFairchild was born in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, on November 25, 1817. His father was Grandison Fairchild. Two of his brothers were Henry Fairchild and George Fairchild, both of whom became college presidents. Soon after his birth his parents moved to Brownhelm, Lorain County, Ohio, and settled on a farm about ten miles from the present site of Oberlin College.\n\nWhen Oberlin opened its doors in 1834, Fairchild entered as a freshman. He graduated in 1838. The year after graduation he was appointed tutor in the college, was ordained in 1841, and in 1842 became professor of Latin and Greek. In 1847, he was transferred to the chair of mathematics, and in 1858 to that of theology and moral philosophy.\n\nA committed abolitionist, Fairchild played a role in the famous Oberlin-Wellington Rescue. In September 1858, he hid fugitive slave John Price in his home. A short time later, rescuers took Price to freedom in Canada.\n\nIn 1866, Fairchild became the third president of Oberlin College. During his tenure, the faculty and physical plant of the college expanded dramatically. In 1889, he resigned as president but remained as chair of systematic theology. In 1896, Fairchild returned to the Oberlin leadership as acting President, serving until 1898.\n\nFairchild's wife, Mary Fletcher Kellogg, was one of the first group of four women to be admitted to a college in the United States. She was the only one who didn't graduate, as her father's business failed. Her family moved to a frontier area of Louisiana, and Fairchild, who'd known her while they were students at Oberlin, came down and married her in November 1841.\n\nFairchild wrote a history of Oberlin, which was published in 1883. He also wrote works on philosophy.\n\nA biography of Fairchild, \"James Harris Fairchild: or Sixty-Eight Years with a Christian College,\" was written by Albert Temple Swing and published in 1907.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328219", "title": "New Westminster station", "text": "New Westminster station\n\nNew Westminster is an elevated station on the Expo Line of Metro Vancouver's SkyTrain rapid transit system. The station is located at the intersection of Columbia Street and 8th Street in New Westminster, British Columbia. In 2012, the station was incorporated into the Shops at New West complex, making it the first train station in Canada to have a direct connection to a shopping centre at the platform level.\n\nNew Westminster station was built in 1985 as part of the original SkyTrain system (now known as Expo Line), providing a transportation link to Expo 86 being held in the city of Vancouver. The Austrian architecture firm Architektengruppe U-Bahn was responsible for designing the station. The station also served as part of a strategy for redeveloping the districts along the New Westminster Quay.\n\nUpon opening, New Westminster station was the original eastern terminus of the SkyTrain system, and remained so until the completion of Columbia station in 1989. The station still serves as a temporary terminus for the Expo Line towards closing hours of revenue service. During the station's period as terminus station, a temporary platform had been built over the westbound guideway with trains thus arriving and departing on the eastbound track.\n\nAt its inception, New Westminster served as the major transfer point for buses servicing Coquitlam, Langley, Port Coquitlam, Port Moody and Surrey. After the Expo Line extension in 1990, Langley and Surrey buses were rerouted to terminate at Scott Road station. Coquitlam, Port Coquitlam and Port Moody buses were eventually rerouted after the completion of Millennium Line in 2002; these routes now terminate at either Braid, Lougheed Town Centre, or Burquitlam stations.\n\nIn 2012, the Shops at New West shopping centre was integrated into the station. The shopping centre was a major component of the mixed-use development of Plaza 88.\n\nBetween May 2015 and November 2016, the station received $12 million in upgrades which included better integration with the Shops at New West complex that was built as part of Plaza 88 project. Broader plans to upgrade the station and Expo Line were put forth by TransLink and the British Columbia Rapid Transit Company (BCRTC).\n\n\n\nThe bus loop at New Westminster station is located under the Shops at New West between Carnarvon Street and Columbia Street, west of 8th Street. Bus bay assignments of the exchange are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "2328223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328223", "title": "Henry Fairchild", "text": "Henry Fairchild\n\nEdward Henry Fairchild (1815–1889) was an American educator and abolitionist. He served as principal of Oberlin Academy and as president of Berea College.\n\nFairchild was born in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. His father was Grandison Fairchild. When he was a child his family moved to northeast Ohio.\n\nWhen Oberlin College opened its doors in 1834, Fairchild and his brother, James, entered as freshmen. He graduated in 1838 and continued in the theological course for three years.\n\nFairchild served as a pastor in Ohio for 22 years. He was the principal at Oberlin Academy for many years.\n\nA member of the antislavery movement, Fairchild was offered the presidency of Berea College in Berea, Kentucky. Berea was a revolutionary college that educated both black and white men and women. Fairchild strongly supported coeducation and the education of blacks. During Fairchild's tenure as president, the physical plant and student body were expanded. African Americans remained about half of the student body.\n\nAfter his death, this brother, George, who had been president of Kansas State, came to Berea as a professor of English and vice president.\n\nFairchild's son Charles Grandison Fairchild became a distinguished educator and college president as well. Other children included:\n\n"}
{"id": "2328231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328231", "title": "Eva Bergman", "text": "Eva Bergman\n\nEva Bergman (born 5 September 1945) is a Swedish film, theatre, and television director, who worked at Dramaten. She is the daughter of Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, and was married to crime writer Henning Mankell from 1998 until his death in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328232", "title": "Many Moods of the Upsetters", "text": "Many Moods of the Upsetters\n\nMany Moods of the Upsetters is a studio album by The Upsetters, released in 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328233", "title": "Lebanon Valley College", "text": "Lebanon Valley College\n\nLebanon Valley College (LVC, Lebanon Valley, or The Valley) is a private college in Annville, Pennsylvania.\n\nLebanon Valley was founded on February 23, 1866, with classes beginning May 7 of that year and its first class graduating in 1870. Expenses at this time for a full year were $206.50 (equal to approximately $ in 2019) and remained relatively unchanged for the next 50 years.\n\nThe College was founded by and initially associated with the Church of the United Brethren in Christ. Today, Lebanon Valley College is affiliated with the United Methodist Church, which occurred through a series of church mergers: The Church of the United Brethren in Christ merged with the Evangelical Association in 1946 creating the Evangelical United Brethren Church (EUB), which subsequently merged with the Methodist Church in 1968 to create the United Methodist Church. The ties to the Methodist Church are not as strong as they once were, which is evidenced by the lack of mandatory chapel services, but the church maintains a presence on the campus. Out of 34 colleges and academies founded by the United Brethren in Christ Church, Lebanon Valley was one of four to survive.\n\nThe campus began as a single building, the empty Annville Academy building, which was purchased for $4,500 (equal to $ in 2019) by five Annville citizens. They presented the building as a gift to the East Pennsylvania Conference of the United Brethren Church to settle the argument over where to establish the college. In a little more than two months from its founding, 12 trustees were appointed, President Thomas R. Vickroy was elected, the building repaired and redecorated, a curriculum devised, faculty recruited, and classes begun. The College was entirely contained in that one building (class rooms, student residence, president's residence, and \"dining hall\") until 1868 when \"North College\" was opened at a cost of $31,500, equal to $ in 2019. The Annville Academy building became known as \"South Hall\" or \"Ladies Hall\" as the North College building was now the home to the men's dormitories.\n\nA note worth mentioning: The college charter, granted in 1867, specifically stated that Lebanon Valley College was established for the education of \"both\" sexes. Indeed, Lebanon Valley College can claim that it has been coeducational longer than any other college east of the Allegheny Mountains. However, the curricula were different for men and women, a condition created from a compromise after an uproar in the founding church over the equal treatment of men and women. The \"Ladies Course\" included modern languages, painting, drawing, wax flower and fruit making, and music. By 1878, the college catalog began announcing that experience showed that there was no difference between men and women in their ability to master college courses, an unpopular idea at its time.\n\nThis was also the time of the founding literary societies: Philokosmian, Clionian, and Kalozetean, which bear no resemblance to their present fraternity and sorority selves. They met regularly to debate topics and discuss essays. Other activities included mixed socials, parades, the annual Chestnut Picnic, and other special events throughout the years.\n\nThe College steadily grew during its first 35 years, and by 1904, the campus had expanded to include Engle Hall, home of the music department, and a partially completed library funded by Andrew Carnegie. On Christmas Eve 1904, North College (not to be confused with the residence hall with the same name), which stood in the current footprint of the Administration/Humanities building, burned down. The next year, the college raised funds to rebuild and also began expanding the campus further, building not only a new Administration Building (the current Humanities Building), but also North Hall (a women's dorm, currently the site of Miller Chapel), Kreider Hall (a men's residence hall where the current Neidig-Garber Science Center is located), the central heating plant (still in existence), a science building, and a gymnasium. However, funding ran out, debt rose, and building halted on the gym and science buildings. President Hervin U. Roop resigned in disgrace on New Year's Day, 1906. It was not until President Lawrence W. Keister took office on June 12, 1907 that the debt situation was solved. Thanks to his fundraising efforts, the debt was eliminated by 1911. The College landscape remained relatively unchanged for the next four decades, under the leadership of President George D. Gossard (1912–1932) and Clyde A. Lynch (1932–1950).\n\nCultural changes at LVC paralleled those in the rest of the country, moving through World War I, the Roaring Twenties, the Great Depression, and the New Deal.\n\nWorld War II nearly proved to be the end of Lebanon Valley College. In the Fall of 1942, LVC's first wartime registration showed only 357 students enrolled. As the second semester began in 1943, there were only 282 students: 145 women and 137 men, the first time that women outnumbered men. 1943 Fall enrollment dropped again to only 199 students, 62 of which were on limited deferment, waiting to be called to active duty. This prompted one of the first capital campaigns to help the ailing College. The campaign to raise $550,000 received 91% support from current students. The money was to go toward an endowment and a real gymnasium, which bore the name of the president who initiated the campaign—Clyde A. Lynch Memorial Hall. Right before the war ended, LVC enrollment hit bottom at 192 students. In 1946, however, enrollment ballooned to 683 students, more than 300 of which were ex-servicemen.\n\nEnrollment steadily grew and by 1948, thanks to the G.I. Bill, it had reached 817 full-time students, far beyond the college's capacity. Eventually additional facilities and residences were added to the college. Clyde A. Lynch Memorial Hall—which included the school's first proper gymnasium—was opened in 1953. In 1957, Science Hall (now the Derickson A apartments) was created out of the old Kreider Factory building on White Oak St., and Gossard Library also opened that year. In 1966, Frederic K. Miller Chapel was completed. The 1950s also saw the college expand north of Sheridan Avenue, with the Dining Hall (now Lehr and Phillips Dining Hall) built in 1958. Other current traditional residence halls were built between the 1950s and 1970s as well—Mary Green (1956) and Vickroy (1960) in the 1950s-60s, Hammond and Keister Hall in 1965, and Funkhouser and Silver in the 1970s. Marquette and Dellinger were added in 1999 and 2002, respectively, and Stanson was added in 2009.\n\nEnrollment also grew, although it had stagnated by the 1980s. A turnaround began under the presidency of Arthur L. Peterson, whose tenure in office was cut short due to health issues. Soon thereafter, a highly energetic president, John Synodinos, ushered in a period of growth and change with the bold introduction of merit scholarships and the renovation and beautification of a substantial portion of the campus that included the addition of the Edward H. Arnold Sports Center and the Suzanne H. Arnold Art Gallery and Zimmerman Recital hall. With the assistance of Dr. William J. McGill, senior vice president and the dean of the faculty, academic excellence continued to be emphasized, linkages were established with other institutions and schools, an international initiative undertaken, and collaborative learning experiences developed. A new technologically advanced library, the Vernon and Doris Bishop Library, opened in January 1996.\n\nBeginning in 1996 and building on the work of his predecessor, Dr. G. David Pollick's eight-year presidency ushered in a period of continued growth. There was a 40 percent increase in undergraduate enrollment with applications more than doubling. New undergraduate and graduate degree programs were added and there was a large increase in the number of first-year students who studied abroad. A major public relations focus to enhance the college's standing among peer institutions was followed by a major rebuilding and renovation effort on campus and the start of a $50 million campaign, Great Expectations. Pollick oversaw a growth plan that added athletic teams, more than a dozen new campus buildings and athletic facilities, and the college's signature Fasick Bridge. These additions almost tripled the usable space of the college, including five new facilities: the Marquette and Dellinger Residence Halls, the Allan W. Mund College Center, Sorrentino Gymnasium, and the Heilman Center. A revitalization of Clyde A. Lynch Memorial Hall and the Neidig-Garber Science Center also were begun during this period.\n\nToday, the campus consists of 40 buildings, including the recently renovated Clyde A. Lynch Memorial Hall, the Vernon and Doris Bishop Library (revitalized in 2016), the Heilman Center for communication sciences & disorders/speech-language pathology, and $20 million Jeanne and Edward H. Arnold Health Professions Pavilion (opened August 2018) for athletic training, exercise science, and physical therapy. Students received career advice from experts in the Edward and Lynn Breen Center for Graduate Success (launched programming in 2018) and study under the college's new general education curriculum, Constellation LVC (started in fall 2016). Students reside in one of 25 residence halls that include traditional single-sex and co-educational dormitories and apartment-style residences. Students may also reside in special interest houses upon proposal and approval of LVC administration. A small number of upperclassmen are allowed to live off-campus, and a significant portion of the student body are commuter students. Undergraduate enrollment is now over 1,638 students.\n\nThe endowment of the college is sixty-five million dollars.\n\nMany college traditions have disappeared and been forgotten, much to the chagrin of most alumni. At most colleges and universities, there seems to be a compulsion to make fools of the freshman students. Lebanon Valley College was no different in this regard, as most of the traditions existed for this very reason.\n\nA festive tradition, this pageant was begun in 1912. Each year, a May Queen would be elected and would watch over the festival with her court. Typical May Day activities took place, including the expected May pole. This tradition seems to have persisted for 55 years until the late 1960s.\n\nUntil October 1931, dancing on the LVC campus was forbidden. One evening after a football game, President Gossard had decided to change the policy and allowed the students to dance with his blessing. From then on, the literary societies began holding annual dinner dances. Formal proms were organized and any opportunity for dancing was not overlooked.\n\nIn February 1985 the college opened a nighttime dance club called the Underground (or \"UG\" as it is referred to by most students). The UG is a place where students can go to have fun with their classmates and friends on most Saturday nights. The UG plays popular hits from today's music and is open to non-LVC students at a small price.\n\nIn a tradition that dates to the presidency of Clyde A. Lynch '18 (1932–1950) students march to the president's home, Kreiderheim since 1976, to request the day off before Thanksgiving when the football team defeats Albright College. LVC defeated Albright in double overtime in 2018 and President Thayne granted the students' wish.\n\nFormer presidents of LVC include:\n\n\nLVC offers more than 40 majors of study, as well as graduate and doctorate programs. Additionally, students may elect study abroad in Argentina, China, Dominican Republic, England, France, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, and Spain, as well as domestic programs in Philadelphia and Washington, D.C.\n\nLebanon Valley College is a member of NCAA Division III, competing in the MAC Commonwealth. LVC offers 26 intercollegiate sports, including Pennsylvania's first varsity eSports program, which competes in the National Association of Collegiate Esports. The athletic program began in 1893 with baseball and then football in 1897. Men's and women's basketball were introduced in 1904. LVC's teams are called the Flying Dutchmen, and its mascot is the Dutchman.\n\n\n\n\nLebanon Valley College has several buildings in which students reside. These buildings include Mary Green, Keister, Hammond, Funkhouser, Silver, Stanson, and Vickroy. In addition to those seven traditional dorms, Marquette, Dellinger, Stanson, and Derickson A/B provide apartment style living for upperclassman students on campus. All dorms include co-ed living among the floors. Residential Assistants are assigned to each building to enforce rules and organize activities for the students.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328239", "title": "Whatever Happened to ...?", "text": "Whatever Happened to ...?\n\nWhatever Happened to ..? is a series of eleven plays broadcast in two series on BBC Radio 4 in 1994 and 1995. They covered the fate of various fictional characters, such as Popeye and Susan Foreman, the granddaughter of the Doctor in \"Doctor Who\". The writer was Adrian Mourby, who in 1997 published a book called \"Whatever Happened to ...?: The Ultimate Sequels Book\", in a similar vein with the further adventures of Frankenstein's Monster, The Artful Dodger, Snow White, Romeo, Big Bad Wolf, Pinocchio, Man Friday, Jane Eyre, Dorothy Gale from \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", and Jim Hawkins.\n\n\"Whatever Happened to Susan Foreman?\" has been released as an extra on the \"Doctor Who\" DVD \"The Dalek Invasion of Earth\".\n\nThe Radio 4 series starred Sir Michael Hordern, Jane Asher (as Susan), Lesley Philips (as the Big Bad Wolf), Roshan Seth (as Mowgli) Warren Mitchell and James Grout. The first series won Adrian Mourby the Sony Silver Award for Creative Writing on Radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328245", "title": "Public Affairs Council", "text": "Public Affairs Council\n\nThe Public Affairs Council (PAC) is a professional association for people working in public administration and policy. Its mission is to advance the field of public affairs and provide resources to public affairs executives and managers to help them achieve their business and professional goals. Based in Washington, D.C., PAC currently counts over 600 corporations, associations and consulting firms as members.\n\nThe Public Affairs Council was launched in 1954 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, when he convened a meeting of business executives to suggest the creation of a national organization to make business people from both parties active participants in the political process. First incorporated as the Effective Citizens Organization (ECO), the ECO relocated to Washington, DC from New York City in 1962 and changed its name to the Public Affairs Council in 1965.\n\nIn the 1950s, the concept of corporate public affairs was only beginning to come into vogue, and at the time meant mostly legislature watching and corporate community involvement. Today, the definition of \"public affairs\" is much broader, encompassing political involvement, lobbying (government relations), political action committees, corporate community involvement, issues management, grassroots advocacy, and public relations. This broadening of the field of public affairs and an increased understanding of the importance of political involvement has been demonstrated in the growth of formal corporate and association public affairs programs. In the 1950s, only a handful of companies had formal programs, today, thousands of companies and associations have them.\n\nSince its founding, the expansion of the Public Affairs Council and its operations has mirrored the growth of the public affairs profession. In the beginning, the Council offered only a few limited services and a monthly newsletter, but today, the Public Affairs Council offers a comprehensive program of public affairs and government relations services, several monthly and annual publications, and dozens of annual conferences.\n\nThrough the Consulting Services division, the Council advances the field of Public Affairs by collecting and analyzing data, assessing best practices, and providing professional assistance to member organizations in areas of strategic planning and management, organizational structure, performance measurement and evaluation.\n\nThe Consulting Services division carries out its mission through a mix of products and services available only to members of the Public Affairs Council, including individual consultation and technical assistance, applied research and consulting, books and publications, conferences and seminars.\n\nBeginning in 1958, the ECO launched its first newsletter, \"Echo\". In 1974, the Public Affairs Council renamed the newsletter \"Impact\", which is the name that it retains to this day. In addition to this monthly newsletter, the Council, in conjunction with the Foundation for Public Affairs, produces numerous publications annually, including handbooks for public affairs professionals, benchmarking studies, and the Public Affairs Management Report series.\n\nIn 1964 the ECO offered its first series of conferences and roundtables, including the first Public Affairs Training Seminar (PATS). As the interrelationship between business and government became more complex, these conferences provided public affairs professionals with their first opportunities for learning about groundbreaking approaches to public affairs that were being developed. The Public Affairs Council now holds more than 100 conferences and workshops annually, including the largest national conferences on corporate and association grassroots, political action committees and corporate philanthropy.\n\nThe Public Affairs Council is governed by a volunteer board of directors composed of industry leaders. The Council's Executive Committee, which provides the day-to-day governance of programs and activities, is made up of 15 executives who have demonstrated support for the Council as Members of the Board or Directors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328249", "title": "Hexed", "text": "Hexed\n\nHexed is a 1993 American black comedy film starring Arye Gross, Claudia Christian, Adrienne Shelly, and R. Lee Ermey, and written and directed by Alan Spencer, best known as the creator of the satirical TV series \"Sledge Hammer!\" The film centers on a nebbish clerk who is seduced by a supermodel, unaware that she is a psychotic murderess.\n\nThe film was shot in Dallas and Fort Worth. Director and writer Alan Spencer expressed disappointment he was not given full creative control and was forced to film the movie on a tight schedule.\n\nA socially awkward clerk falls in love with a supermodel, unaware that she is a psychotic murderer. They get married at the end.\nIn a post-credit scene set 2 years later, Hexina is seen holding two babies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328252", "title": "Grinnell Lake", "text": "Grinnell Lake\n\nGrinnell Lake is located in Glacier National Park, in the U. S. state of Montana. Named after George Bird Grinnell, the lake has an opaque turquoise appearance from the rock flour (silt) which is transported to the lake from Grinnell Glacier. Grinnell Lake is accessible via the Grinnell Glacier Trail and is from the Many Glacier Hotel.\n\nList of lakes in Glacier County, Montana\n"}
{"id": "2328255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328255", "title": "Pipecutter", "text": "Pipecutter\n\nA pipecutter is a type of tool used by plumbers to cut pipe. Besides producing a clean cut, the tool is often a faster, cleaner, and more convenient way of cutting pipe than using a hacksaw, although this depends on the metal of the pipe.\n\nThere are two types of pipe cutters. Plastic tubing cutters, which really look much like a pair of pruning shears, may be used for thinner pipes and tubes, such as sprinkler pipe. For use on thicker pipes, there is a pipecutter with a sharp wheel and adjustable jaw grips. These are used by rotating it around the pipe and repeatedly tightening it until it cuts all of the way through.\n\nHacksaws will cut nearly any size pipe made out of metals and plastics. Pipecutters, on the other hand, are more limited. In the situations where they work, they are generally accepted to leave cleaner cuts on the outer surface of the tube. The cut can leave a burr around the inside of the tube. This burr should be cleaned or reamed when cutting electrical conduit to prevent stripping of the insulating coating from the wires. In fluid handling applications, the burr should also be removed, as it can restrict the flow and cause turbulence.\n"}
{"id": "2328257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328257", "title": "George Fairchild", "text": "George Fairchild\n\nGeorge Thompson Fairchild (October 6, 1838 – March 16, 1901) was an American educator and university president.\n\nFairchild was the son of Grandison Fairchild. George was born on a farm in rural Lorain County, Ohio, and graduated with two degrees from Oberlin (AB 1862, MA 1865).\n\nIn 1865, Fairchild began his academic career as an instructor at State Agricultural College of Michigan (later Michigan State University). The following year he was made professor of English, a position he retained through the 1860s and 1870s. Fairchild was also a vice president of Michigan State, and in 1878 he served as acting President.\n\nIn 1879, Fairchild was hired as the third President of Kansas State Agricultural College in Manhattan, Kansas (later Kansas State University). He took office on December 1. Notably, at the same time one brother, James Fairchild, was President of Oberlin College and another brother, Edward Henry Fairchild, was President of the progressive Berea College.\n\nWhile at Kansas State, Fairchild stepped into an ongoing debate about the role of land grant colleges. While some felt that the college should be limited to agricultural and mechanical arts, Fairchild reimplemented a classical liberal arts education at Kansas State. He is credited with saying, \"Our college exists not so much to make men farmers as to make farmers men.\" Fairchild restored classics courses and brought in prominent professors. He also bolstered the number and caliber of students at Kansas State, lifting attendance at the young school from 207 to 734 students during his tenure. Ernest Fox Nichols, Philip Fox, Walter T. Swingle, Charles Lester Marlatt and David Fairchild (his son) were drawn to study at the school during this era.\n\nPresident Fairchild retained his position at Kansas State until June 30, 1897. Fairchild submitted his resignation that year in connection with a complete restructuring of the college by members of the Populist Party on the state Board of Regents, who terminated the majority of teaching faculty because the Board disagreed with the University's direction. Fairchild penned a widely-read article in \"The American Journal of Sociology\" claiming that party politicians aimed to \"capture\" Kansas State Agricultural College \"for a school of socialism.\" He alleged that Regent Christian B. Hoffman, recently returned from the utopian community at Topolobompo (Sinaloa, Mexico), was one of the primary instigators. Education leaders from around the country wrote supporting letters to the outgoing president.\n\nFollowing his resignation from Kansas State, Fairchild became a professor of English and vice president at Berea College in Berea, Kentucky. While at Berea, Macmillan Company published Fairchild's book \"Rural Wealth and Welfare: Economic Principles Illustrated and Applied in Farm Life\" in 1900.\n\nIn 1863, Fairchild married Charlotte Pearly Halsted. They had five children:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328261", "title": "Paul Rieckhoff", "text": "Paul Rieckhoff\n\nPaul (P.J.) Rieckhoff is an American writer, social entrepreneur, advocate, activist and veteran of the United States Army and the Iraq War. He is the President of Righteous Media Inc and the host of the Angry Americans podcast. Prior to that, he was the founder, CEO and executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), a non-partisan non-profit founded in 2004 with tens of thousands of members in all 50 US states. IAVA is America's first and largest Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans group. He served as an army first lieutenant and infantry rifle platoon leader in Iraq from 2003 through 2004. Rieckhoff was released from the Army National Guard in 2007.\n\nRieckhoff attended James I. O'Neill High School in Highland Falls, New York, and graduated from Amherst College in 1998 with a BA in political science. At Amherst, Rieckhoff was a varsity football and rugby player. He hosted a radio show on the college radio station, WAMH-FM and was president of the student government.\n\nRieckhoff enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserve on September 15, 1998, and completed Basic Combat Training and Advanced Individual Training at Fort McClellan, Alabama. He then served in the U.S. Army Reserve, as a specialist with the 812th Military Police Company. While working on Wall Street in 1999, Rieckhoff transferred to the New York Army National Guard. He graduated from Officer Candidate School in June 2001 and was named a Distinguished Military Graduate. Rieckhoff selected infantry as his branch and joined A Company, 1-105th Infantry (Light).\n\nRieckhoff left Wall Street on September 7, 2001, with plans to travel and complete additional military schooling. On the morning of September 11, Rieckhoff was at his apartment in Manhattan when the first plane hit the World Trade Center. He participated in the rescue efforts at ground zero. His unit was formally activated for rescue and security operations later that evening.\n\nRieckhoff recounted his 9/11 experiences for the 9/11 Tribute Center for a project called \"Stories of 9/11 told by those who were there\"\n\nIn 2002, Rieckhoff volunteered for the invasion of Iraq. In January of that year, he was on a plane to join the 3rd Infantry Division at Fort Stewart, Georgia. Rieckhoff was then assigned as a platoon leader in the 3-124th Infantry (Air Assault) of the Florida Army National Guard. The unit was attached to 1st Brigade, 3rd Infantry Division and spent almost a year conducting combat operations in Baghdad, Iraq. Third Platoon conducted over 1,000 dismounted and mounted combat patrols. All thirty-eight of the men in Rieckhoff's platoon returned home alive.\n\nRieckhoff was awarded a United States Army Commendation Medal for his service in Iraq.\n\nIn 2008, Rieckhoff and IAVA led the passage of the \"Post-9/11 (New) GI Bill.\" Despite surprising opposition, IAVA ensured the bill's passage—which has now successfully supported the education of over one million veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. On February 7, 2007, he testified before the House Veterans Affairs Committee to advocate for passage of the bill.\n\nOn February 13, 2014, under Rieckhoff's leadership, IAVA led the creation, passage and signing into law of the historic Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for America's Veterans (SAV) Act. The law was named after Marine CPL Clay Hunt, a sniper, IAVA member and personal friend of Rieckhoff and other IAVA leaders. Rieckhoff stood on stage with President Obama, Clay's mother, Susan and other national leaders for a signing ceremony at the White House.\n\nIn a talk at Johnson Chapel at Amherst College on August 31, 2009, Paul Rieckhoff offered first-year and transfer students his take on 50 things to do before graduating at the annual DeMott Lecture. Among them: write, write, beat Williams and learn about President John F. Kennedy's Amherst speech—delivered just days before his assassination.\n\nRieckhoff has been an outspoken leader for veterans who has frequently challenged presidents, political leaders, and, particularly, former VA Secretary Eric Shinseki.\n\"The Washington Post\", in a profile of Rieckhoff's battle with Shinseki wrote:\"Younger veterans groups have adopted many of the lessons of today’s fast-moving, hyper-partisan political campaigns to raise the pressure on Shinseki and the VA. Vietnam War veterans are looking for answers about the alleged cover-up of a backlog at a Veterans Affairs hospital in Phoenix. No group exemplifies this shift more clearly than Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, which is based in New York and has about 270,000 members who have signed up for its e-mail list. IAVA's 45-person staff – most of them younger than 30 – is small compared to the larger, more established veterans organizations. Like the traditional veterans groups, IAVA is nonpartisan. But the group and its founder, Paul Rieckhoff, 39, have been a relentless presence on Capitol Hill, online and in the national media, criticizing Shinseki’s leadership of the department. “IAVA is packed with a bunch of digital natives”, said Phil Carter, who studies veterans' issues for the Center for a New American Security. “That affects the speed that they can get out a critical message and the uptake that their message gets from the media.\"\n\nIn 2012, Stars and Stripes wrote an article \"IAVA attracts the spotlight – and detractors\". \"IAVA representatives are frequent cable news guests and regulars at hearings on Capitol Hill, where few if any veterans initiatives are passed without their blessing. They're advertising stars, thanks to donated public service spots and a partnership with Miller High Life. IAVA events drew crowds at the Super Bowl and this year's presidential political conventions, among dozens of other high-profile events. In just eight years, IAVA has transformed itself from an upstart veterans organization to a lobbying heavyweight and media favorite. For many Americans not connected to the military, they’ve become the face not just of the current combat generation but of all veterans. That infuriates their critics, who see IAVA as a small, unrepresentative sample of returning war heroes, a veterans group with an uncharacteristic liberal bent and a business model that emphasizes online communities over traditional outreach. They’re too loud. They take too much credit. They're unwilling to wait for change. They’re too convinced that their unconventional strategies and overly aggressive approach are more helpful than what other advocates – and the Department of Veterans Affairs – are offering.\"\n\nRieckhoff's book, Chasing Ghosts, is a scathing criticism of the Iraq War and President George Bush that was praised by most critics.\n\nHe has been a vocal advocate for gay rights and the repeal of \"Don't Ask Don't Tell\" – and reform of the military's sexual assault policies.\n\nRieckhoff was a vocal critic of the film, \"The Hurt Locker\", posting a piece in Newsweek, titled \"Veterans: Why 'The Hurt Locker' Isn't Reality\" and appeared on PBS Newshour to state his position.\n\nRieckhoff was a strong supporter of the controversial film, \"American Sniper\", writing a review for Variety stating, “'American Sniper' is the single best work of film about the Iraq War ever made.\"\n\nIn 2015, Rieckhoff appeared on Comedy Central's \"The Nightly Show\" to defend \"American Sniper\" as an effective public awareness tool for veterans causes.\n\nAfter returning home from Iraq in 2004, Rieckhoff founded Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), a nonpartisan organization for new veterans. IAVA has a recorded 300,000 veterans and civilian supporters nationwide and served over 800,000 post-9/11 veterans.\n\nRieckhoff is a nationally recognized and known authority on the new veteran community and policy. He regularly testifies before Congress on issues facing the veterans' community and writes regularly for national websites and publications. In August 2011, Rieckhoff and four other IAVA Member Veterans appeared on the cover of TIME magazine for a feature about Iraq and Afghanistan veterans being leaders of the New Greatest Generation.\n\nRieckhoff has appeared on many television and radio programs including \"Meet the Press, The Charlie Rose Show, NBC Nightly News, World News With Charles Gibson, The Early Show, Tavis Smiley, The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, Anderson Cooper 360°, Real Time with Bill Maher, The Colbert Report\" and has written articles and opinion columns for \"The New York Times, Associated Press, Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Los Angeles Times, Washington Post, Newsweek, The Huffington Post\", and other publications. He was profiled by \"The Hill\" in June 2014 in a piece titled, \"From the battles of Iraq to those of DC\".\n\nRieckhoff wrote a book describing his experiences in Iraq and activism afterwards entitled \"Chasing Ghosts\" (2006). In 2006, Rieckhoff spoke to NPR's Fresh Air about the book.\n\nRieckhoff has produced four documentary films (\"Warrior Champions\", \"Reserved to Fight\", \"Jerebek\" and \"When I Came Home\") and acted in \"The Green Zone\" starring Matt Damon.\n\nRieckhoff was inducted into the Global Ashoka Fellowship in 2010 as recognition of his innovation and entrepreneurship on behalf of new veterans.\n\nA member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Rieckhoff is an advocate for Iraqi and Afghan refugees and interpreters, and an advisory board member of \"The List Project\", \"a non-profit operating in the U.S., founded with the belief that the United States Government has a clear and urgent moral obligation to resettle to safety Iraqis who are imperiled due to their affiliation with the United States of America.\" He helped bring his former Iraqi translator, Esam Pacha (who was targeted for assassination, to the US.\n\nNamed #37 of \"GQ\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"50 Most Powerful People in D.C.\" in 2009,\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" named Rieckhoff to its list of \"The Quiet Ones: 12 Leaders Who Get Things Done\" \n\nIn 2013, Rieckhoff was named to The Verge: 50: \"people that changed our lives\" alongside leaders like Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk and Marissa Mayer.\n\nRieckhoff was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters by Amherst College in 2013.\n\n\"The Hill\" named Rieckhoff to its \"Top Lobbyists 2014: Grassroots\" list for the second year in a row, adding, \"The Iraq veterans organization played a leading role on passing a Department of Veterans Affairs reform bill this year, and will continue to be a big player on its implementation, among other veterans issues.\"\n\nIn 2014, Rieckhoff was awarded a \"Teddy Award\" by \"Time Magazine\" for his courage in demanding VA reform throughout years of scandal. Later the same year, \"Task and Purpose\" named Rieckhoff to \"The Mighty 25: Veterans Poised to Make a Difference in 2015\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328262", "title": "Hesari", "text": "Hesari\n\nHesari (, also Romanized as Ḩeşārī) is a village in Ruin Rural District, in the Central District of Esfarayen County, North Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 103, in 27 families.\n"}
{"id": "2328265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328265", "title": "Lawrence School, Lovedale", "text": "Lawrence School, Lovedale\n\nThe Lawrence School, Lovedale is an educational institution in Lovedale, located near Ootacamund, Tamil Nadu, India, and named for its founder, Sir Henry Montgomery Lawrence. Lawrence had mooted the idea about the establishment of a chain of schools to provide education to the children of the deceased and serving soldiers and officers of the British army.\nLawrence was killed in Indian rebellion of 1857. His dream took shape and four such schools, known as Lawrence Asylum, were established: at Sanawar in 1847, and at Mount Abu in 1856, both during his lifetime; then at Lovedale, Ootacamund in 1858 and at Ghora Gali, Murree, in present-day Pakistan in 1860.\n\nIn 1913 the name of the school was changed from Lawrence Asylum to Maj Gen Sir Henry Lawrence Memorial School. On being accorded royal patronage in 1922 the name of the school was changed in 1925 to the Lawrence Memorial Royal Military School. In 1949, soon after Indian independence, the school was handed over to the civilian authorities of the Government of India; subsequently, the name of the school was changed to The Lawrence School, as it is known today. As the school is located in Lovedale, the school is also simply referred to as \"Lovedale\".\n\nThe school's motto is \"Never Give In\".\n\nMany notable personalities including former presidents of India Pranab Mukherjee and APJ Abdul Kalam have visited Lovedale to grace the school's founder's days.\n\nOn May 31, 1988, a commemorative postage stamp was issued by India Post to commemorate 130 years of its existence.\n\nThe Lawrence School, Lovedale, campus of , in Lovedale, is 6 kilometres (3.7 miles) from Ootacamund. Located at a height of 7200 feet above sea level, it is slightly lower than the Dodabetta peak (altitude: 8650 feet), the highest peak of the Nilgiris mountain range. The school campus is divided into Preparatory School (classes 5 ), Junior school (classes 6 – 8) and Senior School (classes 9 – 12). The classrooms and dormitories of the schools are housed in their respective buildings. The girls are housed in the Girls School and go to the respective schools for classes. Adequate facilities exist for sports & extra-curricular activities at the school.\n\nThe school is governed by a Board of Governors, appointed by the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Government of India, and is managed operationally by the headmaster or headmistress, who is an \"ex officio\" member of the Board.\n\nThe school's alumni association, the Old Lawrencian Association (OLA), has chapters and branches in several major Indian and international cities.\n\nAlumni are generally referred to as 'OLs'.\n\nNotable Alumni\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2328267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328267", "title": "Little Redfish Lake", "text": "Little Redfish Lake\n\nLittle Redfish Lake is a name given to two different alpine lakes in central Idaho, both in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area and Custer County. This article refers to the lake on Redfish Lake Creek downstream of Redfish Lake and south of Stanley. For the article on the other Little Redfish Lake see Little Redfish Lake (White Cloud Mountains).\n\nLittle Redfish Lake is a picturesque mountain lake (photo) on the northeast edge of the Sawtooth mountain range in central Idaho, five miles south of Stanley in and less than mile from State Highway 75.\n\nIts surface elevation is above sea level, and is about a mile (1.6 km) downstream from the significantly larger Redfish Lake (). Both were named for the red-scaled sockeye salmon that returned every year to spawn via the Salmon River. The lakes flow into the river via Redfish Lake Creek.\n\nBesides the red-scaled salmon that come to this lake, Little Redfish Lake also has a clay pit, located at the bottom of the lake.\n\nIn 1961, Richard Brautigan wrote portions of his novella \"Trout Fishing in America\" while camping near the lake, which is featured in several chapters of the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "2328271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2328271", "title": "Bethany McLean", "text": "Bethany McLean\n\nBethany Lee McLean (born December 12, 1970) is an American journalist and contributing editor for \"Vanity Fair\" magazine. She is known for her writing on the Enron scandal and the 2008 financial crisis. Previous assignments include editor-at-large, columnist for \"Fortune\" and a contributor to \"Slate\".\n\nMcLean was born in Hibbing, Minnesota on December 12, 1970. In 1992 McLean received a B.A. in English and mathematics from Williams College.\n\nMcLean started her career as an investment banking analyst for Goldman Sachs and joined \"Vanity Fair\" as a contributing editor in 2008. She began as a contributor to \"Slate's\" Moneybox column, in 2010 and \"The Bulldog\" column in \"Fortune\". \n\nShe authored an article on Enron for the March 5, 2001 issue of \"Fortune\" entitled, \"Is Enron Overpriced?\". She co-authored the book \"The Smartest Guys in the Room\", which detailed the corrupt business practices of Enron officials. The book was later made into the Academy Award-nominated documentary \"\". \n\nShe co-authored a book on the 2008 financial crisis titled \"All the Devils Are Here\".\n\nIn September 2015, she published \"Shaky Ground: The Strange Saga of the U.S. Mortgage Giants\" which examines the governance and financial situation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac seven years after the 2008 financial crisis.\n\nMcLean married Chris Wilford in 2000 and divorced in 2006. In May 2008, she married attorney Sean Berkowitz, the former Director of the United States Department of Justice Enron Task Force.\n\nMcLean resides in Chicago with her husband and children.\n\n\n"}
