{"id": "2323823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323823", "title": "Dean Koontz's Frankenstein", "text": "Dean Koontz's Frankenstein\n\nDean Koontz's Frankenstein is the collective title of five novels co-written by Dean Koontz. Though technically of the mystery or thriller genres, the novels also feature the trappings of horror, fantasy, and science fiction.\n\nThe first three books form a trilogy: \"Prodigal Son\", co-written with Kevin J. Anderson, was published in 2004; \"City of Night\", co-written with Ed Gorman, was published in 2005; and \"Dead and Alive\", written without a co-writer, was released on July 28, 2009. (At the same time that the final novel's authorship was confirmed, having previously been slated as \"by Dean Koontz & Ed Gorman\", Koontz's 'collaborators' on the earlier novels were retrospectively removed as co-authors, and all new editions of the novels are credited as \"by Dean Koontz\" alone.)\n\nA fourth novel, \"Lost Souls\", was published in May 2010, and a fifth, \"The Dead Town\", was released on May 24, 2011. Although it was originally announced that the fourth, fifth and sixth novels would form a second trilogy, the cover for \"The Dead Town\" states it is the final volume.\n\nThe film Elizabeth Harvest's plot about a cloned wife has strong similarities to this story.\n\nThe series is supposedly a modern updating and sequel of the mythology of Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\", although the similarities are mainly superficial. Set in present-day New Orleans, the series follows the activities of Victor Frankenstein, now known as Victor Helios, as he continues to create new life forms for his own purposes. Opposed to his activities are a pair of homicide detectives and Frankenstein's original monster, now known as Deucalion.\n\nWhile the original Monster was made with parts from dead humans, Victor Frankenstein is now using modern technology to create more creatures, particularly synthetic biology. The new race he is making is constructed and designed from the bottom-up, and can be seen as bio androids, artificial humans made of flesh. Their knowledge and behavior is even based on programs downloaded directly into their brain, which appears to be an advanced wetware computer.\n\nOne of the primary characters of the series, Carson is a tough and occasionally brutal detective whose best friend is a fellow officer, Michael Maddison. She is the caretaker of her autistic brother, Arnie, whose condition is a more significant part of the story. Carson has a penchant for brute force and firepower, but it is her obvious compassion as she cares for Arnie that prompts Deucalion to come to her for aid in hunting his creator. Although initially sceptical, she quickly comes to accept Deucalion's story, quickly putting together the various reasons why Victor Frankenstein would be in New Orleans rather than Europe, such as the more advanced medical advances and the abundance of raw material.\n\nShe and Michael Maddison provide the humor of the story. While Carson acts as the \"straight man\" of the duo, Michael often plays the role of her foil, his flippant personality bouncing off her very serious one.\n\nCarson has feelings for her partner, Michael, although she hides it because she does not want their personal lives interfering with their professional lives. That, and she does not think that the middle of an apocalypse is the perfect time to talk about love.\n\nHer father was killed on the job and it has been hinted by conversations between her and her partner that it was covered up, with evidence suggesting that he was a dirty cop even as Carson is convinced that the evidence is too neat for it to be anything but a frame. It was later confirmed that Helios killed her father when he came too close to the truth, although Carson dismisses Helios's claims that her father begged for his life, stating that he would have demeaned himself to save her mother but would have faced his own death with courage.\n\nIn the 2004 TV movie Carson was played by Parker Posey.\n\nCarson's partner and fellow homicide detective, Michael has a habit of making wry observations about any situation: at one point, Carson considers the possibility of the Apocalypse coming because 'he [Michael] had been struck speechless twice in one hour.'\n\nMichael is the more imaginative of the two; he adjusts rather quickly to Deucalion's revelation, with very little evidence, that Victor is plotting to overthrow the Old Race (the term Victor Helios has applied to all humans who have not been produced in his laboratory). His adjustment may stem more from his love of Carson than actual belief.\n\nMichael pines for a less-professional relationship with Carson. This is very similar to the (initial) relationship between the two police partners in Koontz's \"Darkfall\".\n\nIn the 2004 TV movie Michael (renamed Michael Sloane) was played by Adam Goldberg.\n\nVictor Frankenstein, having applied his own research to extending his own mortality, is now known to the world as Victor Helios. To the public, Helios is a philanthropic millionaire and a beneficiary to mankind. In reality, he has experienced much in the two hundred years that have passed since he created a man from fragments of the corpses of criminals. However, in secret, Helios has become obsessed with overthrowing true humans, which he refers to as \"the Old Race,\" and replacing them with his superior creations. After the failure of his first rebellious monster, he put himself through extensive bodily modifications to extend his life span and increase his physical power (the details are unknown, but it is hinted he used a method similar to that which created the monster, possibly replacing organs from healthy victims over the years). This process has left his physical form scarred and deformed. Helios has acquired wealth and power from selling his knowledge to, among others, Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin, and the People's Republic of China. He respected Hitler and was greatly grieved at the end of World War II. He performed the life-extending surgery for Stalin, which went wrong and led to the dictator's insanity and assassination by fearful underlings.\n\nIn modern times, Helios has learned to create genetically-engineered beings, called the New Race, devoid of morality, feelings, and pain, unable to deny his command or attack him, focused on his own goals for them while lacking the ability to create or imagine anything beyond this life and their roles. He believes he has given them a perfect existence, but the horror of their protracted but meaningless lives has left many suicidal; a genetically-imprinted proscription prevents them from killing themselves or venting their rage by hurting or killing others, forcing them to find 'loopholes' such as a butler gnawing his own fingers off so that Helios will destroy him as useless. Helios desires to remake the world in the image of Huxley's Brave New World, incapable of acknowledging that his creations are destroying themselves or being driven mad because they cannot cope with the inability to grow beyond their pre-programmed limits and be more than what he wants them to be. Additionally, he is a sexual sadist and a militant atheist, beating Erika to reinforce his own sense of power and violently certain that there is nothing supernatural in the world or anything that he cannot understand. At the end of the third book he was finally killed following the destruction of his farms, with most of the new race dying along with him (The reasoning behind this is that if he can't become a god, he refused to let his creations outlast their creator) with only a few remaining. Unknown to all, he had created a clone of himself, who has the same goal as his original but considers himself to be as foolish as the humans he tries to replace. He created a new batch that call themselves, “The Community,” and after seeing his plans of human extinction come to pass, he intends to kill the community and at last himself believing the world will be not existing anymore if there is no beholder.\n\nHe is naturally extremely arrogant, which has resulted in a degree of carelessness and inability to realize his own failures, continuing to create his creatures with the same programmed beliefs about the nature of existence simply because he believes it, failing to recognise that his creatures 'self-destruct' because of the spiritual void in their existences and dismissing his 'failures' as just mistakes in the equipment. For this reason in the second book the programing to prevent killing of humans is breaking, and two of his creations have experienced severe mutations.\n\nIn the TV movie Helios was played by Thomas Kretschmann.\n\nHelios's first disastrous creation and monster. Unlike his other creations, the hulking and highly intelligent Deucalion (a name he gives himself later) believes that the singular nature of his genesis—animation via a lightning bolt—gave him a soul, though this is never a fact that he confirms, believing that would be an act of blasphemy. Another interesting byproduct is Deucalion's innate understanding of \"the quantum nature of the universe,\" which allows him to teleport vast distances instantly and make objects (thus far, only coins) disappear and reappear at will. In Koontz's continuity, when the monster attempted to attack Frankenstein, the doctor activated a small bomb he had implanted inside his creation's head as insurance against treachery; though Deucalion was not killed, half of his face was badly deformed and heavily scarred. After the events in Mary Shelley's book, he fled to America and gradually became the man he is today, hiding in carnival sideshows and eventually leaving for a Tibetan monastery to find peace. He remained there for several years, befriending a number of the monks, one of whom attempted to reduce the severity of the artificial man's scars by concealing them with intricate tattoos. After learning from an old friend that his creator is alive, Deucalion returns to New Orleans, where he eventually recruits assistance from Carson and, through her, Maddison.\n\nThe character shares his name with Deucalion, a figure from Greek mythology, who was the son of Prometheus (Shelley's subtitle for her novel was \"The Modern Prometheus\"). Deucalion chose the name for precisely this reason. Deucalion is also the Greek mythological equivalent of Noah, and restarted the human race after the flood.\n\nDeucalion's disappearing coin trick also appeared in Koontz's \"From the Corner of His Eye\".\n\nDeucalion it seems, like his other fictional counterparts, has a dark and murderous past. An example of this is the fact that he murdered Helios's first wife, Elizabeth, when Helios was still Frankenstein (not Helios's New Race wives, Erikas 1-5). He desires redemption and believes it is his destiny/duty to kill his creator. The irony of this is that he, like the others of his \"race\", cannot kill Helios personally, although he lacks the restrictions on killing that Helios has placed in later creations and can therefore kill anyone else, whether of the Old Race or New Race, without complications.\n\nIn the film Deucalion is played by Vincent Pérez.\n\nThe synthetic wife Helios created for two reasons: publicly, she serves to keep Victor from having to deal with the attentions of Old Race women who would try to \"land\" him as part of their own quest for status and power; privately, she exists for little more than Helios' sexual gratification. Designed to be completely devoted to him, his misogyny has resulted in brutal \"terminations\" of the past four Erikas for failures ranging from outright rebellion to exhibitions of free will. A sexual sadist, he deliberately designs the Erika models with specific \"defects\" (such as the \"vulnerabilities\" of shame, pain and strangulation), and he takes great pleasure in beating them during sex. Erika IV read extensively, such as Emily Dickenson or Charles Dickens, leading her to question her husband's plans due to her inability to reconcile the 'inferiority' of the Old Race with their ability to create such incredible works of art or commit such noble acts as sacrificing themselves for those they love.\n\nAs a result, she was recruited by Karloff, an experimental disembodied head that could psychically control an unattached hand from afar, to kill Helios. When she revealed she could not kill him, Karloff fell into despair and requested death, so she turned off his life support. Video recording tipped Victor to these actions, causing him to beat and strangle her. She stated that she forgave him for killing her but not for making her.\n\nAs a result of her predecessor's book-inspired independence, Erika V is forbidden to read, but her thoughts are filled with literary allusions because various snippets were programmed into her mind because Victor felt it necessary for her to have some general \"literary\" knowledge for light conversation (Although these details are relatively limited, such as her knowing that Romeo and Juliet were prominent lovers in fiction without knowing how their story ended).\n\nIn the film Erika is played by Ivana Miličević.\n\nA renegade member of the New Race who was implanted by Victor Helios into the police force. In an effort to find what enabled humans to feel happiness, he became a serial killer and desecrated his victims' corpses in a futile effort to find a happiness 'gland' or other physical organ, believing that the Old Race had never identified such a gland simply because they were too inferior to recognize it as such. Because of some unknown factor, a mass grows in him throughout the first book, until he fell off a building in a gun battle with Maddison and Carson. This mass develops into a smaller yet mature version of himself which burst forth from his torso and escaped. In the second book, it appears to Erika V. (Note his name is a reference to the character in \"Dracula\".) Jonathan Harker also had a partner in the police force by the name of Dwight Frye (which is also another reference to classic monster movie lore).\n\nIn the 2004 telefilm, Harker was played by Michael Madsen.\n\nA member of the New Race. Helios experimented with grafting cockroach and feline DNA onto the basic New Race genome, intending to build Werner's physical resilience and various other 'improvements'. Werner, the security chief at the Hands of Mercy, was \"such a solid block of muscle that even a concrete floor ought to have sagged under him. His only imperfection was the uncontrollable snot that would come every once in a while. The mucous membranes in his sinuses produced mucus at a prodigious rate. On those occasions, Werner often went through three boxes of Kleenex per hour.\" While searching Randal Six's room after Randal's escape, he started to mutate at a nearly-explosive rate with no catalyst that Helios could discern. He experienced many physical changes, making him an even bigger setback in Victor's future plans. Escaping his prison he melted other members of the New Race into himself starting with full bodies but changing to integrate the brains only.\n\nOriginating as a tumor growing from within and later bursting out of Harker, the physically hideous troll has metamorphosed into a form free from Helios's control. It supposedly hides in sewers, and eventually shows itself to Erika during book three. They later form a mother and son relationship. It chooses the name Jocko for itself, has a scary smile, talks like a small child. It becomes an expert computer hacker with a passion for hats with bells. In the end of the series, Jocko ends up becoming the host of a popular children's television show called 'Jumpin' With Jocko.'\n\nThe \"Fat Man\" of a circus freak-show, and one of Deucalion's few friends. He lives in the Luxe Theatre with the \"monster\", reading mystery novels and helping keep the operation running.\n\nA New Man created to be autistic so Helios could conduct experiments on the syndrome with the hopes of being able to control the condition to create highly focused workforce and organic machines (both of which, because of the degree of the condition, would be highly focused on tasks). Cursed with a wide variety of mental illnesses including OCD and agoraphobia, Randal Six escapes his cell to seek out Arnie, whom he saw in a news clipping, apparently very happy. Randal Six determines that the young boy holds the key to happiness, something missing from the lives of all the New Race. Upon reaching the home of Carson and Arnie, Randal attacks Carson's roommate and tries to forcibly \"join\" Carson's family. He later died when Carson shot him.\n\nThe series has been adapted a couple of times, first in treatment for a TV movie and then in a comic series.\n\nThe concept for the series was adapted from a treatment written by Koontz and Anderson for the 2004 TV movie \"Frankenstein\", which was produced for the USA Network. Koontz withdrew from the project over creative differences with the network, and the production continued in a different direction with similar characters and a modified plot.\n\nThe series is also being adapted into comic books published by Dabel Brothers Productions.\n\nIn 2012, it was announced that TNT would create a television series which would adapt all five of the \"Dean Koontz's Frankenstein\" novels. James V. Hart, screenwriter of \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\", was to write the project with his son Jake Hart.\n\nIn 2010, it was announced that 1019 Entertainment would develop the series into a feature film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323824", "title": "God of Gamblers", "text": "God of Gamblers\n\nGod of Gamblers (; lit. \"God of Gambling\") is a 1989 Hong Kong action comedy-drama film written and directed by Wong Jing, and featuring an all-star cast led by Chow Yun-fat and Andy Lau.\n\nKo Chun (Chow Yun-fat) is a world-famous gambler, so renowned and talented at winning various games of chance that he is referred to as the \"God of Gamblers\". He keeps his identity secret from the public (and avoids photographs so his face is not recognized), but is known for three characteristics: his slicked-back hairstyle, his love of Feodora brand chocolate, and his jade pinky ring.\n\nKo Chun arrives in Tokyo, accompanied by his girlfriend Janet and his assistant and cousin Ko Yee, for a match with Tanaka, the country's top ranked gambler. After convincingly defeating Tanaka in games of Mahjong and dice, Tanaka concedes defeat and asserts that Ko Chun \"really [is] God\".\n\nTanaka asks Chun to help him take revenge on Chan Kam-Sing aka the \"Demon of Gamblers\", a famous Singaporean gambler who cheated Tanaka's father before driving him to suicide, by besting Chan in a high-stakes poker match. Ko Chun agrees, merely asking for a box of chocolate as payment. In gratitude, Tanaka sends his bodyguard, former Army of the Republic of Vietnam Special Forces Operative, Dragon, (Charles Heung), to accompany Ko Chun for protection.\n\nMeanwhile, Little Knife (Andy Lau), an avid but mediocre gambler who idolises the God of Gamblers, sets a trap for an Indian neighbour as a practical joke. After a confrontation on a train between Ko Chun, Dragon, and henchmen sent by one of Ko Chun's rivals, Ko happens to accidentally stumble into Knife's trap. Ko falls down a hill, hitting his head, and subsequently suffers from amnesia and regresses to a childlike state.\n\nKnife, not knowing who the unnamed stranger is, takes him in and names him \"Chocolate\" due to the man's seemingly obsessive love for the candy. Initially Knife is impatient with Chocolate's childish innocence and often yells at him, but soon recognises that \"Chocolate\" has innate gambling talent and begins to exploit his abilities in local poker games and gambling dens. As time passes, Knife comes to care for Chocolate and seeks to find a way to restore his memory.\n\nBack at Ko Chun's mansion, it is revealed that Janet has been searching for Chun for ten days to no avail. Ko Yee, who is jealous of Chun's success and wealth, makes advances on her, which she rejects; finally, while attempting to rape her, Yee accidentally knocks Janet off the balcony, killing her. He discovers that she has been recording what has been transpiring and proceeds to burn the tape. Later, Yee allies himself with Chan Kam-Sing and Ko Chun's other rival and they send assassins to find and kill Chun.\n\nEventually, the assassins find Chun, Knife, and their friends and attempt to kill them, but Dragon arrives to protect them after tracking Chun down. A fierce shootout ensues in a shopping center, in which Knife saves Chun from an attempt on his life by Ko Yee. During the fight, Dragon is wounded, causing Chun to snap out of his child persona briefly to kill the rest of the assailants. However, after regressing back to his childlike state, Chun becomes horrified at the carnage and runs out into the street where he is struck by a vehicle.\n\nChun awakens in the hospital with his regular persona, but no memory of the events or people he met after the fight. He is informed by Ko Yee, who is feigning loyalty, that Janet has disappeared. Knife arrives and attempts to warn Chun of Ko Yee's treachery but Yee has Knife thrown out. Later, Ko Yee gives Chan Kam-Sing special eyeglasses that will allow him to cheat during his upcoming poker match with Chun by reading invisible markings on the cards.\n\nChun, Yee, Tanaka and Dragon arrive on Chan Kam-Sing's yacht for the climactic game of five card stud. Knife, having sneaked onto the boat, again attempts to warn Chun of the danger he is in. Chun agrees to hear Knife out later but admonishes him not to interfere with the poker game.\n\nWith his ability to see the markings on the cards, Chan Kam-Sing dominates the first two rounds. After losing all of Tanaka's money, Ko Chun puts up his entire personal portfolio of wealth and holdings against Chan's wealth. Chan, using his glasses to see that Ko Chun has an inferior hand, agrees, showing his cards and gloating over his victory. Ko Chun, in turn, reveals that he actually has the superior hand and has won the game, having secretly altered the markings of the deck and using special contact lenses to read them.\n\nSubsequently, Ko Chun tricks Chan Kam-Sing into shooting Ko Yee. As Yee lies dying, Chun drops Janet's tape (which actually never finished burning) onto his body. Ko Chun then departs (as police arrive to take Chan into custody for murder) without speaking to Knife, much to the latter's dismay.\n\nKo Chun later surprises Knife at his home and reveals that he remembered Knife in the hospital and knew about Ko Yee's betrayal all along, but had to feign ignorance to execute his plan properly. He promises to make it up to Knife by taking him to Las Vegas as his gambling partner.\n\n\nThe success of the film spawned many parodies and spin-offs such as \"All for the Winner\" starring Stephen Chow. Several more comedy-driven sequels also starring Stephen Chow were released, as well as a sequel where Chow Yun-Fat reprises his role as Ko Chun.\n\n\"God of Gamblers\" series:\n\nSpin-offs:\n\nThe most notable soundtrack of the film is the main theme song composed by Lowell Lo. The theme song has since been featured in sequels and spinoffs.\n\nIn 2016, DJ and music producer Eugene Luu (best known for Chinese Pop EDM crossovers) released a Dubstep remix of the theme song on YouTube which has over 50,000 views (as of September 2017), coinciding with the release of the spin-off series sequel From Vegas to Macau III.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323825", "title": "Wright Brothers National Memorial", "text": "Wright Brothers National Memorial\n\nWright Brothers National Memorial, located in Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina, commemorates the first successful, sustained, powered flights in a heavier-than-air machine. From 1900 to 1903, Wilbur and Orville Wright came here from Dayton, Ohio, based on information from the U.S. Weather Bureau about the area's steady winds. They also valued the privacy provided by this location, which in the early twentieth century was remote from major population centers.\n\nAuthorized as Kill Devil Hill Monument on March 2, 1927, it was transferred from the War Department to the National Park Service on August 10, 1933. Congress renamed it and designated it a national memorial on December 4, 1953. As with all historic areas administered by the National Park Service, the national memorial was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966. The memorial's visitor center, designed by Ehrman Mitchell and Romaldo Giurgola, was designated a National Historic Landmark on January 3, 2001. The memorial is co-managed with two other Outer Banks parks, Fort Raleigh National Historic Site and Cape Hatteras National Seashore.\n\nThe Wrights made four flights from level ground near the base of the hill on December 17, 1903, in the \"Wright Flyer\", following three years of gliding experiments from atop this and other nearby sand dunes. It is possible to walk along the actual routes of the four flights, with small monuments marking their starts and finishes. Two wooden sheds, based on historic photographs, recreate the world's first airplane hangar and the brothers' living quarters.\n\nThe Visitor Center is home to a museum featuring models and actual tools and machines used by the Wright brothers during their flight experiments including a reproduction of the wind tunnel used to test wing shapes and a portion of the engine used in the first flight. In one wing of the Visitor Center is a life-size replica of the Wright brothers' 1903 \"Wright Flyer\", the first powered heavier-than-air aircraft in history to achieve controlled flight (the original being displayed at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington D.C.). A full-scale model of the Brothers' 1902 glider is also present, having been constructed under the direction of Orville Wright himself. Adorning the walls of the glider room are portraits and photographs of other flight pioneers throughout history.\n\nThe visitor center's Modern design was a departure from the National Park Service's earlier, more traditional buildings, and was built as part of its \"Mission 66\" modernization and expansion program. As the first major building of that effort, it was a high-profile success, bringing critical notice for its Modern design and launching the careers of its designers. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1975 for its architecture and its importance to the Park Service's program.\n\nA granite monument, dedicated in 1932, is perched atop Kill Devil Hill, commemorating the achievement of the Wright brothers. They conducted many of their glider tests on the massive shifting dune that was later stabilized to form Kill Devil Hill. Inscribed in capital letters along the base of the memorial tower is the phrase \"In commemoration of the conquest of the air by the brothers Wilbur and Orville Wright conceived by genius achieved by dauntless resolution and unconquerable faith.\" Atop the tower is a marine beacon, similar to one found in a lighthouse.\n\nThe doors of the tower are stainless steel over nickel, with a price of $3,000 in 1928 (). The six relief panels represent the conquest of the air:\n\nLeft Door (top to bottom): The contraptions of the French locksmith Besnier, who thought he could fly if he propelled himself into the air while wearing paddles on his arms and legs; An homage to Otto Lilienthal, a German who died while conducting gliding experiments; A reference to a French philosopher who thought that since dew rose in the morning, if it could be placed in an expandable bag attached to a box and sail, it would naturally rise when placed in the sun. (It didn't.)\n\nRight Door (top to bottom): Icarus, the Greek mythological figure who tried to fly from Crete by attaching feathers to his arms with wax. He fell when he flew too close to the sun, melting the wax; Bird flight to plane flight, or the rise of a phoenix; Kites used by the Wrights and others in early experiments\n\nThe tower was designed by Rodgers and Poor, a New York City architectural firm; the design was officially selected on February 14, 1930. Prior to the memorial's construction, the War Department selected Captain William H. Kindervater of the Quartermaster Corps to prepare the site for construction and to manage the area landscaping. To secure the sandy foundation, Captain Kindervater selected bermuda grass to be planted on Kill Devil Hill and the surrounding area. He also ordered a special fertilizer to be spread throughout the area to promote grass and shrubbery growth and decided to build a fence to prevent animal grazing. With a strong foundation in place, the Office of the Quartermaster selected Marine Captain John A. Gilman to preside over the construction project. Construction began in October 1931 and with a budget of $213,000 (equivalent to $ in ), the memorial was completed in November 1932. In the end, 1,200 tons () of granite, more than 2,000 tons () of gravel, more than 800 tons () of sand and almost 400 tons () of cement were used to build the structure, along with numerous other materials. It is constructed of granite mined at the North Carolina Granite Corporation Quarry Complex.\n\nNovember 14, 1932, was selected as the dedication day. Over 20,000 people were expected to attend the event, but only around 1,000 showed up on a stormy and windy day. Orville Wright was the main guest of honor at the ceremony, and aviator Ruth Nichols was given the privilege of removing the American flag that covered the word \"GENIUS\" and the plaque on the monument. President Herbert Hoover was unable to attend the ceremony, but a letter from the President was read prior to the dedication. The ceremony also marked the rare occasion when one of the persons the memorial was dedicated to (Orville Wright) was still living.\n\nThe hill offers great views of the surrounding area.\n\nIn 2008, the memorial, long plagued by seepage problems, was refurbished and better water control measures were installed. Interior lighting was improved and a steel map of early aviation flights restored. Visitors occasionally may ascend the tower by reservation.\n\nOn December 17, 2003, the Centennial of Flight was celebrated at the Park. The ceremony was hosted by flight enthusiast John Travolta, and included appearances by President George W. Bush, Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Chuck Yeager. The Centennial Pavilion was built for the celebration and housed exhibits showing the Outer Banks at the turn-of-the-century, the development of the 1903 replica, and NASA provided displays on aviation and flight. The Centennial Pavilion closed in 2014 and is slated to be demolished due to budget constraints.\nAn interactive sculpture was donated by the State of North Carolina and dedicated during the celebration. The life sized sculpture, created by Stephen H. Smith, is a full-sized replica of 1903 flyer the moment the flight began and includes the Wright Brothers along with members of the Kill Devil Hills Life-Saving Station who assisted in moving the aircraft, as well as John T. Daniels who took the now famous photograph of the first flight.\n\nCuriously the sculpture correctly has a criss-crossed chain driving the port propeller but incorrectly has this propeller being identical to, rather than a mirror image of, the starboard propeller.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323831", "title": "USS Daly (DD-519)", "text": "USS Daly (DD-519)\n\nUSS \"Daly\" (DD-519), a \"Fletcher\"-class destroyer, was a ship of the United States Navy named for Marine Sergeant Major Daniel Daly, (1873–1937), one of the very few people to be twice awarded the Medal of Honor.\n\n\"Daly\" was launched 24 October 1942 by Bethlehem Steel Co., Staten Island, N.Y., sponsored by Mrs. A. Ransweiler, niece of Sergeant Major Daly; and commissioned 10 March 1943, Commander R. G. Visser in command.\n\nBetween 14 May and 21 June 1943 \"Daly\" screened \"Ranger\" (CV-4) on exercises and patrol off NS Argentia, Newfoundland. She sailed from New York a week later screening \"Lexington\" (CV-16) and arrived at San Diego 4 August. The next day she was underway for Alaska, arriving at Adak 11 August. She escorted transports to the invasion of Kiska from 15 to 21 August, then patrolled and had escort duty between Kiska and Attu until 18 November when she sailed for Pearl Harbor, arriving 23 November.\n\n\"Daly\" left Pearl Harbor 9 December 1943 and arrived at Milne Bay, New Guinea, 18 December. Four days later she sortied to escort landing craft during the assault on Cape Gloucester, New Britain on 26 December. She splashed two attacking Japanese bombers, then aided survivors from \"Brownson\" (DD-518), rescuing 168 of her crew despite exploding depth charges from the sinking ship which caused temporary loss of power on \"Daly\".\n\n\"Daly\" covered the withdrawal of the LSTs to Cape Sudest, then escorted a convoy to Saidor for the invasion landings of 2 to 4 January 1944. She remained in the New Guinea area covering resupply operations for the troops on Saidor and Cape Gloucester until 4 February when she sailed for Sydney, Australia.\n\nReturning to Milne Bay, 22 February 1944, \"Daly\" sailed with Task Group 74.2 (TG 74.2) for the invasion of the Admiralty Islands, participating in the bombardments of Los Negros Island on 29 February and Seeadler Harbor, Manus Island on 7 March, and patrolling in support of the landing forces. She returned to Milne Bay 12 March. She operated from this port on various training exercises and bombarded Wewak Harbor on 17 March, then sortied 18 April for the Hollandia operation. She provided fire support for the invading troops on 21 and 22 April, then operated out of Seeadler Harbor to bombard the Wakde and Sawar Airfields on the night of 29–30 April to neutralize the danger of air attack on newly-won Allied positions on New Guinea, and to patrol between Aitape and Tanahmerah Bay.\n\nFrom 15 May to 5 August 1944 \"Daly\" served in the Western New Guinea operations. She provided fire support and bombardment in the Toem-Wakde-Sarmi area, off Biak, Noemfoor, and Mios Woendi Islands, and acted as radar guard and linking ship between the landing and covering forces off Cape Sansapor. After a brief overhaul at Sydney, Australia, she sortied from Humboldt Bay 11 September for the invasion of Morotai, providing patrol and fire support before returning to Manus 29 September. She got underway on 11 October to render fire support to the troops invading Leyte and joined in the surface action with Japanese ships during the Battle of Surigao Strait phase of the decisive Battle for Leyte Gulf on 25 and 26 October. \"Daly\" returned to Manus 3 November and six days later sailed for a West Coast overhaul.\n\n\"Daly\" arrived off Iwo Jima 16 February 1945 in the screen of air support carriers. She rescued 11 survivors of \"Bismarck Sea\" (CVE-95), sunk by a suicide plane on 21 February. \"Daly\" cleared the area 7 March for San Pedro Bay, Leyte, to join forces preparing for the invasion of Okinawa. On 27 March she sortied to provide patrol and fire support during the assault and occupation of Okinawa. During a suicide attack on 28 April she took an enemy plane under fire and splashed it a scant 25 yards off the port beam. The plane's bomb exploded, killing three and injuring 16 of \"Daly\"'s crew. Repairs were quickly accomplished at Kerama Retto and \"Daly\" resumed her hazardous patrol duty. On 25 May she aided \"Bates\" (APD-47), a kamikaze's victim, rescuing one badly burned survivor from the sinking ship. On 10 June she screened the carriers of the 3rd Fleet in their strikes on the Japanese mainland.\n\nAfter replenishing at Leyte Gulf, \"Daly\" returned to Okinawa 16 July 1945. She joined with Task Force 95 (TF 95) to sweep the East China Sea for enemy shipping. Two more searches off the mouth of the Yangtze River and approaches to Shanghai were made before the end of the war. \"Daly\" arrived at Nagasaki 14 September for occupation duty, serving in Japanese waters until 17 November when she departed Sasebo for the United States, arriving at San Diego 6 December. She arrived at Charleston, S.C., 23 December, and was placed out of commission in reserve 18 April 1946.\n\nRecommissioned 6 July 1951 \"Daly\" joined the Atlantic Fleet, and operated out of her home port, Newport, R.I., for antisubmarine and convoy escort exercises and on patrol. Between 18 March 1953 and 15 January 1954 she made a round-the-world cruise, sailing west to join TF 77 off Korea where she patrolled off Cheju-do, the site of UN prisoner-of-war camps, then continuing homeward through the Indian Ocean and the Mediterranean, calling at various ports en route.\n\n\"Daly\"'s next extended cruise took her to Northern Europe and the Mediterranean between 28 July and 28 November 1955, after which she operated with Hunter-Killer Group 3 in the Caribbean until 10 April 1956. On 4 January 1957 she sailed from Newport for a cruise with the Middle East Force, implementing American foreign policy with visits to Freetown, Sierra Leone; Simonstown and Cape Town, Union of South Africa; Mombasa, Kenya; Karachi, Pakistan; Aden, Massawa, Eritrea; and the Canary Islands before returning to Narragansett Bay 7 June 1957.\n\nBetween 3 September and 27 November 1957, \"Daly\" cruised to Northern Europe and the Mediterranean, on NATO exercises and service with the 6th Fleet. Between 17 March and 11 October 1959, she returned to the Mediterranean, the Red Sea and Persian Gulf.\n\nOn 2 May 1960, at Norfolk, she was decommissioned and placed in reserve. The ship was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register 1 December 1974. She was sold 22 April 1976, and broken up for scrap.\n\"Daly\" received eight battle stars for World War II service and one for Korean War service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323843", "title": "Cary Instruments", "text": "Cary Instruments\n\nCary Instruments was founded in 1946 by Howard Cary, George W. Downs and William C. Miller under the name Applied Physics Corporation. Howard Cary previously had been vice president in charge of development for National Technologies Laboratories (later to become Beckman instruments and eventually Beckman Coulter), where he had worked on the development of the DU line of UV/Vis Spectrophotometers.\n\nThe Applied Physics Corporation, subsequently renamed to Cary Instruments company, became well known as a supplier of high-quality optical instrumentation for scientific laboratories. The company was purchased in 1966 by Varian Associates, at which time it became known as the Cary Instruments division. In 1982 the Cary division was merged with the Techtron division of Varian and moved to Melbourne Australia. The Cary brand is still retained to the present day for UV/Vis Spectrophotometers, Fluorometers and FTIR spectrometers, even after the acquisition of Varian, Inc. by Agilent Technologies in 2010.\n\nThe following are some of the scientific instruments developed by Cary Instruments.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323844", "title": "Essays on Some Unsettled Questions of Political Economy", "text": "Essays on Some Unsettled Questions of Political Economy\n\nEssays on Some Unsettled Questions of Political Economy (1844) is a treatise on political economics by John Stuart Mill. Walras' law, a principle in general equilibrium theory named in honour of Léon Walras, was first expressed by Mill in this treatise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323845", "title": "Grand Canyon–Parashant National Monument", "text": "Grand Canyon–Parashant National Monument\n\nGrand Canyon–Parashant National Monument (sometimes referred to as Parashant National Monument) is located on the northern edge of the Grand Canyon in northwest Arizona. The monument was established by Presidential on January 11, 2000.\nThe national monument is a very remote and undeveloped place jointly managed by the National Park Service (NPS) and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). There are no paved roads into the monument and no visitor services. The monument is larger than the state of Rhode Island. The BLM portion of the monument consists of . The NPS portion contains of lands that were previously part of Lake Mead National Recreation Area. There are also about of Arizona State Land Department lands and of private lands within the monument boundaries. Grand Canyon–Parashant is not considered a separate unit of the NPS because its NPS area is counted in Lake Mead National Recreation Area.\nElevation ranges from above sea level near Grand Wash Bay at Lake Mead, to at Mount Trumbull. The Interagency Information Center is located in the BLM Office in St. George, Utah.\n\nThe name Parashant is derived from the Paiute word \"Pawteh 'ee oasoasant\", meaning \"tanned elk hide,\" or \"softening of the elk hide.\"\n\nGrand Canyon–Parashant includes the following wilderness areas:\nSo far, a 2005 expedition to examine 24 caves in the park has produced two new species of millipede, the first barklouse discovered in North America, a whole new genus of cricket and four new cricket species.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323849", "title": "Price's Missouri Expedition", "text": "Price's Missouri Expedition\n\nPrice's Missouri Expedition (August 29 – December 2, 1864) was an unsuccessful Confederate cavalry raid through the states of Arkansas, Missouri, and Kansas in the Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War. Led by Confederate Major-General Sterling Price, the campaign's intention was to recapture Missouri and renew the Confederate initiative in the larger conflict.\n\nDespite winning several early victories, Price was ultimately defeated at the Battle of Westport by Union forces under Major-General Samuel R. Curtis in late October. He suffered further reverses at the hands of Union cavalry under Maj. Gen. Alfred Pleasonton at the Battle of Mine Creek, Kansas, forcing him to retreat back into Arkansas. Price's Missouri Expedition proved to be the last significant Southern operation west of the Mississippi River. Its failure bolstered confidence in an ultimate Union victory in the war, thereby contributing to President Abraham Lincoln's re-election. It also cemented Federal control over the hotly-contested border state of Missouri.\n\nAfter three years of bloody fighting, Confederate authorities were becoming desperate as the U.S. presidential election approached during the fall of 1864. The Union controlled the key western rivers and cities, Sherman was moving through Georgia and Lee was tied down to the defense of Richmond. With foreign recognition now hopeless, Abraham Lincoln's re-election would be disastrous for their cause.\nEarlier that summer, the Confederacy had ordered Lieutenant General Edmund Kirby Smith, commander of the Trans-Mississippi Theater, to send a corps under Lt. Gen. Richard Taylor across the Mississippi River to assist in the defense of Atlanta and Mobile. Such a crossing was impossible because of Union gunboat patrols on the river and Taylor was assigned to other duties.\n\nInspired by preparations to divert Union attention from Taylor's crossing, Smith came up with another plan. He would recapture Missouri for the Confederacy, in the hope that it would help turn Northern opinion against Lincoln. He ordered Missouri-native Sterling Price to invade his home state and advance on St. Louis, capturing the city and its military arsenals. If St. Louis was too heavily defended, Price was to turn west and capture Jefferson City, the state capital. This would strike a major psychological blow, and provide justification for the inclusion in the Confederate flag of a star for Missouri. Price was then told to cross into Kansas and turn south through the Indian Territory, \"sweeping that country of its mules, horses, cattle, and military supplies\".\n\nPrice assembled a force he named the Army of Missouri, consisting of 12,000 men and fourteen artillery pieces. His army was divided into three divisions under Maj. Gen. James F. Fagan, Maj. Gen. John S. Marmaduke, and Brig. Gen. Joseph O. \"Jo\" Shelby. However, the infantry units originally assigned to Price were ordered to the Western Theater, changing his mission from an full-fledged invasion into a cavalry raid. Price's men were a mixture of the best and the worst, a quarter of them being deserters who had been returned to duty. Hundreds of Price's men marched barefoot, and most lacked basic equipment such as canteens and cartridge boxes. Many carried jugs for water and kept their ammunition in shirt and pants pockets. Nevertheless, Price hoped the people of Missouri would rally to his side. In this he proved to be mistaken, as most Missourians did not wish to become involved in the conflict. Only mounted bands of pro-Confederate guerrillas joined his army, perhaps as many as 6,000 altogether.\n\nThe Union Army in Missouri included thousands of Missouri State Militia cavalry, which would play a key role in defeating Price, together with the XVI Corps of Maj. Gen. Andrew J. Smith. These were augmented by Maj. Gen. Alfred Pleasonton's cavalry division, detached from William S. Rosecrans's Department of Missouri. As Price commenced his campaign, Smith's corps was on naval transports leaving Cairo, Illinois to join Gen. William T. Sherman's army in Georgia; Rosecrans requested these troops be assigned to Missouri to deal with the threat, and Army Chief of Staff Henry W. Halleck immediately complied. By mid-October, more troops had arrived from the Kansas border under Maj. Gen. Samuel R. Curtis, Price's old adversary at the Battle of Pea Ridge and commander of the newly activated Army of the Border. Curtis commanded the divisions of Maj. Gen. James G. Blunt (cavalry), Maj. Gen. George W. Dietzler (Kansas Militia), Pleasonton's cavalry, and two infantry divisions from Smith's corps under Colonels Joseph J. Woods and David C. Moore—about 35,000 men in all. The Confederates were already greatly outnumbered.\n\nPrice departed on his horse, Bucephalus, from Camden, Arkansas, on August 28, 1864. The following day he linked up with two divisions in Princeton, and then a third in Pocahontas on September 13. His combined force entered Missouri on September 19. Though Missouri pro-Union militia skirmished with the invading force almost daily, Price's first full battle did not come until September 27, at Pilot Knob, southwest of St. Louis in Iron County.\n\nPrice's Missouri Expedition included the following battles:\n\n\nHoping to avoid Fort Smith, Arkansas, Price swung west into the Indian Territory and Texas before returning to Arkansas on December 2. He had lost more than half of his original force of 12,000, including thousands of the guerrillas who joined him. He reported to Kirby Smith that he \"marched , fought 43 battles and skirmishes, captured and paroled over 3,000 Federal officers and men, captured 18 pieces of artillery ... and destroyed Missouri property ... of $10,000,000 in value.\" Nevertheless, Price's Missouri Expedition was a total failure and contributed, together with Union successes in Virginia and Georgia, to the re-election of President Lincoln.\n\nA second unintended consequence of Price's Missouri Expedition was that it had largely cleared Missouri of the pro-Confederate guerrillas who belonged to no one's army, since almost all of those who had joined him were either killed or followed him out of the state. Price's Missouri Expedition proved to be the final Confederate offensive in the Trans-Mississippi region during the war.\n\nIn his paper Assessing Compound Warfare During Price's Raid, written as a thesis for the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, Major Dale E. Davis postulates that Price's Missouri Expedition failed primarily due to his inability to properly employ the principles of \"compound warfare\". This requires an inferior power to effectively utilize regular and irregular forces in concert (such as was done by the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong against the French and Americans during the Vietnam War) to defeat a superior army. He also blamed Price's slow rate of movement during his campaign, and the close proximity of Confederate irregulars to his regular force for this outcome.\n\nMajor Davis observes that by wasting valuable time, ammunition and men in relatively meaningless assaults on Fort Davidson, Glasgow, Sedalia and Boonville, Price offered Union General Rosecrans time he might not otherwise have had to organize an effective response. Furthermore, he says, Price's insistence on guarding an ever-expanding wagon train of looted military supplies and other items ultimately became \"an albatross to [his] withdrawal\". Price, wrote Davis, \"ought\" to have used Confederate bushwhackers to harass Federal formations, forcing the Unionists to disperse large numbers of troops to pursue them over wide ranges of territory. This in turn would have reduced the number of effectives available to fight against Price's main force. Instead, Price kept many guerrillas close to his army and even incorporated some into his ranks, thus largely negating the value represented by their mobility and small, independent formations. This in turn allowed the Federal generals to ultimately concentrate a force large enough to trap and defeat Price at Westport, effectively ending his campaign and crushing one of the last hopes for the Confederacy in the Civil War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323850", "title": "Grand Portage National Monument", "text": "Grand Portage National Monument\n\nGrand Portage National Monument is a United States National Monument located on the north shore of Lake Superior in northeastern Minnesota that preserves a vital center of fur trade activity and Anishinaabeg Ojibwe heritage. The area became one of the British Empire's four main fur trading centers in North America, along with Fort Niagara, Fort Detroit, and Michilimackinac.\n\nThe \"Grand Portage\" is an (2720 rod) footpath which bypasses a set of waterfalls and rapids on the last of the Pigeon River before it flows into Lake Superior. This path is part of the historic trade route of the French-Canadian voyageurs and coureur des bois between their wintering grounds and their depots to the east.\n\nComposed of the Pigeon River and other strategic interior streams, lakes, and portages, this route was of enormous importance in pre-industrial times. It provided quick water access from Canada's settled areas and Atlantic ports to the fur-rich Rupert's Land and the North-Western Territory. Some upstream from Lake Superior, this trade route crosses the Height of Land Portage, on the Northern continental divide, and connects South Lake in the Pigeon River/Great Lakes watershed with North Lake of the Rainy River watershed. Grand Portage therefore was an essential link between the drainage basin of the Nelson River to Hudson Bay and that of the Saint Lawrence River to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nAs early as 2,000 years ago, Indian Nations probably used \"Gichi-onigaming\", or \"the Great Carrying Place\", to travel from summer homes on Lake Superior to winter hunting grounds in the interior of Minnesota and Ontario. In 1729 Cree guide \"Auchagah\" drew a map for some of the first French fur traders, to show them how to reach the \"western sea\" of Lake Winnipeg. In time, Grand Portage became the gateway into rich northern fur-bearing country, where it connected remote interior outposts to lucrative international markets.\n\nThe Grand Portage trail is an trail connecting Grand Portage with Fort Charlotte on the Pigeon River. \"Voyageurs\" from the Rupert's Land would carry their furs by canoe to Fort Charlotte, and portage the bundles of fur to Grand Portage. There they met traders from Montreal, and exchanged the furs for trade goods and supplies. Each canoe \"brigade\" then returned to its starting place. The fur traders built Fort Charlotte as a trading fort at Grand Portage. There they built the Grand Hall in the French colonial style, which housed their meetings, a general store, and other facilities.\n\nBritish operations in Grand Portage came under pressure after the signing of the Jay Treaty in 1795, the finalization of western portion of the U.S./Canada border in 1818, and gradual settlement of the Minnesota Territory by U.S. settlers. In mid-July 1802, partners of the North West Company, the most successful fur trade company in North America, met in their Grand Hall at Grand Portage. They voted to move their summer headquarters from the protected shores of Lake Superior's Grand Portage Bay north to the mouth of the Kaministiquia River. Almost from the time the British Nor'Westers had organized at Grand Portage in the mid-1780s, an emerging United States wanted them to stop competing with Americans in this territory.\n\nThe July vote meant that the North West Company would tear down its 18 buildings and transport the materials north in company schooners for use in constructing the planned new Fort William, far from U.S. soil. The buildings were constructed from native squared spruce, pine and birch and were surrounded by more than 2,000 cedar pickets.\n\nIn 1854 the Ojibwe signed a treaty with the U.S. establishing Grand Portage as part of their reservation. A school was established to educate the tribe members and a post office was created in 1856. In 1887 the government chose to abolish the reservation, opening it to general settlement.\n\nIn 1951 the property was designated as the Grand Portage National Historic Site and opened for visitors. In 1958, it was designated a National Monument. The portage trail has also been separately designated a Minnesota State Historic Site. The monument's lie entirely within the boundaries of Grand Portage Indian Reservation. The depot was reconstructed to allow celebration of the fur trade and Ojibwe lifeways. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1966.\n\nThe portage trail exists in much the same location and condition as in historic times. Visitors can hike from Lake Superior to the Pigeon River.\n\nVolunteers and park staff at the monument dress in period attire. They staff the Kitchen, Canoe Warehouse and Great Hall in and around the Stockade, and explain and interpret what life was like at the trading fort at the turn of the 18th century. During the second weekend of August, the Grand Portage National Monument hosts a \"rendezvous\" re-enactment. At the same time, the Grand Portage Indian Reservation holds a pow wow, which attracts many Indians and visitors. The Rendezvous and Pow Wow coincide with the Perseid meteor shower.\n\nOpened in 2007, the \"Grand Portage National Monument Heritage Center\" features exhibit galleries about Ojibwe culture and the fur trade, a bookstore, multi-media programs, park offices, archives and a classroom. The center is a collaboration between the National Park Service and the Grand Portage Band of Lake Superior Chippewa. It overlooks the reconstructed fur trading post.\n\nThis section covers the voyageur route from Grand Portage westward to the juncture of the route from Fort William at Lac La Croix. The Pigeon River is about directly north of the reconstructed fort. The Pigeon flows basically east and enters Lake Superior at a bay about east northeast. The portage trail meets the Pigeon about northwest at the former Fort Charlotte. The portage existed to bypass the river east of Fort Charlotte. From Fort Charlotte the canoe route then went west up the Pigeon past the mouth of the Arrow River to the east-west Mountain Lake. The old Indian route went north, with a drop of , to the east-west Arrow Lake. The voyageurs, with their heavy freight canoes, cut a new route that ran west over the Petit Neuf or Watape Portage to Watape Lake which is in the Arrow River drainage. Then through the Petit Detroit to Rove Lake and the Grand Neuf or Long Portage to Rose Lake at the west end of Arrow Lake. From Rose Lake up the Arrow to South Lake. From South Lake north over the 700-yard Height of Land Portage to North Lake whose waters flow west to Lake Winnipeg. From here the route went west down the ? river through several lakes to Lac La Croix where the route from Fort William came in. Lac La Croix is about west of Grand Portage and about west of Height of Land Portage.\n\nThe \"Grand Portage\" was developed in order to avoid numerous short portages. Beginning at the stockade on Grand Portage Bay of Lake Superior, the trail leads westward into the wilderness to a mid-point on the Pigeon River, bypassing numerous rapids and a variety of waterfalls. (The most notable are \"Middle Falls\" and \"Pigeon Falls\". Both are part of the Grand Portage State Park and are within the Rove Formation. Middle Falls is most easily seen from Pigeon River Provincial Park on the Canadian side of the border.)\n\nThe portage begins on Lake Superior, elevation , rising as it moves westward through two notches in the Sawtooth Mountain range. It briefly levels off around after . Another you reach the inland county highway. From here, the trail is more level, rising to , the highest location on the trail, before dropping back to at Fort Charlotte on the Pigeon River. The trail's high point is the head of a drainage flowing to the Pigeon River at Fort Charlotte. The headwaters has become a large beaver pond. The dam is located along the trail route and has a boardwalk atop it, added for modern visitors.\nAlmost all the information known about the physical layout of Grand Portage National Monument comes from archeological studies.\n\nJohn McDonell, a clerk for the Northwest Company, identified the routes between Grand Portage and Rainy Lake in the 1790s. Henry Hind in 1860 traced the route and provided more details than provided by McDonell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323853", "title": "Jindai Botanical Garden", "text": "Jindai Botanical Garden\n\nThe is at the edge of the Musashino plateau just above Jindaiji Temple in Chōfu, Tokyo, Japan. It extends across 425,433 square meters, and each of its thirty areas features varieties of one kind of plant. Displays of \"ume\", cherries, azalea, dogwood, peonies, roses, wisteria or other can be seen every month. In front of the temple below there is also a wetland annex for aquatic plants, where irises are cultivated.\n\nThe garden has 100,000 trees and shrubs representing approximately 4,500 varieties, each with an identifying label. The park has a plant protection program to preserve endangered Japanese species and exhibitions and activities related to gardening for the benefit of local citizens. Just outside the rear gate there is an area where some plants are sold.\n\nThe site of Jindai Botanical Garden was once part of a medieval fortress said to date from 1537. Later it was a nursery that supplied trees for Tokyo's streets. After the war it was opened to the public as Jindai \"ryokuchi\" (, green area) and in 1961 it was given its current name as it became the first botanical garden in Tokyo.\n\nA large greenhouse was built in 1984 holding the collection of tropical plants. In one section of the greenhouse is the lily pond.\n\nDownhill from the garden is Jindaiji Temple, the second oldest Buddhist temple in Tokyo. \n\nThe garden is at Jindaiji Motomachi 5-31-1, Chōfu City, Tokyo 182-0017\n\nFrom bus stop 14 at the north exit of Chōfu Station on the Keiō Line, the visitor takes an Odakyū bus number 14 (destination Mitaka or Kichijōji), and gets off at \"Jindaiji Shokubutsu Kōen Mae\". (This takes about ten minutes.) The temple is on the left. Journey time is about 10 mins.\n\nAs of January 2015, admission costs ¥500 for adults, ¥200 for children, and ¥250 for seniors. The garden is closed on Mondays (other than National holidays, when it is closed the day after.) Its opening hours are 09:30 to 17:00; the ticket window closes at 16:00.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323854", "title": "Hohokam Pima National Monument", "text": "Hohokam Pima National Monument\n\nThe Hohokam Pima National Monument is an ancient Hohokam village within the Gila River Indian Community, near present-day Sacaton, Arizona. The monument features the archaeological Snaketown, designated a National Historic Landmark in 1964. The area was further protected by declaring it a National Monument in 1972, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1974.\n\nThe site is owned by the Gila River Indian Community, which has decided not to open the area to the public. The museum at the nearby Casa Grande Ruins National Monument, in Coolidge, Arizona, contains artifacts from Snaketown. There is no public access to the Hohokam Pima National Monument.\n\nSnaketown was first excavated in 1934 by the Gila Pueblo Foundation, under the direction of Harold S. Gladwin. Between 1964-1965, a second excavation was led by Emil Haury, assistant director of Gila Pueblo, with assistance from E.B. Sayles, Erik K. Reed, and Irwin and Julian Hayden. The two expeditions discovered that the site contained more than sixty midden mounds. A central plaza and two ovel shaped fields were surrounded by pit houses, and an elaborate irrigation system fed the nearby fields in which beans, maize and squash were grown. The Hohokam practiced cremation, and the expedition excavated up to eight areas which could have been used as crematoria. Industries producing pottery and shell jewellery also existed and the settlement had trade links with Mesoamerican societies, evidenced by copper bells and figurines.\n\nMost archaeological excavations have been backfilled to protect the site for future research. However, a scale model of the original Snaketown community is held at the Heard Museum in Phoenix, while artifacts from excavations are housed in the Arizona State Museum.\n\nThis site is a significant example of the Hohokam culture, which lived in the broader area from about 1 CE until approximately 1500 CE. Snaketown, contained in a one-half mile by three-quarters mile piece of property, was occupied by Hohokam people during the Pioneer and Early Sedentary stages (approximately 300 BCE to 1100 CE). Early in the Classic Period (1150 CE - 1400/1450) the community of Snaketown, once apparently central to the broader Hohokam culture, was suddenly abandoned. Parts of its structure were burned, and the site was not reoccupied.\n\nThe Hohokam were farmers, even though they lived in an area with dry sandy soil, rugged volcanic mountains and slow running rivers. They grew beans, squash, tobacco, cotton and corn. The Hohokam made the sandy soil fertile by channeling water from the local river through a series of man-made canals. Woven mat dams were used to channel river water into the canals. The canals were generally shallow and wide, reaching up to ten miles in length.\n\nMost of the population lived in pit houses, carefully dug rectangular depressions in the earth with branch and mud adobe walls supported by log sized corner posts. These pit houses were similar to those constructed by the neighboring Mogollon pueblo people, but were larger in size and made with a more shallow depression.\n\nThe oval shaped fields at Snaketown were identified as ballcourts at the time of excavation. Each was about long, apart, and high. In 2009 it was suggested that the shape of an oval bowl with curved sides, and the uneven embankments on the long sides, are unsuited for any kind of ball game. However, they correspond with dance floors of the Tohono O'odham (Papago) people, used for their \"Vikita\" ceremonies until at least the 1930s.\n\nSnaketown's pottery was generally homogeneous during the periods of its occupation. However, most specialists agree that pottery samples contain elements implying the presence two different, but probably related groups, over time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323856", "title": "William and Mary (short story)", "text": "William and Mary (short story)\n\n\"William and Mary\" is a short story by Roald Dahl, originally published in 1959 and included in his 1960 collection \"Kiss Kiss\". It was later adapted into episodes of \"Way Out\" and \"Tales of the Unexpected\".\n\nMary Pearl receives a note from her recently deceased husband, William. The letter tells how Landy, a doctor, approaches William, a well-regarded philosopher, about his cancer, six weeks before William's death. He suggests William undertake a procedure, which he explains in great detail, that would mean his brain being transplanted from his body after death, and attached to an artificial heart. The brain would be bathing in a Ringer's solution. One of his eyes could also be hooked up. Although the doctor is uncertain whether the brain would regain consciousness, he remains hopeful. William initially reacts violently to this suggestion, but by the end of their discussion has lightened up to the idea more. He is initially concerned with the idea of phantom limb, believing that as a brain alone he may be in terrible trauma, wishing for the use of his body. However, he writes, he eventually embraced the idea, being very fond of his brain and liking the suggestion that it could live on. \n\nHe had attempted to discuss this earlier with Mary, but she had pushed him aside. He adds that by the time she reads the letter, the procedure should have been undertaken a week earlier, and suggests she contact Landy. She does so and immediately begins to take care of him. The procedure had gone as well as could be expected, and William had regained consciousness within two days. His connected eye also appears to be functioning properly. Mary finds the previously dominating William to be attractive in his helplessness and wishes to take him back home. Landy, not at all expecting such a reaction, tells her she should stick to being a widow, and the story ends with William's future uncertain.\n\nMary has been depicted as rebelling against her husband's restrictions after his death: she has bought a television and is openly smoking, for instance, both actions condemned by William in his letter. As the story closes, William appears to see Mary smoke, and is infuriated by it, his eye clearly registering a look of fury. Mary blows the smoke of her cigarette in the eye.\n\nMary's wish to bring William home with her can be interpreted as a perverse desire for revenge against her controlling husband by flaunting her independence before his now helpless state.\n"}
{"id": "2323857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323857", "title": "Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park", "text": "Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park\n\nAbraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park preserves two separate farm sites in LaRue County, Kentucky where Abraham Lincoln was born and lived early in his childhood. He was born at the Sinking Spring site south of Hodgenville and remained there until the family moved to the Knob Creek Farm northeast of Hodgenville when he was 2 years old, living there until he was 7 years old. The Sinking Spring site is the location of the park visitor center.\n\nIn the late fall of 1808, Thomas and Nancy Lincoln settled on Sinking Spring Farm. Two months later on February 12, 1809, Abraham Lincoln was born there in a one-room log cabin. Today this site bears the address of 2995 Lincoln Farm Road, Hodgenville, Kentucky. A cabin, symbolic of the one in which Lincoln was born, is preserved within a 1911 memorial building at the site.\n\nAlso on the property is the privately owned Nancy Lincoln Inn.\n\nA Beaux-Arts neo-classical Memorial Building was designed by John Russell Pope for the birthplace site. On February 12, 1909, the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth, the cornerstone was laid by President Theodore Roosevelt and the building was dedicated on November 9, 1911, by President William Howard Taft. Almost a hundred years after Thomas Lincoln moved from Sinking Spring Farm, a similar log cabin was placed inside the Memorial Building. The Memorial Building features 16 windows, 16 rosettes on the ceiling, and 16 fence poles, representing Lincoln being the 16th president. The 56 steps leading up to the building entrance represent his age at his death.\n\nThe original log cabin that Lincoln was reputed to have been born in was dismantled sometime before 1865. Local tradition held that some of the logs from the cabin were used in construction of a nearby house. New York businessman Alfred W. Dennett purchased the Lincoln farm in November 1894 and used the logs from this house to construct a cabin similar in appearance to the original cabin where Lincoln was born. Soon the cabin was dismantled and re-erected for exhibition in many cities. Eventually the logs for this cabin, along with logs incorrectly reputed to have belonged to Jefferson Davis' birthplace and possibly a third cabin, were purchased by the Lincoln Farm Association or (LFA), which believed they had acquired only Lincoln logs. When workers tried to reconstruct the cabin, they discovered the problem. The LFA bought a one-room cabin similar to the one reconstructed by Dennett. When the last rebuilt cabin was placed in the Memorial Building, its size made visitor circulation difficult. The LFA reduced the cabin's size from 16-by-18 feet to 12-by-17 feet.\n\nToday, historians recognize that the former claim that these logs were from Lincoln's birth cabin was essentially inaccurate. In his book \"It All Started With Columbus\", satirical writer Richard Armour stated that Lincoln had been born in three states and also \"in two cabins - the original, and the reconstructed.\"\n\nLincoln lived at Sinking Spring until he was two years old, before moving with his family to another farm a few miles to the northeast along Knob Creek, near present-day U.S. Highway 31E, where he lived until the age of seven.\n\nThe Knob Creek site was added to the park in November 2001 after the Larue County Fiscal Court purchased it through the Office of Kentucky Nature Preserves' Kentucky Heritage Land Conservation Fund. It features a 19th-century log cabin and a historic 20th century tavern and tourist site. The log cabin is not original to the site, but may have belonged to neighbors of the Lincolns. It was moved to the approximate location of the Lincolns' home. One of Abraham Lincoln's earliest memories was his near drowning in Knob Creek, and being saved by the neighbor's son.\n\nLincoln lived here until the age of seven, when his family moved to Indiana, to the site now commemorated as the Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial.\n\nThe original Memorial was constructed by the Lincoln Farm Association. In 1916, they donated the Memorial to the Federal government, which established the Abraham Lincoln National Park on July 17, 1916. The War Department administered the site until August 10, 1933, when it was transferred to the National Park Service. It was designated as the Abraham Lincoln National Historical Park on August 11, 1939. It was renamed and redesignated Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historic Site on September 8, 1959. As with all historic sites administered by the National Park Service, the site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places, effective on October 15, 1966. The historic site's definition was expanded to include the Knob Creek site on November 6, 1998. On March 30, 2009, the two sites were again designated a National Historical Park.\nThe Sinking Spring site, which contains the 1911 memorial, has a visitor center museum, theater and bookstore. The Knob Creek site has interpretive staff during certain days in summer months. Both sites have hiking and picnic areas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323861", "title": "Hawthorn railway station, Adelaide", "text": "Hawthorn railway station, Adelaide\n\nHawthorn railway station was located on the Belair line, in the inner southern Adelaide suburb of Hawthorn, 7.5 kilometres from Adelaide railway station.\n\nHawthorn was opened sometime in the 1910s. It runs parallel to Egmont Terrace, and is located 500 metres south of Unley Park station. It consists of two earth-filled concrete faced platforms, one each side of the dual lines, which were originally both broad gauge. Each platform had a timber and iron open passenger shelter, and there was a ticket office at the foot of the western platform which was manned only at peak hours in the 1960s. There is a shelter (the bench is gone though) and disused public address speaker on the down platform. This public address speaker appears to have been removed.\n\nIt closed on 28 April 1995 along with Millswood and Clapham when the line was converted to two single lines as part of the standardisation of the Adelaide-Wolseley line. On Adelaide Metro rail network maps in most carriages, gaps on the Belair line map remain where the entries for Hawthorn and the other disused stations on the Belair line, have been removed.\n"}
{"id": "2323866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323866", "title": "Adams National Historical Park", "text": "Adams National Historical Park\n\nAdams National Historical Park, formerly Adams National Historic Site, in Quincy, Massachusetts, preserves the home of Presidents of the United States John Adams and John Quincy Adams, of U.S. Envoy to Great Britain, Charles Francis Adams, and of writers and historians Henry Adams and Brooks Adams.\n\nThe national historical park's eleven buildings tell the story of five generations of the Adams family (from 1720 to 1927) including Presidents, First Ladies, envoys, historians, writers, and family members who supported and contributed to their success. In addition to Peacefield, home to four generations of the Adams family, the park's main historic features include the John Adams Birthplace (October 30, 1735), the nearby John Quincy Adams Birthplace (July 11, 1767), and the Stone Library (built in 1870 to house the books of John Quincy Adams and believed to be the first presidential library), containing more than 14,000 historic volumes in 12 languages.\n\nThere is an off-site Visitors Center less than a mile (1.6 km) away. Regularly scheduled tours of the houses are offered in season (April 19 to November 10) by guided tour only, using a tourist trolley provided by the Park Service between sites. Access to United First Parish Church, where the Adamses worshipped and are buried, is provided by the congregation, for which they ask a small donation. The church is across the street from the Visitors Center.\n\nThis house is a National Historic Landmark, the birthplace of John Adams. In 1720 it was purchased by Deacon John Adams, Sr., the father of the future second president. The younger Adams lived here until 1764, when he married Abigail Smith. It is a few feet from the John Quincy Adams Birthplace home, where John and Abigail Adams moved.\n\nThe house where John and Abigail Adams and their family lived during the time he was working on the Declaration of Independence and the Revolutionary War is also the 1767 birthplace of their son, John Quincy Adams. The younger Adams grew up in the home, and he and his family lived in it for a time later in life.\nThe Old House was originally constructed in 1731 for Leonard Vassall, a sugar planter, and was used as his summer house. The house stood empty for some time before it, along with , was purchased by Adams on September 23, 1787, for 600 pounds. The Adams family renamed it Peacefield, moved in the next year, and various generations occupied it until 1927, when it was sold to the Adams Memorial Society. The National Park Service acquired it in 1947, and has been a National Historic Site ever since.\n\nThe Stone Library, completed in 1870, stands next to Peacefield and houses personal papers and over 14,000 books which belonged to John Adams, John Quincy Adams, Charles Francis Adams, Henry Adams, and Brooks Adams. In his will, John Quincy Adams requested that the library be built out of stone so that it would be fireproof.\n\nThe Library holds John Adams' copy of George Washington's Farewell Address as well as the Mendi Bible, a bible presented to John Quincy Adams in 1841 by the freed Mendi captives who had mutinied on the schooner \"La Amistad\" and who Adams had successfully defended before the United States Supreme Court.\n\nHenry Adams wrote his nine volume \"The History of the United States of America 1801–1817\" in the library.\n\nThe church where both Presidents and their First Ladies are entombed in the Adams Crypt has never been administered by the National Park service. It is owned by the active congregation of Unitarian Universalists. In the past ten years, the congregation has used almost $2 million of its own resources to preserve the building.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323869", "title": "Clapham railway station, Adelaide", "text": "Clapham railway station, Adelaide\n\nClapham railway station was located on the Belair line, in the inner southern Adelaide suburb of Clapham, from Adelaide railway station.\n\nClapham was opened sometime in the 1910s, just north of the Springbank Road overpass. It consists of two earth-filled concrete faced platforms, one each side of the dual lines, which were originally both broad gauge. Each platform had a timber and iron open passenger shelter, and there was a ticket office at the foot of the western platform which was manned only at peak hours in the 1960s. There is a shelter (the bench is gone though) and disused public address speaker on the down platform. \n\nThe station was originally the terminus of the Clapham branch line, which began at Mitcham station, and the original station was to the west of the more recent platforms (which were on the main line); this explains the unusual layout of the intersection of the local roads west of the Springbank Road overpass (opened 1924). At that time, Belair Road, known as Bull's Creek Road, ran on the west side of the railway line from Wattlebury Road to McPherson Street. (The then main road to Belair, now called the Old Belair Road, was via Blythwood Road). The Clapham branch line, and the old station, were abandoned formally in 1917. Presumably, the newer station was built a little before that.\n\nIt closed on 28 April 1995 along with Millswood and Hawthorn when the line was converted to two single lines as part of the standardisation of the Adelaide-Wolseley line. The Clapham passenger service, typically a P class locomotive and a couple of carriages, was known as the \"Clapham Dodger\". During the Belair line renewal in 2009, the top edge of the eastbound platform was removed because of the risk of it being struck by passing trains. On Adelaide Metro rail network maps in most carriages, gaps on the Belair line map remain where the entries for Clapham and the other disused stations on the Belair line, have been removed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323877", "title": "Chew Choon Seng", "text": "Chew Choon Seng\n\nChew Choon Seng () is the former chief executive officer of Singapore Airlines (SIA), the former Chairman of the Singapore Exchange and Singapore Tourism Board.\n\nAfter completing his first degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Singapore (now the National University of Singapore, Chew graduated with a Master of Science in operations research and management studies from Imperial College London.\n\nChew joined SIA in 1972 and held senior assignments for Administration, covering finance, treasury, corporate planning, human resources, legal and corporate affairs in Tokyo, Rome, Sydney, Los Angeles and London. After heading the Planning and Marketing divisions at the airline's corporate headquarters, he was appointed CEO in June 2003.\n\nHe also served as the chairman of the Singapore Aircraft Leasing Enterprise and was the directors of various SIA subsidiaries including Singapore Airport Terminal Services Limited, SIA Engineering Company, and Virgin Atlantic Airways, in which SIA previously held a 49 per cent equity stake. He was the chairman of SilkAir, a fully owned subsidiary of SIA when SilkAir Flight 185 crashed on 19 December 1997 en route from Jakarta's Soekarno–Hatta International Airport to Singapore Changi Airport.\n\nHe relinquished his position as chief executive officer (CEO) of Singapore Airlines (SIA) at the end of 2010 and assuming the post of Chairman at Singapore Exchange (SGX) and Singapore Tourism Board (STB) and board member of Government of Singapore Investment Corporation.\n\nHe was named the \"Leading Singapore CEO (Singapore Airlines)\" in the fifth Annual Thomson Reuters Extel Asia Pacific Survey\n"}
{"id": "2323878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323878", "title": "Boston National Historical Park", "text": "Boston National Historical Park\n\nThe Boston National Historical Park is an association of sites that showcase Boston's role in the American Revolution. It was designated a national park on October 1, 1974. Seven of the eight sites are connected by the Freedom Trail, a walking tour of downtown Boston. All eight properties are National Historic Landmarks.\n\nFive of the sites that make up the park are neither owned nor operated by the National Park Service, and operate through cooperative agreements established upon the park's creation. The park service operates visitor centers in Faneuil Hall and at the Charlestown Navy Yard.\n\nThe Bunker Hill Monument, located at the top of Breed's Hill in the Charlestown neighborhood of Boston, is a granite obelisk that was constructed in the mid-19th century to commemorate the Battle of Bunker Hill, fought June 17, 1775. The property is owned and administered by the National Park Service. The park service also operates the nearby Bunker Hill Museum.\n\nThe Charlestown Navy Yard is located on the southern edge of Charlestown on the banks of the Charles River. Used during the American Revolutionary War as a shipyard, it continued to serve as a base of the United States Navy until 1975, when the Navy turned the property over to the National Park Service. The Yard is home to (the oldest floating commissioned naval vessel in the world), and , a destroyer from the Second World War that is now operated as a museum ship.\n\nDorchester Heights was fortified by General George Washington in March 1776, compelling the British to withdraw from Boston and ending the Siege of Boston. A monument was erected on the site in 1902. Located in South Boston, Dorchester Heights is the only site in the park that is not on the Freedom Trail.\n\nFaneuil Hall was first constructed in the 1740s, and was the site of important pro-independence speeches. The hall is owned and operated by the city of Boston, with the park service offering talks in the Great Hall.\n\nThe Old North Church, built in 1723, was the location where Paul Revere had signal lanterns lit on the night of April 18, 1775, prior to his \"midnight ride\" that led to the Battles of Lexington and Concord and the start of the revolutionary war. The church, the oldest operating in Boston, has an Episcopalian congregation, which owns and operates the building.\n\nThe Old South Meeting House, built in 1729 was the site of numerous pre-revolutionary meetings, including one, attended by a crowd estimated at more than 5,000, on the evening prior to the Boston Tea Party in December 1773. It served as a church until 1877, when it became a museum operated by a nonprofit organization dedicated to its preservation.\n\nThe Old State House is the oldest municipal building in Boston. Built in 1713, it was the seat of the colonial government, and afterward the state government, until 1798. The Boston Massacre took place in front of the building. In 1881 it was saved from destruction by the Bostonian Society, which was formed specifically to preserve it. The society still operates the City owned building as a museum. The Boston Massacre is reenacted regularly under the society's auspices.\n\nNow owned and operated by the Paul Revere Memorial Association as a museum, the Paul Revere House is one of the oldest surviving buildings in Boston. It was built in 1680, and was purchased by Paul Revere in 1770.\n\nThe National Park Service, in addition to managing its properties that are part of the park, operates visitor centers at Faneuil Hall (1st Floor) and at the Navy Yard. It offers guided tours of the Freedom Trail. The Navy offers tours of USS \"Constitution\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323879", "title": "Capias pro fine", "text": "Capias pro fine\n\nCapias pro fine are writs or warrants issued after the defendant defaults on an agreement with the court.\n\nThe writ is considered outstanding until paid in full. The recipient usually must remain in jail until fees and/or costs have been satisfied by time served or the fees and/or costs have been paid in full.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, including Texas, a defendant taken into custody under a \"capias pro fine\" is not transported directly to jail, but is taken before the court which issued the capias and required to show cause why the terms of the judgment were not fulfilled. If the defendant cannot demonstrate good cause, then the defendant can be confined until the terms are lawfully discharged.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323881", "title": "Filip Meirhaeghe", "text": "Filip Meirhaeghe\n\nFilip Meirhaeghe (born 5 March 1971 in Ghent) is a retired Belgian racing cyclist. His primary focus was in mountain bike racing, however, he has also taken part in elite road, cyclo-cross and track cycling. He has won four Mountain Bike World Championships medals, one Olympic medal and a total of eleven mountain bike World Cup events. In the final years of his racing career he raced for the bicycle manufacturer Specialized Bicycle Components on the mountain bike and for the professional team Domina Vacanze-Elitron on the road.\n\nOn 29 July 2004, just before the 2004 Summer Olympics, Meirhaeghe admitted to having used EPO. He tested positive during the World Cup in Mont Sainte-Anne, Quebec (Canada) and unlike most racers did not argue the validity of the test. During a press conference he admitted he used EPO simply because of his desire to win gold at the Olympic Games in Athens. He also announced at that time he would stop racing and retire. He wrote a book called \"Positief\", which tells the story of his life as an athlete and the consequences of his positive test. (issued by Davidsfonds – in Dutch only).\n\nFilip was suspended from professional racing until 14 January 2006 based on his positive test result. On 1 January 2006, he announced he would resume racing. He signed a three-year contract to race for Landbouwkrediet-Colnago on the road and Versluys-Landbouwkrediet-Sportstech on mountain bikes. He made his comeback during the beach-race of Oostduinkerke (Belgium). He retired again in September 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323883", "title": "Androgyny (song)", "text": "Androgyny (song)\n\n\"Androgyny\" is a 2001 hybrid rock/pop/funk song released by alternative rock group Garbage as the lead single from their third studio album, \"Beautiful Garbage\". Released worldwide in September 2001, \"Androgyny\" represented a shift in the group's style, overtly embracing current music elements into their repertoire. Drummer/producer Butch Vig explained: \"To me, some of the most cutting edge music out there is in the Top 40. Some of the songs on \"Beautiful Garbage\", like \"Androgyny\" and \"Untouchable\" are influenced by Timbaland and Dr. Dre.\"\n\nPromotion for \"Androgyny\" and its parent album were put on hold in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks. The mixed reaction from both critics and Garbage's fanbase to \"Androgyny\" also contributed to its underperformance in Garbage's home markets of the United Kingdom, where \"Androgyny\" stalled outside the top twenty, and in the United States, where it failed to register on any \"Billboard\" charts. Across Europe, however, \"Androgyny\" gained significant traction at radio and video; \"Androgyny\" was also a notable success in Australia, where it became their highest charting single to date.\n\nIn 2016, Garbage performed \"Androgyny\" for the first time in fifteen years in Charlotte, North Carolina to highlight the controversial Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act that was being deliberated in the state at the time. The band are resolutely pro-trans rights. Later that year, band leader Shirley Manson spoke of \"Androgyny\": \"As it turns out, the song was way ahead of its time. The subject matter is now very pertinent. But back then, it was considered a little strange, I guess\".\n\nGarbage began the process of writing, recording and self-produced their third album in April 2000 at their own Smart Studios in Madison, Wisconsin. The sessions for the record would last well into the following year; \"Androgyny\" becoming realised sometime in January 2001. Garbage had been making rough mixes of their work, and had moved a chunk from one musical piece into another to create what would end up as \"Androgyny\". A classical guitar part written for another song on the album, \"Untouchable\", was matched with a sparse drum machine pattern written for \"Androgyny\" during tracking stages. Although it sounded a little crude, the band felt that the piece had character; the band edited it with Pro Tools software and matched it with a synth melody. \"It's really three songs stuck together,\" guitarist Duke Erikson later recalled, \"The way we do things is almost like Cubism. It's different viewpoints of the same thing, jammed together on the one canvas\". \"\"Androgyny\" is a schizophrenic song\", Steve Marker claimed, describing it as \"lots of urban groove... then it's got a bit of that , loads of strings. There are like three or four different styles of music in it. It's basically just a weird song\".\n\nThe majority of the recorded work on \"Beautiful Garbage\" was to analog tracked through a Trident A Range mixing console; then fed into Pro Tools for recording overdubs, editing and mixing. Originally the band had recorded a keyboard bassline during the verses; Daniel Shulman asked to perform organic bass on those parts instead. The band agreed; Shulman recorded those parts using a Fender Precision Bass Deluxe with the E String tuned down to D. While Shirley Manson's main vocals were generally not treated to the extent that they had on Garbage's first two albums, a lot of her backing vocals were; on \"Androgyny\" each vocal track was EQ'd and treated differently.\n\nLyrically, \"Androgyny\" was described by Shirley Manson as a \"third-sex manifesto\" for gender expression, adding that she thought that the world was fascinated with gender-bending and cross-dressing, and that she felt that people had become sick of being categorised in binary terms: \"this overt sexualisation [of society]... has become so un-erotic, so un-mysterious, and so un-sexy\". The band felt that \"Androgyny\" was a good choice as a lead single for \"Beautiful Garbage\", as the song represented how the album veered to pop, more than the first two albums. \"Starting off with something as quote unquote \"poppy\" as \"Androgyny\" was maybe where we wanted to go with this...\" explained Erikson, \"it sounds a lot different to what we've done before.\" Later Erikson told VH1, \"[\"Androgyny\"] encapsulates the mood of the record... each part of the song has a very drastic change and the record is full of extremes like that.\" He pointed out that despite the R&B verse, the song is recognisably Garbage because of the rock chorus; adding that the bridge also has a Philadelphia soul influence. \"We combine different genres of music within a song... in that way, it's what we've always done.\"\n\n\"Androgyny\" received its world premiere radio broadcast on 9 August 2001 on Steve Lamacq's \"Evening Session\" on BBC Radio 1; this was followed up by pre-release broadcasts the next day on Nemone's Radio 1 show, and on Capital and XFM's breakfast shows. \"Androgyny\" was officially serviced to UK radio on August 13. \"Androgyny\" was C-listed at BBC Radio 1, Virgin, Red Dragon and Isle of Wight Radio. XFM's Arthur Baker premiered the Felix Da Housecat remix of \"Androgyny\" on his show on August 19, while The Architechs remix premiered on the Dreem Team's Radio 1 show on August 26. Both mixes were issued on 12\" vinyl on August 20; the Felix Da Housecat mixes to nightclubs, while the Architechs remix was sent to specialist clubs. The \"Androgyny\" music video premiered on both MTV UK and VH1 on September 10; the following night's broadcast of the \"Mercury Music Prize\" event featured two teaser adverts during the commercial breaks to promote both \"Androgyny\" and \"Beautiful Garbage\". \"Androgyny\" was B-listed at Radio One. Garbage spent a week in the United Kingdom to promote the single and album from September 17; recording a performance of \"Androgyny\" for \"Pepsi Chart Show\", \"Top of The Pops\" and \"The Base\" to be broadcast after the single release. Shirley Manson co-hosted the \"Steve Lamacq Show\" on September 19. Garbage made their first live televised performance in nearly two years on September 22; performing \"Androgyny\" on \"\" and the following day a live performance on \"T4 Popworld\". Mushroom Records UK issued \"Androgyny\" on September 24 on three formats; a 2×CD single set and a 12\" vinyl. Woolworths made \"Androgyny\" its 'Single of the Week'. \"Androgyny\" debuted at #24 on the UK Singles Chart, which was lower than any of the six singles Garbage released during the \"Version 2.0\" album cycle. \"Androgyny\" dipped to #52 the following week, before leaving the Top 75 altogether.\n\nIn North America, Interscope scheduled \"Androgyny\" for impact on Modern Rock, Hot A/C, Mainstream Top 40, Adult Top 40 and AAA format radio stations from August 27.Interscope announced that \"Androgyny\" had became the #1 'Most Added' track at Mainstream Top 40, Adult Top 40 and AAA, while picking up notable adds at CHR/Pop and Hot AC stations. The music video for \"Androgyny\" was premiered on both VH1 and MTV on September 10. Interscope partnered with Yahoo! Messenger to promote the release of \"Androgyny\" around the launch of their new instant messenger initiative termed \"IMVironments\" that allowed users to play music and Flash Video clips inside the IM window. Users were able to correspond within a Garbage-themed environment that included the \"Androgyny\" audio, a Flash montage of the band, a hyperlink to Launch.com to view the \"Androgyny\" video and a link to Yahoo! Music to purchase the new album. Following September 11th, \"Androgyny\" lost any momentum at US radio; barely hanging on at Triple-A, where it was averaging around 100-150 plays a week. \"[In the weeks following 9/11] radio banished all sorts of songs, anything weird at all. \"Androgyny\" wasn't going to fly for a second\", Duke recalled.\n\nTo set up the release of both \"Androgyny\" and \"Beautiful Garbage\", PIAS France serviced the video for \"Androgyny\" to music stations on September 13; \"Androgyny\" was playlisted by radio stations Europe 1, Europe 2, RTL, France Inter, Ouï FM, Sud Radio, FIP, WIT FM, Alouette FM, Le Moev' and Couleur 3, and by music channels MCM and MTV France, with specials broadcast by France 3 and M6 PIAS Germany serviced the music video to stations where it was playlisted by RTL II, VIVA, VIVA2, MTV Central and Onyx.tv; \"Androgyny\" was also well received by German radio, where it peaked at #57 on their airplay chart. On September 24, PIAS released a maxi CD single across Europe. In some countries such as Netherlands and Italy, PIAS also issued a two-track CD single; PIAS France imported the 12\" single from the UK to distribute to national music stores. After its fifth week at radio, \"Androgyny\" reached #17 on the European airplay chart; the following week the song debuted and peaked at #70 on the European Hot 100 Singles chart. In the weeks after the \"Beautiful Garbage\" album debuted at #2 across Europe, \"Androgyny\" peaked at #11 on the airplay chart. In Russia, \"Androgyny\" peaked at #2 on \"Music & Media\"'s airplay chart. \n\nFor the release of \"Androgyny\" in Australia, FMR set a radio premiere date of August 24 across the two countries, confident from early album previews across airplay formats that the single would potentially receive massive radio support. \"Androgyny\" became Garbage's first Top 10 Airplay hit in Australia. The physical single was released on September 24 as a maxi single featuring \"Begging Bone\", and the two Felix da Housecat and The Architechs remixes. \"Androgyny\" charted at #21 on the ARIA Charts and at #36 on the RIANZ singles chart. \"Androgyny\" stayed on the Australian chart for seven weeks, and on the New Zealand chart for thirteen, eventually rising to #17 on its eleventh week.\n\n The music video for \"Androgyny\" was directed by Don Cameron over a three-day London studio shoot commencing August 20, 2001. The video was produced by Tsunami/Method Films and its visual effects overseen by Smoke & Mirrors. Collaborating on the music video were top hair / make-up / stylists, British '60s airbrush artist Peter Barry and digital matte artists.\n\nThe concept for the \"Androgyny\" music video sought to redefine Shirley Manson as a fashion icon. Cameron framed Manson's on-screen performance and the bands' cameos in several graphic art directed environments, as well as placing the band within a cast setting for the first time: interspersed throughout the video is footage of multiple fashionable twenty-somethings seen swapping clothes and kisses in a public restroom as the band look on. Cameron also used post effects to make Manson appear as a visualization of androgyny. Clothing chosen by stylist were from Martine Sitbon, Benjamin Cho, Richard Saenz, and undisclosed designers. The creation of the \"Androgyny\" video involved the design of four different and individual effects. The opening section of the video presented Manson in a similar style of the classic Vladimir Tretchikoff Balinese girl paintings, created using matte painting and green screen. The footage was heavily treated and combined with multiple layers of painted elements to give Manson porcelain-like skin that is characteristic of Tretchikoff's work. The second section of the video that involves the use of CGI featured Manson dressed half in a man's suit and half in a women's suit; as Manson rotates on a turning pedestal, elements of her body and clothing morph. The limousine sequence, where Manson is seen chauffeuring a young couple down a stylised freeway, involved filming multiple motion control passes and painted/keyed elements. Motion control data was manipulated in post-production to remove the reflections of the set and creating reflections of the street lights and cityscape. The final sequence sees Manson performing in front of a city backdrop; this involved multiple layers of matte painted elements to create.\n\nThe music video began airing across Europe and North America on September 10, 2001. Music station VH1 paired its broadcasts of \"Androgyny\" with the band's earlier single \"Only Happy When it Rains\". In 2002, a QuickTime format of the \"Androgyny\" video was included on a promotional sampler CD-ROM titled \"Garbage:Sampler\", given away by Mushroom Records UK in conjunction with \"The Sun\" newspaper and Asda supermarket. The \"Androgyny\" video was uploaded to VEVO in 2009.\n\nThe CD format of \"Beautiful Garbage\" contained an enhanced element where users could remix four tracks from the album, of which \"Androgyny\" was one of. Created in conjunction with Sonic Foundry, using a customized version of their drag-and-drop \"ACID Pro\" music sequencer software, the remixes utilized samples and loops taken directly from the actual songs. The enhanced section could be accessed when the user was online; a simplified version of the software featuring only \"Androgyny\" loops was accessible when the user was offline. The offline 'soundtoy' featuring \"Androgyny\" loops and samples was later included on the \"Garbage:Sampler\" CD-ROM.\n\nInterscope Records and Sonic Foundry launched a competition in November 2001, in which fans were invited to remix \"Androgyny\" by downloading free \"ACID Xpress\" software. Entrants could then upload their work to a specially created website (www.acidgarbage.com) to stream their mixes online. The winner received copies of Sonic Foundry's \"ACID Pro 3.0\", \"Sound Forge 5.0\", \"Vegas Audio 2.0\", and five loop libraries.\n\nRemixes commissioned for the single release included club and dub mixes each from UK garage outfit The Architechs and Chicago house and electroclash DJ Felix da Housecat. His \"Thee Glitz\" remix was notably included on the 2003 2 Many DJs landmark mashup album \"As Heard on Radio Soulwax Pt. 2\", and later remastered and included on the bonus disc of Garbage's 2007 greatest hits album \"Absolute Garbage\". Interscope paid $75,000 for a funk remix of \"Androgyny\" by Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo, an American production duo known as The Neptunes with scheduled plans for it to be serviced to radio and clubs. A remix by Missy Elliot was also in the works; Butch Vig told \"NME\": \"We've talked about either \"Androgyny\" or \"Untouchable\". We'll send it off to her and say, Missy, do your thing, do whatever you want with it, because we love her and love her sensibility which she brings to it.\"\n\n\"Androgyny\" was met with a mixed reception upon its late 2001 release. In early press, \"Kerrang!\"'s Dom Lawson described it as \"pretty collides with sterile\" and \"glistening\"; while a reviewer for \"Heat\" claimed \"\"Androgyny\" is a bewitching record, pirouetting between pop, rock and funk\". Much comment was made on the songs notable genre-crossover from alternative rock. In an album review for \"Classic Rock\", Jerry Ewing wrote: \"With its playful \"boys in the girl's room, girls in the men's room\" refrain, [\"Androgyny\"] works its seductive rhythms very much into R&B territory, yet remains undeniably Garbage-like in sound.\" \"Q\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> magazine's Paul Elliot wrote \"\"Androgyny\"s R&B stutter evokes Destiny's Child, essentially pop, but not without depth\", while in their album review, Ian Griffiths wrote that \"Beautiful Garbage\" was the bands best album to date, pointing out that \"Androgyny\" radiated \"coy brooding\". David Stubbs of \"Uncut\" agreed that the album was the bands best yet, writing \"Androgyny\" recalls Prince at his most funkily fluid and puckish, imagining a world where gender barriers are broken down.\" Barry Divola of \"WHO\" magazine wrote \"Note to R&B stars who are havign trouble getting Timbaland to free up his schedule: hire Garbage. They may technically be a rock band, but you wouldn't know it from \"Androgyny\", with its loops, syncopated rhythm and severely cut-up instrumentation\". In an album review for \"Rock Sound\", Victoria Durham called the lyrics \"tiresome\", while comparing the song's intro to Madonna. \"If current single \"Androgyny\" is meant to be a new direction, it isn't a bad one, a chunky riff set to a nu-soul production job\", wrote \"The List\", \"Lyrically though, the band are still confusing the deviant with the dull\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323885", "title": "Cane River Creole National Historical Park", "text": "Cane River Creole National Historical Park\n\nEstablished in 1994, the Cane River Creole National Historical Park serves to preserve the resources and cultural landscapes of the Cane River region in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana. Located along the Cane River Lake, the park is approximately 63 acres and includes two French Creole cotton plantations, Oakland and Magnolia. Both plantations are complete in their historic settings, including landscapes, outbuildings, structures, furnishings, and artifacts; and they are the most intact French Creole cotton plantations in the United States. In total, 65 historic structures and over a million artifacts enhance the National Park Service mission as it strives to tell the story of the evolution of plantation agriculture through the perspective of the land owners, enslaved workers, overseers, skilled workers, and tenant farmers who resided along the Cane River for over two hundred years. This park is included as a site on the Louisiana African American Heritage Trail.\n\nA defining characteristic of the park is the conservation and interpretation of Creole culture. In colonial Louisiana the term \"Creole\" was used to indicate New World products derived from Old World stock, and could apply to people, architecture, or livestock. Regarding people, Creole historically referred to those born in Louisiana during the French and Spanish periods, regardless of their ethnicity. Today, as in the past, Creole transcends racial boundaries. It connects people to their colonial roots, be they descendants of European settlers, enslaved Africans, or the many of mixed heritage, which may include African, French, Spanish, and American Indian influences. The Prud'hommes of Oakland and the LeComtes of Magnolia were considered French Creole. As with others in the area, the homes and plantations of these families reflected the French Creole architectural style and way of life.\n\nThe historic landscapes and dozens of structures preserved at Oakland and Magnolia plantations are the setting for the stories of workers (enslaved and free) and late post-Civil War tenant farmers who worked the same land for over two centuries, adapting to historical, economic, social, and agricultural change. Today their descendants carry on many of their traditions.\n\nThe origins of Magnolia Plantation can be traced to the mid-18th century, when the French LeComte family received grants to the land, and are continued by the French Hertzog family. In 1753, Jean Baptiste LeComte received a French land grant in Natchitoches Parish. LeComte established the Shallow Lake plantation and focused mainly on tobacco as a commodity crop, and subsistence farming. The LeComte family pioneered through the colonial rule of the French and the Spanish, and became one of the most successful landowning families in Natchitoches Parish. By the early 19th century the LeComte family was producing cotton and expanding their landholdings.\n\nIn the 1830s, Ambrose LeComte II acquired the land that would come to form Magnolia Plantation. During this period, the LeComtes were extremely prosperous and began to build most of the structures that are still located on Magnolia. By the 1850s Ambrose and his wife Julia (Buard) retired to their Natchitoches townhouse, where Ambrose could focus on his lucrative race horse business. By 1852 management of the plantation was turned over to Ambrose's son-in-law, Matthew Hertzog. The name Hertzog would eventually become inextricably linked with the plantation.\n\nThis prosperous period for the planter family would come to an abrupt halt with the Civil War. During the Civil War, Magnolia's main house was burned to the ground by Union troops during the Red River Campaign. In addition, crops and plantation structures were destroyed by both Confederate and Union armies.\n\nAfter the Civil War, the LeComte-Hertzog family rebuilt their plantation along with the main house. They converted much of their land to be worked by the new labor system of sharecropping by freedmen. In addition, they leased some acreage to tenant farmers, who were mostly Creoles of color.\n\nThe system of sharecropping required an agreement between the landowner and the tenant. The sharecropper agreed to farm a section of the owner's land in exchange for part of the crops or the money the crops generated. The plantation owner often supplied the seed and agricultural equipment required to cultivate the crop. On larger plantations, such as Magnolia and Oakland, a plantation store was opened to sell goods to the sharecroppers. A hardship faced by many sharecroppers across the South was the cycle of poverty created through the constant flow of debt and repayment owed to the plantation store. There was often little money left to live on.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the old plantation world was fading. Mechanization replaced many black workers on the cotton fields by the 1960s. Yet many of the community's old ways persisted. At Magnolia, workers and planters still enjoyed baseball games and horse races, and celebrated Juneteenth. The last black family left the plantation in 1968. The Hertzog family contracted with an agricultural company to work the land.\n\nIn the early 21st century, Magnolia Plantation is recognized as a Bicentennial Farm and a National Historic Landmark. The main house at Magnolia and the farming acreage are owned by the Hertzog family and are not open to the public.\n\nBut the Plantation Store, the Overseer's House, the Blacksmith Shop, the Slave/Tenant Quarters, the Gin Barn, Cotton Picker Shed, and Carriage House are all part of Cane River Creole National Historical Park, which was designated in 1994. They are open to visitors. The gin barn houses two types of cotton gins and a rare 1830s mule-powered cotton press, which is the last of its kind still standing in its original location. The lives of the diverse people associated with Magnolia are being represented to reflect the resilience, resourcefulness, dedication, and continuous interaction of families and communities along Cane River.\n\nOakland Plantation was started in the 18th century with a land grant to the French Creole Prud'homme family. In 1789, Emanuel Prud'homme received a land grant from the Spanish government, who ruled Louisiana during that time. Emmanuel was one of the first planters to grow cotton in the area. During this period, Emmanuel began to purchase enslaved workers to labor in the fields and build the structures needed on the plantation. In 1818, Prud'homme began construction of his plantation home. In the late 1820s, Emanuel's son, Pierre Phanor Prud'homme, took over management of the plantation.\n\nAs with Magnolia and most large plantations of the early 19th century, the Prud'homme plantation was a self-sufficient community that grew or made everything that was needed. Its commodity crop was cotton, but produce was grown for use on the plantation, as well as food for animals. Livestock structures were constructed to house mules, chickens, horses, and turkeys. In addition, housing had to be constructed for the overseer and the enslaved people, as well as work sites, such as the wash house and the carpenter shop. An unusual building to modern eyes is the \"pigeonnière\", where pigeons were raised to be enjoyed as a food delicacy.\n\nAlthough Pierre Phanor had managed the plantation since the 1820s, he did not become the owner until 1845 upon his father's death. Phanor continued to successfully manage the plantation until the Civil War. During these years the enslaved population continued to perform a variety of skills: from cultivating the land and processing the cotton, to constructing the buildings, managing livestock, and making most of the goods needed by the plantation's occupants.\n\nThe Civil War brought destruction to the Cane River region. During the Red River Campaign both the Union and Confederate armies destroyed plantation buildings, crops, and livestock. At the Prud'homme plantation, the cotton gin was burned. The facts relating to the survival of the plantation home and Phanor's fate have become clouded by several unconfirmed stories and legends. One family legend states that Phanor was arrested by Union soldiers. He became ill as he was moved from his plantation to Natchitoches, where he died in a cousin's home.\n\nAt war's end, Phanor's two sons divided the plantation. Jacques Alphonse Prud'homme kept the land that included the main house and surrounding lands west of the Cane River. Pierre Emmanuel Prud'homme took the land on the east side of the river and established his own plantation, which he called Atahoe.\n\nAlphonse renamed his home as Oakland and began rebuilding his fortunes. He adapted to the free labor economy, hiring freedmen as sharecroppers; some Creoles of color leased land separately as tenant farmers. During this era, the Prud'hommes opened a store and post office at Oakland to provide supplies and services for sharecroppers and tenant farmers. The plantation store operated until 1983, serving the larger community when the number of farm workers declined. Low cotton prices in the late 19th century and a boll weevil infestation in the early 20th century resulted in mostly lean times for the planter family and the workers until after World War II.\n\nModernization came fitfully to Cane River. Phanor Prud'homme II bought the family's first car in 1910, while most people in the area still traveled by mule-drawn wagon. By the 1960s the family adopted mechanization for agriculture, with machines doing more of the tasks long performed by mules and human workers. During World War II and after, many of the remaining black workers had left the plantations in the Great Migration for employment in war industries.\n\nToday, Oakland Plantation is listed by the National Park Service as a National Historic Landmark and Bicentennial Farm. Open to the public as a unit of Cane River Creole National Historical Park, a unit of the National Park System, Oakland's outbuildings, sheds, store houses, and tenant cabins illustrate the daily life of a working cotton plantation. The site offers a window into the Creole colonial culture, maintained by ethnic French such as the Prud'homme family, along with generations of blacks and Creoles of color in the formation of the larger community culture and agricultural landscape.\n\nGrounds of both sites are open daily from 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m except on New Year's Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas. Visitors can take a self-guided tour of the grounds during our normal hours of operation. A guided tour of the Oakland Slave/Tenant Quarters is available at 12:30 p.m. daily.\n\nThe Oakland Plantation main house tour is conducted by a ranger every day at 1:00 p.m. Depending on staff levels, more tours may be available.\n\nTours of the Magnolia grounds are by reservation only. The main house at Magnolia is on private property and not open to the public.\n\nOakland Plantation\n4386 Highway 494\nNatchez, LA 71456\n\nMagnolia Plantation\n5549 Highway 119\nDerry, LA 71416\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323898", "title": "Big Merino", "text": "Big Merino\n\nThe Big Merino is a tall concrete merino ram, located in Goulburn, New South Wales, Australia. Nicknamed \"Rambo\" by locals, the Big Merino contains a gift shop on the ground floor and a wool display on the second floor. Visitors can climb to the top and look out through the Merino's eyes to view the local area.\n\nThe Big Merino was officially opened on 20 September 1985. In 1992, the Hume Highway bypassed Goulburn, which resulted in a loss of 40 busloads of tourists to the Big Merino complex per day. On 26 May 2007, the Big Merino was moved to a location closer to the Hume Highway to increase visitor numbers, and is now located near the freeway interchange at a service station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323901", "title": "Underground living", "text": "Underground living\n\nUnderground living refers to living below the ground's surface, whether in natural or manmade caves or structures. Underground dwellings are an alternative to above-ground dwellings for some home seekers, including those who are looking to minimize impact on the environment. Factories and office buildings can benefit from underground facilities for many of the same reasons as underground dwellings such as noise abatement, energy use, and security.\n\nSome advantages of underground houses include resistance to severe weather, quiet living space, an unobtrusive presence in the surrounding landscape, and a nearly constant interior temperature due to the natural insulating properties of the surrounding earth. One appeal is the energy efficiency and environmental friendliness of underground dwellings. However, underground living does have certain disadvantages, such as the potential for flooding, which in some cases may require special pumping systems to be installed.\n\nIt is the preferred mode of housing to communities in such extreme environments as Italy's Sassi di Matera, Australia's Coober Pedy, Berber caves as those in Matmâta, Tunisia, and even Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station.\n\nOften, underground living structures are not entirely underground; typically, they can be exposed on one side when built into a hill. This exposure can significantly improve interior lighting, although at the expense of greater exposure to the elements.\n\nThere is only written documentation of Scythian and German subterranean dwellings. Remnants have been found in Switzerland, Mecklenburg and southern Bavaria, \"They had a round shape with a kettle-like widening at the bottom, from eleven to fifteen metres in diameter, and from two to four metres in depth\".\n\nIn parts of rural Australia, subterranean houses are built in a manner similar to prairie dog holes. There is a \"chimney\" placed higher than ground-level and a lower, ground-level, entrance. This orientation causes a continuous breeze throughout the house, reducing or eliminating the need for air conditioning.\n\nThere are various ways to develop structures for underground living.\n\n\nUnderground living has been a feature of fiction, such as the hobbit holes of the Shire as described in the stories of J. R. R. Tolkien and \"The Underground City\" by Jules Verne. Some films are almost entirely set underground, such as \"THX 1138\". The \"Fallout series\" also has underground shelters called Vaults.\n\nThe majority of the short science-fiction story The Machine Stops by British author E.M. Forster is set in an imagined underground city.\n\nParent categories:\nTypes of underground living spaces and people, and related topics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323903", "title": "Mantorras", "text": "Mantorras\n\nPedro Manuel Torres (born 18 March 1982), known as Mantorras, is an Angolan retired footballer who played as a striker.\n\nHis nickname derives from the fact that, as a child, he suffered slight accidental burns, being then known as \"Mantorras\" from the Angolan expression \"\"Mano Torras,\"\" which means \"toasted brother\". His professional career, mainly spent with Benfica, was blighted by constant injury problems.\n\nMantorras played for Angola in the 2000s, representing the nation at the 2006 World Cup and two Africa Cup of Nations tournaments.\n\nBorn in Huambo, Mantorras started his career at Progresso Associação do Sambizanga. He quickly caught the eye of Portuguese scouts, and transferred to F.C. Alverca shortly thereafter as that club acted also as S.L. Benfica's farm team. Most notably, he scored once in a 3–1 home win over Sporting Clube de Portugal on 17 February 2001, and finished that season with nine league goals as the team managed to retain their Primeira Liga status, finishing in 12th position.\n\nAt 19, Mantorras signed with Benfica, making a particularly good impression during his first season and being subsequently sought out by FC Barcelona and Inter Milan. During his quick rise to stardom, he was frequently described as the best player to come out of Portuguese Africa since Eusébio left Mozambique for Benfica in the early 1960s; the latter himself said of the former: \"He has special qualities and is set for a great future\".\n\nIn 2002, Mantorras suffered a serious knee injury that almost put an end to his short career. He spent approximately two-and-a-half years recovering, during which he was subject to four surgical procedures. He returned to the pitch during the 2004–05 campaign, and managed to contribute sufficiently as Benfica ended an 11-year drought and won the national championship, with five goals in only 15 matches (four of those in the final two months).\n\nEven though he was subsequently deemed to be fully recovered, Mantorras failed to re-establish himself as a first-team player, playing only in a few games throughout the next seasons combined. However, he remained a fan favourite, additionally stating he would like to see out his career at the club and that he would remain there even if he was not paid a salary.\n\nBenfica won the league again in 2009–10, as well as the domestic league cup, also reaching the last eight in the UEFA Europa League, but Mantorras' output consisted of ten minutes during the pre-season, in a 1–2 loss against Atlético Madrid; in mid-February 2011, one month shy of his 29th birthday, he announced his retirement from professional football, making a short and unsuccessful comeback with C.D. Primeiro de Agosto later on.\n\nIn June 2012, Mantorras returned to Benfica as club ambassador. The following month, on the 18th, he received a testimonial match at the Estádio da Luz, facing an All-Star team which included Luís Figo, Edgar Davids, Luís Boa Morte, Teddy Sheringham, Dwight Yorke, Paulo Futre, Ronaldo, Francesco Toldo, Fabio Cannavaro, Fernando Couto, Míchel Salgado, Serginho, Pauleta, Juliano Belletti and Mateja Kežman, and netting the fourth goal in a 5–1 win; after the match he praised the club fans in an interview, and dedicated his goal to them for all the support he received during his spell. His former manager Jorge Jesus praised his efforts, as well as the money raised in the game by both teams.\n\nMantorras represented Angola at the 2001 FIFA World Youth Championship, in Argentina. He scored in a 1–1 group stage draw against Australia, helping his country eventually reach the round-of-16.\n\nA full international since the age of 19, Mantorras was part of the national team which became the first ever African Portuguese-speaking country to qualify for the FIFA World Cup, in 2006. There, he played twice from the bench, including in the 0–1 group stage loss against Portugal.\n\nEven though he was only fifth or sixth-choice at Benfica at the time, Mantorras was also summoned for the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations, played on home soil. As Angola reached the last-eight he only appeared once, again as a substitute, in a 2–0 win over Malawi.\n\nMantorras did not forget his humble roots: soon after joining Benfica, he turned his thoughts to the less fortunate in his homeland, promising to donate a hefty percentage of his wages to set up a home for street kids in Luanda.\n\n\"I feel so sorry for children in Angola\", he stated. \"I know what it's like to go hungry and to sleep on the street. My father died when I was three months old and my mother when I was 16. I had a brother to look after and became the head of the family [when I was] very young. I had a lot of difficulties early in my life. Now that my fortunes have improved, I'm going to do what I can to help the underprivileged\".\n\nBenfica\n\nInternational\n\n'Individual\n\n"}
{"id": "2323908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323908", "title": "Fern Rock, Philadelphia", "text": "Fern Rock, Philadelphia\n\nFern Rock is a neighborhood in the upper North Philadelphia section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania bounded by Olney to the east, Ogontz to the west, Logan to the south, and East Oak Lane to the north. It is approximately situated between Broad Street, Tabor Road, 7th Street, Godfrey Avenue and Fisher Park. Fern Rock borders Ogontz at Broad Street, Logan at Olney Avenue, East Oak Lane at Godfrey Avenue, and Olney at the train tracks. \n\nThe northern terminus of the Broad Street Line subway is located in Fern Rock at the Fern Rock Transportation Center. Three SEPTA Regional Rail lines also run through this station. \n\nThe Pennsylvania College of Optometry is located in the 1200 block of West Godfrey Avenue. \n\nThe area is a mix of 1920s-style row homes, a few high-rise apartment buildings near York and Chelten, some older twins and single homes, especially near 13th St and Spencer St, formerly known as Green Lane, along with various commercial strips along Broad Street, Olney Avenue in and around Broad Street, and the 5700-5900 block of Old York Road.\n\nThe neighborhood is named after the ancestral estate of Elisha Kent Kane, a renowned arctic explorer and naval surgeon from Philadelphia.\n\nThe neighborhood is a fairly stable, predominantly Black-American area.\n\nPennsylvania College of Optometry (Eye Institute) and Community College of Philadelphia (Northwest Center) are located in the Fern Rock neighborhood. There are also colleges within a short distance: La Salle University (Logan), Salus University (Elkins Park), and Gratz College (Melrose Park).\n"}
{"id": "2323909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323909", "title": "List of game engines", "text": "List of game engines\n\nGame engines are tools available for game designers to code and plan out a game quickly and easily without building one from the ground up. Whether they are 2D or 3D based, they offer tools to aid in asset creation and placement.\n\nNote: The following list is not exhaustive. Also, it mixes game engines with rendering engines as well as API bindings without any distinctions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323915", "title": "GameTV", "text": "GameTV\n\nGameTV is a Canadian English language discretionary service channel that is owned by Anthem Sports & Entertainment. The channel primarily airs game and competition-based programming such as game shows, reality shows, and sports programming, as well as films.\n\nIn September 2001, Stuart Media Group was granted approval by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) to launch \"The Gaming Channel\", described as \"a national, English-language Category 2 specialty television service, providing live-event interactive programming about gaming or involving gaming. The service will offer programming including shorts and Canadian original programs about gaming that will be knowledge-based and entertaining, with a focus on providing unique insights into daily events of the gaming world and its participants. The service will also allow viewers to play along with Bingo Games, and will provide experimental, interactive and informational programming on gaming odds, lotteries, and the gaming experience in general.\"\n\nIn December 2004, Stuart Media Group announced that it had reached an agreement with Casino and Gaming Television, Inc., owners of the Casino and Gaming Television (CGTV) brand, which would see Stuart Media Group launch The Gaming Channel as a Canadian version of the yet-to-be-launched American television channel of the same name. The agreement would see the Canadian channel launch in May 2005 on Bell ExpressVu and act as, what the companies called, a \"test bed\" for the American channel which would also launch later in 2005.\n\nThe channel would later launch in November 2005 as Casino and Gaming Television (CGTV) Canada on Rogers Cable instead of initially on Bell ExpressVu. Programming on the channel primarily focused on poker, including live and pre-taped tournaments; however, programming on other casino games and casino-related programming did occur.\n\nUpon the launch of the channel in 2005, CGTV Canada was owned by Stuart Media Group, who in turn was owned by a variety of investors, although was ultimately majority owned by what is now called Kilmer Group. The channel was however operated by Insight Sports, of which Kilmer Group was an investor in as well. The channel would go through several corporate reorganizations throughout its history but Kilmer Group would remain majority owner until it sold its interest in the channel in 2016.\nOn October 26, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. EST, CGTV was renamed GameTV to broaden its appeal to a larger audience by focusing on game-related programming including game shows, reality programming, poker and non-sports gaming, and feature films.\n\nIn October 2012, GameTV debuted a new logo and branding, and dropped its casino programming in favor of focusing specifically on game shows, competition-style reality series, and nightly feature films.\n\nOn August 2, 2016, Anthem Sports & Entertainment announced that it would acquire GameTV pending CRTC approval. The CRTC approved the purchase in November 2016.\n\nWith the acquisition of GameTV by Anthem Sports & Entertainment, the channel began airing sports and sports entertainment programming, including live/tape-delayed matches and compilations, professional wrestling from Impact Wrestling, mixed martial arts from the UFC, and rugby league featuring all 2017 season matches from the Toronto Wolfpack.\n\nOn March 9, 2018, the CRTC approved a previously unannounced sale of the channel from Anthem to Remuda Media, a newly established broadcasting company. Shareholders in Remuda Media previously was granted approval from the CRTC to launch The Country Channel, noted at the time as a \"\"service that would offer programming aligned to the interests and needs of rural Canadians.\"\" In its application, it was noted that Remuda Media was unsuccessful at launching The Country Channel, and turned its eye to acquiring an existing channel, of which GameTV will be used to launch the service, or one similar. In July 2018, Anthem Media sent a letter to the CRTC stating that the proposed transfer in ownership from Anthem to Remuda was terminated and Anthem would retain ownership of GameTV. \n\nOn April 1, 2019, FNTSY Sports Network was quietly replaced in Canada by a newly-launched sister channel, Game+.\n\nIn March 2017, Anthem Media launched GameTV HD, a 1080i high definition simulcast of the standard definition feed. The HD feed is currently available on Bell Fibe TV, Eastlink, and Cogeco. Since 2018, Shaw Direct carries the channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323924", "title": "Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site", "text": "Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site\n\nVanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site is a historic house museum in Hyde Park, New York. It became a National Historic Landmark in 1940. It is owned and operated by the National Park Service.\n\nThe property, historically known as Hyde Park, was one of several homes owned by Frederick William Vanderbilt and his wife Louise Holmes Anthony. The 54-room Vanderbilt mansion was designed by the preeminent architectural firm McKim, Mead & White. Construction occurred between 1896 and 1899. The house is an example of the Beaux-Arts architecture style. The interiors are archetypes of the American Renaissance, blending European architectural salvage, antiques, and fine period reproductions representing an array of historical styles. The site includes of the original larger property (once around 600 acres) situated on a bluff overlooking the Hudson River and includes manicured lawns, formal gardens, woodlands, and numerous auxiliary buildings.\n\nHistorically known as Hyde Park, the Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site is one of the area's oldest Hudson River estates. The earliest development of the estate began in 1764 when Dr. John Bard purchased land on the east side of the Albany Post Road, where he built Red House and developed the agricultural aspects of the eastern section of the property that continued through Frederick and Louise Vanderbilt's occupancy. Bard family ownership continued through 1821 with his son, Dr. Samuel Bard (1742–1821), owning the property from 1799 to 1821. In 1828, Dr. David Hosack, president of the New York Horticultural Society, purchased the property from Samuel Bard's heirs, with André Parmentier helping to design the grounds. In 1840, John Jacob Astor purchased the property from Hosack's heirs for his daughter Dorothea and her husband Walter S. Langdon. Their son Walter inherited and occupied the estate to the time of his death in 1894.\n\nFrederick and Louise Vanderbilt purchased Hyde Park in May 1895 from Langdon's heirs. Attracted to the Hudson Valley and the land on the east bank of the Hudson River, Frederick and his wife settled into their estate. The location offered quick and easy access to New York City on the Vanderbilt's own New York Central Railroad. The house was designed and built between 1896–1899, and was primarily used as a vacation home for Frederick Vanderbilt's family. The previous owners of the estate had made it well known for its grand landscape and array of different plants and trees throughout the property. The \"New York Times\" described the Vanderbilt's estate as \"the finest place on the Hudson between New York and Albany.\"\n\nTheir niece, Margaret \"Daisy\" Van Alen, inherited the property when Frederick Vanderbilt died in 1938. Encouraged by President Franklin D. Roosevelt (who owned an estate nearby), Van Alen donated a portion of the estate, including the residence with most of its original furnishings, to the National Park Service in 1940. From 1941 to 1943, Roosevelt's Secret Service was housed in the basement and third-floor service areas, and some of the President's personal White House staff and friends occasionally stayed in the main bedrooms of the house, including those of Frederick and Louise Vanderbilt.\n\nThe 54-room mansion is the work of the architectural firm McKim, Mead & White. Charles Follen McKim designed the plan in the Beaux-Arts style and Stanford White assisted as an antiques buyer.\n\nThe house has a classic Beaux-Arts plan, with the major public rooms on its ground floor – the central Elliptical Hall, Dining Room, and Living Room – all in one line, parallel to the Hudson River. North and South Foyers provide transitional space from the Hall to the Dining Room and Living Room. Five secondary spaces are located off the Elliptical Hall: the Lobby, Den, Gold Room, Grand Stair Hall, and Lavatory. The second floor rooms, comprising Mrs. Vanderbilt's suite of Bedroom, Boudoir and Bathroom (designed by Ogden Codman), Mr. Vanderbilt's Bedroom and Bathroom, Guest Bedrooms and Baths and the Linen Room, are disposed around the Second Floor Hall and the North and South Foyers. The third floor contains five additional guest bedrooms, and a Servants' Hall separated from the guests' rooms by a door at the main staircase. Supported by both concrete and steel, the Vanderbilt mansion was considered modern for its time. The mansion also included plumbing and forced hot air central heating and electric lighting which was powered by a hydroelectric plant built on the estate on the Crumb Elbow stream. The Vanderbilt estate had electric lighting before the surrounding area.\n\nHerter Brothers and A. H. Davenport and Company were subcontractors who executed McKim's interior designs. The Vanderbilts also hired Georges Glaenzer and Ogden Codman to decorate several rooms. E.F. Caldwell & Co. manufactured the majority of the lighting.\n\nThe Italian gardens are detached from the house and incorporated formal elements typical of the Italian style. This meant that the beds were arranged in such a way that if you drew a line across the middle, either horizontally or vertically, one side of the line would mirror the other side. These formal gardens also consisted of multiple tiers, which depended on the type of plants. Each level was different. Frederick himself added the rose garden which contained almost 2000 vintage rose bushes along with other kinds of roses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323932", "title": "Byurakan Observatory", "text": "Byurakan Observatory\n\nThe Byurakan Astrophysical Observatory, or Byurakan Observatory is an astronomical observatory owned and operated by the Armenian Academy of Sciences. It is located on the slope of Mount Aragats in the village of Byurakan in Armenia.\n\nFounded in 1946 by Viktor Hambardzumyan, it was one of the main astronomy centers of the USSR. The buildings were designed by architect Samvel Safarian. The hotel, central building and structures are for astronomical instruments. The observatory has discovered special star clusters — stellar associations (1947), more than 1,000 flare stars, dozens of supernovae, hundreds of Herbig–Haro objects and cometary nebulae, hundreds of galaxies. After the breakup of the Soviet Union, the observatory fell into hard times.\n\nThe first conference was held in November 1951 on the topic of stellar associations. On 19 September 1956 a major meeting on non-stable stars was held. It has been the site of two major conferences on SETI, and is recognised as the regional center for astronomical research.\n\nDirectors included V.A. Ambartsumian till 1988, E.Ye. Khachikian till 1993, H.A. Harutyunian from 1993 to 1994, and A.R. Petrosian from 1994–1999. Khachikian returned as director from 1999–2003 and Harutyunian also returned after this.\n\nByurakan Observatory's main telescope is a 2.6 m Cassegrain reflector, along with a 1 and 0.5 m Schmidt camera as well as other smaller telescopes.\n\nThe First Byurakan Survey commenced in 1965 using the Schmidt telescope. It revealed 1500 galaxies with ultraviolet excess known as the Markarian galaxies. These galaxies are designated \"Markarian\" or \"Mrk\" followed by a number, for example Mrk 501.\n\nThe Second Byurakan Survey, 1974 to 1991, looked for emission line and ultraviolet excess galaxies, and quasars as well.\n\n\nMarkarian Galaxies, discovered in this building.\n"}
{"id": "2323933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323933", "title": "Iain Conn", "text": "Iain Conn\n\nIain Cameron Conn (born 22 October 1962) is a British businessman. He is the group chief executive (CEO) of Centrica.\n\nIain Cameron Conn was born in October 1962 in Edinburgh and grew up in Galashiels. The elder of two sons, his father died when Conn was 12. He was educated at St. Mary's School, Melrose and Loretto School in Musselburgh. He graduated in 1985 from Imperial College London, where he studied chemical engineering and management.\n\nConn served as chief executive downstream, of BP from 2007 until 2014 and was a main board director from 2004 to 2014. BP's Downstream division comprised all of BP's customer facing, manufacturing and supply businesses in over 70 countries mainly under the BP, Castrol and Aral brands. In addition to leading Downstream, Conn also had group regional responsibility for Europe, Asia and Southern Africa. Previously he served as the group executive officer for strategic resources of BP from 2004 to 2007, responsible for most of BP's functions and regional co-ordination, and was chief executive of BP's petrochemical division from 2002 to 2004. Conn spent 29 years at BP, with leadership roles in oil trading, marketing, refining and petrochemicals, and E&P.\n\nSince 1 January 2015, Conn has served as the CEO of Centrica, replacing Sam Laidlaw. In this role Conn has responsibility for Centrica and has been leading the repositioning of the company for the next phase both strategically and in response to the low oil and gas price environment. Centrica is shifting its portfolio emphasis more towards the customer in the areas of energy supply, services, the connected home, distributed energy and power, and energy marketing and trading.,\n\nConn was a director of BP from 2004 to 2014, and Rolls-Royce Holdings from 2005 to 2014, latterly as senior independent director. He is a non-executive director of BT.\n\nConn is a member of the council of Imperial College, chairman of the advisory board of Imperial College Business School, and a member of the advisory board of the Centre for European Reform. He is a trustee of the Movement to Work. He is a member of the president's committee of the Confederation of British Industry. Previously he was a member of the advisory boards of the Centre for China in the World Economy at Tsinghua University, and of the Schwarzman School at Tsinghua.\n\nConn is a fellow of Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the Institution of Chemical Engineers, and the City and Guilds of London Institute.\n\nIn 2018, Conn received a pay of £2.4 million which is a 44% increase from the income (£1.68 million) of 2017 despite Centrica losing 742,000 customers and terminating around 4000 employees.\n\nIn July 2019 Centrica announced Conn would be stepping down from his post and retire from the company's board in 2020. Conn told the Today programme it was \"a natural time to hand over\" as Centrica had reported a pre-tax loss of £446m in the six months to June.\n\nConn is married to Caroline, and they have three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323936", "title": "Prison on Fire", "text": "Prison on Fire\n\nPrison on Fire is a 1987 Hong Kong prison film directed by Ringo Lam and starring Chow Yun-fat and Tony Leung Ka-fai about the friendship of two inmates of a Hong Kong prison and their conflicts with the prison guards and other prisoners/triad members. The film was followed by a sequel, \"Prison on Fire II\", released in 1991.\n\nThe advertising designer Lo Ka-yiu is sentenced to three years of imprisonment in a Hong Kong prison for manslaughter. He was convicted for pushing a man who had robbed the grocery store of his father onto a street under a passing bus.\n\nHe is assigned for work at the prison ward where he meets Chung Tin-ching. The men befriend each over and Yiu asks to be transferred to the laundry where Ching is working. Yiu observes how a member of the gang of triad boss Micky steals scissors from Ching (to use them as a weapon). Yiu notifies Ching who manages to get the scissors back, but as a consequence Yiu gets bullied by the triad members.\n\nDuring a cell inspection forbidden items (playing cards and improvised weapons) are found and several men from the cell (among them Yiu, Micky and Bill, the boss of another triad) are brought to ranking warden officer Hung for questioning. Hung is nicknamed \"scarface\" by the prisoners due to a characteristic scar. He tries to recruit Yiu as an informant, which he refuses. Following that Hung questions Micky, asking him to let his henchmen search for tools which went missing in the prison work shops (serving as makeshift weapons). In return Hung would transfer one of Micky's rivals to a different prison. Since someone needs to be held responsible for the improvised weapons, Micky proposes to claim that Yiu blamed one of Bill's men. Hung accepts the deal and transfers several triad members to another prison as \"punishment\".\n\nThe following night Yiu is dragged into the cell's lavatory by Micky's men and beaten up. Ching attempts to stop them to no avail. When one of the guards hears the noise and intervenes, Yiu tells him he just slipped and is left alone for the time being.\n\nYiu's girlfriend visits him in prison and announces to study in England for nine months. Yiu is agitated and asks her to stay in Hong Kong, but is ultimately unable to convince her. Later the day Micky approaches Yiu in the laundry and demands a compensation for the punishment of his triad men. Yiu publicly accuses him of calumny and punches him, which results in a brawl. Yiu keeps his opponents on distance with a sharp piece of broken glass until the guards arrive, but also accidentally hurts Ching with it.\n\nYiu and Ching are summoned to the prison warden. When asked what started the fight Ching accuses Officer Hung (who's also present) of having tricked Yiu. The warden promises to have the case investigated and moves both into temporary solitary confinement as punishment. Micky is ultimately moved to a different prison and the situation calms down.\n\nA year later on New Year's Eve, Ching tells Yiu why he's imprisoned: four years ago he caught his wife prostituting herself, for which he killed her before finally attempting suicide. Their son now lives with the grandmother and regularly visits him in prison.\n\nThe following summer Micky is transferred back to the prison. He's still seeking revenge since being a triad boss he was never assaulted before. Yiu asks Officer Hung to move him and Ching to a different prison, but Hung brushes him off. During the next prison inspection, Yiu approaches the inspector and demands a transfer to protect them from the triads. Hung - who's also present during the inspection - denies the presence of triads among the prisoners and claims the two were having problems due to gambling debts. The warden requests a report, but ultimately Yiu and Ching have to remain in the prison.\n\nSome time later, the members of Bill's triad initiate a hunger strike to protest against a price surge for cigarettes. Micky's men and the other prisoners join the strike. Hung approaches Micky and demands him to stop the strike, otherwise he'd put all triad leaders in solitary confinement while telling them Micky had accused them of initiating the strike. Micky doesn't want to rat them out and instead defames Yiu as the instigator. In addition Hung whispers to Ching in the presence of the others, alluding Ching would rat on them. When the prison warden enters the room he demands everyone to resume their meals. While Micky obeys, Hung threatens Ching to also resume eating, which enrages him to the point that he and Yiu assault Hung. They are restrained and Hung has them moved back to the cell (where they are at the mercy of the triads).\n\nBack in the cell Micky's men start beating up Yiu and Ching as soon as the guards leave the cell. The other prisoners however demand that Micky fights against Ching man to man. Without the support of his henchmen he doesn't stand a chance. When Micky goes to the ground, his men intervene nonetheless and support him. In the meantime the guards are alarmed by the noise of the fight, but are unable to take action since the absent Hung locked up the cell. Ching wins the upper hand against Micky and almost strangles him to death with a bed pole. When the guards manage to get a hold of Hung and storm the cell, Ching needs to let go of Micky who he had almost killed. A huge brawl arises and Ching knocks Hung down with a drop-kick from a bunk bed. Laughing madly he jumps on Hung and bites his ear off.\n\nA few months later Yiu is released from prison and being welcomed from his family and his girlfriend. When leaving the prison they see how Ching (who had been moved to a hospital after the fight) is moved back to the prison in a bus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323943", "title": "Move Along Home", "text": "Move Along Home\n\n\"Move Along Home\" is the tenth episode of the of the American syndicated science fiction television series \"\".\n\nSet in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures on Deep Space Nine, a space station located near a stable wormhole between the Alpha and Gamma quadrants of the Milky Way Galaxy, in orbit of the planet Bajor. In this episode, a group of aliens known as the Wadi pay a visit to the Deep Space Nine space station in the 24th century. Soon, Quark is forced to play a game in which the lives of the crew appear to be at stake.\n\nScenes from this episode were scanned at film resolution, and shown in clips in a limited release documentary film in 2019.\n\nDeep Space Nine has the distinction of making first contact with a Gamma Quadrant species known as the Wadi. However, the Wadi show no interest in formalities and head straight to Quark's. The Ferengi initially sees the Wadi as a potential source of great profit, but when the Wadi master Dabo and go on a winning streak, Quark has one of his waiters rig the game. The Wadi catch him and force Quark to play \"an honest game\" called Chula.\n\nMeanwhile, Commander Sisko, Dr. Bashir, Major Kira, and Lt. Dax find themselves in an abstract, dream-like world. One of the Wadi appears and cheerfully yells, \"Move along, move along home!\" They are faced with several puzzles, including a simple yet alien version of the human game Hopscotch. As Quark continues to play the game, Odo finds the four senior officers missing, and Quark comes to realize that they are part of the game he is playing.\n\nLater on in the game, Bashir's piece is removed from the game, and he disappears from the maze. Quark is then faced with a choice between a shorter, more difficult path or a longer, easier one for his remaining players. He chooses the shortcut, and when Constable Odo objects, he explains that with risks to his players involved in every move, advancing them home as soon as possible is the wiser choice. Ultimately, Quark chooses the shorter path for the officers. However, the results of his next roll force him to sacrifice one of his players.\n\nQuark begs the Wadi not to make him choose, so they make the game choose at random. Sisko, Kira, and Dax are faced with scaling a mountain during a violent earthquake, and Dax's leg becomes stuck between two rocks. Although she tells Sisko to leave her behind, he and Kira help her walk across a ledge on the rock face. They slip, however, and the three of them fall into the abyss—only to re-materialize in Quark's, along with Bashir. Quark is elated and begins to collect his winnings, but the Wadi explains that all his players were lost; the crew was never in any real danger. \"It's only a game!\" he laughs.\n\nAs Sisko is about to angrily confront the Wadi over what they have experienced, Odo interrupts and tells him that he would do better to talk with Quark first about certain confessions that were made while the game was in progress. The Wadi depart as Sisko turns his attention to Quark.\n\nA 2015 binge-watching guide for \"Star Trek: Deep Space Nine\" by W.I.R.E.D. recommended skipping this episode.\n\nIn 2016, fans at the 50th anniversary \"Star Trek\" convention voted \"Move Along Home\" as the worst episode of the series, and the eighth-worst episode of the \"Star Trek\" franchise overall, being the only episode of \"Deep Space Nine\" to end up in the bottom ten. Digital Fox ranked this episode as the second worst episode of all \"Star Trek\" up to 2018.\n\nAvery Brooks, who plays Commander Sisko, reported during a panel discussion at DragonCon 2013 that this was one of his two least favourite episodes. In 2018, CBR included this episode in a list of \"Star Trek\" episodes that are \"so bad they must be seen\". However, \"Fatherly\" listed this episode a recommended watch for parents and children noting that it was silly, bizarre, but entertaining, and shows how Quark tried to cheat but was caught.\n\nIn 2019, ScreenRant ranked this episode one of the ten worst episodes of \"Star Trek: Deep Space Nin\"e. They note that at that time it had a rating of 6/10 based on user rankings on the site IMDB.\n\nFilm-quality scans of scenes from this episode were shown in theaters in May 2019 in the documentary film about the series called \"\". Its one-day one-showing release played at about 800 theaters and grossed over $380,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323947", "title": "Dracontius", "text": "Dracontius\n\nBlossius Aemilius Dracontius () of Carthage was a Christian poet who flourished in the latter part of the 5th century. He belonged to a family of land proprietors, and practiced as an advocate in his native place. After the conquest of the country by the Vandals, Dracontius was at first allowed to retain possession of his estates, but was subsequently deprived of his property and thrown into prison by the Vandal king, whose triumphs he had omitted to celebrate, while he had written a panegyric on a foreign and hostile ruler. He subsequently addressed an elegiac poem to the king, asking pardon, and pleading for release. The result is not known, but it is supposed that Dracontius obtained his liberty and migrated to northern Italy in search of peace and quietness. This is consistent with the discovery at Bobbio of a 15th-century MS., now in the Biblioteca Nazionale at Naples, containing a number of poems by Dracontius (the \"Carmina minora\").\n\nThe most important of his works is the \"De laudibus Dei\" in three books. The account of the creation, which occupies the greater part of the first book, was at an early date edited separately under the title of \"Hexameron\", and it was not till 1791 that the three books were edited by Faustino Arévalo. The apology (\"Satisfactio\") consists of 158 elegiac couplets; it is generally supposed that the king addressed is Gunthamund (484–496). The \"Carmina minora\", nearly all in hexameter verse, consist of school exercises and rhetorical declamations, amongst others the fable of Hylas, with a preface to his tutor, the grammarian Felicianus; \"De raptu Helenae\" (The Rape of Helen); \"Medea\"; and two \"epithalamia.\" It is also probable that Dracontius was the author of the \"Orestis Tragoedia\", a poem of some 1,000 hexameters, which in language, metre, and general treatment of the subject exhibits a striking resemblance to the other works of Dracontius.\n\nOpinions differ as to his poetical merits, but, when due allowance is made for rhetorical exaggeration and consequent want of lucidity, his works show considerable vigour of expression, and a remarkable knowledge of the Bible and of Roman classical literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323949", "title": "Bang Bang (Dispatch album)", "text": "Bang Bang (Dispatch album)\n\nBang Bang is a 1997 album by American indie/roots rock band Dispatch. It is their second album, following \"Silent Steeples\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2323957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323957", "title": "Special reaction team", "text": "Special reaction team\n\nA special reaction team (SRT) is a specially trained team or element within law enforcement units of the United States Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, Marine Corps and civilian police departments, that responds to the most dangerous high risk situations within a military base or compound.\n\nThe SRT units in the military are equivalents of civilian police department SRT units and SWAT teams, and receive their training at U.S. Army Military Police School at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323962", "title": "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990 film)", "text": "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990 film)\n\nTeenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a 1990 American superhero film based on the fictional superhero team of the same name. The film follows the turtles on a quest to save their master, Splinter with their new allies, April O'Neil and Casey Jones, from The Shredder and his Foot Clan. Directed by Steve Barron, it stars Judith Hoag, Elias Koteas, and the voices of Brian Tochi, Robbie Rist, Corey Feldman and Josh Pais.\n\nThe film is an adaptation of the early \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" comics, with several elements taken from the animated series airing at the time. The turtle costumes were developed by Jim Henson's Creature Shop, one of Henson's last projects before his death shortly after the premiere.\n\nDespite mixed reviews, \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" became the highest-grossing independent film at the time, until 1999's \"The Blair Witch Project\"; the ninth-highest-grossing film worldwide of 1990; and the highest-grossing film in the series until the 2014 reboot. It was followed by three sequels, \"\" (1991), \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III\" (1993) and \"TMNT\" (2007).\n\nAs a crime wave rises in New York City, reporter April O'Neil correctly theorizes that the mysterious ninja Foot Clan may be behind the rising chaos. The Shredder, the Foot leader, orders April silenced. She is attacked by the Foot in a subway and knocked unconscious. Raphael, one of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, emerges from the shadows, defeats the Foot, and carries her to the turtles' hideout, unaware that one of the Foot is following him. Splinter, their rat master, explains to April that he and the turtles were once ordinary animals, but were mutated into intelligent creatures by toxic waste, and trained by Splinter in the art of ninjitsu. After the turtles escort April home, they find their hideout ransacked and Splinter kidnapped. They return to April's apartment and spend the night there.\n\nDanny Pennington, the delinquent son of April's supervisor Charles Pennington, works for the Foot. After bailing Danny out of jail for robbery and truancy, Charles stops at April's apartment where Danny glimpses one of the turtles hiding. He reports this to Shredder.\n\nAfter an argument with Leonardo, Raphael goes to the roof of April's apartment building, where the Foot ambush him. He is knocked unconscious and the turtles scramble to defend themselves, assisted by the vigilante Casey Jones, who had recently met Raphael. The building catches fire during the fight and the turtles retreat to a farm belonging to April's family. Raphael recovers and the turtles train while April and Casey fall in love. Leo contacts Splinter through telepathy, and the turtles return to New York to rescue him.\n\nDanny has secretly been taking counsel from Splinter, who tells him the story of his master Hamato Yoshi's murder by a rival ninja, Oroku Saki, over the love of a woman, while Splinter was an ordinary rat. During the struggle, Splinter's cage was broken and he lunged at Saki's face, clawing and biting him. Saki threw Splinter to the floor and took one swipe with his katana, slicing Splinter's ear. When Danny learns the Shredder intends to have Splinter killed, he and Casey set him free. Splinter reveals to the other teens who have been recruited by the Foot that the Shredder has been brainwashing them to do his dirty work. Realizing this, they all resign from the Foot.\n\nThe turtles engage the Foot in battle, easily defeating every Foot Clan ninja, but upon facing the Shredder, he defeats them singlehandedly. As the Shredder prepares to kill Leonardo, Splinter appears and challenges him to a fight. Splinter names Shredder as Oroku Saki; Saki removes his mask and touches his scar, remembering how Splinter gave it to him. He charges Splinter to spear him, who ensnares the Shredder's yari with Michelangelo's nunchaku, leaving him dangling over the roof's edge. In a final attempt to kill Splinter, Shredder throws a tanto at Splinter, but when Splinter reaches to catch it, his grip is released and Saki falls into a garbage truck. Casey pulls the lever \"accidentally\" to activate the compactor, crushing the Shredder. As the police and media arrive and arrest the Foot soldiers, the teens tell them the location of the Foot hideout. Charles is Reunited with his son Danny and gives April her job back. Reunited with Splinter, the turtles watch as April and Casey kiss.\n\n\nSkeet Ulrich and Scott Wolf appear as unnamed members of the Foot Clan, but are uncredited.\n\n\n\nAll four actors who played the in-suit turtles also appeared in cameos, with David Forman (Leonardo) as a gang member, Michelan Sisti (Michaelangelo) as a pizza delivery man, Leif Tilden (Donatello) as a messenger of The Foot and Josh Pais (Raphael) as a passenger in a taxi. Pais was the only actor to portray a Turtle on screen and provide his voice.\n\nThe script is based mainly on the early \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" comics, including the stories of the turtles' origins, rooftop battle, sojourn to the farmhouse, and battle with Shredder. Elements were taken from the 1980s animated series, such as the Turtles' colored bandanas and love of pizza, elements of Michelangelo's character, and April O'Neil as a television reporter instead of a lab assistant.\n\nThe film's budget was $13.5 million. Much of the production took place in North Carolina, with a couple of location shoots in New York City during the summer of 1989 to capture famous landmark areas, such as Times Square, the Empire State Building, and the Hudson River. Filming in North Carolina took place at the North Carolina Film Studios, where New York rooftop sets were created. Production designer Roy Forge Smith and his art director, Gary Wissner, went to New York City four months prior to filming and took still photographs of rooftops and other various locations. While in NYC, Smith and Wissner were allowed to explore an abandoned Brooklyn subway line, as they could not gain access to a city sewer, but the structure of the subway had the same principle as a sewer. They also went to a water tunnel which had large pipes running through it.\n\nAfter design sketches were created, the construction team used the studios' backlot to create some of the sets. There were problems with the manholes that led to the turtles' home, in that an eight-foot square room had to be constructed beneath them, but found water at about five-feet, and thus had to pour concrete into the underground rooms to keep the water out. In order to make the sewer authentic, a tide-mark was given, and it was covered with brick, plaster and stucco paint to give the walls a realistic look. The turtles were created by Jim Henson's Creature Shop in London. Jim Henson said that the creatures were the most advanced that he had ever worked with. The creatures were first made out of fiberglass, and then remolded out of clay. They were produced as molds to cast the whole body in foam rubber latex. The work at the Shop was completed within 18 weeks.\n\nMany major studios, such as Walt Disney Pictures, Columbia Pictures, MGM/UA, Orion Pictures, Paramount (whose parent company Viacom would acquire the \"TMNT\" property in 2009), and Warner Bros. turned down the film for distribution; they were worried that despite the popularity of the cartoon and the toy line, the film could potentially be a box office disappointment, like \"Masters of the Universe\" was just a couple years prior. The film found distribution roughly halfway through the initial production, via the then small and independent production company New Line Cinema, which had been known for distributing low budget B movies and arthouse fare.\n\nAccording to Brian Henson, the film was finished in post-production largely without Barron. Editor Sally Menke, who later edited many films by Quentin Tarantino, was removed as production company Golden Harvest did not like her work.\n\nLive Entertainment Inc. announced that the film would go to VHS via its Family Home Entertainment label on October 4, 1990. The suggested price was $24.99 per cassette. Pizza Hut engaged in a $20 million marketing campaign tied into the film (despite the fact that Domino's Pizza was used as product placement in the film itself). Items included advertising in print, radio and television, and several rebate coupons.\n\nThe UK version removed Eastern fighting weapons like the nunchaku, using alternate shots of Michaelangelo in order to conceal his nunchaku weapon, or omitting the show-off duel between Michaelangelo and a member of the Foot clan. Also, the scene of Shredder in the garbage shred was heavily edited and the Turtle Power song was edited to change the word 'ninja' to 'hero' as per the UK television series. The unedited version was released on DVD in 2004 in the UK.\n\nThe German theatrical voice-dubbed version is identical to the UK version, i.e. it omits the usage of the nunchaku. Furthermore, the German dubbing audio track contains several \"cartoon-like\" sounds in order to soften the violence of the fight scenes. Although the German dub of the film was released with unedited pictures on DVD, the German dub audio version with the cartoonish sounds were still kept, because they were permanently merged into the German voice-dubbing audio.\n\nIn 1990, the film was released to VHS and reached No. 4 in the home video market. The film was released to DVD in Region 1 on September 3, 2002; it includes only minor special features, such as a trailer and interactive menus. The film was also released in the MiniDVD format.\n\nOn August 11, 2009, the film was included in a special 25th anniversary box set (commemorating the original comic book), released to both DVD and Blu-ray formats. It also contained \"\", \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III\", and the animated release, \"TMNT\" (2007). No additional features, other than theatrical trailers, were included. In Germany, a \"Special Edition\" was released on March 12, 2010 with additional features, including an audio commentary by director Steve Barron, an alternate ending, and alternate takes from the original German release, where Michelangelo's nunchaku had been edited out. Warner Home Video released the film along with \"Secret of the Ooze\" and \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III\" as part of a \"Triple Feature\" on Blu-ray in June 2012, minus the fourth film \"TMNT\". Warner Home Video released the film separately on Blu-ray on December 18, 2012. In the UK, Medium Rare released the film along with its sequels in a 3 DVD set on 28 October 2013. Bonus features included a 30-minute documentary entitled “Making of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” and trailers.\n\nThe film opened in the United States on March 30, 1990, and was number one at the box office over the weekend, grossing more than $25 million, the biggest opening for an independent film at the time. The film turned out to be a huge success at the box office, eventually making over $135 million in North America, and over $66 million outside North America, for a worldwide total of over $200 million, making it the ninth highest-grossing film of 1990 worldwide. The film was also nominated for awards by The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films.\n\nThe film received an approval rating of 40% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on reviews from 50 critics. The website's consensus states, \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is exactly as advertised: one-liners, brawls, and general silliness. Good for the young at heart, irritating for everyone else.\" It is the highest rated of the series. Not counting the crossover movie \"Batman vs. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\".\nOn Metacritic, it has a score of 51 based on reviews from 21 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nOn the film's initial release, Owen Gleiberman, writing for \"Entertainment Weekly\", gave the movie an F rating, finding that none of the four turtles or Splinter had any personality, but felt that a young audience might enjoy the film, noting that the reviewer might have \"gone for it too had I been raised on Nintendo games and the robotic animation that passes for entertainment on today's Saturday-morning TV.\" Kim Newman wrote in the Monthly Film Bulletin that he found the characters reminiscent of the early 1970s Godzilla film series, describing the turtles as \"loveable monsters in baggy foam rubber suits\" who \"befriended lost children and smashed things up in orgies of destruction that somehow never hurt anyone,\" and that the turtles \"drop the occasional teenage buzzword but are never remotely convincing as teenagers, mutants, ninjas or turtles, leaving them stranded on the screen as big green Muppets with different coloured headbands.\"\n\nBoth Gleiberman and Maslin praised the work of Jim Henson's Creature Shop, with Maslin stating \"without which there would have been no film at all\". \"Variety\" praised the film's tongue-in-cheek humor and the \"amusingly outlandish\" martial arts sequences. Roger Ebert gave the film a 2.5 out of 4 stars and concluded that the film is \"nowhere near as bad as it might have been, and probably is the best possible Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle movie. It supplies, in other words, more or less what Turtle fans will expect.\" Lloyd Bradley of \"Empire Magazine\" gave the fiilm a four out of five stars, stating: \"A well-rounded, unpretentious, very funny, knockabout adventure - subtly blended so that it's fun for all the family.\"\n\nMaslin of \"The New York Times\" criticized the cinematography, stating that it was so \"poorly photographed that the red-masked turtle looks almost exactly like the orange-masked one.\" \"Variety\" described the film as \"visually rough around the edges... sometimes sluggish in its plotting\". Ebert stated that the \"most interesting part of the film for a non-Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle fan is the production design\", which he described as a \"low-rent version of \"Batman\" or \"Metropolis\".\"\n\n\"Variety\", the \"New York Times\", and the \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" all noted the Asian villains of the film; \"Variety\" described \"overtones of racism in its use of Oriental villains\", while the Times' Janet Maslin stated \"The story's villainous types are Asian, and the film plays the yellow-peril aspects of this to the hilt.\" Newman noted a racist joke in April O'Neil's response to the Foot Clan, \"What's the matter, did I fall behind on my Sony payments?\", finding that the film expressed a \"resentment of Japan's economic strength even while the film is plundering Japan's popular culture.\" Ebert felt there was \"no racism\" in the film.\n\nFollowing the huge success of \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" at the box office, several films were created. A year later, \"\" was released in theaters, and was a commercial success. In 1993, \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III\" was released in theaters, to a smaller box office take. After a 14-year absence from theaters, a fourth film, \"TMNT\", was released in 2007, though unlike the trilogy, this was a CGI animated film. 7 years later, a reboot, also with the title \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\", was released in 2014, and a sequel titled \"\" was released in theaters on June 3, 2016. The image of the four heroes in the movie's poster served as a Continue Screen of their game \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2323968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323968", "title": "Vlkolínec", "text": "Vlkolínec\n\nVlkolínec is a village under the administration of the town of Ružomberok in Slovakia. Historically, however, it was a separate village. The first written mention of the village came from 1376 and after 1882 it became part of Ružomberok. Its name is probably derived from the Slovak word \"vlk\", i. e. wolf.\n\nVlkolínec has been listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1993, and is one of ten Slovak villages that have been given the status of a folk architecture reservations. This status was granted because the village is an untouched and complex example of folk countryside architecture of the region of the Northern Carpathians.\n\nVlkolínec, situated in the centre of Slovakia, is a remarkably intact settlement with the traditional features of a Central European village. It is the region’s most complete group of these kinds of traditional log houses, often found in mountainous areas. The village consists of more than 45 log houses each of them made up of two or three rooms. A wooden belfry from the 18th century as well as the baroque chapel has also been preserved. Houses No. 16 and 17 are turned into a folk museum with all the instruments of daily life and work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323971", "title": "Tonya Cooley", "text": "Tonya Cooley\n\nTonya Cooley (born January 7, 1980, in Visalia, California) is a former cast member on MTV's reality television series, \"\", the 11th season of \"The Real World\", which aired in 2002. She was then a regular on the spin-off series, \"Real World/Road Rules Challenge\", participating in eight challenges, with her last being in 2009. She also posed for \"Playboy\" as a Cyber Girl of the Week and appeared in an episode of the Cinemax adult series \"The Erotic Traveler\". The stressful environment of the \"Real World/Road Rules Challenge\" seasons led to a bout with alcoholism, but in 2016, BuzzFeed News reported she has gained sobriety in the years since leaving the series and that she is now a salon owner. Cooley told the publication, \"I am a genuinely happy person now.\"\n\nTonya Cooley hails from Walla Walla, Washington. At the time she began filming \"The Real World: Chicago\", she claims to have never interacted with African-Americans and gay people, and had rarely been apart from her boyfriend, Justin. She did not socialize as much as her housemates, who often alienated her because they felt that she could be judgmental and overly dramatic at times. She was hospitalized three times during the season because of kidney stones, and even left to go home for about a week. She got into arguments with roommate Theo Gantt III, including one which a glass was thrown, as well as with roommates Aneesa Ferreira and Cara Kahn. Her constant use of the phone when talking with Justin upset her housemates. Her breast implants were also a subject of much conversation as she would often talk about how she was flat broke yet had implants in her breasts worth thousands of dollars. (However she claimed that they were a gift from a wealthy friend for her 21st birthday.)\n\nThough not most notable for her appearance on this season, Tonya competed and was the eighth girl to be voted off. Tonya is most remembered from this season for not going to Puck's wedding. Additionally, she refused to participate in a challenge that involved nudity, contrasting her actions in later years which included posing for \"Playboy\" and appearing in an episode of the Cinemax softcore series \"The Erotic Traveler\".\n\nFor the next \"Challenge\", Cooley became friends with Coral Smith, and became playful with \"Challenge\" veteran Veronica Portillo. In the early stage of the game, she injured her leg during a challenge, and had to wear a leg-cast while waiting for a comprehensive assessment of her leg. This scared her \"Real World\" team, and they opted to vote her into the Gauntlet. Angry and upset, she proceeded to the Gauntlet and lost. This would be third time she would be sick or hurt in front of the MTV cameras. (In Battle of the Sexes, she also had to wear a leg cast, but it did not affect her position).\n\nIn this \"Challenge\", Cooley becomes more of a nuisance to the girls, more specifically onetime friends Coral, Veronica, and Rachel Robinson. However her determination and marked improvement on the challenge did not go unnoticed. She even went as far, in a challenge requiring the competing teams to procure a cell phone encased in a block of ice by melting it, to put rocks in her mouth to try to melt it. However, her inability to step up as a leader as well as her waning prowess also did not go unnoticed. Her notable argument with Road Ruler Tina Barta became a staple on the show. She was voted off toward the end of the \"Challenge\".\n\nIn this \"Challenge,\" tensions arose between her and Tina Barta. Fellow Bad Ass team member Beth Stolarczyk instigated an animosity on the part of Robin Hibbard toward Cooley by telling Hibbard that Cooley bragged about a relationship she had with Hibbard's boyfriend, Mark Long. Hibbard angrily excoriated Cooley, who denied Stolarczyk's allegations, to which Hibbard responded by calling her a whore and a liar. When Cooley confronted a sleeping Stolarczyk, she was coy and refused to answer. In a fit of pique, Cooley took Stolarczyk's luggage and valuables and threw them all in the pool. Stolarczyk left the show as a result and took legal action. Veronica Portillo, Rachel Robinson, and Tina Barta began to harass Tonya, who referred to the three as the \"Mean Girls.\" In the challenges, Tonya fluctuated from remarkable to disastrous. She won two Infernos, sending two girls home, and made it to the final challenge, but her team lost.\n\nShe was partnered with Johnnie. Their pair was fourth to be eliminated, but Tonya improved greatly on this challenge. Even though she and her partner did not win any of the challenges during Fresh Meat, they came close several times. She claimed on her appearance on MTV's \"True Life\" that Fresh Meat would be her last challenge. \n\nDespite claiming that \"Fresh Meat\" would be her last appearance on the \"Challenges\" , Tonya participated on the third \"Inferno\" as part of the \"Bad-Ass\" team. Before coming onto the show she was married. She developed an animosity between her and Susie Meister who offended Tonya claiming her shampoo made her \"smell like a stripper, but in a good way.\" She also developed a friendship with Jenn Grijalva. After six challenges along with Derrick Kosinski, Tonya finally wins her first challenge and $40,000.00\n\nTonya again participated in the next installment of the RW/RR challenge, but was the first eliminated by a vote of 14-3. During the challenge she admitted she wanted to go home because she didn't have cute clothes.\n\nCooley participates in the new challenge \"The Ruins\" in the Champions team. It premiered on September 30, 2009. She started off strong in the first episode, eliminating Diem Brown. In Episode 4, Cooley was disqualified from the show after assaulting Veronica Portillo.\n\nTonya starred in \"Lost in Ecstasy\", the second episode of the Cinemax series \"Erotic Traveler\", which premiered February 9, 2007. She has also appeared as a celebrity interviewer in Girls Gone Wild commercials in 2007.\n\nIn October 2011, Cooley filed charges that she was raped with a toothbrush by two of her fellow cast members from \"The Challenge\", Kenny Santucci and Evan Starkman, while passed out. The case was settled in an out of court settlement on October 24, 2012. The details of the settlement have not been made public.\n\n"}
{"id": "2323976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323976", "title": "Prometheus the Fire-Bringer", "text": "Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\n\nPrometheus the Fire-Bringer (Ancient Greek: Προμηθεὺς Πυρφόρος, \"Promētheús Pyrphóros\") was probably the final play in the \"Prometheia\" trilogy traditionally ascribed to the 5th century BC Greek tragedian Aeschylus.\n\nAs conventionally reconstructed, this trilogy reimagines the myths of Prometheus found in Hesiod's \"Theogony\" and \"Works and Days\". In the first play, \"Prometheus Bound\", the Titan is chained to a rock and tortured for giving fire to humankind, as well as teaching them other arts of civilization. In the sequel, \"Prometheus Unbound\", the Greek hero Heracles kills the eagle that Zeus sent to consume Prometheus' regenerating liver every day, and then frees the Titan from his chains.\n\nOnly a single line of dialogue survives from \"Fire-Bringer\": \"Quiet, where need is; and talking to the point.\" This fragment is preserved in \"Noctes Atticae\" by the Roman scholar Aulus Gellius. Additionally, according to a scholium at line 94 of \"Prometheus Bound\", the Titan claims in \"Fire-Bringer\" that he had been bound for \"thrice ten thousand years.\"\n\nDespite the paucity of direct evidence, Prometheus' foreshadowing of future events in the trilogy's first play suggests that the final play concerned itself with Prometheus' knowledge of a secret that could potentially lead to Zeus's downfall, and how the revelation of this secret leads to reconciliation between the Titan and Olympian. The secret is this: Thetis the Nereid, whom Zeus wants to take as a lover, is fated to bear a child greater than its father. Lying with her, then, would result in Zeus's being overthrown just as he had overthrown his own father, Cronus. During the course of the drama, Prometheus decides to warn Zeus about Thetis. Rather than lie with her, Zeus marries her off to the mortal Peleus, King of Aegina. The product of this union will indeed be a son greater than the father, namely Achilles, Greek hero of the Trojan War. Consequently, Zeus reconciles with Prometheus.\n\nFinally, Athenaeus (a grammarian of the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD), wrote of a contemporary Athenian festival dedicated to Prometheus: \"Aeschylus clearly states in the \"Unbound\" that in honor of Prometheus we place a garland on the head as recompense of his bondage.\" Some scholars have taken this to mean that in the \"Unbound\", Prometheus prophesies that eventually (in the \"Fire-Bringer\"), Zeus would reconcile with him, and institute some kind of festival in his honor. Given the title of the play, and considering that Aeschylus' \"Oresteia\" provides an aetiology for Athens's Areopagus, it has been suggested that \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\" concludes with providing an aetiology for a yearly Athenian torch race honoring the Titan.\n\nA minority of scholars believe that \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\" is actually the first play in the trilogy. One reason is that \"Prometheus Bound\" begins in medias res. According to this theory, \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\" would dramatize the Titan's theft of fire as described in the \"Theogony\".\n"}
{"id": "2323978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323978", "title": "Saratoga National Historical Park", "text": "Saratoga National Historical Park\n\nSaratoga National Historical Park is a United States National Historical Park located in the Town of Stillwater in eastern New York, north of Albany. \nThe park preserves the site of the Battles of Saratoga.\n\nThe park preserves the site of the Battles of Saratoga, the first significant American military victory of the American Revolutionary War. Here in 1777, American forces met, defeated, and forced a major British army to surrender, an event which led France to recognize the independence of the United States, and enter the war as a decisive military ally of the struggling Americans.\n\nFirst authorized as a New York state historic preserve in 1927 on the sesquicentennial of the Battles, the Battlefield was made part of the National Park System in 1938 when Saratoga National Historical Park was authorized by the United States Congress.\n\nThe Visitors Center offers a 20-minute orientation film, fiber-optic light map, timeline and artifact displays. A brochure is available for a self-guided tour of sites in the battlefield in Stillwater. General Philip Schuyler's Schuyler House is located north in Schuylerville. It is a restored house museum open by tour. The Saratoga Battle Monument is in the nearby village of Victory.\n\nThe park is located on the upper Hudson River southeast of Saratoga Springs. It contains the famous Boot Monument to Benedict Arnold, the only war memorial in the United States that does not bear the name of its honoree. The memorial was donated by John Watts de Peyster, a former Major General for the New York State Militia during the American Civil War who wrote several military histories about the Battle of Saratoga.\n\nThe Marshall House, on the National Register of Historic Places, lies north of the main entrance to the park on U.S. Route 4 and NY 32 north of the village of Schuylerville. It was made famous by Baroness Frederika Riedesel in her \"Letters and Journals relating to the War of the American Revolution, and the Capture of the German Troops at Saratoga\". This house was built in 1770-1773.\n\nDuring the closing days of the Battles of Saratoga, Baroness Riedesel sheltered there together with the wives of officers of the British army and wounded personnel. Her account of the travails of those around her, her keen insight into the personalities of the principal officers of both the British and American armies and her devotion to her husband in peril have led some commentators to name her as the first woman war correspondent. The Marshall House was bombarded by the Americans who supposed it an enemy headquarters.\n\nWithin are conserved cannonballs and other reminders of the ordeal suffered by those who took refuge there. The Marshall House is the sole surviving structure in the battles' area. The property is privately owned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2323979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323979", "title": "Ayumi Ishida (actress)", "text": "Ayumi Ishida (actress)\n\nAs for her musical career, she is best known for the singles \"BLUE LIGHT Yokohama\" (which topped the charts in 1968/1969 at #1), \"Anata nara Dō Suru (#2), and \"Sabaku no You na Tokyo de\" (#3).\n\n\n\n\nAyumi Ishida is mentioned in the 2017 crime/mystery novel \"Blue Light Yokohama\" by Nicolás Obregón to be printed in the United Kingdom by Michael Joseph and Minotaur in the USA.\n\nAyumi Ishida is mentioned in Haruki Murakami's \"Norwegian Wood\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2323997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2323997", "title": "Matmata, Tunisia", "text": "Matmata, Tunisia\n\nMatmata ( \"\") is a small Berber speaking town in southern Tunisia. Some of the local Berber residents live in traditional underground \"troglodyte\" structures. In 2004 it had a population of 2,116.\n\nThe structures typical for the village are created by digging a large pit in the ground. Around the perimeter of this pit artificial caves are then dug to be used as rooms, with some homes comprising multiple pits, connected by trench-like passageways.\n\nIt was not generally known until 1969 that there were regular settlements in this area besides wandering nomadic tribes. That year, intensive rains that lasted for 22 days inundated the troglodyte homes and caused many of them to collapse. In order to get help from the authorities, a delegation was sent to the community center of the region in the town of Gabès. The visit came as a surprise, but help was provided, and the above-ground settlement of Matmâta was built. However, most of the people continued their lives in re-built underground homes, and only a few of the families moved to the new surface dwellings.\n\nToday, Matmata is a popular tourist attraction, and most of the population lives on tourism and folklore exhibitions in their homes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324008", "title": "Panforte", "text": "Panforte\n\nPanforte is a traditional chewy Italian dessert containing fruits and nuts. It is similar to a florentine but much thicker, or a little like a lebkuchen. Its origins date back to the crusaders who discovered it in Turkey. The soldiers used this staple on their long marches as it kept well due its excessive honey based content. Honey was abundant in Turkey and in the Middle East and formed part of Turkish delight and other desserts. There are references to the Crusaders carrying panforte, a durable confection, with them on their quests, and to the use of panforte in surviving sieges. They, in turn brought it back on their long voyage back home. In Italy's Tuscany region, particularly Siena, today claims to have been the origin of this dessert. \n\nGiven that honey was such a prized and scarce commodity from the Holy Land, documents from 1205 show that panforte was paid to the monks and nuns of a local monastery as a tax or tithe which was due on the seventh of February that year. Literally, panforte means \"strong bread\" which refers to the spicy flavour. Originally the Sienese called it \"panpepato\" (peppered bread), due to the strong pepper used. Other Arab influences in Northern Italian cuisine include the Schiaccia briaca and Alchermes. The latter, though prized as a Tuscan specialty, actually comes from Persia where it is considered an elixir for longevity. The name comes from the Arabic and Persian words that describe the liqueur's striking scarlet-pink colour, originally made from cochineal insects. \n\nThe process of making panforte is fairly simple. Sugar is dissolved in honey and various nuts, fruits and spices are mixed together with flour. The entire mixture is baked in a shallow pan. The finished disc is dusted with icing sugar. Commercially produced panforte often have a band of rice-paper around the edge.\n\nCurrently there are many shops in Italy producing panforte, each recipe being their jealously guarded interpretation of the original confection and packaged in distinctive wrapping. Usually a small wedge is served with coffee or a dessert wine after a meal, though some enjoy it with their coffee at breakfast.\n\nIn Siena—which is regarded by many, if not most inhabitants of that city, as the panforte capital of Italy—it is sometimes said that panforte should properly contain seventeen different ingredients, seventeen being the number of Contrade within the city walls.\n\nIn 2013 Panforte receive the Protected geographical indication (PGI) of the Geographical indications and traditional specialities in the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324011", "title": "Goodbye Girl (Squeeze song)", "text": "Goodbye Girl (Squeeze song)\n\n\"Goodbye Girl\" is the first single released from Squeeze's second album \"Cool for Cats\". Three different versions were recorded: one for the UK single, one for the American single, and one for the album. In the UK, the single reached number 63 on the UK Singles Chart.\n\nIn 2007, the reunited Squeeze recorded a new, guitar-heavy version of \"Goodbye Girl\" for an Under Armour television advertisement. The Shins covered the song for Levi's Pioneer Sessions in 2010.\n\nTarkio, featuring Colin Meloy of The Decemberists, recorded \"Goodbye Girl\" in 1998. It was released on the Kill Rock Stars record label in 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324012", "title": "Westside High School", "text": "Westside High School\n\nWestside High School or West Side High School is the name of several high schools, and can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324013", "title": "Bangla Academy Literary Award", "text": "Bangla Academy Literary Award\n\nThe Bangla Academy Literary Award (; \"Bangla Academy Shahitya Puroshkar\"), is given by the Bangla Academy of Bangladesh in recognition of creative genius in advancement and overall contribution in the field of Bengali language and literature.\n\nIt was introduced in 1960 and recognized six categories: poetry, novels, short stories, essays, children's literature and translation. Beginning in 1985, two more awards were introduced to recognize overall contributions to Bengali language and literature.\n\nAt present, the Bangla Academy award is given in three fields:\n\nFollowing are lists of recipients of the award since 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324014", "title": "Prometheia", "text": "Prometheia\n\nThe Prometheia () is a trilogy of plays about the titan Prometheus. It was attributed in Antiquity to the 5th-century BC Greek tragedian Aeschylus. Though an Alexandrian catalogue of Aeschylean play titles designates the trilogy \"Hoi Prometheis\" (\"the Prometheuses\"), in modern scholarship the trilogy has been designated the \"Prometheia\" to mirror the title of Aeschylus' only extant trilogy, the \"Oresteia\". Unlike the \"Oresteia\", only one play from this trilogy—\"Prometheus Bound\"—survives. Inasmuch as the authorship of \"Prometheus Bound\" continues to be debated, the very existence of a Prometheus trilogy is uncertain. To the extent that modern scholars postulate the existence of such a trilogy by a single author, the consensus holds that it comprised \"Prometheus Bound\", \"Prometheus Unbound\", and \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\", in that order.\n\nThe \"dramatis personae\" are Prometheus, Cratus (Power), Bia (Violence), Hephaestus, the mortal woman Io, Oceanus, Hermes and a chorus of Oceanids. The play is composed almost entirely of speeches and contains little plot since its protagonist is chained and immobile throughout. At the beginning, Cratus, Bia and Hephaestus the smith-god chain Prometheus to a mountain in the Caucasus and then depart. According to Aeschylus, Prometheus is being punished not only for stealing fire (theft of fire), but also for thwarting Zeus' plan to obliterate the human race. This punishment is especially galling since Prometheus was instrumental in Zeus' victory in the Titanomachy. The Oceanids appear and attempt to comfort Prometheus by conversing with him. Prometheus cryptically tells them that he knows of a potential marriage that would lead to Zeus' downfall. Oceanus later arrives to commiserate with Prometheus, as well; he urges the Titan to make peace with Zeus, and departs. Prometheus is then visited by Io, a maiden pursued by a lustful Zeus. The Olympian transformed her into a cow, and a gadfly sent by Hera has chased her all the way from Argos; Prometheus forecasts her future travels, telling her that Zeus will eventually end her torment in Egypt, where she will bear a son named Epaphus. He adds that one of her descendants (Heracles), eleven generations hence, will release him from his own torment. Finally, Hermes the messenger-god is sent down by an angered Zeus to demand that Prometheus tell him who threatens to overthrow him. Prometheus refuses, and Zeus strikes him with a thunderbolt that plunges Prometheus into the abyss.\n\nOnly eleven fragments of \"Prometheus Unbound\" survive, in the form of quotations preserved by later authors. Nonetheless, our knowledge of the Prometheus myth as told by Hesiod and predictions of future events made by the Titan himself in \"Prometheus Bound\" allow scholars to reconstruct a fairly detailed outline of this play. An erroneous list of \"Prometheus Bound\"'s \"dramatis personæ\" indicates that Gaea and Heracles both appear in this play. A fragment translated into Latin by the Roman statesman Cicero demonstrates that the chorus of this play is constituted by a group of Titans, recently freed from Tartarus by Zeus despite their defeat in the \"Titanomachy\". This perhaps foreshadows Zeus' eventual reconciliation with Prometheus in the trilogy's third installment. Prometheus complains to them about his torment just as he had to the chorus of Oceanids in \"Prometheus Bound\". It is then suggested that Gaea would be the next to visit Prometheus, in a role that echoes Oceanus' sympathetic turn in the first play. Finally, Heracles would visit Prometheus. Again mirroring events in the previous play, Prometheus would forecast Heracles' remaining travels as he completes his Twelve Labours. Heracles then frees Prometheus from his chains and kills the eagle that tortured him daily. The play thus concludes with Prometheus free from the torments of Zeus, but the Titan and Olympian have yet to reconcile.\n\nOnly one fragment survives from this play. Despite the paucity of direct evidence, Prometheus' foreshadowing of future events in the trilogy's first play suggests that the final play concerned itself with Prometheus' knowledge of a secret that could potentially lead to Zeus' downfall, and how the revelation of this secret leads to reconciliation between the Titan and Olympian. The secret is this: the sea nymph Thetis, whom Zeus wants to take as a lover, is fated to bear a child greater than its father. Lying with her, then, would result in Zeus' being overthrown just as he had overthrown his father, Cronus. During the course of the drama, Prometheus decides to warn Zeus about Thetis. Rather than lie with her, Zeus marries her off to the mortal Peleus, King of Aegina. The product of this union will indeed be a son greater than the father, namely Achilles, Greek hero of the Trojan War. Finally, Athenaeus (a grammarian of the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD) wrote in Book 15.16 of his \"Deipnosophists\" the following regarding a contemporary Athenian festival dedicated to Prometheus: \"Aeschylus clearly states in the \"Unbound\" that in honor of Prometheus we place a garland on the head as recompense of his bondage.\" Some scholars have taken this to mean that in the \"Unbound\", Prometheus prophesies that eventually (in the \"Fire-Bringer\"), Zeus would reconcile with him, and establish some sort of festival in his honor. Given the title of the play, and taking a cue from the aetiology for the Athenian Areopagus provided by Aeschylus' \"Eumenides\", it has been suggested that the drama concludes with Zeus' foundation of the yearly torch race that took place in Athens to honor Prometheus. \n\nA minority of scholars believe that \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\" is actually the first play in the trilogy. One reason is that \"Prometheus Bound\" begins \"in medias res\"; some have observed that after the reconstructing the \"Bound\" and \"Unbound\" as the first and second play, there simply isn't enough mythic material left for a third-position \"Fire-Bringer\". According to his theory, \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\" would dramatize the Titan's theft of fire as described in the \"Theogony\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2324016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324016", "title": "I Think I'm Paranoid", "text": "I Think I'm Paranoid\n\n\"I Think I'm Paranoid\" is a song written, performed and produced by Garbage and was the second single released from their second album \"Version 2.0\".\n\nThe song was released internationally in July 1998, following up on the success of the band's prior hit, \"Push It\". \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" reached the Top Ten on the UK Singles chart and Airplay charts, while across the Atlantic also becoming a hit on \"Billboard\"'s Modern Rock Tracks chart. \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" became the biggest hit from \"Version 2.0\" in Italy, where it featured on a 30-second advert campaign for Breil Watches and was placed in rotation by MTV Italy.\n\nIn 2007, \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" was remastered and included on Garbage's greatest hits album \"Absolute Garbage\".\n\nGarbage began writing their second album, which would go under the working title of \"Sad Alcoholic Clowns\", in March 1997 in the band's label-head Jerry Moss's Friday Harbor, Washington, vacation house. The group demoed and made rough outlines for new songs, of which \"Bend Me\" was one. When they felt they had made a good start, Garbage took the work they made in Washington back to their Madison, Wisconsin base at Smart Studios and begin fleshing out the ideas and rough sketches over the following year.\n\nGarbage intended their second album to build upon the framework, music style and musical template laid down by their first release; to create a rapprochement between the \"high-tech and low-down, the now sound and of golden memories\" and wear musical references to the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Garbage recorded all of their work for the second album through a 48-track digital system digitally, direct to hard drives using a 24bit Pro Tools rig: the production of \"Bend Me\" would feature almost 120 audio tracks.\n\nDuke Erikson created the opening guitar riff and arranged the backing chords, over which Shirley Manson sang. Manson's vocal was manipulated in various parts of the song by running the feed to the mixing console through a filter or a stomp box to provide distortion and by using Pro Tools plug-ins to time-stretch the vocal take. Much of the percussion was recorded in a disused candy factory located in Madison; Butch Vig, Steve Marker and sound engineer Billy Bush set up a drum kit within the empty building and recorded various fills, using the favourable acoustics therein. Forced to stop after local police officers responded to complaints about the noise, some of the percussion was later incorporated into the chorus of \"Bend Me\" (and also found its way into \"Temptation Waits\" and \"Hammering in My Head\"). The intro section made use of many percussive loops of kick, snare and hi-hat sounds. Some loops were flipped backwards, filtered and ran through an amp to create some white noise effects. Garbage employed touring bassist Daniel Shulman to perform electric bass on the song, while Vig approached a DJ he met in Los Angeles, Todd Malcolm Michelles, to provide a record scratching effect under the chorus.\n\nGarbage completed recording, producing and mixing of their second album in mid-February 1998, and the album was given the title \"Version 2.0\". \"Bend Me\", which had by now had its official title finalized as \"I Think I'm Paranoid\", was track listed as the album's second song. \"Version 2.0\" was released worldwide on May 11 of that year; despite a slow start, \"Version 2.0\" went on to equal its predecessor, selling over four million copies and achieving platinum-certification in many territories, including United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Europe and Australia.\n\nGarbage debuted \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" live on May 15, 1998 at a concert Ryan's Ballroom in Combined Locks, Wisconsin; the first date of the \"Version 2.0 tour\". Garbage took to Europe from June 1 to join the festival circuit, as well as perform a number of their own headline shows, helping support the single release for \"I Think I'm Paranoid\". The single was preempted by a televised performance of both \"..Paranoid\" and \"Push it\" on French show \"Nulle Part Ailleurs\", and on British entertainment show \"TFI Friday\".\n\nLike its preceding single, \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" was A-listed at Radio One and XFM, reaching number 14 in the UK Airplay chart. On July 6, 1998, Mushroom Records issued \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" in the United Kingdom in a two-part CD single set and cassette single formats, backed with b-sides \"Deadwood\" and \"Afterglow\" and remixes of \"...Paranoid\" by Purity and The Crystal Method spread across the two CDs. The song debuted at number 9 on the UK Singles Chart the following Sunday, becoming Garbage's fourth UK top ten hit in a row. On the same day (July 12), Garbage completed their European tour with a \"homecoming\" slot at Scotland's T In The Park festival. On July 13, Mushroom then released the single as a collectible 3-inch CD in a blister pack as a limited edition of 3,000. This special format collected together all the tracks onto one single disc; however the release was only on sale for one week and its sales were chart ineligible. Garbage appeared on British chart show \"Top of the Pops\" to mark its high chart placing.\n\nAcross Europe, Mushroom Records then-distributor BMG released \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" on CD maxi and CD single formats in various territories from July 6. In Germany, \"...Paranoid\" placed a single week at number 98 on August 3, in the Netherlands, the song spent the single week of August 8 at number 94 following heavy rotation from Kink FM and TMF, while in France, the song debuted at number 100 on September 19, peaking in its second week of three at number 80 (it also reached number 21 on the French airplay charts). In Finland, \"...Paranoid\" spent eighteen weeks on the airplay charts, and reached the Top 20 on their sales chart; in Austria, the single was heavily supported by FM4 radio, and licensed to a \"Megacard\" sampler CD as a youth incentive from Bank Austria; in Brussels, \"...Paranoid\" was heavily supported by stations Studio Brussel (where it was voted listener's number-one choice) and Radio 21; in Spain, \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" topped their airplay chart for a single week in September 1998. In Italy, \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" featured on a 30-second advert campaign for Breil and received heavy rotation from MTV Italy, shifting 9,000 sales of the single there. Other major supporters of \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" were Norway's NRJ, Poland's Radio 3 and Atomic TV, Portugal's Antena 3, Sweden's ZTV, Switzerland's DRS 3 and One FM (\"...Paranoid\" was the number 2 newcomer on Swiss radio the week of airplay impact) who all playlisted the track. \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" reached number 25 on the European Top 50 Airplay chart and number 35 on the European Top 100 sales chart.\n\nIn Argentina, BMG released \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" as a commercial single, where it had reached number 4 on their airplay charts. Argentina was the only Latin American country to see a commercial release. In Chile, \"..Paranoid\" reached number 4 and spent five weeks in the airplay top ten; while in Venezuela the single spent thirteen weeks on their airplay charts. In Mexico, \"...Paranoid\" reached the airplay top five. Over in South Africa, \"..Paranoid\" was the number-one track on two radio stations, including 5FM. White Records released \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" in Australia and New Zealand on July 27 as a two-CD set. In Australia, the song peaked at number 57, spending five weeks in the top 100 ARIA singles chart, however in New Zealand, the song debuted at number 29, before peaking on its second of five weeks at number 19. Australia's Channel V and Triple-J radio heavily supported \"...Paranoid\".\n\nIn North America, Almo Sounds opted to give \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" an airplay-only release, where it debuted on the Modern Rock chart at number 30 on July 18, and peaking for five weeks at number 6 across September of that year, eventually registering twenty six weeks on the chart. On August 15, the same week that \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" broke into the Modern Rock Top 10, the song made its debut appearance on the Hot 100 Airplay chart, peaking at number 70 on the fourth of six consecutive weeks on that chart. Remixes of the song by The Crystal Method (in which the song was retitled \"I Think I'm Crystalized\") would later be given a physical distribution on 12\" vinyl on a double A-side release with remixes of \"Push It\" by Victor Calderone. The song's North American chart run was concurrent with the band's headline tour of the United States and Canada, which ran from September to December.\n\nAn acoustic recording of \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" recorded by the band for Seattle rock compilation \"The End Sessions, Vol 2\" was released in November 1999. \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" was licensed for inclusion on the 1999 PlayStation videogame \"Gran Turismo 2\", and eight years later, on the 2007 video game \"Rock Band\" as a playable track.\n\nIn May 2001, New York-based music publisher Helios Music Corporation filed a copyright infringement suit against Garbage, the band's own publisher Rondor Music, its North American record label Almo Sounds, and seven other co-defendants in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging that \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" copied \"significant elements of both lyrics and music\" from the 1967 Scott English and Larry Weiss composition \"Bend Me, Shape Me\" (a hit in the U.S. for The American Breed and in the U.K. for Amen Corner), and that by failing to give \"credit to the writers and publisher of [\"Bend Me, Shape Me\"], the defendants had falsely represented to the public that [Garbage] had independently created and are the authors of [\"I Think I'm Paranoid\"], in its entirety.\" Helios contendend that the chorus to \"Bend Me, Shape Me\" (\"Bend me, shape me/Anyway you want me\") was similar to that of the Garbage lyric (\"Bend me, break me/Anyway you need me\"); Helios sought credit for \"I Think I'm Paranoid\", as well as damages, including all profits generated by the song and for the defendants to cease \"any further sale, distribution or exploitation\" of the song\". Garbage considered the legal action a \"nuisance suit\".\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe video clip for \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" was directed by Matthew Rolston in Los Angeles' Occidental Studios. The video premiered in the United States on July 12. The video was modified shortly after its release to soften some of the strobing within the video.\n\nThe concept behind the video was to make something simple, to contrast with the band's previous effects-heavy video for \"Push It\", in black and white and for it to be \"almost photographic\". Rolston used mylar to create effects on-screen, and shot the band in close up, inspired by the cover of The Beatles' album \"With the Beatles\".\n\nThe \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" video was first made commercially available in 1999 on the Italian CD-ROM sampler \"All About Garbage\". A remastered version of the video was included on Garbage's 2007 greatest hits DVD \"Absolute Garbage\", and made available as a digital download via online music services the same year.\n\nIn 2007, Crystal Method's mix was remastered and included on the \"Absolute Garbage\" bonus disc \"Garbage Mixes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2324030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324030", "title": "Paigu", "text": "Paigu\n\nThe Chinese paigu (排鼓; pinyin: páigǔ; also spelled pai gu) is a set of three to seven tuned drums (in most instances five are used), traditionally made of wood with animal skin heads. It is played by beating the heads (and sometimes also the body) with sticks. Most drums are double-sided and turnable. Both sides have different tunings. Tuning is done through the use of Allen keys.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324037", "title": "Davey Moore (boxer, born 1933)", "text": "Davey Moore (boxer, born 1933)\n\nDavid \"Davey\" S. Moore (November 1, 1933 – March 25, 1963) was an American featherweight world champion boxer who fought professionally 1953–63. A resident of Springfield, Ohio, Moore was one of two world champions to share the name in the second half of the 20th century. The second, Davey Moore (born 1959) boxed during the 1980s.\n\nMoore died on March 25, 1963, aged 29, as a result of injuries sustained in a match against Sugar Ramos.\n\nMoore first gained wide attention from his performance on the 1952 U.S. Olympic boxing team, as a bantamweight amateur.\n\nMoore made his professional debut on May 11, 1953, aged 19, beating Willie Reece by a decision in six rounds. He boxed 8 times in 1953, with a total record that year of 6 wins, 1 loss and 1 no contest.\n\nFrom the beginning of his career through 1956 Moore fought a total of 29 bouts, with a total record of 22–5–1, and 1 no contest. Beginning with his April 10, 1957 fight against Gil Cadilli, Moore had an 18-bout winning streak, ending when he lost to Carlos Morocho Hernández on March 17, 1960 with a TKO. March 14, 1960, won match against Bob Gassey in first round, as a result of the knockout, Gassey lost all but 2 teeth. It was during this period, on March 18, 1959 that Moore won the World Featherweight Title from Hogan \"Kid\" Bassey. Moore retained the title through the remainder of his career, defending it successfully 5 times, and losing it to Sugar Ramos on March 21, 1963.\n\nBelow is the record of Davey Moore, an American bantamweight boxer who competed at the 1952 Helsinki Olympics:\n\n\nMoore had a lifetime professional record of 59 wins, seven losses, one draw and one no contest, with 30 wins by knockout.\n\nIn 1960, he had a two-fight tour in Venezuela, winning one by knockout, and then having his winning streak interrupted with a seven-round knockout loss at the hands of Carlos Hernández. He fought three times in Mexico that year, and retained his title in Tokyo, beating Kazuo Takayama by a decision in 15.\n\nIn 1961, he toured Europe for three fights, visiting Paris, Madrid and Rome. He retained his title with a knockout in one round against Danny Valdez and won three more fights in Mexico before returning to Tokyo to beat Takayama, once again by a 15-round decision, to retain the title in their rematch.\n\nIn 1962, he won four bouts, returning to Europe to defend his title versus Olli Mäki, beaten in two rounds in Finland.\n\nMoore had a record of 1–1 in 1963. Following his defeat, in the second bout, Moore died of brain injuries received during the fight (see below).\n\nMoore was scheduled to face Cuban-Mexican Sugar Ramos in July 1962 at Dodger Stadium but a torrential typhoon-like rainstorm hit Los Angeles on the night of the fight and the fight was postponed until March 21, 1963. It was shown on national television in front of a crowd of 22,000. In the tenth round Ramos staggered Moore with a left and then continued to pummel him with blows until he fell, striking the base of his neck on the bottom rope and injuring his brain stem.\n\nMoore got to his feet for the eight-count and, despite Ramos' continuing attack, managed to finish the round on his feet, but the referee stopped the fight before the eleventh, and Ramos was declared the new World Featherweight Champion. Moore was able to give a clear-headed interview before he left the ring, but in the dressing room fell into a coma from which he never emerged. As Moore fought for life, Pope John XXIII made a statement calling the sport of boxing \"barbaric\", and \"contrary to natural principles\". Moore's condition deteriorated, and he died 75 hours after the fight on March 25 at 2:20 a.m. CST in White Memorial Hospital, Los Angeles. His body lay in state at a South Los Angeles funeral home on Tuesday, March 26 for 10 hours; over 10,000 people filed by to pay respects. Moore was buried in Ferncliff Cemetery in Springfield, Ohio.\n\nBob Dylan wrote a song about Davey Moore's death, posing the question of responsibility. It is titled \"Who Killed Davey Moore?\" and was also sung by Pete Seeger and Graeme Allwright (in French).\nPhil Ochs wrote a song titled \"Davey Moore\" which told the story of Davey Moore's death and placed the guilt on the managers and the boxing \"money men\" as well as boxing fans.\n\nOn September 21, 2013, the 50th anniversary of Moore's final fight, his hometown of Springfield, Ohio dedicated an 8' bronze statue in his honor. Located in a public green space just south of downtown near his old neighborhood, the dedication attendees included Moore's widow Geraldine and Ultiminio \"Sugar\" Ramos, visiting from Mexico City.\n\nA pair of Moore's boxing gloves are on display in a Finnish restaurant \"Juttutupa\" in Helsinki, Finland (Säästöpankinranta 6). They were found during a renovation of a local boxing gym. Moore, played by John Bosco Jr, is featured as a character in the movie \"The Happiest Day in The Life of Olli Mäki\" that won the 'Prize Un Certain Regard' in the 2016 Cannes Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324040", "title": "Sperm", "text": "Sperm\n\nSperm is the male reproductive cell, or gamete, in anisogamous forms of sexual reproduction (forms in which there is a larger, \"female\" reproductive cell and a smaller, \"male\" one). Animals produce motile sperm with a tail known as a flagellum, which are known as spermatozoa, while some red algae and fungi produce non-motile sperm cells, known as spermatia. Flowering plants contain non-motile sperm inside pollen, while some more basal plants like ferns and some gymnosperms have motile sperm.\n\nSperm cells form during the process known as spermatogenesis, which in amniotes (reptiles and mammals) takes place in the seminiferous tubules of the testes. This process involves the production of several successive sperm cell precursors, starting with spermatogonia, which differentiate into spermatocytes. The spermatocytes then undergo meiosis, reducing their chromosome number by half, which produces spermatids. The spermatids then mature and, in animals, construct a tail, or flagellum, which gives rise to the mature, motile sperm cell. This whole process occurs constantly and takes around 3 months from start to finish.\n\nSperm cells cannot divide and have a limited lifespan, but after fusion with egg cells during fertilisation, a new organism begins developing, starting as a totipotent zygote. The human sperm cell is haploid, so that its 23 chromosomes can join the 23 chromosomes of the female egg to form a diploid cell. In mammals, sperm is stored in the epididymis and is released from the penis during ejaculation in a fluid known as semen.\n\nThe word \"sperm\" is derived from the Greek word σπέρμα, \"sperma\", meaning \"seed\". \n\nThe main sperm function is to reach the ovum and fuse with it to deliver two sub-cellular structures: (i) the male pronucleus that contains the genetic material and (ii) the centrioles that are structures that help organize the microtubule cytoskeleton.\n\nThe mammalian sperm cell can be divided in 2 parts:\n\nThe neck or connecting piece contains one typical centriole and one atypical centriole such as the proximal centriole-like.\n\nThe midpiece has a central filamentous core with many mitochondria spiralled around it, used for ATP production for the journey through the female cervix, uterus and uterine tubes.\n\nThe tail, or \"flagellum\", executes the lashing movements that propel the spermatocyte.\n\nDuring fertilization, the sperm provides three essential parts to the oocyte: (1) a signalling or activating factor, which causes the metabolically dormant oocyte to activate; (2) the haploid paternal genome; (3) the centriole, which is responsible for forming the centrosome and microtubule system.\n\nThe spermatozoa of animals are produced through spermatogenesis inside the male gonads (testicles) via meiotic division. The initial spermatozoon process takes around 70 days to complete. The process starts with the production of spermatogonia from germ cell precursors. These divide and differentiate into spermatocytes, which undergo meiosis to form spermatids. In the spermatid stage, the sperm develops the familiar tail. The next stage where it becomes fully mature takes around 60 days when it is called a spermatozoan. Sperm cells are carried out of the male body in a fluid known as semen. Human sperm cells can survive within the female reproductive tract for more than 5 days post coitus. Semen is produced in the seminal vesicles, prostate gland and urethral glands.\n\nIn 2016, scientists at Nanjing Medical University claimed they had produced cells resembling mouse spermatids from mouse embryonic stem cells artificially. They injected these spermatids into mouse eggs and produced pups.\n\nSperm quantity and quality are the main parameters in semen quality, which is a measure of the ability of semen to accomplish fertilization. Thus, in humans, it is a measure of fertility in a man. The genetic quality of sperm, as well as its volume and motility, all typically decrease with age. (See paternal age effect.)\n\nDNA damages present in sperm cells in the period after meiosis but before fertilization may be repaired in the fertilized egg, but if not repaired, can have serious deleterious effects on fertility and the developing embryo. Human sperm cells are particularly vulnerable to free radical attack and the generation of oxidative DNA damage. (see e.g. 8-Oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine)\n\nThe postmeiotic phase of mouse spermatogenesis is very sensitive to environmental genotoxic agents, because as male germ cells form mature sperm they progressively lose the ability to repair DNA damage. Irradiation of male mice during late spermatogenesis can induce damage that persists for at least 7 days in the fertilizing sperm cells, and disruption of maternal DNA double-strand break repair pathways increases sperm cell-derived chromosomal aberrations. Treatment of male mice with melphalan, a bifunctional alkylating agent frequently employed in chemotherapy, induces DNA lesions during meiosis that may persist in an unrepaired state as germ cells progress through DNA repair-competent phases of spermatogenic development. Such unrepaired DNA damages in sperm cells, after fertilization, can lead to offspring with various abnormalities.\n\nRelated to sperm quality is sperm size, at least in some animals. For instance, the sperm of some species of fruit fly (\"Drosophila\") are up to 5.8 cm long — about 20 times as long as the fly itself. Longer sperm cells are better than their shorter counterparts at displacing competitors from the female's seminal receptacle. The benefit to females is that only healthy males carry ‘good’ genes that can produce long sperm in sufficient quantities to outcompete their competitors.\n\nSome sperm banks hold up to of sperm.\n\nIn addition to ejaculation, it is possible to extract sperm through TESE.\n\nOn the global market, Denmark has a well-developed system of human sperm export. This success mainly comes from the reputation of Danish sperm donors for being of high quality and, in contrast with the law in the other Nordic countries, gives donors the choice of being either anonymous or non-anonymous to the receiving couple. Furthermore, Nordic sperm donors tend to be tall and highly educated and have altruistic motives for their donations, partly due to the relatively low monetary compensation in Nordic countries. More than 50 countries worldwide are importers of Danish sperm, including Paraguay, Canada, Kenya, and Hong Kong. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the US has banned import of any sperm, motivated by a risk of transmission of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, although such a risk is insignificant, since artificial insemination is very different from the route of transmission of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease. The prevalence of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease for donors is at most one in a million, and if the donor was a carrier, the infectious proteins would still have to cross the blood-testis barrier to make transmission possible.\n\nSperm were first observed in 1677 by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek using a microscope. He described them as being animalcules (little animals), probably due to his belief in preformationism, which thought that each sperm contained a fully formed but small human.\n\nEjaculated fluids are detected by ultraviolet light, irrespective of the structure or colour of the surface. Sperm heads, e.g. from vaginal swabs, are still detected by microscopy using the \"Christmas Tree Stain\" method, i.e., Kernechtrot-Picroindigocarmine (KPIC) staining.\n\nSperm cells in algal and many plant gametophytes are produced in male gametangia (antheridia) via mitotic division. In flowering plants, sperm nuclei are produced inside pollen.\n\nMotile sperm cells typically move via flagella and require a water medium in order to swim toward the egg for fertilization. In animals most of the energy for sperm motility is derived from the metabolism of fructose carried in the seminal fluid. This takes place in the mitochondria located in the sperm's midpiece (at the base of the sperm head). These cells cannot swim backwards due to the nature of their propulsion. The uniflagellated sperm cells (with one flagellum) of animals are referred to as spermatozoa, and are known to vary in size.\n\nMotile sperm are also produced by many protists and the gametophytes of bryophytes, ferns and some gymnosperms such as cycads and ginkgo. The sperm cells are the only flagellated cells in the life cycle of these plants. In many ferns and lycophytes, cycads and ginkgo they are multi-flagellated (carrying more than one flagellum).\n\nIn nematodes, the sperm cells are amoeboid and crawl, rather than swim, towards the egg cell.\n\nNon-motile sperm cells called spermatia lack flagella and therefore cannot swim. Spermatia are produced in a spermatangium.\n\nBecause spermatia cannot swim, they depend on their environment to carry them to the egg cell. Some red algae, such as \"Polysiphonia\", produce non-motile spermatia that are spread by water currents after their release. The spermatia of rust fungi are covered with a sticky substance. They are produced in flask-shaped structures containing nectar, which attract flies that transfer the spermatia to nearby hyphae for fertilization in a mechanism similar to insect pollination in flowering plants.\n\nFungal spermatia (also called pycniospores, especially in the Uredinales) may be confused with conidia. Conidia are spores that germinate independently of fertilization, whereas spermatia are gametes that are required for fertilization. In some fungi, such as \"Neurospora crassa\", spermatia are identical to microconidia as they can perform both functions of fertilization as well as giving rise to new organisms without fertilization.\n\nIn almost all embryophytes, including most gymnosperms and all angiosperms, the male gametophytes (pollen grains) are the primary mode of dispersal, for example via wind or insect pollination, eliminating the need for water to bridge the gap between male and female. Each pollen grain contains a spermatogenous (generative) cell. Once the pollen lands on the stigma of a receptive flower, it germinates and starts growing a pollen tube through the carpel. Before the tube reaches the ovule, the nucleus of the generative cell in the pollen grain divides and gives rise to two sperm nuclei, which are then discharged through the tube into the ovule for fertilization.\n\nIn some protists, fertilization also involves sperm nuclei, rather than cells, migrating toward the egg cell through a fertilization tube. Oomycetes form sperm nuclei in a syncytical antheridium surrounding the egg cells. The sperm nuclei reach the eggs through fertilization tubes, similar to the pollen tube mechanism in plants.\n\nMost sperm cells have centrioles in the sperm neck. Sperm of many animals has 2 typical centrioles known as the proximal centriole and distal centriole. Some animals like human and bovine have a single typical centriole, known as the proximal centriole, and a second centriole with atypical structure. Mice and rats have no recognizable sperm centrioles. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has a single centriole and an atypical centriole named the Proximal Centriole-Like (PCL).\n\nThe sperm tail is a specialized type of cilium (aka flagella). In many animals the sperm tail is formed in a unique way, which is named Cytosolic ciliogenesis, since all or part of axoneme of the sperm tail is formed in the cytoplasm or get exposed to the cytoplasm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324059", "title": "Roxton Falls, Quebec", "text": "Roxton Falls, Quebec\n\nRoxton Falls is a village municipality in Acton Regional County Municipality, in the Canadian province of Quebec. The population as of the Canada 2011 Census was 1,265.\n\nIt is surrounded entirely by the township municipality of Roxton. Roxton Falls and Roxton are legally distinct municipalities (with separate elected officials), but the administration of both is physically located in the village of Roxton Falls.\n\nRoxton Falls has only a few hundred more people than Roxton, but is concentrated in a much smaller geographic area. It is highlighted by a split on the Black River which surrounds a small island, causing two nine meters falls.\n\nThe first mayor of Roxton Falls, from 1863 was John Wood, a leather tanner who had moved to that area in 1851. He was mayor until 1880, followed by Joseph Lafontaine.\n\nPopulation trend:\nMother tongue language (2006)\n\n"}
{"id": "2324060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324060", "title": "Davey Moore (boxer, born 1959)", "text": "Davey Moore (boxer, born 1959)\n\nDavey Moore (9 June 1959 – 3 June 1988) was an American world junior middleweight champion boxer, the second of two professional champions who shared the name in the second half of the 20th century. Each died around the age of thirty, the first, Davey S. Moore (born 1933), as a result of punishment in a fight, the second in an accident at his home.\n\nThe latter was born in New York during the championship reign of the first. As a boxer, he rose quickly through the junior middleweight ranks—perhaps too quickly, according to some boxing writers and critics.\n\nDavey Moore won four New York Golden Gloves Championships. Moore won the 1976 135 lb Sub-Novice Championship. Moore also won the 1977, 1978 and 1979 147 lb Open Championships. He was defeated in the 1980 147 lb Open division by Pedro Vilella who was a three time New York Golden Gloves Champion. Moore was trained at the Morrisania Youth Center in the Bronx, New York by Leon Washington a former professional Middleweight.\n\nMoore earned a spot on the 1980 US Olympic Team, but did not compete due to the US boycott of the Moscow Olympics.\n\nOne of Moore's early wins was in June 1981 over Kevin Rooney, who would later train Mike Tyson. Moore entered the fight with a 6-0 record, while Rooney was 15-0. Moore won by a TKO in the seventh round of an eight round fight.\n\nAfter winning eight professional fights, five by knockout, the WBA named him their No.10 challenger, and in February 1982, he traveled to Japan, where he knocked out defending champion Tadashi Mihara in six, winning the WBA world junior middleweight title.\n\nIn April 1982 he defended his world title against Charlie Weir in Johannesburg, South Africa, taking five rounds to knock him out. Then in July 1982 he fought former world champion Ayub Kalule, whom he stopped in the tenth round.\n\nMoore started 1983 by beating challenger Gary Guiden, by knockout in the fourth round. He had been scheduled to fight Tony Ayala Jr. but Ayala was convicted of burglary and rape and sentenced to 35 years in prison. Next, Moore defended against former two-division world champion Roberto Durán. Moore appeared to be overconfident against an aging 'Hands of Stone' Duran but Duran totally outclassed him and dished out vicious punishment, hammering shut one of Moore's eyes and stopping him in eight brutal rounds at Madison Square Garden. The beating was so one-sided that Moore's mother and girlfriend were both said to have fainted at ringside. Many knowledgeable observers believed that referee Ernesto Magana should have stopped the fight far earlier. This was proven to be correct by the fact that Moore was never the same fighter after this contest.\n\nMoore won his next two fights, the second in Monte Carlo over Wilfred Benítez but then he was disqualified in the ninth round against Louis Acaries in Paris. In 1985, he won one more fight and was in line to challenge Carlos Santos for the IBF World Junior Middleweight title. That fight did not materialize, but eventually he did get to challenge for the IBF title against Buster Drayton in August 1986. Moore lost by TKO in the tenth round and only fought 5 more times, winning 3 and losing 2.\n\nMoore was killed at his home in Holmdel, New Jersey one morning in early June 1988 when his four-wheel drive vehicle began to roll down the driveway. Caught off guard, he attempted to stop it but was dragged under and pinned there. Paramedics arrived to find him lifeless, the official cause of death being recorded as asphyxiation induced by a compressed chest. He left behind his wife and two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324069", "title": "Me Without You (film)", "text": "Me Without You (film)\n\nMe Without You is a 2001 British film, starring Anna Friel, Michelle Williams and Oliver Milburn, and written and directed by Sandra Goldbacher.\n\nThe film follows the troubled relationship between two girls as they grow up. Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" called it \"psychologically savvy ... story of a toxic friendship, established in early childhood, whose poisons continue to circulate and infect both well into their adult lives.\"\n\nThis drama charts the development of the friendship between two different girls living in the UK, Holly (Michelle Williams) and Marina (Anna Friel), from their teenage years during the late 1970s to the present day.\n\nThe first scene depicts the girls at 12 years old in 1973. Although they are next-door neighbours, they come from different backgrounds. Holly is Jewish and has an overprotective mother, while Marina has a mother who is much more laid back and a father who is almost never around. At this point, Holly develops a crush on Marina's older brother, Nat.\n\nThe film then cuts to 1978, which finds them lying on Marina's bed smoking because they're bored. Later, Marina runs over to Holly's house to tell her that she has found out about a party that Nat's girlfriend, Carolyn, is having. When the girls get to the party, the others ask if they would like to \"play a game\", although the \"game\" simply involves shooting heroin. Nat's girlfriend soon leaves with two other guys; while Marina wants to follow them, Holly begs her not to. However, when Marina gets up to leave, Holly kisses Nat and the two end up sleeping together. Marina sees them and becomes angry, telling Holly that Nat only had sex with her because he was stoned and probably did not even recognize her. The next morning, Nat wakes up Marina and asks her to give a note to Holly that says what happened last night was \"beautiful\" but a case of bad timing, and that he looks forward to their future. However, Marina angrily rips up the note and goes to see Holly who is sitting in her yard reading a book. When Holly asks Marina if Nat said anything about the night before, Marina lies, and says \"no\", but reassures Holly that they will always have each other.\n\nThe film then jumps to 1982, when Holly and Marina are attending university together. They are sleeping with the same professor; a man that Marina had at first thought boring. Nat comes to visit, and he and Holly reconnect. Holly decides she wants to be with him. But, when she goes to end things with her professor, she sees Marina kissing him goodbye. She runs back to Nat, so upset she forgets about the relationship they were about to enter. Holly soon confronts Marina and the two fight. While Marina soon makes up with Holly, she ruins things between Holly and Nat by telling them both that the other one did not want to talk. Later on, the three of them are reunited at a New Year's party, where Nat announces his intention to marry his girlfriend, Isabel.\n\nThe next scene finds the girls in their late 20s, in 1989. Holly is a writer, dating a man Marina has chosen for her. Marina is dating a Jewish doctor. Nat comes over to Holly's place and tells her he talks to her in his head all the time. They are interrupted by Holly's boyfriend returning, at which point she tells Nat to leave. Shortly thereafter, she decides she wants to go to America, but Marina tries to stop her by telling her she is pregnant.\n\nSome time later, the characters are reunited at another New Year's Eve party. While playing \"Guess Who?\", Nat begins to describe someone in a very deep way. Holly guesses Isabel, but Isabel claims it's Holly. Marina says she's bored with this game and they should play sardines. As they wander through the dark house, Marina begins to kiss Holly's boyfriend. Holly and Nat then find each other, however, and Holly tells him she also talks to him all the time in her head. When Holly's boyfriend refuses her advances, Marina freaks out and runs outside. Holly confronts her, and tells her they have to stop being friends. Marina tells her \"there's no me without you!\" Holly tells her there is. As Holly walks away, Nat catches up to her and asks if he can come. The two take a bus together.\n\nThe final scene finds the characters in 2001. Nat and Holly have a daughter, and Marina has a daughter and a son. Marina and Holly do not appear as close as they once were, although each accepts the other's presence for the sake of their two young daughters, who appear to be best friends.\n\n\nRotten Tomatoes, the movie review aggregation site, gave the movie a 66 percent rating based on 65 reviews.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film 3 and a half stars and said the film \"has a bracing truth that's refreshing after the phoniness of female-bonding pictures like \"Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood\".\" He said that the film's treatment of character of Daniel was \"rare\" for a film of this sort in that had a \"depth\" \"instead of simply being used as a plot ploy.\" He called Williams' performance a \"surprise\" for having a \"perfectly convincing British accent, and is cuddly and smart both at once.\" Lou Carlozo of the Chicago Tribune praised the on screen chemistry between Friel and Williams.\n\nCritic Richard Nilsen, however, said \"Although the film deserves some points for trying to describe the intensity of best-friendship between girls, it fails to make them interesting people.\" Lou Lumenick of the New York Post said it was the \"kind of chick flick that gives chick flicks a bad name.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2324071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324071", "title": "John Rochester", "text": "John Rochester\n\nJohn Rochester may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324073", "title": "Nir Klinger", "text": "Nir Klinger\n\nNir Klinger (; born 25 May 1966) is an Israeli former footballer, and currently the manager of Hapoel Tel Aviv.\nDuring the 1990s, Klinger served as Captain for Maccabi Tel Aviv and the Israel national football team.\n\nHe was the manager of Maccabi Tel Aviv for three seasons, before resigning under pressure on 5 December 2005. As manager of Maccabi, Klinger won the Israeli championship and an Israeli state cup.\n\nA product of the Maccabi Haifa youth team, he was a defensive player. He made his league debut for Maccabi on 3 November 1984 against Hakoah Ramat Gan, when he came on as a substitute in the 80th minute.\n\nHe spent six seasons with Maccabi Haifa before moving to Maccabi Tel Aviv for eight seasons. He won two Israeli championships with Maccabi Haifa and three championships and another two Israel State Cup with Maccabi Tel Aviv.\n\nHe retired due to injury during the 1997–98 season.\n\nKlinger made his debut for Israel on 18 February 1987 in a 1–1 draw with Northern Ireland. He scored his first goal against Wales in a 3–3 draw on 8 February 1989. His last appearance was on 31 March 1997 in a 3–0 win over Luxembourg.\n\nIn total, Klinger played 83 caps for the Israel national football team between 1987 and 1997, and captained the team from August 1992 until March 1997.\n\nIn 1998 Klinger was appointed assistant to Avram Grant at Maccabi Tel Aviv. In 2000, he became manager of second division Beitar Be'er Sheva, leading them to third place (their highest ever position).\n\nIn 2002, he left the club to return to Maccabi as manager. In his first season Maccabi won the title. They finished runners-up the following year, and won the State Cup in 2004–05. On 5 December 2005 he resigned as manager.\n\nKlinger led Maccabi Tel Aviv to UEFA Champions League Groups 2004–05 season. The manager and the team beat HJK Helsinki and PAOK Thessaloniki in the qualifying rounds. Maccabi played against former European champions: Juventus, Ajax Amsterdam and Bayern Munchen. Maccabi managed to get one victory over Ajax Amsterdam 2–1 and held Juventus into a draw, 1–1.\n\nIn 2006, he was appointed manager of Cypriot club Enosis Neon Paralimni, but resigned in September 2007. Soon afterward, he was appointed manager of AEK Larnaca, but was fired in October 2008 after poor start of the season. He finished with Paralimni and Aek in the 4–5 place in the Cypriot premier league.\nIn the 2008–09 season he was appointed manager of newly promoted AEP Paphos and under his management the team was able to avoid relegation.\nOn 24 May 2009 Klinger signed a three-year contract with AEL Limassol.\n\nWhile managing AEL Limassol, a crucial derby match against Anorthosis Famagusta fell on the Jewish holiday, Yom Kippur. Klinger, who defines himself as a faithful Jew, advised the club's management of the importance of the holiday and that he would miss the match along with his assistant, Felix Naim, who was also Jewish. The club tried to have the match moved to accommodate them.\n\nOn 23 May 2012, Klinger was appointed the manager of Hapoel Haifa., and has brought the team to a 9th Place Finish.\n\nOn 19 May 2013, Kilinger was appointed the manager of F.C. Ashdod. He was sacked following the 2014\\2015 season, after the team was relegated to the 2nd tier Liga Leumit.\n\nOn 15 November 2015, Kilinger was appointed the general manager of Maccabi Sha'arayim, a club from Liga Alef (third tier), he signed a contract for three years. On 22 November 2016, he was appointed as the manager of the club while Salim Tuama got the job as his assistant. On 6 December 2016, Klinger decided to leave Sha'arayim, and became the general manager of Hapoel Haifa\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324075", "title": "Dow Corning", "text": "Dow Corning\n\nDow Corning was an American multinational corporation headquartered in Midland, Michigan, United States. Originally established as a joint venture between The Dow Chemical Company and Corning Incorporated, Dow bought out Corning and Dow Corning became a 100% Dow subsidiary. After a brief existence as a DowDuPont-owned company, as Dow spun out from DowDuPont on April 1, 2019, it is now wholly owned by Dow and specializes in silicone and silicon-based technology, and is the largest silicone product producer in the world.\n\nDow Corning was formally established in 1943 as a joint venture between the American conglomerates Dow Chemical and Corning Glass to explore the potential of silicone and was a manufacturer of products for use by the U.S. military in World War II. The company began operating its first plant, in Midland, MI, in 1945. Dr. E. C. Sullivan was named president, and Dr. William R. Collings was named general manager in 1943. Dr. Collings later became president from 1954 until 1962. It expanded into Canada and Europe in 1948, and into South America and Japan in 1961.\n\nA large, majority-owned subsidiary of Dow Corning Corporation is the Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation. It is one of the world's largest producers of high-purity polycrystalline silicon, which is sold in varying purity grades for use in both semiconductor silicon wafer manufacture and photovoltaics applications as solar cells.\n\nIn 2002, the company created the Xiameter brand as an online-only distributor. As of 2011, Xiameter offers 2,100 of Dow Corning’s 7,000 products.\n\nOn November 13, 2014, Dow Chemical's CEO Andrew N. Liveris revealed in a presentation to investors that Corning Incorporated intended to exit the joint venture of 71 years, citing other priorities. Following the December 11, 2015 announcement that it would merge with DuPont, Dow also announced on the same day that it had reached a deal to acquire Corning's stake in Dow Corning in exchange for $4.8 billion in cash and Corning gaining a roughly 40% stake in Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation. Dow Chemical assumed full ownership of Dow Corning on June 1, 2016. The company changed its name to Dow Silicones Corporation in 2018.\n\nDow Silicones markets over 7000 products, including various sealants, adhesives, rubbers, lubricants, silicon oils and solvents. Around 2,100 of these are available through the Dow Corning online-only distributor Xiameter, including fluids, gels, resins. The range of industries targeted by Dow Corning products spans from electronics and automotive to construction, healthcare and others. In recent years, the company has expanded production of solar cells, particularly through its majority stake in Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation, which accounts for a polysilicon franchise worth over $1 billion. In 2011, then-CTO Gregg Zank explained that the company tries to focus its product development on societal “megatrends” (e.g. energy scarcity and urbanization).\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, class-action lawsuits claimed that Dow Corning's silicone breast implants caused systemic health problems. The claims first centered on breast cancer and then migrated to a range of autoimmune diseases, including lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and various neurological problems. This led to numerous lawsuits beginning in 1984 and culminating in a 1998 multibillion-dollar class action settlement. As a result, Dow Corning was in bankruptcy protection for nine years, ending in June 2004 during which time it largely withdrew from clinical markets.\n\nAlthough a number of independent reviews, including the Institute of Medicine in the United States, subsequently indicated that silicone breast implants do not cause breast cancers or any identifiable systemic diseases, on 21 March 2017, the FDA issued a statement indicating that women with breast implants have a \"very low but increased risk\" of getting a rare form of cancer called anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (ALCL). The cancer is associated with nine deaths, the FDA said. These findings have caused an uptick in breast implant removal surgeries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324077", "title": "Stockpile", "text": "Stockpile\n\nA stockpile is a pile or storage location for bulk materials, forming part of the bulk material handling process.\n\nStockpiles are used in many different areas, such as in a port, refinery or manufacturing facility. The stockpile is normally created by a stacker. A reclaimer is used to recover the material. Stockpiles are normally stacked in stockyards in refineries, ports and mine sites.\n\nA simple stockpile is formed by machinery dumping coal into a pile, either from dump trucks, pushed into heaps with bulldozers or from conveyor booms. More controlled stockpiles are formed using stackers to form piles along the length of a conveyor, and reclaimers to retrieve the coal when required for product loading, etc.\n\nIndividuals may also choose to stockpile certain commodities (e.g. food, medical supplies), that they fear may not be available to purchase in the future. For example, in March 2019, one in ten British shoppers were reported to be stockpiling food prior to Brexit. \n\nIn the construction field stockpile volume measurement is a monthly work program. We can calculate volume of a stockpile manually or by using different types of software. Calculating the volume of a stockpile manually does not require any software. Software used to calculate stockpile volumes can either be proprietary, such as Microsoft Excel and Autocad, or Libre, such as Libre Office Calc and OpenSCAD\n"}
{"id": "2324078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324078", "title": "Dirty Words", "text": "Dirty Words\n\nDirty Words is the debut album by British indie rock band the Departure, released in the UK on 13 June 2005.\n\nAll tracks written by David Jones, Sam Harvey, Ben Winton, Lee Irons, and Andy Hobson.\n\n\nThe album has been released in various countries. At this time it is only available in North America via import.\n"}
{"id": "2324083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324083", "title": "Roxton, Quebec", "text": "Roxton, Quebec\n\nRoxton (officially \"Le Canton de Roxton\") is a township municipality (\"municipalité de canton\") in the Acton Regional County Municipality, in the province of Quebec, Canada. The population as of the Canada 2011 Census was 1,093.\n\nRoxton entirely surrounds the village of Roxton Falls. Roxton and Roxton Falls are legally distinct municipalities (with separate elected officials), but the administration of both is physically located in the village of Roxton Falls.\n\nRoxton has only a few hundred fewer people than Roxton Falls, but is spread out over a much greater geographic area.\n\nPopulation trend:\nMother tongue language (2006)\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2324086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324086", "title": "David Reilly", "text": "David Reilly\n\nDavid Fitzgerald Reilly (May 5, 1971 – October 16, 2005) was the singer and songwriting/production partner in the electro-rock band God Lives Underwater (GLU), signed by Rick Rubin to American Recordings in 1993.\n\nAmerican released God Lives Underwater's first album, a self-titled EP called \"GLU\", and second album \"Empty\", which spawned minor radio hits \"No More Love\" (which also appeared on the soundtrack to Johnny Mnemonic). The band broke up after releasing a total of four albums.\n\nReilly then moved on to solo work and other projects. With God Lives Underwater bandmember Jeff Turzo, he produced and remixed for Skinny Puppy, Rob Zombie, and Messiah, and organized and contributed to 1998's \"For the Masses: A Tribute To Depeche Mode\".\n\nIn 2001, Reilly released a solo album consisting of four untitled instrumental tracks under the band name Robot Teen America, titled \"Living In Syn\". This album was dedicated to David Reilly's girlfriend, Monica Young, whose nickname was \"Seven.\" She was struck and killed by a train in November 2000. As a result, he released 77 CDs: 70 to fans and six to friends and one to himself. Each CD was numbered and signed by Reilly and only available through the Internet. In 2002, Reilly started the rock band Fluzee, who released one album titled \"7\" before breaking up the following year.\n\nJune 2004 saw the release of God Lives Underwater's \"Up Off the Floor\", on Megaforce/Locomotive. Reilly also embarked on a short solo acoustic tour, supported by drummer Benjamin Juul and guitarist David Trusso, in support of his EP \"Inside\", which wasn't released until the end of the tour.\n\nIn 2005, before his death, Reilly signed to Sony Music/RuffNation Records, and would have released his debut solo album \"How Humans R(x)\" in 2006.\n\n2005 was to see Reilly's return to touring in support of the unreleased \"How Humans R(x)\" album, as well as new material centered around the death of his fiancée with former Spiritualized guitar player Gregg Hale, but Reilly died unexpectedly on October 16, 2005, from complications of a coma brought on by pain medication for an abscessed tooth. Tour dates were scheduled at the time of his death, and the album was left unfinished, not to be released until December, 2009, with only 100 physical copies of the album being printed and sold exclusively online. Reilly was buried in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Cheltenham, Pennsylvania.\n\nA digital box set (42 tracks) of hard-to-find solo tracks & high-school band demos was released to iTunes in October, 2013 titled \"David Reilly - Life After The So Called God Lives Underwater Age.\"\n\nA book about David Reilly and God Lives Underwater was released on October 16, 2007, by Brian Paone, titled \"Dreams Are Unfinished Thoughts.\" The official God lives Underwater / David Reilly posthumous website was launched in April, 2014 containing as much music and videos and interviews that could be compiled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324088", "title": "William Frishmuth", "text": "William Frishmuth\n\nWilliam Frishmuth (April 22, 1830–August 1, 1893) was a German-born American architect and metallurgist.\n\nWilliam Frishmuth was born Johann Wilhelm Gottfried Frischmuth in 1830 in Coburg in the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha (now Germany). Frishmuth studied with Friedrich Wöhler in Germany; aluminum is a metal not found in a pure state in nature, and the first patent for refining aluminum by electrolysis was granted to Wöhler.\n\nIn 1855 Frishmuth settled in Philadelphia and became a US citizen. He established the Frishmuth Foundry in Philadelphia. In 1876 his Philadelphia foundry produced the first authenticated aluminum castings made in America and is believed to be the only aluminum foundry in the US until the late 1880s. He used a chemical process, unlike the electrolytic processes used today. One of the first castings he produced was an engineer's transit. The foundry was declared an Historical Landmark in 1985 by the American Society for Metals (now ASM International).\n\nIn 1861 Frishmuth became a special secret agent to the War Department at the request of Abraham Lincoln. On 5 November 1861, he received authority from President Lincoln, which was confirmed by Governor Curtin of Pennsylvania, to raise a cavalry regiment. In 1862 the regiment was raised for active service, and he was commissioned colonel of the 12th Pennsylvania Cavalry; he resigned his commission on April 20, 1862.\n\nBecause Frishmuth had previously done plating work for the Washington Monument, in 1884 the Army Corps of Engineers asked Frishmuth to construct a small metal form for the top of the monument. The small pyramid was to be artistic, and function as the terminus of a lightning rod. Frishmuth suggested aluminum, as its color would blend well with the granite, would not stain, would polish well, and could be engraved with inscriptions.\n\nIn 1884 he cast the aluminum cap, which was the first architectural use of aluminum. Frishmuth needed 100 ounces (about 2.8 kg) of aluminum to produce the pyramid. At that time aluminum was $1.00 per avoirdupois ounce; for perspective, silver was $1.30 per troy ounce ($1.18 per avoirdupois ounce).\n\nThrough his lifetime, Frishmuth received 12 patents, mostly on electroplating and production of aluminum.\n\nAnnually, the American Foundry Society (AFS) presents the \"Frishmuth Award\" honoring the \"Foundryman of the Year\".\n"}
{"id": "2324089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324089", "title": "Hohenlohe", "text": "Hohenlohe\n\nThe House of Hohenlohe () is a German princely dynasty descended from the ancient Franconian Imperial immediate noble family that belonged to the German High Nobility (\"Hoher Adel\"). The family was granted the titles of Count (in 1450) and, later, Prince (see below). In 1806 the Princes of Hohenlohe lost their independence and their lands formed part of the Kingdoms of Bavaria and of Württemberg by the Act of the Confederation of the Rhine (12 July 1806). At the time of this mediatization in 1806, the area of Hohenlohe was 1,760 km² and its estimated population was 108,000. The Act of the Confederation of the Rhine deprived the Princes of Hohenlohe of their Imperial immediacy, but did not confiscate their possessions. Until the German Revolution of 1918–19 the Princes of Hohenlohe, as other mediatized families, had important political privileges. They were considered equal by birth (\"Ebenbürtigkeit\") to the European Sovereign houses. In Bavaria, Prussia and Württemberg the Princes of Hohenlohe had hereditary right to sit in the House of Lords. In 1825 the Assembly / Diet of the German Confederation recognized the predicate of \"Serene Highness\" (\"Durchlaucht\") for the heads of the Hohenlohe lines.\n\nAn early ancestor was mentioned in 1153 as one Conrad, Lord of Weikersheim. His son Conrad jun. called himself the possessor of Hohlach (Hohenloch or Hohenlohe) Castle near Uffenheim, and the dynasty's influence was soon perceptible between the Franconian valleys of the Kocher, the Jagst and the Tauber Rivers, an area that was to be called the Hohenlohe Plateau. (In 1378, Hohenlohe was sold to the Burggraves of Nuremberg ).\n\nHeinrich I (died 1183) was the first to take the name of Hohenlohe, and in 1230 his grandsons, Gottfried and Conrad, supporters of Emperor Frederick II, founded the lines of Hohenlohe-Hohenlohe and Hohenlohe-Brauneck, names taken from their respective castles. The latter became extinct in 1390, its lands passing later to Brandenburg, while the former was divided into several branches, only two of which, however, Hohenlohe-Weikersheim and Hohenlohe-Uffenheim-Speckfeld, need be mentioned here. Hohenlohe-Weikersheim, descended from Count Kraft I (died 1313), also underwent several divisions, that which took place after the deaths of Counts Albert and George in 1551 being specially important. At this time the lines of Hohenlohe-Neuenstein and Hohenlohe-Waldenburg were founded by the sons of Count George. Meanwhile, in 1412, the family of Hohenlohe-Uffenheim-Speckfeld had become extinct, and its lands had passed through the marriages of its heiresses into other families. George Hohenlohe was archbishop of Esztergom (1418–1423), serving the King Sigismund of Hungary (later also Holy Roman Emperor and King of Bohemia).\n\nIn 1450, the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III granted Kraft of Hohenlohe (died 1472) and his brother, Albrecht, the sons of Elizabeth of Hanau, heiress to Ziegenhain, the title of Count of Hohenlohe and Ziegenhain () and invested them with the County of Ziegenhain. Actually, the Landgraves of Hesse took the County of Ziegenhain, and the House of Hohenlohe eventually gave up the reference to Ziegenhain.\n\nThe Hohenlohe possessions were located in the Franconian Circle, and the family had two voices in its Diet / Assembly (\"Kreistag\").\n\nThe Hohenlohe family had six voices in the Franconian College of Imperial Counts (\"Fränkisches Reichsgrafenkollegium\") of the Imperial Diet (\"Reichstag\"). The right to vote in the Imperial Diet / Assembly gave a German noble family the status of Imperial State (\"Reichsstand\") and the right to belong to the High Nobility (\"Hoher Adel\").\n\nThe existing branches of the Hohenlohe family are descended from the lines of Hohenlohe-Neuenstein and Hohenlohe-Waldenburg, established in 1551 by Ludwig Kasimir (d.1568) and Eberhard (d. 1570), the sons of Count Georg (d.1551). The former of these became Protestant, while the latter remained Roman Catholic.\n\nOf the family of Hohenlohe-Neuenstein, which underwent several partitions and inherited Gleichen in 1631, the senior line became extinct in 1805, while in 1701 the junior line divided itself into three branches, those of Langenburg, Ingelfingen and Kirchberg. Kirchberg died out in 1861, but members of the families of Hohenlohe-Langenburg and Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen are still alive, the latter being represented by the branches of Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen (became extinct in 1960) and Hohenlohe-Öhringen. The Roman Catholic family of Hohenlohe-Waldenburg was soon divided into three branches, but two of these had died out by 1729. The surviving branch, that of Schillingsfürst, was divided into the lines of Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst and Hohenlohe-Bartenstein; other divisions followed, and the four existing lines of this branch of the family are those of Waldenburg, Schillingsfürst, Jagstberg, and Bartenstein. The family of Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst possessed the duchy of Ratibor and still owns the principality of Corvey, inherited in 1834.\n\nThe Holy Roman Emperors granted the title of Imperial Prince (\"Reichsfürst\") to the Waldenburg line (in 1744) and to the Neuenstein (Öhringen) line (in 1764).\n\nIn 1757, the Holy Roman Emperor elevated possessions of the Waldenburg line to the status of Imperial Principality.\n\nIn 1772, the Holy Roman Emperor elevated possessions of the Neuenstein and Langenburg lines to the status of Imperial Principality.\n\nNotable members of the von Hohenlohe family include:\n\n(*) still owned by members of the House of Hohenlohe\n\n\n\nThe Legion de Hohenlohe was a unit of foreign soldiers serving in the French Army until 1831, when its members (as well as those of the disbanded Swiss Guards) were folded into the newly-raised French Foreign Legion for service in Algeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324100", "title": "Mongarlowe, New South Wales", "text": "Mongarlowe, New South Wales\n\nMongarlowe is a village in the Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, Australia in Queanbeyan-Palerang Regional Council. It was formerly known as Little River.\n\nIt is situated on the Mongarlowe River and about 13 km east of Braidwood. At the , the village and the surrounding area had a population of 117. Several buildings have survived from the 19th century, when it was much larger.\n\nMongarlowe was a substantial mining settlement during the mid-19th century due to the New South Wales gold rush. It was called Monga until 1891. It had a public school from 1863 to 1963.\n\nAnother population boom followed during the Depression when many returned to distill eucalyptus oil and search again for gold.\n\nThere was a proposal for a 98 lot subdivision in proximity to the village which was cancelled in 2008 under pressure from concerned residents.\n\nMongarlowe has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n"}
{"id": "2324104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324104", "title": "Formalism (literature)", "text": "Formalism (literature)\n\nFormalism is a school of literary criticism and literary theory having mainly to do with structural purposes of a particular text. It is the study of a text without taking into account any outside influence. Formalism rejects or sometimes simply \"brackets\" (\"i.e.\", ignores for the purpose of analysis) notions of culture or societal influence, authorship, and content, and instead focuses on modes, genres, discourse, and forms.\n\nIn literary theory, formalism refers to critical approaches that analyze, interpret, or evaluate the inherent features of a text. These features include not only grammar and syntax but also literary devices such as meter and tropes. The formalistic approach reduces the importance of a text’s historical, biographical, and cultural context.\n\nFormalism rose to prominence in the early twentieth century as a reaction against Romanticist theories of literature, which centered on the artist and individual creative genius, and instead placed the text itself back into the spotlight to show how the text was indebted to forms and other works that had preceded it. Two schools of formalist literary criticism developed, Russian formalism, and soon after Anglo-American New Criticism. Formalism was the dominant mode of academic literary study in the US at least from the end of the Second World War through the 1970s, especially as embodied in René Wellek and Austin Warren's \"Theory of Literature\" (1948, 1955, 1962).\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s, formalism was substantially displaced by various approaches (often with political aims or assumptions) that were suspicious of the idea that a literary work could be separated from its origins or uses. The term has often had a pejorative cast and has been used by opponents to indicate either aridity or ideological deviance. Some recent trends in academic literary criticism suggest that formalism may be making a comeback. For example, biblical narrative criticism of the 1980s had its beginnings in formalism and close readings of texts. Today it has moved beyond formalism to include feminist criticism, reader-response criticism, and cognitive narratology, to name a few.\n\nWilliam H Thelin criticizes Maxine Hairston’s approach to teaching composition from a current-traditional standpoint, which she then mixes with the political. He claims that “No matter how sound the politics … the student would have no choice but to regurgitate that dogma in the clearest terms possible and to shift concentration onto matters of structure and correctness”.\n\nMary Ann Cain writes that “formalism asserts that the text stands on its own as a complete entity, apart from the writer who produced it”. Moreover, Cain says that “one can regard textual products as teachable and still maintain that being a writer is a \"natural\" act, one not subject to instruction. Composition, like creative writing, has flourished under the assumption that students are already writers, or have the capacity to learn-and that everyone should be writers. Yet the questions composition tends to pose within this assumption are not so much about which aspects of writing can or cannot be taught, but how writing can be taught and under what conditions.\nIn regards to formalist composition, one must ask, “to what extent is this ‘need’ for ‘academic discourse’ real – any more than the need for more ‘imaginative writing’ is real-except to perform some function, to get something done?”.\n\nFormalism research involves studying the ways in which students present their writing. Some ways formalism research is conducted involves allowing the text to speak to the readers versus cutting out unintended meaning in a written piece. Respectively, these two methods deal with language as the “master” writer versus a teacher as the “master” writer.\n\nRussian Formalism refers to the work of the Society for the Study of Poetic Language (OPOYAZ) founded in 1916 in St. Petersburg (then Petrograd) by Boris Eichenbaum, Viktor Shklovsky and Yury Tynyanov, and secondarily to the Moscow Linguistic Circle founded in 1914 by Roman Jakobson. (The folklorist Vladimir Propp is also often associated with the movement.) Eichenbaum's 1926 essay \"The Theory of the 'Formal Method'\" (translated in Lemon and Reis) provides an economical overview of the approach the Formalists advocated, which included the following basic ideas:\n\nAccording to Eichenbaum, Shklovsky was the lead critic of the group, and Shklovsky contributed two of their most well-known concepts: defamiliarization (\"ostraneniye,\" more literally, 'estrangement') and the plot/story distinction (\"syuzhet/fabula\"). \"Defamiliarization\" is one of the crucial ways in which literary language distinguishes itself from ordinary, communicative language, and is a feature of how art in general works, namely by presenting the world in a strange and new way that allows us to see things differently. Innovation in literary history is, according to Shklovsky, partly a matter of finding new techniques of defamiliarization. The plot/story distinction separates out the sequence of events the work relates (the story) from the sequence in which those events are presented in the work (the plot). Both of these concepts are attempts to describe the significance of the form of a literary work in order to define its \"literariness.\" For the Russian Formalists as a whole, form is what makes something art to begin with, so in order to understand a work of art as a work of art (rather than as an ornamented communicative act) one must focus on its form.\n\nThis emphasis on form, seemingly at the expense of thematic content, was not well-received after the Russian Revolution of 1917. One of the most sophisticated critiques of the Formalist project was Leon Trotsky's \"Literature and Revolution\" (1924). Trotsky does not wholly dismiss the Formalist approach, but insists that \"the methods of formal analysis are necessary, but insufficient\" because they neglect the social world with which the human beings who write and read literature are bound up: \"The form of art is, to a certain and very large degree, independent, but the artist who creates this form, and the spectator who is enjoying it, are not empty machines, one for creating form and the other for appreciating it. They are living people, with a crystallized psychology representing a certain unity, even if not entirely harmonious. This psychology is the result of social conditions\" (180, 171). The Formalists were thus accused of being politically reactionary because of such unpatriotic remarks as Shklovsky's (quoted by Trotsky) that \"Art was always free of life, and its color never reflected the color of the flag which waved over the fortress of the City\"(source?)(164). The leaders of the movement suffered political persecution beginning in the 1920s, when Joseph Stalin came to power, which largely put an end to their inquiries. But their ideas continued to influence subsequent thinkers, partly due to Tzvetan Todorov's translations of their works in the 1960s and 1970s, including Todorov himself, Barthes, Genette and Jauss.\n\nThe Moscow Linguistic Circle founded by Jakobson was more directly concerned with recent developments in linguistics than Eichenbaum's group. Jakobson left Moscow for Prague in 1920 and in 1926 co-founded the Prague Linguistic Circle, which embodied similar interests, especially in the work of Ferdinand de Saussure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324108", "title": "Henry H. Spalding", "text": "Henry H. Spalding\n\nHenry Harmon Spalding (1803–1874), and his wife Eliza Hart Spalding (1807–1851) were prominent Presbyterian missionaries and educators working primarily with the Nez Perce in the U.S. Pacific Northwest. The Spaldings and their fellow missionaries were among the earliest Americans to travel across the western plains, through the Rocky Mountains and into the lands of the Pacific Northwest to their religious missions in what would become the states of Idaho and Washington. Their missionary party of five, including Marcus Whitman and his wife Narcissa and William H. Gray, joined with a group of fur traders to create the first wagon train along the Oregon Trail.\n\nSpalding was born in Bath, New York, in either 1803 or 1804. He graduated from Western Reserve College in 1833, and entered Lane Theological Seminary in the class of 1837. He left, without graduation, upon his appointment in 1836 by the Boston-based American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (ABCFM) as a missionary to the Nez Perce Indians of Idaho.\n\nEliza Hart was born August 11, 1807 to Levi Hart and Martha Hart (they were first cousins) in Kensington, Connecticut. In 1820 the family moved to Oneida County, New York. She was introduced to Henry by a mutual acquaintance who said that Henry \"wanted to correspond with a young lady.\" The couple were pen pals for about a year, and the relationship quickly deepened after they met in the fall of 1831. Eliza was as interested in participating in missionary work as was Spalding. They married on October 13, 1833 in Hudson, New York.\n\nThe Spaldings searched for a missionary station through the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and were initially assigned to the Osage in Missouri. Narcissa Prentiss Whitman knew Henry, as they had attended the same church in Prattsburgh, New York in the 1820s. Henry met Marcus Whitman in December 1835, and in February 1836 persuaded him to go instead to the Oregon Country. After praying on it, Eliza agreed. On February 29 in Pittsburgh they boarded the steamboat \"Arabian\" for Cincinnati, arriving four days later, where they waited for the Whitmans. On March 22 they all boarded the steamboat \"Junius\" to St. Louis. Changing to the \"Majestic\" in mid-trip to avoid travel on the sabbath, they arrived March 29. Two days later they boarded another boat to Liberty, Missouri, with the journey taking another week.\n\nIn Liberty, the missionary group waited for the rest of their travel party, a group of fur traders with whom they would travel as far as the continental divide. After some logistical complications, on May 25 they joined the Rocky Mountain Fur Company caravan led by mountain men Milton Sublette and Thomas Fitzpatrick. The fur traders had seven wagons, each pulled by six mules. An additional cart drawn by two mules carried Sublette, who had lost a leg a year earlier and walked on a \"cork\" leg made by a friend. The combined group arrived at the fur-trader's rendezvous on July 6. Eliza and Narcissa were the first Euro-American women to make this overland trip.\n\nIn July 1836, while the company paused at the Rendezvous in the Wind River Mountains of Wyoming, Spalding wrote a letter to a fellow minister and newspaper editor about the journey west. The letter, preserved in a transcript by the \"Library of Western Fur Trade Historical Source Documents\", provides one of the earliest first hand accounts about the route west and conditions found during this journey across the North American continent.\n\nLeaving the association of the fur traders, the group of missionaries continued on to the Pacific Northwest. They reached Fort Hall on August 3, and Fort Boise (near Caldwell, Idaho) on August 19. Eleven days later they were at Fort Walla Walla, then operated by the Canada-based Hudson's Bay Company. After a trip further down the Columbia to Fort Vancouver for supplies, they backed down the trail to Lapwai near present-day Lewiston, Idaho. The Spaldings finally settled into their new home on November 29, 1836. The Whitman party continued on to establish a mission in Waiilatpu, Washington.\n\nWhen the Spaldings established their mission to the Nez Perce, they also established the first white home in what is today the state of Idaho. They were also responsible, in 1839, for bringing the first printing press into the territory. Spalding was generally successful in his interaction with the Nez Perce, baptizing several of their leaders and teaching tribal members. He developed an appropriate written script for the Nez Perce language, and translated parts of the Bible, including the entire book of Matthew, for the use of his congregation.\n\nEliza Spalding was very well liked by the Nez Perce peoples, whose women often followed her around her home wanting to see how the \"white woman\" cooked, cleaned, dressed, and cared for her children. She was quickly liked by them and respected for her courage and for her attempts to act as a buffer between the Nez Perce and Henry, who was not always as well liked. He was inflexible on gambling, liquor, and polygamy and reproved many people and even went as far as whipping some Nez Perce or having them whip each other. This led to him being ridiculed and denounced by some. Henry was the opposite of Eliza in his relationship with the Nez Perce; where she sought to understand them, he sought for them to understand him. Similarly, the relationships with Spalding's fellow missionaries were also less than ideal. Amid criticism by Whitman and others in the region, Spalding was dismissed by the American Board in 1842, although he never left his mission or stopped his missionary work. He was reinstated following a review by the Board.\n\nOn November 29, 1847, Marcus and Narcissa Whitman and twelve male emigrants (ten adult men and two boys of 15 and 18) of their mission at Waiilatpu, Washington were murdered at the hands of several Cayuse. The natives blamed them for introducing deadly diseases, including the measles, as the tribe had experienced a recent epidemic and a number of children had died. The Spaldings' daughter Eliza, who was staying at the Whitman's mission school, escaped injury along with 45 other women and children. Little Eliza served as a translator, as she was the only survivor knowing Nez Perce. Two days later en route to the Whitmans', Spalding learned of the murders from Father John Baptist Brouillet, who had heard what had happened and had gone to the mission to assist with the burials. He warned Spalding that he too might be in danger. Spalding secured some provisions from the priest and headed for Fort Walla Walla. Spalding was able to rejoin his family at Lapwai where they had found shelter with William Craig and the Nez Perce, who held the Spaulding party as \"hostages for peace\". From there, he wrote Bishop Francis Norbert Blanchet, requesting he use his influence to forestall any military reprisals.\n\nAfter a tense month negotiating the release of the massacre survivors, protected by some friendly Nez Perce, the Spalding family evacuated down the Columbia to Oregon City, Oregon. The Spaldings were brought into the home of Alvin T. Smith in what is now Forest Grove, Oregon. They stayed with the Smiths for a few months while the ABCFM was notified (via ship). After reaching safety, Spalding was less eager for peace. His brother-in-law joined the punitive expedition, and Spalding pledged $500 from the American Board for its expenses. Concerned over continuing violence between Native Americans and settlers in the area, and against Spalding's wishes, the ABCFM decided to make the abandonment of the mission permanent.\n\nHe was much discomfitted when his letter to Bishop Blanchet became public and blamed Blanchet. Upon further reflection, Spalding, who had long held deep-seated feelings against Catholics, decided that they were behind the massacre. When the \"Oregon Spectator\" refused to become embroiled in a religious dispute, Spalding published his views in the short-lived \"Oregon American and Evangelical Unionist\". Peter Hardeman Burnett responded with a rebuttal in the August 1848 issue. Father Brouillet, who had warned Spalding at some considerable risk, felt Spalding most ungrateful. Brouillet's account was printed in the New York Freeman's Journal.\n\nThe Spaldings built a small home in the area, while Eliza became the first teacher at Tualatin Academy, which eventually grew into Pacific University. Henry served as an academy trustee for many years. In May 1849 they relocated to Brownsville, Oregon in the south end of the Willamette Valley and established a homestead in modern North Brownsville. Spaulding served as pastor of the Congregational Church. He was also postmaster and acted as commissioner of common schools for Oregon between 1850 and 1855. Eliza died on January 7, 1851. On May 15, 1853 Henry married Rachel Smith, the sister-in-law of Oregon missionary John Smith Griffin, who had arrived the previous fall.\n\nIn his last years, Henry's employment depended on his church funding sponsorships and relations with the US Indian Affairs agent. To his great delight, he returned to the Nez Perce in September 1859, and to Lapwai in 1862. In the late 1860s, he was back in Brownsville. He blamed much of his difficulties in the mission field on the Catholic Church, and on the federal government. He felt strongly enough about the latter that, in October 1870, he took a steamship to San Francisco, then rode the new transcontinental railroad to Chicago, then to his birthplace, to New York City, Boston, and Washington DC. In March 1871 he testified before the US Senate. He did not return to the Northwest until September. In 1871 he created a federally sponsored Indian school under the Peace Policy to the Indians sponsored by Ulysses S. Grant. Under the auspices of the Presbyterian Board of Missions, Spalding also continued missionary work with native tribes in northwestern Idaho and northeastern Washington territories. He died in Lapwai, Idaho, August 3, 1874.\nThe Spaldings had four children: Eliza Spalding Warren, Henry, Martha, and Amelia Spalding Brown. Eliza and Henry were the eldest; Amelia, the youngest. Eliza Hart Spalding was buried in Brownsville, in 1851. Over sixty years later, her remains were disinterred for reburial beside her husband at Lapwai, Idaho.\n\nThe village of Spalding, Idaho, located in Nez Perce County, was named after Spalding who taught the Nez Perce, among other things, how to use irrigation and cultivate the potato.\n\nThe Presbyterian Historical Society in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has a collection of eight original letters of Henry and Eliza Spalding to family members.\n\nThe Spokane Public Library also has a large collection of correspondence, articles and transcripts relating to his personal life and his career as a missionary.\n\nWhitman College in Walla Walla, Washington, has a large collection of materials relating to the Spalding family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324111", "title": "Jacob Querido", "text": "Jacob Querido\n\nJacob Querido (‘the Beloved’, ca. 1650–1690, Alexandria, Egypt) was the successor of the self-proclaimed Jewish Messiah Sabbatai Zevi. Born in Thessaloniki, he was the son of Joseph the Philosopher and brother of Jochebed, Shabbatai Zevi's last wife. Jochebed (also called ‘Ā’ishah following her conversion to Islam) claimed that he was the reincarnation of her late spouse, so that he might succeed to the leadership of Sabbatai's followers. He attracted a considerable following of his own, called \"Ya‘qōviyīm\" or \"Yakubiler\".\n\nQuerido converted to Islam taking his name as \"Yakup\" in 1687 and playing an important role in the Dönmeh. He led his disciples on a pilgrimage to Mecca. He died in Alexandria on his way back.\n"}
{"id": "2324115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324115", "title": "Kids Say the Darndest Things", "text": "Kids Say the Darndest Things\n\nKids Say the Darndest Things is an American comedy series hosted by Bill Cosby on CBS from January 9, 1998 to June 23, 2000. A revival was hosted by Tiffany Haddish on ABC from October 6, 2019 to January 19, 2020. ABC cancelled the revival after one season.\n\nThe host will begin a conversation by posing a question about life topics to a child, who usually responds with their own innocent, often comedic perspectives on the various topics. \n\nIn the show's first inception, it would sometimes \"flashback\" to Linkletter's show, \"Art Linkletter's House Party\", with Cosby joined onstage by Linkletter to introduce the vintage clips. It would show kids (of the time), with their same comedic reactions of whatever Linkletter would ask or say to them. Cosby also provided some of the humor in the show.\n\nThe revival continued the premise, with part of the program performed in front of a live audience, and the rest featuring taped segments. \n\nFor the series' first inception, \"Kids Say The Darndest Things\" was produced by CBS Productions with the co-production of LMNO Productions and Linkletter's company, Linkletter Productions.\n\nThe revival continued its CBS association via CBS Television Studios, and was also co-produced by Haddish through her production company, She Ready Productions, and Eric Schotz of Anvil 1893 Entertainment. \n\nThe show is based on a feature with the same name in Art Linkletter's radio show \"House Party\" and television series, \"Art Linkletter's House Party\", which together aired mostly five days a week from 1945 to 1969.\n\nIn 2005, Robert Johnson and Albert Evans adapted the show into a full-length musical comedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324117", "title": "List of mayors of Burlington, Ontario", "text": "List of mayors of Burlington, Ontario\n\n"}
{"id": "2324119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324119", "title": "Squoval", "text": "Squoval\n\nSquoval may refer to:\n\nA mostly rectangular figure, with rounded corners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324129", "title": "TKB-408", "text": "TKB-408\n\nThe TKB-408 was an early gas-operated prototype bullpup assault rifle with a tilting bolt. It was created by German A. Korobov and submitted to a set of official trials conducted in 1946 to select an assault rifle for the Red Army. None of the designs submitted to these trials were selected, although the AK-47 that was later adopted was a heavily modified variant of Mikhail Kalashnikov's AK-46.\n\nThe TKB-408 can be fired semi- or full-automatic. The firing mode selector is located on the left side of the receiver above the pistol grip. The design incorporates no provisions for firing from the left shoulder. It is chambered in the 7.62×39mm round and has an overall length of 790 mm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324138", "title": "John Symonds", "text": "John Symonds\n\nJohn Symonds (12 March 1914, Battersea, London – 21 October 2006) was an English novelist, biographer, playwright and writer of children's books.\n\nHe was the son of Robert Wemyss Symonds and Lily Sapzells. At the age of 16 he moved to London and began educating himself by spending long hours in the reading room of the British Museum. A partial reconciliation with his father resulted in the latter funding research work that John Symonds would later mine for his own novels later in life. \n\nHis first job was at Hulton Press, working as a journalist on Picture Post and during this period he became friends with Dylan Thomas and Stephen Spender. Being exempted from military service, he edited 'Lilliput' magazine during which time he briefly married Hedwig Feuerstein.\n\nIn 1945 he married Renata Israel, and the following year (1946) he published his first novel, \"William Waste\". This was followed in 1955 by \"The Lady in the Tower\", and, in 1957, by another love story, \"A Girl Among Poets\", which won praise from Sir John Betjeman, who wrote of the author's \"gift for describing farcical situations\".\n\nSymonds met the infamous occultist and founder of the Thelemite religion, Aleister Crowley in 1946, the year before Crowley's death. Crowley's will left the copyright of his works to his unincorporated magical society, the Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.), and made him Crowley's literary executor, though Crowley's legal status as an undischarged bankrupt meant that the copyrights actually ended up in receivership. At first fascinated by Crowley, Symonds became increasingly critical of his ideas and manners, in particular the use of drugs and sex. Along with one of Crowley's disciples, Kenneth Grant, Symonds edited and republished Crowley's autobiography and a number of his other works. Further to this, he authored four biographical works of his own: \"The Great Beast\" (1952), \"The Magic of Aleister Crowley\" (1958), \"The King of the Shadow Realm\" (1989) and \"The Beast 666\" (1997). Due to his somewhat negative attitude to Crowley in these works, there were many involved in Thelema and ceremonial magic who were themselves critical of Symonds, including Israel Regardie, who called him \"that most hostile biographer.\" Nonetheless, his significance in keeping Crowley's legacy alive has also been recognised, and it has been noted that \"Regardless of his reception, it is no exaggeration to state that without the publication efforts of Symonds (and Grant) Crowley could easily have been a forgotten figure by the 1970s.\"\n\nHe found his widest (largest) audience in the writing of children's books. In 'The Magic Currant Bun', (1953), a boy chases a magic bun, which came out of an oven, through the streets of Paris He enjoyed the bun very much when he caught it in his mouth. His feline magical fantasy, \"Isle of Cats\" (illustrated by Gerard Hoffnung), followed in 1955. \n\"Lottie\" (1957), is the story of a talking doll and dog. Edward Ardizzone was the illustrator for this book and \"Elfrida and the Pig\" (1959), a story about little girl who is not allowed to play with dolls until she finished her punishment which was to trim her parent's bushes.\n\nAfter a period of writing children's books Symonds returned to biographies in 1959 with \"Madame Blavatsky, Medium and Magician\", a life of the famous Theosophist. This was followed in 1961 with \"Thomas Brown and the Angels: A Study in Enthusiasm\", about the life of a Methodist who becomes involved with the Shakers.\n\nNovels followed, beginning with \"William Waste\" (1947), \"The Lady in the Tower\" (1955), \"A Girl Among Poets\" (1957), then a gothic fantasy, \"Bezill\" (1962), then \"Light Over Water\" (1963), in which a journalist researches into the world of the occult. The subject of \"With a View on the Palace\" (1966) is a Russian film director who becomes obsessed with the Royal Family to the point of hiring an apartment near Buckingham Palace so he can observe their movements.\n\nIn \"The Stuffed Dog\" (1967), two girls discover a lifelike doll in an attic which has a man's voice. With 'In Prophesy and the Parasites', 1973, a wealthy widow awaits prospective [sic]. Psychological issues predominate in \"The Shaven Head\" (1974), and \"In Letters from England\" (1975), a German veteran of Stalingrad humbles himself by applying to work as an au pair for a London doctor. In \n\"The Child\" (1976), a girl starts a new religion.\n\nSymonds wrote twenty-six plays but not many were performed. He won critical praise in 1961 for his ITV play, \"I, Having Dreamt, Awake\", about a prodigal son and con-man who returns home from America, after manufacturing a fortune, to impress his poor relations in London. \"The Poison Maker\", his final work for the stage was performed at the Old Red Lion Theatre in 2006, adapted and directed by the actress Vicki Carpenter who played Florence, with Eva Gray as Pansy.\n\nIn 1970 Symonds was appointed to the editorial board of \"Man, Myth & Magic Encyclopedia\". He became literary executor to Gerald Hamilton, and, in 1974, published \"Conversations with Gerald\", an account of Hamilton's adventures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324145", "title": "Castaways Hotel and Casino", "text": "Castaways Hotel and Casino\n\nThe Castaways Hotel and Casino, formerly the Showboat Hotel and Casino was a hotel and casino located at the north end of the Boulder Strip in Las Vegas, Nevada. The hotel consisted of a 19 story tower containing 445 rooms, a casino and an adjacent RV park. The Castaways hotel was demolished on January 11, 2006 to make way for an unknown project.\n\nThe Showboat was built by William J. Moore of the Last Frontier and J. Kell Houssels of the Las Vegas Club for $2 million. The first resort within Las Vegas city limits, it had 100 rooms on two floors. While Moore and Houssels ran the hotel, the casino was leased by a group of managers from the Desert Inn, including Moe Dalitz. The Showboat opened on September 3, 1954. After several unsuccessful years, Joe Kelley took over management, and began successfully targeting local customers with forty-nine cent breakfast specials and other promotions.\n\nKelley added a bowling alley in 1959, which soon became the Showboat's signature attraction, hosting nationally televised PBA tournaments. Showboat bowling leagues were organized in Los Angeles and Phoenix, offering winners free trips to Las Vegas for championship events. By 1979, the bowling alley grew to 106 lanes, making it the nation's third largest.\n\nA 19-story hotel tower was built in two phases, with the first nine floors opening by 1973, and the remainder in 1976, bringing the property to a total of 500 rooms.\n\nIn the early 1980s, a large unused space on the second floor was converted into the Showboat Sports Pavilion, which hosted American Wrestling Association events and Los Angeles Thunderbirds roller derby matches, and competed with Caesars Palace to book high-profile boxing matches. The Pavilion was later converted into a bingo hall.\n\nThe hotel was successful until the 1990s when it suffered the same fate as the downtown casinos, which were losing business to the new megaresorts on the Las Vegas Strip. Many visitors also believed that this casino was located on the Strip since the exterior of Harrah's Las Vegas resembled a showboat.\n\nIn 1998, Harrah's Entertainment bought Showboat, Inc. and sold the Showboat in 2000 for $23.5 million to VSS Enterprises, a group owned by Dan Shaw, Mike Villamor, and Greg Schatzman.\n\nHarrah's refused to sell the Showboat name, not wanting the Las Vegas property to be confused with Showboat Atlantic City, so VSS renamed it as the Castaways.\n\nThe new owners never did well and according to the Associated Press, the facility was crippled by a downturn in tourism that occurred in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks. Discussions were held in 2002 to rebrand the property as a Holiday Inn and start a $57 million renovation and expansion, but these plans did not come to fruition. After VSS missed a payment on the property's $20 million mortgage, Vestin Mortgage began foreclosure proceedings in June 2003, prompting the Castaways to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, listing $50 to $100 million in debt. The property was allowed to remain open, until January 29, 2004, when the Bankruptcy Court determined that VSS was improperly spending money, and allowed Vestin to take possession of the Castaways, shutting it down.\n\nVestin agreed to sell the property for $21.6 million to MGI Group, owners of the Bighorn and Longhorn casinos, who planned to rebrand it as La Joya del Sol and market it to Latino customers. Before MGI's license application could be approved, however, Station Casinos stepped in and paid MGI $12.1 million to take their place in the deal, paying Vestin the full $21.6 million.\n\nStation was primarily interested in the site's grandfathered gaming license, soon determining that the existing structures were not usable and had construction quality problems. Demolition began in July 2005, and the hotel tower was imploded on January 11, 2006. \n\nThe company made plans for a $90 million casino and restaurant with a Spanish motif, named Castaways Station. \n\nBy 2009, however, no progress had been made, and Station, itself on the verge of bankruptcy, put the lot up for sale for $39.5 million. \n\nStation had made the original request in late 2007, with the portable casino's most recent appearance in late 2013.\n\nAs of 2014, however, Station still owns the property and, to keep its development options open, has been allowing a portable casino to operate on the site. This is because of a loophole in the law that allows a gaming license to be renewed so long as a casino is on the property and open to the public for at least eight hours every two years.\n"}
{"id": "2324150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324150", "title": "Neve Monosson", "text": "Neve Monosson\n\nNeve Monosson (), also known as Neve Efraim and Neve Efraim Monosson, commonly called Monosson by its residents, is a communal settlement in central Israel with the autonomous status of a municipal borough within the joint municipality of Yehud-Monosson. In 2003 it had a population of 2,600 but its population is growing considerably due to the ongoing implementation of the Tamar Project, within which 200 family apartments are being replaced by 800 family apartments within a residents-initiated (literally: Eviction-Construction) Project; this project is expected to almost double the population of Monosson.\n\nNeve Monosson was founded in 1953 by a group of families supported by Fred (Efraim) Monosson, a wealthy raincoat manufacturer and a leading Zionist from Boston, Massachusetts. It was originally intended for families of employees of Israel's main international airport. In later years it became popular with the families of airline pilots and is today an independent-minded middle class community 20 minutes drive from central Tel Aviv, to where most of its workers commute.\n\nThe community was a cooperative society within the local regional council from 1953 and became an independent local council in 1964. In 2003 it elected and established the Neve Monosson Local Administration, in order to preserve the community's unique social and cultural autonomy within a municipal merger with the neighboring town of Yehud that created the joint Yehud-Monosson municipality.\n\nThe local administration, which in 2005 received municipal status as an autonomous borough (\"Va'ad Rova Ironi\") from the Interior Minister, is responsible for all aspects of community life in Neve Monosson and receives basic municipal services from the joint municipality. \n\nThe community, which has its own elementary school, country club, scouts troop, sports hall, culture hall, library and support system for the elderly, is characterized by its uncommon level of volunteering activity. Its communal activities are run by non-profit organizations owned by members of the community.\n"}
{"id": "2324151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324151", "title": "Li Kui (Water Margin)", "text": "Li Kui (Water Margin)\n\nLi Kui is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"Black Whirlwind\", he ranks 22nd among the 36 Heavenly Spirits, the first third of the 108 Stars of Destiny.\n\nThe novel depicts Li Kui as having a very dark complexion, a reddish-yellow unibrow and fiery-looking eyes. He is as strong as an ox, which is why he is called \"Iron Ox\". But he is better known as \"Black Whirlwind\" for his dark skin and his berserk behaviour in fights. Li, who carries a pair of axes, has a bad temper, likes to drink and is fond of gambling. He strikes fear in people just with an intense glare. \n\nA native of Baizhang Village () in Yishui County (in present-day Linyi, Shandong), Li Kui flees from home after killing a person by accident. He ends up in Jiangzhou (江州; present-day Jiujiang, Jiangxi), where he becomes a jailer under the chief warden Dai Zong. He gets to know Song Jiang, who is exiled from Yuncheng as a mitigated sentence for killing his mistress Yan Poxi, through Dai. He draws the attention of Song, who is dining with Dai in an inn, when he threatens the keeper of the inn to lend him money. Song and Li take to each other as one appreciates utmost forthrightness and the other unstinting generosity. As they are having meal, Song Jiang suddenly craves for fish. As the fish at the restaurant is not fresh, Li Kui volunteers to get some from the riverside market. Impatient to wait for the chief fishmonger Zhang Shun to come, he tries to snatch some fish inside cages but inadvertently releases them into the river. Zhang arrives and fights him. He beats Zhang Shun easily, but the fishmonger lures him onto a boat, which he then overturns, causing Li Kui to fall into the water. Li, a non-swimmer, is continuously dragged down under water by Zhang. Luckily, Song Jiang and Dai Zong come to the scene and stop the fight. The four become friends.\n\nSong Jiang, who could travel in and out of jail freely due to Dai Zong, is arrested after he wrote a seditious poem on the wall of a restaurant after getting drunk. Dai, in conspiracy with the Liangshan outlaws, tries to trick Cai Jiu, the prefect of Jiangzhou, to send Song to the imperial capital Dongjing, hoping to rescue him midway. The plan is found out and Dai is arrested too and sentenced to death with Song.\n\nJust when the two are about to be beheaded in public, Li Kui leaps down from a rooftop and hacks the executioners to death. The Liangshan chieftains who have surrounded the execution ground join the fight against the soldiers. They then flee the scene following Li Kui, who goes on a bloody rampage hacking every one who gets in his way. Chao Gai, the chief of Liangshan, manages to stop his indiscriminate killing. They are then stranded at a riverside temple wondering how to cross the waters. When a government force comes and besieges the temple, Li Kui charges out first to drive them away, followed by the others. Zhang Shun and other friends of Song Jiang from the Jieyang region arrive with boats on their way to rescue Song. Huang Wenbing, the minor official who reported Song's seditious poem to the authorities, is captured by the Liangshan men and subjected to dismemberment by Li Kui. Li follows the group to Liangshan, where he becomes a chieftain.\n\nLi Kui leaves Liangshan for his hometown to fetch his mother. He runs into Li Gui, who impersonates him to rob lone travelers on a remote pathway. Li Kui beats Li Gui and wants to kill him for smearing his name. But when Li Gui lies that he has an aged mother to feed, Li Kui spares him and gives him some money to boot. Shortly afterwards, Li Kui comes to rest at Li Gui's house and overhears Li Gui discussing with his wife how to capture him and turn him in for a reward. Infuriated, Li Kui kills Li Gui but the wife gets away.\n\nReaching home, Li Kui meets his elder brother Li Da, who, afraid of being implicated, rushes off to get men to arrest him. Li Kui flees with his mother, who has gone blind, carrying her on his back. They come to a hill, where his mother complains of thirst. So Li Kui goes off to search for water. When he returns, he is shocked to discover that his mother has been eaten up by tigers. Overwhelmed with grief, he follows the trail of his mother's blood to the lair, where he slays all the four tigers, two of which are cubs. He becomes famous in the local town for getting rid of the man-eaters.\n\nThe local rich man Squire Cao pretends to shower Li Kui with gifts. In fact, he has learnt from Li Gui's wife the identity of the tiger slayer. Li Kui is drugged and tied up. Constable Li Yun is sent from the county office with some guards to pick him up. Before they head back to the county, Liangshan's Zhu Gui. who has been sent by Song Jiang to keep tabs on Li Kui, and his brother Zhu Fu, an innkeeper and martial arts student of Li Yun, pretend to offer them refreshments. The guards are knocked out by the spiked drinks. Li Kui kills them but spares Li Yun in deference to Zhu Fu's plea. When Li Yun comes to, he sees he has no choice but to join Liangshan too.\n\nA number of heroes join Liangshan due to Li Kui. One of them is Zhu Tong, who finds himself incriminated after the young boy of a magistrate placed in his care is killed by Li Kui on a night when he took the kid outdoor. The killing was in fact ordered by Wu Yong, Liangshan's chief strategist, to force Zhu to join the stronghold. Li Kui is barred from going back to Liangshan as insisted by Zhu. He is left to stay in the residence of the nobleman Chai Jin. Then Chai is called to Gaotangzhou by his uncle's family as Yin Tianxi, a relative of the local prefect Gao Lian, wants to seize their mansion. Angry at the bullying, Li Kui beats Yin to death, resulting in the arrest of Chai Jin by Gao Lian. Li Kui flees back to Liangshan to report the incident.\n\nAs Gao Lian is an expert in sorcery, Song Jiang sends Dai Zong and Li Kui to fetch Liangshan's magician Gongsun Sheng to fight him. Gongsun has not returned to the stronghold since leaving to visit his mother in Jizhou. Gongsun's teacher Taoist Luo refuses to let him go. So Li Kui steals into Luo's sanctum after nightfall and hacks off his head. He is surprised to find Luo alive the next day. Luo punishes Li Kui by sweeping him off to a magistrate office with a squall. He is locked up there as he is believed to be a demon from the sky. Luo finally takes him back and allows Gongsun to leave with them. After defeating Gao Lian, the outlaws find Chai Jin hidden in a dry well by a jailer to protect him from Gao Lian. Li Kui volunteers to go down the dark deep well to take Chai up.\n\nLi Kui is appointed as one of the leaders of the Liangshan infantry after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the Grand Assembly.\n\nLi Kui is against Song Jiang's quest for amnesty from Emperor Huizong, seeing it as capitulation to the imperial court. He sabotages Song Jiang's meeting in Dongjing with Li Shishi, a courtesan whom the emperor secretly patronises. Song has hoped the woman could move the monarch to pardon Liangshan. When the first edict of amnesty arrives at Liangshan, Li Kui tears it up before it is read out to the outlaws. After government forces suffered defeats at the hands of Liangshan, the emperor decides to grant them amnesty again. This time Li Kui could do nothing.\n\nLi Kui is one of the few Liangshan heroes who survive the campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces on Song territory. He is appointed an official in Runzhou (潤州; present-day Runzhou District, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu) for his contributions. Missing his carefree life on Liangshan, Li Kui shows no interest in the job and spends most of his time drinking.\n\nWhen Song Jiang realises that he has been poisoned by corrupt officials of the court, he is worried that Li Kui might stir up trouble and besmear the name of Liangshan. He summons Li to his office in Chuzhou (楚州; present-day Huai'an, Jiangsu) and offers him the same poisoned wine. Upon learning what he has drunk, Li Kui embraces his fate and requests to be buried next to Song Jiang. He dies after returning to Runzhou. Li Kui appears in Emperor Huizong's dream in the novel's last chapter, charging at the monarch with his axes in an attempt to avenge their wrongful deaths.\n\nIn the video game \"Jade Empire\" by Bioware, a character who resembles Li Kui and also goes by the nickname \"The Black Whirlwind\" joins the player's party as it gets underway. He displays many of the same traits as the Water Margin character and wields the same fighting weapon (twin axes).\n\nThe OVA adaptation of Mitsuteru Yokoyama's \"Giant Robo\" could not obtain licence for the original cast of the manga or the live-action series, so the creators used characters from Yokoyama's body of work, including adaptations of \"Water Margin\". The character of Tetsugyu (which roughly translates as \"Iron Ox\"), known too as the Black Whirlwind, is based on Yokoyama's adaptation of Li Kui.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324153", "title": "Cool for Cats (song)", "text": "Cool for Cats (song)\n\n\"Cool for Cats\" was the second single released from the British rock band Squeeze's \"Cool for Cats\" album. The song features a rare lead vocal performance from cockney-accented Squeeze lyricist Chris Difford, one of only three occasions he sang lead on a Squeeze single A-side (the others were 1979's \"Slap & Tickle\" and 1989's \"Love Circles\") The song, slightly edited from the album track, peaked at No. 2 on the UK Singles Chart in 1979, making \"Cool for Cats\" one of the band's biggest hits.\n\n\"Cool for Cats\" was written about the social scene the band experienced in youth. Tillbrook recalled, \"Originally it was written about the social circle we were moving in at the time, being young and being... we were almost entirely centered in our own little world. I remember hearing Chris sing those lyrics for the first time and thinking he's just nailed what our lives are about now. It's lovely to be able to look back on that and see how we were as youngsters.\"\n\nThe title phrase is a reference to the 1950s/60s UK TV series \"Cool for Cats\", the first British series to regularly feature rock 'n' roll music acts.\n\nIn 1981, the song was used in a commercial for \"Smilk\" a flavoured milk drink from Kerrygold. The commercial featured animated cats and the tagline for the drink was \"It's Cool for Cats\". In 1992, thirteen years after its initial release, the track \"Cool for Cats\" was used in a British TV commercial for milk. The song was then re-issued in the UK, where it charted at No. 62. From 1989 onwards, the song was used in the TV commercial spots of ültje GmbH, Schwerte, Germany, with German lyrics. \"Kaum steh' ich hier und singe\" was sung by Austrian actor, singer and entertainer Andrea Steppan.\n\nThe song was used in the game \"Rock Band 2\".\n\n\n1992 UK Re-issue<br>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324154", "title": "Miho Kanno", "text": "Miho Kanno\n\nIn 1992, Kanno made her debut as a member of a group called \"Sakurakko Club after passing the orientation for the TV variety show \"Sakurakko Kurabu\". As a member of the \"Sakura Gumi\", she started to participate actively from the group's second single \"DO-shite\". Because the group was one that allowed its members to undertake their own individual endeavors, Kanno increased her level of work outside the variety show, while remaining as a regular in the show.\n\nIn 1993, she made her Japanese television drama debut in \"Twins Kyōshi\" (Twins Teacher), and has continued to appear in dramas ever since. In 1996, Kanno appeared in the drama \"Iguana no Musume\" (The Iguana's Daughter). Afterwards, she continued to take on lead roles in several TV and live stage dramas. Her role as a person trying to overcome hearing deficiencies while trying to build a family won the general public opinion vote, which later translated into several awards for her, such as the ATP Award and \"Erando-ru New Talent\" Award.\n\nShe made her solo debut on 24 March 1995 with \"Koi o shiyō!\" (\"Let's Love!\"), after \"Sakura Gumi\" disbanded. Her first album was released later that year. She also participated in photography modeling. On her 20th birthday, a book featuring nude photos taken by Miyzawa Masaaki titled \"Nudity\" went on sale and was one of 1997 top-ten bestselling books in Japan.\n\nBesides starring in dramas, Kanno is also active in variety shows. In 2005, she featured in the Fuji TV show \"Burogu Taipu\" as a regular. While Kanno is mostly focused on acting, she still continues to sing.\n\nOn 2 April 2013, Miho Kanno registered her marriage with fellow actor Masato Sakai in Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324165", "title": "Gopher State-class crane ship", "text": "Gopher State-class crane ship\n\nThe \"Gopher State\"-class crane ships of the United States Navy are a class of auxiliary vessels. The lead ship of the class is named in honor of the state of Minnesota. Original United States Maritime Administration (MARAD) designation for the ship is C5-S-73b.\n\nAll three vessels of the class were former \"Sea Witch\"-class container ships built at the Bath Iron Works for American Export-Isbrandtsen Lines. AEIL was acquired by Farrell Lines in 1978 and the ships were later returned to the Maritime Administration (MARAD) at an unknown date. They were converted for naval service as crane ships in 1986-1987.\n\nAll three ships are in MARAD Ready Reserve Force status in Newport News, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324168", "title": "John W. King", "text": "John W. King\n\nJohn William King (October 10, 1916 – August 9, 1996) was an American lawyer, jurist, and Democratic politician from Manchester, New Hampshire. He received his undergraduate degree from Harvard College and his law degree from Columbia Law School in 1943. He practiced law in Manchester and served in the New Hampshire House of Representatives. In 1962 he was elected Governor of New Hampshire, becoming only the third Democratic Governor of the Granite State in 88 years, and the first since Fred Herbert Brown lost the 1924 election. After his three terms as Governor of New Hampshire, he served on the New Hampshire Supreme Court from 1979, and as its Chief Justice from 1981 until 1986.\n\nAs Governor, King instituted the first state lottery in the nation since 1894. He was a major hawk and a fierce supporter of President Lyndon B. Johnson during the Vietnam War.\n\nDuring his attacks on Senator Eugene McCarthy, Johnson's challenger in the New Hampshire primary, King questioned McCarthy's national loyalty and also warned that a strong vote for \"\"the appeaser,\"\" would be \"\"greeted with cheers in Hanoi.\"\"\n\nKing was a Roman Catholic and after his death in 1996 he was buried in the New St. Joseph's Cemetery in Bedford, New Hampshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324174", "title": "Streptococcus suis", "text": "Streptococcus suis\n\nStreptococcus suis is a peanut-shaped, Gram-positive bacterium, and an important pathogen of pigs. Endemic in nearly all countries with an extensive pig industry, \"S. suis\" is also a zoonotic disease, capable of transmission to humans from pigs.\n\nHumans can be infected with \"S. suis\" when they handle infected pig carcasses or meat, especially with exposed cuts and abrasions on their hands. Human infection can be severe, with meningitis, septicaemia, endocarditis, and deafness as possible outcomes of infection. Fatal cases of \"S. suis\" are uncommon, but not unknown.\n\nPenicillin is the most common antibiotic used in treatment of \"S. suis\" infection; in cases with cardiac involvement (endocarditis), gentamicin should also be given for synergistic effect.\n\nThe natural habitat of \"S. suis\" in pigs is the upper respiratory tract, particularly the tonsils and nasal cavity, and the alimentary and genital tracts. An individual pig can carry more than serotype in their nasal cavity. Incidence of disease varies but is usually less than 5%. Disease is often introduced into a noninfected herd via healthy carrier animals and during outbreaks when sick animals shed more bacteria horizontal transmission by direct contact or aerosol is important. Flies can also spread bacteria between farms and wild boar in many countries are known to carry S. suis and may be an important reservoir.\n\nThe first sign in pigs is usually pyrexia and there may be sudden deaths in the herd. Respiratory disease, with pneumonia, nasal discharge and respiratory difficulties, may also be present. Neurological signs result from meningitis, and signs may be severe, ranging from tremors to seizures and death. Joints may become infected and pigs may be lame or have swollen limbs. Skin disease is another presentation, and reproductive disease can also occur. Meningitis is the most common presentation in humans.\n\nThe bacterium can be isolated from various body fluids, and serological testing with an ELISA can also be performed.\n\nMost \"S. suis\" strains respond to treatment with ampicillin and amoxicillin. Anti-inflammatories should also be used.\n\nControl relies on good husbandry and biosecurity protocols and appropriate disinfection. Vaccines exist but are not reliable.\n\nIn July 2005, an outbreak of the disease in humans was reported in Sichuan, China, with higher than usual human morbidity and mortality; over 100 cases and more than 20 deaths were initially reported. Prior to this outbreak, less than 200 total human cases had been reported, and mortality was assumed to be less than 10%. Details of this outbreak and a similar earlier outbreak, also in Sichuan province, were published in 2006. A smaller outbreak occurred at the same time in Hong Kong, affecting 11 people.\n\nA total of 204 human cases were documented during the Sichuan outbreak, with 38 fatalities. The human outbreak coincided with one in the local pig populations. There was no evidence of human-to-human transmission; all of the patients had been in direct contact with pigs. Many of the patients, and almost all of the fatal cases, had typical symptoms of Streptococcal toxic shock syndrome (STSS). To date, STSS has only been documented in patients infected with \"S. pyogenes\", another member of the Streptococcus family but very different from \"S. suis\". However, the bacteria isolates from the human and pig samples were clearly \"S. suis\", and those isolates were able cause typical \"S. suis\" disease in piglets.\n\nThe genome of \"S. suis\" isolates from the outbreak were examined to see whether its DNA sequence could explain why these particular bacteria were able to cause STSS. However, none of the genes that are present in \"S. pyogenes\" and thought to cause STSS were detected in the \"S. suis\" isolates. Comparison with other \"S. suis\" isolates from around the world, including one from an earlier smaller \"S. suis\" outbreak in Sichuan province that killed 14 out of 25 reported human cases, revealed that the two Chinese isolates were more similar to each other than to any other strains.\n\nAdditional experiments are necessary to determine whether the size and high mortality of the recent outbreak is because the Chinese \"S. suis\" version is more virulent than other strains or due to the circumstances under which the Chinese patients got infected and treated. Studies are under way to characterize the bacterial isolates from the outbreak in detail. Physicians around the world should be aware of the possibility of \"S. suis\"-associated STSS when they see patients with unexplained sepsis who had been in contact with pigs.\n\nStreptococcus suis has also been identified as the most common cause of meningitis in Vietnam.\n\nThe recent death of 64 of 66 children affected with a complex syndrome including menningitis and pneumonia in Cambodia has been linked to a multiple infection of the children with Dengue fever, Enterovirus 71 and Strep. suis. The use of steroids in the treatment of the severe illness has also been associated with the deaths, and the WHO has advised against the use of steroids in the treatment of this syndrome.\n\nDetection of the zoonotic bacterial pathogen Streptococcus suis was achieved using magnetic glycoparticles. The bacteria contain an adhesion protein for the carbohydrate sequence Gal-1,4Gal.\nAfter incubation with various amounts of the pathogen, magnetic concentration and ATP detection, bacterial levels down to 10^5 cfu could be detected.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324181", "title": "Cathole", "text": "Cathole\n\nA cathole or cat hole or sometimes pighole is a pit for human feces. Catholes are frequently used for the purpose of disposing of bowel movements or waste water (such as the water from cleaning the kitchen dishes) by hikers and others engaging in outdoor recreation. \n\nCatholes must be located at a reasonable distance from water sources (rivers, lakes, etc.), to avoid possible bacterial contamination of water via precipitation, as well as away from trails. It is recommended by the Leave No Trace Center for Outdoor Ethics to avoid concentrating catholes around campsites. Filled catholes must be covered with a reasonably thick layer of soil (6-8 inches), to prevent access by animals, some of which are coprophagous.\n\nThe hiking and camping community consider it essential for catholes to be dug a minimum of away from sources of drinking water, and at least from any footpath. In practice, a cathole may need to be further away from running water than the minimum recommended distance, especially if it is located uphill from a river or stream, as rain can still cause pollution run-off and consequent contamination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324184", "title": "Cat hole", "text": "Cat hole\n\nA cat hole may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324185", "title": "List of mayors of Penticton", "text": "List of mayors of Penticton\n\nThis is a list of reeves and mayors of Penticton, British Columbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324187", "title": "Yan Qing", "text": "Yan Qing\n\nYan Qing is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"\"Langzi\"\" (浪子; meaning \"the Wanderer\" or \"the Prodigal\"), he ranks last among the 36 Heavenly Spirits, the first third of the 108 Stars of Destiny.\n\nYan Qing, who is more than six \"chi\" tall, is a handsome youth with a fair complexion, red lips, thick eyebrows, broad shoulders and a narrow waist. Tattoos of big bright flowers cover his body. In addition to his skill in martial arts, archery and wrestling, Yan Qing sings well and plays many kinds of instruments. His charming looks, his proficiency in learning new tongues and his astuteness in assessing situations and picking up leads make him an ideal spy and infiltrator. He realises this potential after joining Liangshan.\n\nOrphaned when a child, Yan Qing is raised by the wealthy squire Lu Junyi, who lives in Daming Prefecture. Grateful to Lu, Yan Qing, who becomes one of two stewards in Lu's house, is steadfastly loyal to his master.\n\nLu Junyi is conned by Wu Yong, the chief strategist of Liangshan Marsh, to travel to the vicinity of the stronghold, which is eager to recruit him for his consummate fighting skill. Lu is lured into the marsh where he is captured in the water. The outlaws treat him with respect despite his refusal to join them and retain him for months. However, they release Li Gu first, the steward who has come along with Lu, lying to the man that they have convinced his master to join them. Yan Qing is not involved in the trip.\n\nFinally released, Lu rushes back to Daming. Coming near home, he runs into Yan Qing, who has been reduced to begging on the streets as he waits for his master to return. Yan tells Lu not to go home as he is now wanted for his association with Liangshan. One proof of this is a poem written earlier on a wall in his home by Wu Yong, which suggests he has rebelled against the government. Lu has been led to believe the poem is for dispelling bad luck. Li Gu, who is having an affair with Lu's wife, is told of the poem‘s incriminating message by Liangshan. When Li reached home from Liangshan, he expelled Yan Qing and took over Lu's property and wife. \n\nNot believing Yan Qing, Lu heads home and is arrested by soldiers called by Li Gu. He is exiled to Shamen Island (沙門島; present-day Changdao County, Shandong). Li Gu bribes the two guards escorting him to finish him off along the way. Yan Qing, who is often armed with a slingshot-like bow and three short arrows, tails them and shoots the guards to death when they are about to murder Lu in a wood. Master and servant decide to go to Liangshan. But Lu, who is weak from days of torture, is captured again by soldiers at an inn when Yan Qing goes look for food. Rushing to Liangshan to seek help, Yan runs into Shi Xiu and Yang Xiong, who are going to Daming to check on Lu. Shi Xiu proceeds on to Daming while Yang Xiong takes Yan Qing back to Liangshan. Although Shi manages to save Lu just as he is about to be beheaded, the two are captured. The Liangshan outlaws rescue them after some hard fights with government forces.\n\nYan Qing is appointed as one of the leaders of the Liangshan infantry after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the Grand Assembly. \n\nYan Qing forms close friendship with Li Kui. On one occasion, he travels to Tai'anzhou (泰安州; present-day Tai'an, Shandong), accompanied by Li, to challenge one Ren Yuan, who claims to be invincible in wrestling in the Song Empire. Indeed Ren has been winning contests in Tai'anzhou. Although much smaller in size, Yan Qing beats the burly guy on stage with his skill and agility. When Ren‘s students rush to snatch the prizes, they break into a fight with Li Kui, who is immediately recognised by some spectators as an outlaw from Liangshan. A stampede ensues while soldiers arrive to arrest Li. Yan and Li fight their way out and return to Liangshan safely.\n\nSong Jiang, the leader of the outlaws, wants to obtain an imperial amnesty for Liangshan so that they could serve the Song Empire. Upon learning that Emperor Huizong is secretly seeing the courtesan Li Shishi, he sends Yan Qing to contact her in the imperial capital Dongjing and ask her to set up a meeting between him and the monarch. Li Shishi, however, is infatuated with the dashing and handsome Yan and tries to seduce him. But he pretends to be oblivious to her hints and instead makes her agree to be his sworn sister.\n\nOne night, when the emperor visits Li Shishi, he is surprised to find Yan Qing in her chamber. Li introduces him as her cousin. After entertaining the emperor with some ballads, Yan tells the monarch he knows the Liangshan outlaws and relays their wish for an amnesty. At Li Shishi's insistence, the emperor writes an edict that grants Yan immunity from the law. He also promises to consider pardoning Liangshan. After that, Yan Qing and Dai Zong visit Grand Marshal Su Yuanjing, who agrees to put in a good word for Liangshan.\n\nFollowing the amnesty for Liangshan, Yan Qing participates in the campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces in Song territory, which the outlaws are ordered to undertake to atone for their crimes. \n\nYan Qing makes many contributions, chief of which is the sabotage on the rebel force of Fang La after infiltrating it with Chai Jin, who insinuated himself into Fang's confidence disguised as a businessmen. As the surviving heroes return to Dongjing for rewards, Yan Qing senses that hostile forces in the court would cause them harm. He slips away one night amid the return trip, leaving a poem for Song Jiang saying that he does not covet glory. Legend has it that he finds Li Shishi and they live together in anonymity for the rest of their lives. \n\n"}
{"id": "2324188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324188", "title": "Tony Cox (actor)", "text": "Tony Cox (actor)\n\nJoseph Anthony Cox (born March 31, 1958) is an American actor known for his roles in \"Bad Santa\", \"Me, Myself & Irene,\" \"Date Movie,\" \"Epic Movie\" and \"Disaster Movie\". He is also known for his role in George Lucas's \"Willow\", as an Ewok in \"Return of the Jedi\" and as The Preacher in Tim Burton's \"Beetlejuice\". Cox also appeared in various music videos.\n\nCox was born in Uniontown, Alabama, the son of Henrietta Cox-Penn and Joe Cox. He spent his childhood in Uniontown, with his grandmother and grandfather, Lottie and Henry Jones. His mother and stepfather, Rudolph (Rudy) Penn, live in College Park, Georgia. By the age of 10 he became an avid drummer. He met his future wife, Otelia, during high school. They were eventually married in 1981 when Cox was 23 years old.\n\nAfter graduation from high school, Cox attended the Alabama State University and originally planned to study music. Cox said in a 2003 interview with \"Jet\" magazine, \"I played by ear. It was exactly like in \"Drumline\". I played against some of the drummers from the school, and they didn't have anything on me. I just couldn't read music.\"\n\nShortly thereafter, Cox decided to pursue acting after watching Billy Barty, a dwarf who was an actor and also founder of the organization Little People of America. Encouraged by relatives and friends, he moved to Los Angeles at age 18. He began taking classes at the Merrick Studio School of Acting with Scriptwriter De De Tillman and soon began working in commercials, film, and television roles. He is better known for his roles in \"Bad Santa\" where he played Marcus, the brains of a safe cracking duo, and in \"Date Movie\" where he played a parody of Dr. Hitch from \"Hitch\". As second lead to Billy Bob Thornton, Cox's role in \"Bad Santa\" was a rare occurrence of a dwarf actor in a leading role. Cox reprised his role as Marcus in \"Bad Santa 2\", released in 2016.\n\nCox also appeared on the TV show \"Martin\" in the first season, playing the character Bennie, in which he helps his friend Trey, played by Bushwick Bill, beat up Tommy played by Thomas Mikal Ford, over Tommy allegedly \"stealing\" his ex-girlfriend.\n\nCox also appeared in a pivotal role in the Farrelly Brothers' movie \"Me, Myself & Irene\", playing a Mensa International-member limousine driver who steals Jim Carrey's character's wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324192", "title": "John Westbrook", "text": "John Westbrook\n\nJohn Westbrook may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324198", "title": "Christian Eric Fahlcrantz", "text": "Christian Eric Fahlcrantz\n\nChristian Eric Fahlcrantz (30 August 1780 – 6 August 1866) Swedish theologian and author.\n\nFahlcrantz was born at the parish of Stora Tuna in Dalarna, Sweden. He was the son of Johan Fahlcrantz and Gustafva de Brenner. His father was a vicar in Kungsåra parish. His brother Axel Magnus Fahlcrantz (1780–1854) was a sculptor. His brother Carl Johan Fahlcrantz (1774–1861) was a landscape painter. His great-grandfather Elias Brenner (1647–1717) was an artist. His great-grandmother Sophia Elisabet Brenner (1659–1730) was a poet. \n\nIn 1804 he entered the University of Uppsala receiving his Master's degree in 1815. In 1821 he became tutor in Arabic, and in 1825 professor of Oriental languages. The following year, he received his Doctor of Theology and entered the rural deanery at Hagunda in the Diocese of Uppsala.\n\nIn 1825, he published \"Noacks Ark\", a successful satire on the literary and social life of his time, followed in 1826 by a second part. In 1835 Fahlcrantz brought out the first part of his epic of \"Ansgarius\", which was completed in 1846, in 14 cantos. In 1842 he was made a member of the Swedish Academy. In 1849 he was made Bishop of the Diocese of Västerås, and left the professorship in Uppsala. His next literary work was an archaeological study on Västerås Cathedral.\n\nIn the course of the years 1858-1861 appeared the five volumes of \"Rom förr och nu\", a theological polemic, mainly directed against the Jesuits. His complete works (7 vols., Örebro, 1863-1866) were issued mainly under his own superintendence.\n\nFahlcrantz was married in 1847 to Aurora Wilhelmina Valerius (1819-1916). They were the parents of Carl Johan Fahlcrantz (1849-1915), founder of the book publisher Fahlcrantz & Co., Axel Erik Valerius Fahlcrantz (1851-1925) who was a landscape painter, Christian David Ansgarius Fahlcrantz (1853-1927) who was adjunct lecturer in Borås and Martin Wilhelm Fahlcrantz (1859-1936) who was county secretary in Nyköping.\nChristian Eric Fahlcrantz died at Västerås in 1866 and his wife in 1916. \n\n"}
{"id": "2324216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324216", "title": "List of mayors of Houston, British Columbia", "text": "List of mayors of Houston, British Columbia\n\nThis is a list of mayors of Houston, British Columbia. The municipality is part of the Regional District of Bulkley-Nechako.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324217", "title": "2001: A Space Travesty", "text": "2001: A Space Travesty\n\n2001: A Space Travesty is a 2000 comedy film directed by Allan A. Goldstein and starring Leslie Nielsen, Ophélie Winter, Peter Egan, and Ezio Greggio. The film has a few sequences parodying elements of \"\", but is not focused on parodying that film alone. Filming took place in Los Angeles, California.\n\nMarshal Richard \"Dick\" Dix, a special detective, saves a fast food chain restaurant from a terrorist hostage situation, much to the displeasure of the police chief. He drives away and back to the police station, where he meets his boss, who is with a police worker, Cassandra Menage. She retells her experience of the cloning of the President of the United States of America, Bill Clinton, who remains unnamed throughout the film.\n\nDix is sent to the cloning facility, a Moon base called Vegan. He causes a mayhem on the way there, reaches Vegan and is met by Lt. Bradford Shitzu at the security check. On the way to meet the main suspect in the cloning, Dr. Griffin Pratt, Dix experiences strange happenings throughout the colony involving certain Aliens who live there.\n\nDuring a very strange incident involving an Alien about to explode, Dix meets Capt. Valentino DiPasquale, with whom he will share his quarters. Dix and Shitzu get to Dr. Pratt's quarters, and talk to him. Shitzu leaves, and Pratt takes Dix on a tour of his cloning facility. While on the tour, he meets Dr. Uschi Künstler, with whom he takes the elevator to meet Ms. Menage. Dr. Künstler deserts the two, and they make their way to a party where the suspects may be.\n\nPratt and Menage have dinner, while Dix has a bizarre escapade with Pratt's toupe. He leaves the party and goes to his quarters with Valentino. There he shows him his huge array of disguises. Dix gets a phone call from Ms. Menage that they are about to raid Pratt's quarters. Dix destroys his Vegan model and spreads paint all over the place. Then he stumbles on the radio, and it starts playing the cancan very loudly.\n\nPratt comes back to his room, only to discover that Dix escaped. He goes to his apartment and threatens him. Dix tells Menage, and soon enough, Menage gets abducted by Pratt's goons. Pratt pretends to help Dix find the President and rescue Ms. Menage, but Pratt's goons trap them. Ms. Menage uses her martial arts skills, and the President, Dix, and Menage escape back to Earth. The President they rescued is then replaced with the president in the White House, and suddenly Dix finds out that he put the clone in the White House.\n\nThey find out that Dix's boss is also with Pratt. Dix, the President, Menage, Valentino, Shitzu and Künstler go to a concert by the Three Tenors which are singing \"Village People\" songs. The presidents are involved in an onstage fight, and the whole concert is ruined by Shitzu's fumbling with the control panel. Then Künstler double-crosses Dix, and reveals she is actually an alien. After Menage kills her, the president is replaced, and Menage goes with Dix to a restaurant for a date.\n\n\nThe website \"Need Coffee\" praised Nielsen's comedy style, despite the film's silliness. \"If you're just in the mood for silly, puerile humor (and we all are, sometimes), or if you're under thirteen and the word 'penis' sends you into gails [\"sic\"] of laughter, then check this one out. Otherwise, skip it and check out something with a bit more sophistication.\" Jason James from \"The Nut Gallery\" gave the film only one star out of five, stating: \"Overall I am not that big of a fan of spoof movies to begin with so it would have to be pretty special for me to like it. Even with that this is still not even that good of a spoof movie making it even harder to watch.\" Richard Scheib from \"Moria.co\" also gave the film a very poor review, nominating it the \"Worst Film of 2001\".\n\n\"2001: A Space Travesty\" currently holds only 16% audience approval on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324218", "title": "Luxomni, Georgia", "text": "Luxomni, Georgia\n\nLuxomni is an unincorporated community between central and southwestern Gwinnett County, Georgia, United States, a mile east-northeast of Lilburn. It was founded in 1891 around a rail depot for the Seaboard Air Line Railroad, on the line to Lawrenceville, the county seat. The town has largely been absorbed into Lilburn and greater Gwinnett County, and is no longer part of the local vernacular.\n\nThe town's name came from the Latin, meaning \"light [for] all.\" It was suggested by a civil engineer who worked for the railroad.\n\nLuxomni had its own post office, a Masonic lodge, a general store, and a Baptist church. Luxomni Baptist Church, founded in 1895, is still active today.\n\nThe decaying ruins of the general store at one point could still be found standing near the corner of Luxomni Road and Arcado Road, next to the church (near the Railroad Crossing.) This has now been demolished. Just past the general store and church is an old building set back in a wooded area with a faded sign reading \"Luxomni Sewing Club.\" Continuing down Luxomni Road will bring you back to Lawrenceville Highway (29).\n\nLuxomni Road continues to be its primary identifier.\n\nAccording to the USGS GNIS, Luxomni was centered at .\n\n"}
{"id": "2324223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324223", "title": "John Henry Boalt", "text": "John Henry Boalt\n\nJohn Henry Boalt (March 29, 1837 in Norwalk, Ohio – May 9, 1901 in Cloverdale, California) was an attorney who resided in Oakland, California in the late 19th century. After graduating from Amherst College in 1857, Boalt attended the University of Heidelberg School of Mining. He left Germany to enlist in the Union Army and was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Eleventh Ohio Cavalry as a member of the Signal Corps in the American Civil War. He served throughout the rest of the War. After the War, he moved west to Nevada with his wife Elizabeth Josselyn Boalt in 1867 and worked in mining, but soon entered the legal profession. He became a judge in Nevada in 1870 before moving to Oakland in 1871, where he started the San Francisco law firm of Estee & Boalt where he was a partner until 1884. In 1889, he became a member of the leading west coast law firm Garber, Boalt & Bishop handling cases involving mining law and operations, including one where he acted for the City of San Francisco, and was president of the local Bar association, Library Trustee of the city of Oakland, and member of the Bohemian Club. He retired in 1892.\n\nBoalt has recently become known for his racist views of Chinese people. He was an influential supporter of the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882. In 1877 he read a paper before the Berkeley Club in which he wrote that Chinese were unassimilable liars, murderers and misogynists who provoked \"unconquerable repulsion.\" This writing was later championed by Senator Creed Haymond of Sacramento, who was the chair of the newly convened Senate Special Committee on Chinese Immigration and California Senator Aaron A. Sargent. \n\nBoalt married Elizabeth Josselyn (born Hanover, Massachusetts 30 June 1842) on 31 July 1866, in Waverly, Massachusetts, and together they had one child, Alice Boalt Tevis, first wife of Hugh Tevis, who died unexpectedly and was \"a blow from which Judge Boalt never recovered\". At his death due to heart failure, his only surviving relatives were his wife and granddaughter, Alice, who later died at age 10. After Boalt's death in 1901, his widow, Elizabeth Josselyn Boalt, created a trust allocating two parcels of land in San Francisco valued at $100,000 to be sold for the benefit of the University of California to construct a building to house its new School of Jurisprudence on the Berkeley campus. Six weeks later, the 1906 earthquake destroyed the properties. The trustees were able to sell only one parcel, for far less than the original value. In recognition of the gift, the new building was named Boalt Memorial Hall of Law. In 1906, she created a further trust, whereby, subject to a life estate and certain powers of revocation, she transferred substantially all of her remaining estate \"to establish and endow a professorship in the Department of Jurisprudence in the University of California, to be known as the 'John H. Boalt Professorship of Jurisprudence.'\" She later modified the fund as a permanent endowment \"for such chair or chairs as my said trustees or their successors, may designate and determine, or, in lieu of such designation, as the said Board of Regents shall determine.\" She was also a secret patron of artists, musicians, and writers. \n\nA pianist in her youth, Elizabeth Josselyn Boalt went on to enroll in Vienna as a pupil of Leschetizky at age 60. She studied Italian, German, and French and maintained a society of artists, musicians, and literary people.\n\nBecause of Boalt's racist legacy, Berkeley law lecturer Charles P. Reichmann proposed in 2018 that the building be renamed. The school announced its decision to remove his name from the building in January 2020, and was removed from the building on the morning of January 30, 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324227", "title": "Medinah, Illinois", "text": "Medinah, Illinois\n\nMedinah is an unincorporated community in the northeastern part of the U.S. state of Illinois and is a northwestern suburb of Chicago. Medinah, located in DuPage County, is situated between the villages of Roselle, Itasca, and Bloomingdale and is located in eastern part of the Fox River Valley.\n\nThe community of Medinah is named after the Medinah Country Club. In the 1920s, a group of members of the city of Chicago's Medinah Temple (affiliated with the Shriners) moved into the area, then known as Meacham (for the Meacham, Lawrence and Rosenwinkel families). Together, they built a country retreat and 54-hole golf course, aiming to make it the best golf course in North America. The club had 1,500 members in the late 1920s; the Great Depression and World War II drove membership down until the postwar period, when membership recovered to the present-day 600.\n\nIn 1999, a group led by Jack Roeser and backed by Senator James Philip attempted to bring a charter school to Medinah. The proposed Thomas Jefferson Charter School was met with NIMBY opposition by local residents. The charter school ultimately ended up opening on the northwest side of Chicago busing students from the northwest and west suburbs.\n\nWithin the last 30 years, the growth of the Chicago metropolitan area has brought more people to the surrounding areas. In spite of this growth, Medinah has remained adamant in retaining its identity, occasionally conflicting with state agencies (such as the Illinois Department of Transportation, or IDOT) and other municipalities with regards to utilities and services. A recent point of contention was the widening of Medinah Road to five lanes—after vocal protests, IDOT agreed to widen the road to only three lanes.\n\nThe first Post office opened as Meacham Illinois in 1874 in a general store. Meacham was named after the town's first settlers, the Meacham family. A never official but commonly used early name for the community was Meacham's Grove, Illinois.\n\nThe second Post Office was in the train station (1940s) until 1963. Meacham, Illinois' name was changed to Medinah in 1924. Medinah is named after the Medinah Country Club.\n\nThe third and current Post Office was opened in 1963.\n\nMedinah is located about 35 miles northwest of Chicago. The community center is located just south of the Medinah Metra Milwaukee District West train station at the corner of Medinah Road and Irving Park Road (Illinois Route 19). Medinah is known for its large properties, with many homes situated on lot sizes of nearly an acre or more. This gives the town rural characteristics, while still being close to shopping and expressways for easy travel. The boundaries of Medinah are more properly defined by the boundaries of its surrounding incorporated cities, but can be approximated by the Elgin-O'Hare Expressway to the north, Plum Grove Road to the west, Lake Street (U.S. Route 20) to the south and the Medinah Country Club to the east.\n\nAccording to the 2015 American Community Survey Medinah has an estimated population of 2,097 people and 744 households. The racial makeup of the area was 93.6% White, 1% African American, 5.2% Asian, and 0.3% from other races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.5% of the population. The median age was 42.8 years. The age distribution was as follows; 24.9% were under the age of 19, 14.9% were between 20 years and 39 years, 43.6% were between 40 years and 64 years, and 16.6% were over the age of 65 years.\n\nThe median household income was $132,917. The area had an income distribution in which 1.16% of households earned less than $25,000 annually; 15.19% of households earned between $25,000 and $49,999; 33.47% of households earned between $50,000 and $99,999; 16.40% of households earned between $100,000 and $149,999 and 33.79% of households earned more than $150,000.\n\nMedinah is home to the Medinah Country Club, which hosted the USGA US Open in 1990, 1975, and 1949. Medinah also hosted the 1999 and 2006 PGA Championships, as well as the 2012 Ryder Cup and the 2019 BMW Championship.\n\nMedinah Elementary School District 11 operates three schools in Medinah, the Medinah Primary School, Medinah Intermediate School, and the Medinah Middle School. In addition, the community of Medinah has a park district that operates several parks within the community. In addition, Lake Park High School District 108 operates the eastern campus of Lake Park High School on Medinah Road south of the community center.\n\nMedinah has a station on Metra's Milwaukee District/West Line, which provides daily rail service between Elgin, Illinois and Chicago, Illinois (at Union Station).\n\n"}
{"id": "2324235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324235", "title": "Sidney Parsons", "text": "Sidney Parsons\n\nSidney Parsons (April 11, 1893 – April 22, 1955) was a Canadian politician, mayor of Edmonton, Alberta, and candidate for election to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta.\n\nParsons was born on April 11, 1893 in Revelstoke, near to Plymouth, Devon, England. He was educated in Plymouth, but he and his parents immigrated to New Jersey in the early 1900s. He attended technical schools there, and began work as a bricklayer with the Standard Oil Company in Bayonne, New Jersey.\n\nIn 1910, he moved to Edmonton, where he enlisted in the armed forces to fight in World War I. He served with the 49th Battalion, under the command of fellow future mayor William Antrobus Griesbach. Upon his return to Canada, Parsons married Gertrude Florence Smitt on January 8, 1918; the pair would have three sons.\n\nIn his post-war life, Parsons was active in the labour movement and served as an executive officer of the Edmonton Trades & Labour Council (he would serve as its president from 1941 until 1945).\n\nParsons first sought elected office in the 1931 Edmonton election, when he ran for Edmonton City Council as an aldermanic candidate. He finished seventh of fifteen candidates, and was not elected. He fared similarly in the 1932 and 1934 elections.\n\nIn the 1935 provincial election, Parsons ran as a Labour candidate in the riding of Edmonton; he finished last of twenty-seven candidates, winning only fifty-two votes.\n\nAfter this defeat, he returned to municipal politics, and was finally elected alderman in the 1938 election, finishing fourth of thirteen candidates. He was re-elected in 1940 (finishing fourth of eighteen candidates), 1942 (third of twelve candidates), 1944 (third of twelve), 1946 (fourth of thirteen), and 1948 (first of twelve) elections.\n\nHe resigned halfway through his two-year aldermanic term to run for mayor in the 1949 election. He narrowly won the five candidate field, and was elected to a two-year term. He sought re-election in the 1951 election, but was soundly defeated by William Hawrelak. He did not return to public life thereafter.\n\nIn later life, Parsons was involved in veterans organizations. He was president of the Ex-Servicemen's Association and was an executive member of the Montgomery branch of the Royal Canadian Legion. He also served as a labour representative on the Edmonton Hospital Board.\n\nSidney Parsons died April 22, 1955 after a cerebral embolism and was buried at the Edmonton Municipal Cemetery.\n\nParsons Road and Parsons Industrial, both in Edmonton, are named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324239", "title": "Pervomayskaya (Moscow Metro)", "text": "Pervomayskaya (Moscow Metro)\n\nPervomayskaya () is a Moscow Metro station in the Izmaylovo District, Eastern Administrative Okrug, Moscow. It is on the Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line, between Izmaylovskaya and Shchyolkovskaya stations.\n\nBefore the current station opened on 21 October 1961, Pervomayskaya referred to the temporary station located in the Izmaylovo depot near the present-day Izmaylovskaya.\n\nThe station was the first to be built to the standard column tri-span design which would from then become the most widespread in Moscow Metro and in other ex-USSR cities, with slightly flared red marble pillars and tiled walls. The architects were M. F. Markovsky and Ya. V. Tatarzhinskaya.\n"}
{"id": "2324243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324243", "title": "Why Do You Love Me", "text": "Why Do You Love Me\n\n\"Why Do You Love Me\" is a song by alternative rock band Garbage, released as the lead single from their fourth studio album, \"Bleed Like Me\" (2005).\n\nThe single was the first taste of the band's change in musical direction, eschewing the electronic-leaning production of their preceding albums \"Beautiful Garbage\" and \"Version 2.0\" for guitar-led rock. \"It's about the fundamental insecurity in all human beings that they are unlovable\", band singer and lyricist Shirley Manson told \"NME\", \"Feeling unlovable drives us into marriage, monogamy, jealousy and possessiveness.\" \"I feel that at the base of everyone there's a belief that we're truly lovable. But we often question it, which is why we seek out exclusive relationships.\" Uptempo, and wrapped around a signature monster guitar riff, \"Why Do You Love Me\" was described by the band as \"Spector-esque\" in interviews.\n\nIn the United States, \"Why Do You Love Me\" became Garbage's first Hot 100 hit in over six years, since \"Special\" reached #52 in May 1999, and first top 10 song at alternative radio since \"I Think I'm Paranoid\" peaked at #6 in September 1998. In the United Kingdom, \"Why Do You Love Me\" was Garbage's highest charting single since 1996's \"Stupid Girl\" and broke a run of six consecutive Garbage singles to fall short of the UK Top 10. \"Why Do You Love Me\" propelled the \"Bleed Like Me\" album to the top five in Australia, United Kingdom and in the United States, where the album debuted at a career-high #4.\n\n\"Why Do You Love Me\" was written and recorded at the band's own Smart Studios in Madison, Wisconsin. Garbage had quietly disbanded during the sessions for \"Bleed Like Me\" in October 2003, before reforming to make a fresh start on the album early the next year. Drummer Butch Vig found himself confused over which direction to take the band's sound, before deciding to strip back to the basics of electric guitar, bass guitar and drums, using more first takes from vocalist and lyricist Shirley Manson's vocals, and reducing the synth components. Despite the basic tracks for \"Why Do You Love Me\" existing for some time, it was a song that didn't come together until near the end of the album sessions. \"It sounds like a girl-group sped up... a girl-group on speed\" guitarist Duke Erikson later described. Bass parts were performed by session musician Justin Meldal-Johnsen. Vig wanted the ability to control some of the recording from the studio control booth, so Matt Walker was approached to play drums on a number of tracks, including \"Why Do You Love Me\". After the recording and mixing process, \"Why Do You Love Me\" was mastered by Emily Lazar and Sarah Register at The Lodge in New York. The heavy guitar riff, while always throughout, was only added to the opening of the song during the mastering stages.\n\nBoth of Garbage's record labels were keen to release \"Why Do You Love Me\" as the lead single for \"Bleed Like Me\", delighting Manson, as she felt that labels often err on the side of caution with singles and pick \"the obvious hit\". Manson: \"We chose \"Why Do You Love Me\" as the first single because it has a lot of mood shifts and embodies the whole record.\" \"Why Do You Love Me\" was the first Garbage single to be released under both the bands major record deals: in North America under Almo/Geffen Records after transferring from Interscope, and outside of North America, on A&E Records, which was the imprint created to house Mushroom Records artists after the 2003 purchase of that label by Warner Music UK from NewsCorp.\n\nIn 2007, \"Why Do You Love Me\" was remastered and included on Garbage's greatest hits album \"Absolute Garbage\". During the week of February 19, 2008, instrumental stems for \"Why Do You Love Me\" were made available as a downloadable master track for use in the video game \"Rock Band\".\n\n\"Why Do You Love Me\" premiered on North American radio the week ending February 12. Ahead of the official radio-date, fifty-four modern rock stations added it to their playlists (making it the #1 Most Added track for the week) and six triple-A stations added the song. After one week on air, \"Why Do You Love Me\" debuted at #39 on the Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart. \"Why Do You Love Me\" was officially serviced the week of February 22 and from there the song gained 535 spins (certified the track with the Most Increased Plays) and another eleven rock station playlists. On March 8, \"Why Do You Love Me\" was made commercially available as a digital download in the United States and Canada and debuted at #94 on the Hot 100. The same week, \"Why Do You Love Me\" reached #10 on the alternative radio chart and debuted at #81 on the Pop 100. By the end of March, \"Why Do You Love Me\" weekly airplay growth settled, gaining no additional station playlist support, causing the track to leave the Hot 100 and exit the alternative top ten. In April, \"Why Do You Love Me\" rebounded to #8 upon the street date of the \"Bleed Like Me\" album. On April 20, Garbage performed \"Why Do You Love Me\" as part of an in-studio set taped for Fuse's music show \"Comp'd\". By the end of the month, despite the #4 chart position of the album and Garbage being on a North American tour with scheduled radio show stops to perform the single acoustically, \"Why Do You Love Me\" quickly lost radio support. On May 9, \"Bleed Like Me\" was serviced to radio as the follow-up single.\n\nOn February 18, 2005, A&E Records launched the UK campaign for \"Why Do You Love Me\" with its radio premiere on BBC Radio 1's Jo Whiley Show. Radio 1 later C-listed the song, XFM playlisted it as their \"Single of the Week\", becoming their most played track for several weeks, but beyond this \"Why Do You Love Me\" struggled for support from mainstream radio. At the end of March, Garbage's label re-serviced a brand new radio edit of \"Why Do You Love Me\" to try and pick up radio support as Garbage kicked off a two-week media blitz, including live shows, across London, Paris and Cologne. \"Why Do You Love Me\" was taped performed live on French televisions \"20h10 petantes\", \"Traffic music\" and on \"Album de la semaine\" (as part of a five-song set), and for UK television, performances on \"\", \"Napster Live\", \"Popworld\", a pre-record of \"Top of the Pops\" and finally on \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\". Garbage also performed \"Why Do You Love Me\" and \"Vow\" acoustically on an XFM radio session. On April 4, \"Why Do You Love Me\" was released in the UK on CD, DVD and limited edition 7\", as well as digital download. The mid-week chart flashes suggested a #4 debut, after selling 10,089 copies, \"Why Do You Love Me\" charted at #7 on the UK Singles chart. Despite radio's reluctance to champion the song, \"Why Do You Love Me\" debuted on the UK Airplay chart at #98.\n\n\"Why Do You Love Me\" received a mostly positive reception from contemporary music critics. In a review for \"Billboard\", Keith Caulfield wrote, \"Listeners will find themselves involuntarily bobbing their heads and tapping their toes. Matched with smart (yet cryptic) lyrics, this has all the makings of a monster hit\". In an album review for \"NME\", critic Dan Martin was not convinced by the subject matter: \"Back in the day [Manson] was always this band's beating human heart. But by singing the sorrows of a teenage girl, [Manson] has become the Borg Queen at the heart of the machine\". Similarly, John Perry of \"Q\", wrote \"While songs such as \"Why Do You Love Me\" have the breathy, confessional quality Manson has always used to effect, there's no sense that she is admitting to anything interesting\" in his album review.\n\n The music video for \"Why Do You Love Me\" was shot over two days at the end of January 2005 on a Los Angeles, CA, soundstage and was helmed by director Sophie Muller. Scenes shot on January 31 included actual Garbage fans who applied via the band's website, in lieu of agency-hired models, at the band's request. Shirley Manson thanked all those who took part in a post on the website a few days later.\n\nMuller's video concept revolved around the band's relationship troubles during October 2003. She wanted to film snapshots of where the band was at the time, to telegraph the communication breakdown between the band. The video starts with Manson reluctantly getting out of bed (the word LIAR written on the wall above her headboard) and moves onto reenactments of non-verbal ill-communication with both Marker and Erikson. In the kitchen, Manson retreats with a book and soup while Marker kicks and smashes things, then Erikson appears as a painter, receiving direction from Vig and Marker. Then in spite of it all, the band straps on instruments and rocks out before fighting again. A scene of Manson in a bathtub references Manson's 2003 breaking point, before regrouping to perform in front of Garbage fans. \"It's about the dynamic of wanting to communicate but we're at cross-purposes\". The oversized portrait of Deborah Harry taken by Chris Stein was gifted to the production by Harry herself.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a short clip of the \"Why Do You Love Me\" video was broadcast on MTV's \"Gonzo\", before being playlisted across the music networks. In North America, the music video was playlisted by VH1 the week of March 7, Fuse the following week; Geffen licensed the music video to run in over 3,000 movie theaters, on the TV walls of Macy's, Steve Madden and JC Penney stores, and featured on Victoria's Secret's \"Pink\" in-store sampler.\n\nThe \"Why Do You Love Me\" video was first made commercially available on the \"Why Do You Love Me\" DVD single and on the CD-ROM enhanced section of the \"Why Do You Love Me\" CD maxi singles. A remastered version of that video was included on Garbage's 2007 greatest hits DVD \"Absolute Garbage\", and made available as a digital download via online music services the same year. In 2008, a second edit of the video was released to iTunes; this version edited out the title of the book Shirley read in the video: J. D. Salinger's \"The Catcher in the Rye\". The \"Why Do You Love Me\" video was uploaded to VEVO in 2009.\n\n\"Why Do You Love Me\" was augmented with several bonus tracks cut from the album sessions. The sparse, simple \"Nobody Can Win\" contrasted the dense, funky \"Space Can Come Through Anyone\" which was co-produced by Dust Brothers member John King. Bass parts on \"Space Can Come Through Anyone\" were performed by Justin Meldal-Johnsen and additional drums by Matt Chamberlain. An additional b-side, a cover version of The Ramones \"I Just Wanna Have Something To Do\", was recorded in Ocean Way Studios, Nashville, in May 2002, for the \"\" tribute album. Bass was performed by Daniel Shulman, while additional backing vocals were provided by Vig's then-partner Beth Halper. A guitar-led arrangement of the band's \"Beautiful Garbage\" single \"Cherry Lips (Go Baby Go!)\" appeared exclusively on the DVD single.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324255", "title": "Songo music", "text": "Songo music\n\nSongo is a genre of popular Cuban music, created by the group Los Van Van in the early 1970s. Songo incorporated rhythmic elements from folkloric rumba into popular dance music, and was a significant departure from the son montuno/mambo-based structure which had dominated popular music in Cuba since the 1940s. Blas Egües was the first drummer in Los Van Van, but it was the band's second drummer, José Luis Quintana \"Changuito\", who developed songo into the world-wide phenomenon it is today.\n\nSongo is the most famous of the post-Revolution Cuban rhythms, beginning with the mozambique, which drew from the deep well of Afro-Cuban folkloric rhythms (mainly rumba). During the 1970s, many Cuban bands created their own original rhythms: Los Van Van invented songo; Orquesta Ritmo Oriental—\"nueva onda\"; Orquesta Tipica Juventud—\"bata cinco\", and Orquesta Revé named their invention—\"changüí\", after the \"funky,\" folkloric proto-son music of the 19th century.\n\nSongo is a precursor of present-day timba.\n\nWith songo, the timbales were expanded with the addition of a kick bass drum, and sometimes a snare drum and hi-hat. Songo uses a Cuban-style timbale/drum kit hybrid, which can be anything from standard timbales with kick, to a full drum kit augmented with timbales, woodblock, and various cowbells. Songo was the first Cuban popular dance rhythm to blend rumba and North American funk rhythms.\n\nThe most basic songo bell pattern is an embellishment of the Matanzas-style cáscara pattern for guaguancó, traditionally played on a guagua (hollowed piece of bamboo). In both patterns the right hand (lower notes) plays the four main beats, while the left hand plays offbeats. The right hand is typically played on a closed hi-hat, woodblock, or cowbell. The left hand is typically played on the snare rim, snare, cowbell(s), or toms. The left hand portion of the pattern is expressed in a wide variety of melodic motifs, and timbres. See: \"Songo Patterns on Drum Kit\" (Changuito).\n\nThis relationship between the drums is derived from the rumba style. The feeling of the high drum part is like the quinto in rumba, constantly punctuating, coloring, and accenting, but not soloing until the appropriate moment (Santos 1985).\n\nIn several songo arrangements, the tumbadora ('conga') part sounds the typical tumbao on the low-pitched drum, while replicating the quinto (lead drum) of guaguancó on the high-pitched drum. The quinto-like phrases can continually change, but they are based upon a specific counter-clave motif. [See: \"Songo Patterns on Congas\" (Changuito).\n\nThe rhythmic inventions in songo, share similarities with the contemporaneous inventions by folkloric rumba groups such as Los Muñequitos de Matanzas, and Los Papines from Havana. Not only is songo percussion heavily influenced by rumba, but the syncopated quality of the singing and other melodic elements reflect more rumba influence than heard in earlier genres. The \"guajeos\" (ostinato melodies) are often built upon offbeat patterns.\n\nMany Latin musicians have described the songo as a very soulful type of music; for instance Juan Formell (leader of Los Van Van) says that \"it is the synthesis of a personality, of a way of being and feeling the music, a sum of cultures and a way of making a musician into someone polyfacetic and original.\" Cuban drummers often stress that songo is not a particular rhythm, but rather, a particular rhythmic approach. However, these same drummers will usually demonstrate the basic stick part shown above. See: \"Basic Songo for Drum Kit\" (Ignacio Berroa).\n\nOn \"Los Van Van\" v. 6 (1980) Juan Formell took the unusual step of adding trombones to his charanga format. Orquesta Revé did the same during the time. \"Tú tranquilo\" has four interlocking guajeos: two keyboards, violins, and trombones.\n\nAs used in North America, the term \"songo\" refers generally to the rumba-influenced music of Cuban bands during the 1970s, and the conga and timbales parts shown above. These bands were, for the most part, charanga-based (flute, string instruments, and rhythm section), although some bands added trombones. The main exception was the horn-based supergroup Irakere, which blended jazz elements into the rhythmic mix. The horn-based Puerto Rican bands Batacumbele and Zaperoko also refer to their style of music as \"songo\". [See \"En vivo\" (Batacumbele, featuring Giovanni Hidalgo). Jazz, funk, son and rumba all intersect in songo.\n\nSongo represented a major breakthrough in Latin music by introducing the drumset into the standard percussion triumvirate of congas, timbales and bongos ... the songo rhythm finally put the drumset on equal footing with the other instruments” (Goines and Ameen 1990).\nWhen played on a drum kit, songo patterns are clave-based rumba-funk hybrids. In the early 1980s, these patterns caught the attention of North American drummers who, as a result, were now able to appreciate the clave-based structure underlying funk. North American drummers in turn adopted songo ideas into various jazz and funk inventions of their own. The fluidly changing patterns of songo offer a more complex palate of rhythmic textures for jazz than the \"angular\" mambo rhythms typically used in Latin jazz.\n\nThe funky rhythms of present-day timba evolved from songo. Most timba bands are horn-based rather than charanga-based.\nIt is also very popular in Spanish Christian Pentecostal churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324269", "title": "Elias Koteas", "text": "Elias Koteas\n\nElias Koteas (; born March 11, 1961) is a Canadian film and television actor. \n\nKoteas was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to a father who worked as a mechanic for the Canadian National Railways, and a milliner mother. His parents are both of Greek descent. Koteas is a graduate of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York.\n\nKoteas has played major roles in \"Some Kind of Wonderful\" (1987), \"The Adjuster\" (1991), \"Exotica\" (1994), \"Crash\" (1996), \"Fallen\" (1998), and \"The Thin Red Line\" (1998), among other films. Koteas is also known for playing the lead role of Thomas Daggett in the American film \"The Prophecy\" (1995) and for portraying sports-crazed vigilante Casey Jones in two of the original \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" films. In 2010, he played major roles in \"Let Me In\" and \"Defendor\", a Canadian superhero film starring Woody Harrelson.\n\nOn television, he appeared in Season Four of \"The Sopranos\" as Dominic Palladino and in the Season Two finale of \"House\" as a man who shoots Dr. Gregory House. From 2014 to 2018, Koteas starred on the NBC \"Chicago Fire\" spin-off \"Chicago P.D.\" Koteas played Alvin \"Al\" Olinsky, a longtime undercover detective in the Intelligence Unit. At the end of the 2018 season, Koteas's character was knifed in prison and died in surgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324291", "title": "Xuan Zan", "text": "Xuan Zan\n\nXuan Zan is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"Ugly Prince Consort\", he ranks 40th among the 108 Stars of Destiny and fourth among the 72 Earthly Fiends.\n\nAn eight \"chi\" tall skilled warrior, Xuan Zan is strikingly ugly with a face like the charred bottom of a wok, an upward pointing nose, hair messy like rank grass, and a red beard. He fights with a long sabre and is good in archery.\n\nA prince is so impressed by Xuan Zan when he beats contestants from a foreign state in archery, bringing glory to the Song empire, that he marries his daughter to him. Xuan Zan is therefore nicknamed \"Ugly Prince Consort\". However, the princess is so unhappy with the marriage, finding his looks disgusting, that she soon falls ill and dies. As a result, Xuan Zan falls out of the prince's favour and is relegated to a low-ranking military position in a garrison unit of Dongjing, the imperial capital. \n\nWhen the outlaws of Liangshan Marsh attack Daming Prefecture to rescue Lu Junyi and Shi Xiu, Grand Secretary Liang Shijie, the governor of Daming, seeks help from the Imperial Tutor Cai Jing, his father-in-law, in the Song imperial capital Dongjing. Xuan Zan, who is under Cai, recommends his friend Guan Sheng, a military inspector in Pudong County, as cut out for the job. With the assent of Cao, Xuan rushes to Pudong to summon Guan. Guan comes with his friend Hao Siwen to the imperial court, where he is tasked with saving Daming and the latter appointed his lieutenant together with Xuan Zan.\n\nGuan Sheng adopts the strategy of attacking Liangshan to force Song Jiang to lift the siege on Daming. Things develop as he has expected. But, in face of many good fighters, Guan finds it a daunting task to squash Liangshan. Huyan Zhuo, a former imperial general who has gone over to Liangshan after failing to conquer the stronghold, comes to Guan one night alone, claiming that his capitulation to the outlaws is a sham. Guan is duped by Huyan to conduct a night raid on the camp of Song Jiang. When he gets there, he is pulled off his horse by hook wielders waiting in ambush and captured. Meanwhile, Xuan Zan is no match for Qin Ming and is seized too. Hao Siwen is caught by Hu Sanniang. Moved by the warm and kind treatment of Song Jiang, the three transfer their allegiance to Liangshan.\n\nInformed of Guan Sheng's defection, Cai Jing orders Shan Tinggui and Wei Dingguo, two military instructors based in Lingzhou (凌州; in present-day Dezhou, Shandong), to mount another attack on Liangshan. Guan Sheng volunteers to take the fight to Lingzhou, with Xuan Zan and Hao Siwen as his assistants. In their first clash, Shan Tinggui and Wei Dingguo lure Hao and Xuan respectively into their battle ranks where they are engulfed by soldiers and captured. When Xuan and Hao are on the way being sent to Dongjing for punishment, the bandits of Mount Deadwood under Bao Xu, who is poised to join Liangshan invited by Li Kui, intercept the convoy and rescue them. Led by Li Kui, Xuan Zan, Hao Siwen, Bao Xu and Jiao Ting attack a gate of Lingzhou, causing its fall and the rout of Wei Dingguo's force. Like Shan Tinggui, who is earlier won over by Guan Sheng, Wei gives in to Liangshan when he finds himself cornered.\n\nXuan Zan is appointed as one of the leaders of the Liangshan cavalry after the 108 stars came together in what is called the Grand Assembly. He participates in the campaigns against the Liao invaders and the rebel forces in Song territory following Emperor Huizong's amnesty for the outlaws.\n\nIn the battle of Suzhou in the campaign against Fang La, Xuan Zan and the enemy general Guo Shiguang slay each other under the Yinma Bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324294", "title": "Eddoe", "text": "Eddoe\n\nEddoe or eddo is a tropical vegetable often considered identifiable as the species \"Colocasia antiquorum\", closely related to taro (dasheen, \"Colocasia esculenta\"), which is primarily used for its thickened stems (corms). It has smaller corms than taro, and in most cultivars there is an acrid taste that requires careful cooking. The young leaves can also be cooked and eaten, but (unlike taro) they have a somewhat acrid taste.\n\nThe English word 'eddo' is of Akan origin; cognate to Twi: \"ode\" “yam”; and Fante: \"odo\".\n\nEddoes appear to have been developed as a crop in China and Japan and introduced from there to the West Indies where they are sometimes called \"Chinese eddoes\". They grow best in rich loam soil with good drainage, but they can be grown in poorer soil, in drier climates, and in cooler temperatures than taro.\n\nEddoes are also sometimes called malangas in Spanish-speaking areas, but that name is also used for other plants of the family Araceae, including tannia (\"Xanthosoma\" spp.).\n\nEddoes make part of the generic classification cará or inhame of the Portuguese language which, beside taro, also includes root vegetables of the genera \"Alocasia\" and \"Dioscorea\". They are the most commonly eaten in the states of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Espírito Santo, as well as surrounding regions of all. They are also fairly common in Northeastern Brazil, where they might be called (literally \"potato\"), but less so than true yams of the genus Colocasia. According to Brazilian folk knowledge, the eddoes most appropriate to be cooked are those that are more deeply pink, or at least pinkish lavender, in the area where the leaves were cut.\n\nThe 1889 book \"The Useful Native Plants of Australia\" records that Colocasia antiquorum: \n\nLinnaeus originally described two species which are now known as \"Colocasia esculenta\" and \"Colocasia antiquorum\" of the cultivated plants that are known by many names including eddoes, dasheen, taro, but many later botanists consider them all to be members of a single, very variable species, the correct name for which is \"Colocasia esculenta\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2324298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324298", "title": "Up the Junction (song)", "text": "Up the Junction (song)\n\n\"Up the Junction\" was the third single released from Squeeze's second album, \"Cool for Cats\", sung by Glenn Tilbrook. It is one of the band's most popular and well-remembered songs (especially in the UK), and reached number 2 on the UK Singles Chart, the same position as its predecessor, \"Cool for Cats\" .\n\n\"Up the Junction\" is also the name of a collection of short stories by Nell Dunn, first published in 1963. Lyricist Chris Difford said that the title phrase was lifted from the 1965 TV play version of the work, directed by Ken Loach, and the subsequent 1968 movie version. The film had a soundtrack by Manfred Mann, and a song by them, also called \"Up the Junction\". \n\nAlthough the song is not the about the TV drama, it alludes to its themes and location:\n\n\nChris Difford wrote the lyrics in New Orleans while Squeeze were on tour. Difford passed the lyrics to Glenn Tilbrook who then wrote the music. The song is known for its use of half-rhymes, such as \"ready\" and \"telly\" or \"kitchen\" and \"missing\". The title is not sung until the final line. Difford has been quoted as saying that he took the lead from Roxy Music's \"Virginia Plain\", in which the title also appeared only at the end. Glenn Tilbrook has said that the music was partly inspired by the Bob Dylan song \"Positively 4th Street\", and the lack of a chorus was due to Tilbrook feeling that a repeated section would upset the flow of Difford's narrative lyrics. \n\nThe phrase 'Up the junction' is London slang for being in deep trouble, as in the American 'Up the creek without a paddle'. It is also, like other lines in the song, a reference to the working-class area of Clapham Junction in Battersea in London. Clapham Common – the \"windy common\" of the first verse – is a popular courting spot.\n\nThe language of the song uses a terse, acerbic 'working-class' humour such as in lines like <poem>\n…where she dealt out the rations\nWith some or other passions\nI said, \"You are a lady\"\n\"Perhaps,\" she said, \"I may be\"\n</poem>\n\nAt first, it is an idyllic story of proletarian happiness: the couple's courtship swiftly moves into living together; they have a child; the man gets a job, saves money. But by the end of the song, he has fallen into alcoholism, she is with another man, his \"machismo\" is such that he cannot beg forgiveness, and \"so it's my assumption, I'm really up the junction\" – that is, both \"up the junction\" in the sense of living in the area of Clapham Junction, and in that of having comprehensively wrecked his own life.\n\nThe video showed the band playing inside a flat – actually the kitchen of John Lennon's old house, where Lennon had made the promotional film for \"Imagine\"; one of the two girls in the background was Michelle Collins. Also, similar to the \"Cool for Cats\" music video, even though Harri Kakoulli played bass in the recording, he had left the band, and John Bentley takes his place in the music video. Difford and Tilbrook explained their calmer performance in the video saying that they recorded the \"Up the Junction\" music video the same day as \"Cool for Cats\", and they were exhausted. The band made a tongue-in-cheek performance of \"Up the Junction\" on British chart show Top of the Pops in which band members play the 'wrong instrument', with singer Glenn Tilbrook drumming and Jools Holland (normally a pianist) making minimal attempts to look at all proficient at the guitar.\n\nThe song is briefly heard playing on a hairdresser's radio in the 1982 film \"Brimstone and Treacle\" and its soundtrack album. It also appears in the TV series \"Breaking Bad\", in the season five episode Gliding Over All.\n\nDifford's performance of the song live on Platform 10 at Clapham Junction railway station was featured on the BBC Radio 4 programme \"Lyrical Journey\" in September 2011.\n\nThe song's \"girl from Clapham\" made an appearance on the later song \"A Moving Story\", from the band's 1998 album \"Domino\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324306", "title": "Det som engang var", "text": "Det som engang var\n\nDet som engang var (Norwegian for \"What Once Was\") is the second studio album by the Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. It was recorded in April 1992 and released in August 1993 through Burzum's own label, Cymophane Productions.\n\nVarg Vikernes recorded the first four Burzum albums between January 1992 and March 1993 at the Grieg Hall in Bergen. However, the releases were spread out, with many months between the recording and the release of each album. \n\nThe album was initially named \"På svarte troner\" (Norwegian for \"On Black Thrones\") but was renamed shortly before its release. The song \"Det som en gang var\" (with a slightly different spelling) would appear on the next album, \"Hvis lyset tar oss\".\n\nThe album cover is visually inspired by the \"Advanced Dungeons & Dragons\" (1st edition) module \"The Temple of Elemental Evil\". At the bottom of the artwork is a depiction of the \"reaper\" and the tree shown on Burzum's first album. The album cover was drawn by Jannicke Wiese-Hansen, who also drew the cover for the first Burzum album.\n\n\"Det som engang var\" was released on CD in August 1993 through Vikernes' own record label, Cymophane Productions, which he created so he could leave Deathlike Silence Productions, which was owned by Mayhem guitarist Euronymous. Its release was limited to around 950 copies. Although the two were friends, by the time of the album's release they had fallen out. On 10 August 1993, Vikernes stabbed Euronymous to death outside his apartment in Oslo. He was arrested a few days later and, in May 1994, was sentenced to 21 years in prison for both the murder and the church arsons. \n\n\"Det som engang var\" was reissued in 1994, by Misanthropy Records, in two formats: CD and vinyl. The vinyl release contained a Limited Edition poster of the album cover art.\n\nAfter Vikernes's release from prison in 2009, he re-recorded two songs from the album—\"Key to the Gate\" and \"Snu mikrokosmos tegn\"—and released them on the album \"From the Depths of Darkness\".\n\nEduardo Rivadavia of Allmusic wrote: \"Vikernes' claim to musical genius would soon be irreparably stained by his, shall we say, extra-curricular infamy, burying all of the fascinating contradictions inherent in his art under the brutally one-dimensional label of \"murderer\", and, by extension, forcing complicated feelings of guilt upon all those who would dare experience this otherwise compelling music.\"\nBurzum\n\nAdditional personnel\n"}
{"id": "2324322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324322", "title": "Chris Myers", "text": "Chris Myers\n\nChristopher Patrick Myers is an American sportscaster. A native of Miami, FL with more than 30 years in broadcasting, he has covered the Super Bowl, the World Series, the NBA Finals, the NCAA Final Four, The Masters and the U.S. Open (golf), the Triple Crown, the Olympics and the Daytona 500.\n\nChris Myers broke into broadcasting as a 16-year-old high school student when he hosted his own show on Miami’s WKAT radio, interviewing such sports figures as Muhammad Ali and Don Shula. He graduated from Chaminade High School, followed by Miami Dade Community College and Florida International University. In the 1980's, Myers hosted a sports radio call-in show on WIOD-AM in Miami before moving to New Orleans to work for broadcast station WWL.\n\nMyers spent ten years (1988-1998) at ESPN, hosting \"SportsCenter\", \"Baseball Tonight\" and other shows. He received an Emmy for the interview program \"Up Close\", on which he was the first to conduct live interviews with O.J. Simpson after both his O.J. Simpson murder trial and the wrongful death civil lawsuit.\n\nMyers earned acclaim for his live reporting during the 1989 San Francisco earthquake that took place during the World Series. He was the only on-scene reporter who stayed on the air through the night broadcasting from Atlanta during the Centennial Olympic Park bombing.\n\nWhile at ESPN, Myers coined popular phrases such as \"That deserves a 'Wow'\" and \"I kid because I care\". He was also the first to use the term \"3-ball\" when describing a 3-point shot in basketball and \"a hoop and some harm\" when describing a basket and foul.\n\nIn December 1998, Myers joined Fox Sports and Fox Sports Net, where he was one of the original anchors of \"The National Sports Report\" and the weekly sports magazine program \"Goin' Deep\". In 2005, he debuted \"The Chris Myers Interview\" on FSN. In 2000, Myers joined Fox Sports Radio where he currently hosts his own interview show, \"CMI\", which is heard on over 200 affiliates. Myers conducted the last public interview with the late John Wooden in April 2010 on \"CMI\". The legendary 99-year-old coach told Myers he did not fear death, saying \"The next life will be even better, and this one hasn't been too bad.\"\n\nMyers has been the studio host for \"Fox NASCAR\" coverage since it began in 2001. He also serves as an announcer and/or a reporter for \"Fox NFL\", \"Fox College Football\" and \"Fox Major League Baseball\", and was a reporter for Fox's coverage of the Bowl Championship Series.\n\nMyers has been a reporter on multiple Super Bowls and World Series for the Fox television network.\n\nMyers has worked for Fox NFL (NFL on FOX) since 2003 as either a play-by-play commentator and/or a sideline reporter.\n\nMyers has been working NFL play-by play for Fox since 2005. Among moments that Myers called include: The Los Angeles Rams' return to playoffs in 2017 and Kyle Shanahan's first win as head coach of 49ers.\n\nHe has a full NFL play-by-play schedule with 3-time Super Bowl champion Daryl Johnston and sideline reporter Laura Okmin. He coined the phrase”fresh set of downs” and “new set of downs” when broadcasting a team\"s first down.\n\nMyers' previous NFL on FOX partners include: Tim Ryan & Ronde Barber.\n\nDuring Fox's coverage of the NFC playoffs and the Super Bowl (when FOX has the rights to it), Myers joins Joe Buck, Troy Aikman & Erin Andrews.\n\nHe presented the New Orleans Saints with their first ever NFC championship trophy after they narrowly defeated the Minnesota Vikings 31-28 on January 24, 2010.\n\nDuring a Detroit Lions and New Orleans Saints game, on September 13, 2009, Myers made a remark about linebacker Larry Foote's decision to leave the perennially strong Pittsburgh Steelers to play for Detroit, \"That's like going from dating Beyoncé to Whoopi Goldberg!\".\n\nMyers visited the American armed forces in Qatar on behalf of Fox Sports, and gave a live broadcast with the armed forces on the pre-game show before the New Orleans Saints played the Dallas Cowboys on Thanksgiving Day 2010.\n\nOn July 14, 2012, Myers called his first \"MLB on Fox\" game with Eric Karros when the New York Mets played against the Atlanta Braves at Turner Field. Myers called MLB games for Fox in 2012 and 2013, before moving back to the studio for the 2014 season.\n\nIn 2014, Myers began hosting \"MLB Whiparound\", a nightly show aired weeknights on Fox Sports 1 featuring quick turnaround-highlights, news, and analysis live from Los Angeles.\n\nMyers along with Jeff Hammond and Michael Waltrip, formerly hosted \"NASCAR RaceDay\", \"Pizza Hut Prerace Show\", and \"NASCAR Victory Lane\" during Fox's coverage of NASCAR. His first NASCAR race was the 2001 Daytona 500 where the finish was overshadowed by the death of Dale Earnhardt. Days before the beginning of the 2012 season, his son Christopher was killed in an auto accident. Myers took a bereavement leave and returned to the broadcast two weeks later. Starting in 2019, Myers' FOX NASCAR schedule was reduced to just the Daytona 500 only.\n\nIn 2017, Myers was named host for FS1's evening coverage of both nights of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, initially with WKC Director of Communications Gail Miller Bisher; dog show judge Jason Hoke was added in 2018. Myers also, in 2017, hosted Fox's annual documentary on the event, \"Crowned: Inside the Westminister Dog Show\".\n\nIn 2019, Myers began doing play-by-play and hosting for Fox's Premier Boxing Champions broadcasts.\n\nMyers has hosted shows and events on the Discovery Channel, Tennis Channel, Military Channel and Marquee Sports Network and has appeared on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" numerous times. Myers also serves as the play-by-play commentator for Tampa Bay Buccaneers preseason games that air locally on WTSP-TV, after having the same role for WFLA-TV from 2003-2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324323", "title": "Hao Siwen", "text": "Hao Siwen\n\nHao Siwen is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"Wood Dog of Well\", he ranks 41st among the 108 Stars of Destiny and fifth among the 72 Earthly Fiends.\n\nAfter dreaming of the \"Wood Dog of Well\" (a stellar deity who resides in the constellation of Gemini) entering her body, Hao Siwen's mother becomes pregnant and gives birth to him. Believed to be an incarnation of the divinity, Hao is nicknamed the \"Wood Dog of Well\". Although a skilled warrior, he holds a minor military position in Pudong County (蒲東縣; in present-day Dezhou, Shandong). \n\nWhen the outlaws of Liangshan Marsh attack Daming Prefecture to rescue Lu Junyi and Shi Xiu, Grand Secretary Liang Shijie, the governor of Daming, seeks help from the Imperial Tutor Cai Jing, his father-in-law, in the Song imperial capital Dongjing. Xuan Zan, a minor officer under Cai, recommends his friend Guan Sheng, a military inspector in Pudong County, as cut out for the job. With the assent of Cao, Xuan rushes to Pudong, where he finds Guan in his office discussing the rise and fall of past dynasties with his sworn brother Hao Siwen. Guan takes Hao along to the imperial court, where he is tasked with saving Daming and the latter appointed his lieutenant together with Xuan Zan.\n\nGuan Sheng adopts the strategy of attacking Liangshan to force Song Jiang to lift the siege on Daming. Things develop as he has expected. But, in face of many good fighters, Guan finds it a daunting task to squash Liangshan. Huyan Zhuo, a former imperial general who has gone over to Liangshan after failing to conquer the stronghold, comes to Guan one night alone, claiming that his capitulation to the outlaws is a sham. Guan is duped by Huyan to conduct a night raid on the camp of Song Jiang. When he gets there, he is pulled off his horse by hook wielders waiting in ambush and captured. Meanwhile, Xuan Zan is no match for Qin Ming and is seized too. Hao Siwen takes flight facing the formidable Lin Chong and Hua Rong. Hu Sanniang catches up with him, catches him with her lasso and pulls him off his horse. Moved by the warm and kind treatment of Song Jiang, the three transfer their allegiance to Liangshan. \n\nInformed of Guan Sheng's defection, Cai Jing orders Shan Tinggui and Wei Dingguo, two military instructors based in Lingzhou (凌州; in present-day Dezhou, Shandong), to mount another attack on Liangshan. Guan Sheng volunteers to take the fight to Lingzhou, with Xuan Zan and Hao Siwen as his assistants. In their first clash, Shan Tinggui and Wei Dingguo lure Hao and Xuan respectively into their battle ranks where they are engulfed by soldiers and captured. When Hao and Xuan are on the way being sent to Dongjing for punishment, the bandits of Mount Deadwood under Bao Xu, who is poised to join Liangshan invited by Li Kui, intercept the convoy and rescue them. Led by Li Kui, Hao Siwen, Xuan Zan, Bao Xu and Jiao Ting attack a gate of Lingzhou, causing its fall and the rout of Wei Dingguo's force. Like Shan Tinggui, who is earlier won over by Guan Sheng, Wei gives in to Liangshan when he finds himself cornered. \n\nHao Siwen is appointed as one of the leaders of the Liangshan cavalry after the 108 heroes come together in what is called the Grand Assembly. He participates in the campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces in Song territory following amnesty from Emperor Huizong for Liangshan.\n\nIn the siege of Hangzhou in the campaign against Fang La, Hao Siwen and Xu Ning are assigned to watch the north side of the city. A sudden attack by troops charging out from the city surprise them leading to Hao being captured and Xu hit by a poisoned arrow as he tries to save him. Hao Siwen is beheaded and quartered by the enemy general Fang Tianding\n\n"}
{"id": "2324327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324327", "title": "Basil Faber", "text": "Basil Faber\n\nBasil Faber (1520–1576), Lutheran schoolmaster and theologian, was born in Sorau (modern Żary), in lower Lusatia, in 1520. In 1538 he entered the University of Wittenberg, studying as \"pauper gratis\" under Philipp Melanchthon.\n\nChoosing the schoolmaster's profession, he became successively rector of the schools at Nordhausen, Tennstadt (1555), Magdeburg (1557) and Quedlinburg (1560). From this last post he was removed in December 1570 as a crypto-Calvinist. In 1571 he was appointed to the Rathsgymnasium at Erfurt, not as rector, but as director (\"Vorsteher\"). In this situation he remained till his death in 1575 or 1576.\n\nHis translation of the first twenty-five chapters of Luther's commentary on \"Genesis\" was published in 1557; in other ways he promoted the spread of Lutheran views. He was a contributor to the first four of the \"Magdeburg Centuries\". He is best known by his \"Thesaurus eruditionis scholasticae\" (1571; last edition, improved by J. H. Leich, 1749, folio, 2 vols.); this was followed by his \"Libellus de disciplina scholastica\" (1572).\n\n"}
{"id": "2324330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324330", "title": "Victoria Shamrocks", "text": "Victoria Shamrocks\n\nThe Victoria Shamrocks are a Senior A box lacrosse team, based in Victoria, British Columbia. The team competes in the 7-team Western Lacrosse Association (WLA).\n\nThe Shamrocks entered the former Inter-City Lacrosse League, which is now the WLA, in 1950. The team became known as the Victoria Pay Less in 1982 to reflect a major sponsorship by Pay Less Gas. The team readopted the Shamrocks name in 1995.\n\nThe Shamrocks have won the Mann Cup Canadian National Championship a total of 9 times; in 1955, 1957, 1979, 1983, 1997, 1999, 2003, 2005 and 2015. They have won a total of 20 Provincial Championships.\n\nSome of the greatest lacrosse players in the world have been proud to wear the green and white, including Jack Bionda, Rick Brown, Archie Browning, Fred \"Whitey\" Severson, Geordie Johnston,\"Bobby\" Monaghan, Kevin Alexander, both Paul and Gary Gait, and John Tavares. The Shamrocks home arena features a \"Wall of Fame\" where many great players, coaches, trainers and managers who have been part of the team are enshrined.\n\nOn September 16, 2005, the Victoria Shamrocks won their 8th Mann Cup, defeating the Peterborough Lakers 4 games to 2 in a classic, hard-fought series. Shamrocks' goaltender Anthony Cosmo was awarded the Mike Kelley Memorial Trophy as the series Most Valuable Player.\n\nAlmost 10 years later, on September 11, 2015, the Victoria Shamrocks won their 9th Mann Cup, once again defeating the Peterborough Lakers 4 games to 2 in another hard-fought series. Shamrocks' forward Corey Small was awarded the Mike Kelley Memorial Trophy as the series Most Valuable Player.\n\nCurrent Roster\n\nCurrent WLA Scores and Stats\n\n"}
{"id": "2324331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324331", "title": "Wölfflin", "text": "Wölfflin\n\nWölflin, Wölfflin is a surname that may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324333", "title": "Tommy Hanlon Jr.", "text": "Tommy Hanlon Jr.\n\nTommy Hanlon Jr. (14 August 1923 – 9 October 2003) was an American-born actor, comedian, television host and circus ringmaster, notable for his career in Australia after emigrating there in 1959, where he became a Gold Logie-award-winning media personality, in 1962, Hanlon was notable for his early television appearances on daytime television and as host of the Australian version of game show \"It Could Be You\n\nHe was born Tommy Gene Thomason in Parkersburg, West Virginia in 1923 to vaudeville performers Homer Emmons Thomason (whose stage name was \"Tommy Hanlon\") and Ruth Dorothy Manning. He appeared in his parents' act at the age of four. He later took the stage name Tommy Hanlon Jr. after his father's stage name.\n\nHanlon first appeared on his own as a magician as a teenager and was an entertainer for the rest of his life. After two years with Orson Welles' Mercury Theatre in Los Angeles in the 1940s, and appearing on stage alongside W.C. Fields, he came to Australia in 1959, first as a club act, then appearing on television.\n\nHanlon became a major TV celebrity in Australia in the early 1960s, especially as host of the popular daytime program \"It Could Be You\" on the Nine Network, operating out of the GTV-9 studios in Melbourne. The program was a mixture of game show, human interest and humour. It featured tearful reunions of long separated families or friends. He typically closed each program sitting on a stool with a social commentary presented as a \"Letter from Mom\".\n\nAfter GTV-9 purchased radio station 3AK in April 1961, all GTV-9 personalities were expected to present programs on the new acquisition. Hanlon hosted a Saturday morning show with Jack Little as his \"sidekick\".\n\nHe won two Logie awards, including the Gold Logie in 1962, opposite Australian entertainer (Lorrae Desmond) and became one of the highest-paid entertainers in Australia.\n\nIn 1967 he bought into Ashton's Circus. In the 1970s he hosted talent show \"Pot of Gold\", with resident judge Bernard King who mocked most entrants mercilessly, to the consternation of the more kind-hearted Hanlon. Hanlon quit television in 1978 and toured Australia as a ringmaster with Silvers Circus.\n\nHe was honoured in an episode of \"This is Your Life\" filmed in August 2003.\n\nHanlon died from cancer in Melbourne on 9 October 2003, only weeks after suffering a heart attack. He was predeceased by his wife, Muriel (whom he always called Murphy), and survived by his daughter April Bell from that marriage and her son Jeff Almond. He was also survived by his first wife, Jean Gregory; his son by that marriage, Tommy Hanlon Thomason; three grandchildren by and two great-grand children.\n\nDespite his love for Australia, he never relinquished his United States citizenship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324345", "title": "Maya Plisetskaya", "text": "Maya Plisetskaya\n\nMaya Mikhailovna Plisetskaya (; 20 November 1925 – 2 May 2015) was a Soviet ballet dancer, choreographer, ballet director, and actress. In post-Soviet times, she held both Lithuanian and Spanish citizenship. She danced during the Soviet era at the Bolshoi Theatre under the directorships of Leonid Lavrovsky, then of Yury Grigorovich; later she moved into direct confrontation with him. In 1960 when Galina Ulanova, another famed Russian ballerina retired, Plisetskaya became prima ballerina assoluta of the company.\n\nHer early years were marked by political repression and loss. Her father, Mikhail Plisetski, who was a Soviet official, was arrested in 1937 and executed in 1938, during the Great Purge. Her mother, actress Rachel Messerer, was arrested in 1938 and imprisoned for a few years, then held in a concentration camp together with her infant son, . The older children were faced with the threat of being put in an orphanage but were cared for by maternal relatives. Maya was adopted by their aunt Sulamith Messerer, and Alexander was taken into the family of their uncle Asaf Messerer; both Alexander and Azary eventually became solo dancers of the Bolshoi.\n\nPlisetskaya studied ballet at The Bolshoi Ballet School from age nine, and she first performed at the Bolshoi Theatre when she was eleven. She studied ballet under the direction of Elizaveta Gerdt and also her aunt, Sulamith Messerer. Graduating in 1943 at the age of eighteen, she joined the Bolshoi Ballet company, quickly rising to become their leading soloist. In 1959, during the Thaw Time, she started to tour outside the country with the Bolshoi, then on her own. Her fame as a national ballerina was used to project the Soviet Union's achievements during the Cold War. Premier Nikita Khrushchev considered her to be \"not only the best ballerina in the Soviet Union, but the best in the world.\"\n\nAs an artist, Plisetskaya had an inexhaustible interest in new roles and dance styles, and she liked to experiment on stage. As a member of the Bolshoi until 1990, she had international exposure and her skills as a dancer changed the world of ballet. She set a higher standard for ballerinas, both in terms of technical brilliance and dramatic presence. As a soloist, Plisetskaya created a number of leading roles, including Juliet in Lavrovsky’s \"Romeo and Juliet\"; Phrygia in Yakobson’s \"Spartacus\" (1958); in Grigorovich’s ballets : Mistress of the Copper Mountain in \"The Stone Flower\" (1959); Aurora in \"The Sleeping Beauty\" (1963); Mahmene Banu in \"\" (1965); Alberto Alonso’s \"Carmen Suite\" (1967), choreographed especially for her; and Maurice Bejart’s \"Isadora\" (1976). Among her most acclaimed roles were Kitri in \"Don Quixote\", Odette-Odile in \"Swan Lake\", and \"The Dying Swan\", first danced as a pre-graduate student under the guidance of Sulamith Messerer. A fellow dancer said that her dramatic portrayal of Carmen, reportedly her favorite role, \"helped confirm her as a legend, and the ballet soon took its place as a landmark in the Bolshoi repertoire.\" Her husband, composer Rodion Shchedrin, wrote the scores to a number of her ballets.\n\nHaving become “an international superstar” and a continuous “box office hit throughout the world,” Plisetskaya was treated by the Soviet Union as a favored cultural emissary. Although she toured extensively during the same years that other prominent dancers defected, including Rudolf Nureyev, Natalia Makarova, and Mikhail Baryshnikov, Plisetskaya always refused to defect. In 1991, she published her autobiography, \"I, Maya Plisetskaya\".\n\nPlisetskaya was born on 20 November 1925 in Moscow, into a prominent family of Lithuanian Jewish descent, most of whom were involved in the theater or film. Her mother, Rachel Messerer-Plisetskaya, was a silent-film actress. Bolshoi Ballet principal dancer Asaf Messerer was a maternal uncle and Bolshoi prima ballerina Sulamith Messerer was a maternal aunt. Her father, Mikhail Plisetski (Misha), was a diplomat, engineer and mine director; he was not involved in the arts, although he was a fan of ballet. Her brothers Alexander Plisetski and Azary Plisetski became renowned ballet masters, and her niece Anna Plisetskaya would also become a ballerina.\n\nIn 1938, her father was arrested and later executed during the Stalinist purges, during which countless thousands of people were murdered. According to ballet scholar Jennifer Homans, her father was a committed Communist, and had earlier been \"proclaimed a national hero for his work on behalf of the Soviet coal industry.\" Soviet leader Vyacheslav Molotov presented him with one of the Soviet Union's first manufactured cars. Her mother was arrested soon after and together with her seven-month-old baby sent to a labor camp (Gulag) in Kazakhstan for the next three years. Maya was taken in by their maternal aunt, ballerina Sulamith Messerer, until her mother was released in 1941.\n\nDuring the years without her parents, while barely a teenager, Plisetskaya \"faced terror, war, and dislocation,\" writes Homans. As a result, “Maya took refuge in ballet and the Bolshoi Theater.” As her father was stationed at Spitzbergen to supervise the coalmines in Barentsburg, she had stayed there for four years with her family, from 1932 to 1936. She subsequently studied at the Bolshoi School under the ex-ballerina of the Mariinsky imperial ballet, the great Elizaveta Gerdt. Maya first performed at the Bolshoi Theatre when she was eleven. In 1943, at the age of eighteen, Plisetskaya graduated from the Bolshoi School. She joined the Bolshoi Ballet, where she performed until 1990.\n\nFrom the beginning, Plisetskaya was a different kind of ballerina. She spent a very short time in the corps de ballet after graduation and was quickly named a soloist. Her bright red hair and striking looks made her a glamorous figure on and off the stage. “She was a remarkably fluid dancer but also a very powerful one”, according to \"The Oxford Dictionary of Dance.\" “The robust theatricality and passion she brought to her roles made her an ideal Soviet ballerina.” Her interpretation of \"The Dying Swan\", a short showcase piece made famous by Anna Pavlova, became her calling card. Plisetskaya was known for the height of her jumps, her extremely flexible back, the technical strength of her dancing, and her charisma. She excelled both in adagio and allegro, which is very unusual in dancers.\n\nDespite her acclaim, Plisetskaya was not treated well by the Bolshoi management. She was Jewish at a time of Soviet anti-Zionist campaigns combined with other oppression of suspected dissidents. Her family had been purged during the Stalinist era, and she had a defiant personality. As a result, Plisetskaya was not allowed to tour outside the country for sixteen years after she had become a member of the Bolshoi.\n\nThe Soviet Union used the artistry of such dancers as Plisetskaya to project its achievements during the Cold War period with United States. Historian Christina Ezrahi notes, “In a quest for cultural legitimacy, the Soviet ballet was shown off to foreign leaders and nations.” Plisetskaya recalls that foreigners \"were all taken to the ballet. And almost always, \"Swan Lake\" ... Khrushchev was always with the high guests in the loge,” including Mao Zedong and Stalin.\n\nEzrahi writes, “the intrinsic paranoia of the Soviet regime made it ban Plisetskaya, one of the most celebrated dancers, from the Bolshoi Ballet’s first major international tour,” as she was considered “politically suspect” and was “non-exportable.” In 1948, the Zhdanov Doctrine took effect, and with her family history, and being Jewish, she became a \"natural target . . . publicly humiliated and excoriated for not attending political meetings.\" As a result, dancing roles were continually denied her and for sixteen years she could tour only within the Soviet bloc. She became a \"provincial artist, consigned to grimy, unrewarding bus tours, exclusively for local consumption”, writes Homans.\n\nIn 1958, Plisetskaya received the title of the People's Artist of the USSR. That same year, she married the young composer Rodion Shchedrin, whose subsequent fame she shared. Wanting to dance internationally, she rebelled and defied Soviet expectations. On one occasion, to gain the attention and respect from some of the country's leaders, she gave one of the most powerful performances of her career, in \"Swan Lake\", for her 1956 concert in Moscow. Homans describes that \"extraordinary performance:\"\nSoviet leader Khrushchev was still concerned, writes historian David Caute, that “her defection would have been useful for the West as anti-Soviet propaganda.” She wrote him “a long and forthright expression of her patriotism and her indignation that it should be doubted.” Subsequently, the travel ban was lifted in 1959 on Khrushchev's personal intercession, as it became clear to him that striking Plisetskaya from the Bolshoi's participants could have serious consequences for the tour's success. In his memoirs, Khrushchev writes that Plisetskaya “was not only the best ballerina in the Soviet Union, but the best in the world.”\n\nAble to travel the world as a member of the Bolshoi, Plisetskaya changed the world of ballet by her skills and technique, setting a higher standard for ballerinas both in terms of technical brilliance and dramatic presence. Having allowed her to tour in New York, Khrushchev was immensely satisfied upon reading the reviews of her performances. “He embraced her upon her return: ‘Good girl, coming back. Not making me look like a fool. You didn’t let me down.’”\n\nWithin a few years, Plisetskaya was recognized as “an international superstar” and a continuous “box office hit throughout the world.” The Soviet Union treated her as a favored cultural emissary, as “the dancer who did not defect.” Although she toured extensively during the same years that other dancers defected, including Rudolf Nureyev, Natalia Makarova and Mikhail Baryshnikov, “Plisetskaya always returned to Russia”, wrote historian Tim Scholl.\n\nPlisetskaya explains that for her generation, and her family in particular, defecting was a moral issue: “He who runs to the enemy's side is a traitor.” She had once asked her mother why their family didn't leave the Soviet Union when they had the chance, at the time living in Norway. Her mother said that her father “would have abandoned me with the children instantly” for even asking. “Misha would never have been a traitor.”\n\nAlthough she lacked the first-rate training and coaching of her contemporaries, Plisetskaya \"compensated\" by \"developing an individual, iconoclastic style that capitalized on her electrifying stage presence\", writes historian Tim Scholl. She had a \"daring rarely seen on ballet stages today, and a jump of almost masculine power.\"\n\nCritic and dance historian Vadim Gaevsky said of her influence on ballet that \"she began by creating her own style and ended up creating her own theater.\" Among her most notable performances was a 1975 free-form dance, in a modern style, set to Ravel’s \"Boléro\". In it, she dances a solo piece on an elevated round stage, surrounded and accompanied by 40 male dancers. One reviewer wrote, \"Words cannot compare to the majesty and raw beauty of Plisetskaya's performance:\"\n\nPlisetskaya created a number of leading roles, including ones in Lavrovsky's \"Stone Flower\" (1954), Moiseyev's \"Spartacus\" (1958), Grigorovich's Moscow version of \"The Stone Flower\" (1959), Aurora in Grigorovich's staging \"The Sleeping Beauty\" (1963), Grigorovich's Moscow version of \"The Legend of Love\" (1965), the title role in Alberto Alonso's \"Carmen Suite\" (1967), Petit's \"La Rose malade\" (Paris, 1973), Bejart's \"Isadora\" (Monte Carlo, 1976) and his Moscow staging of \"Leda\" (1979), Granero's \"Maria Estuardo\" (Madrid, 1988), and Lopez's \"El Renedero\" (Buenos Aires, 1990).\nAfter performing in \"Spartacus\" during her 1959 U.S. debut tour, \"Life\" magazine, in its issue featuring the Bolshoi, rated her second only to Galina Ulanova. \"Spartacus\" became a significant ballet for the Bolshoi, with one critic describing their \"rage to perform\", personified by Plisetskaya as ballerina, \"that defined the Bolshoi.\" During her travels, she also appeared as guest artist with the Paris Opera Ballet, Ballet National de Marseilles, and Ballet of the 20th Century in Brussels.\n\nBy 1962, following Ulanova's retirement, Plisetskaya embarked on another three-month world tour. As a performer, notes Homans, she \"excelled in the hard-edged, technically demanding roles that Ulanova eschewed, including \"Raymonda\", the black swan in \"Swan Lake\", and Kitri in \"Don Quixote.\"\" In her performances, Plisetskaya was \"unpretentious, refreshing, direct. She did not hold back.\" Ulanova added that Plisetskaya's \"artistic temperament, bubbling optimism of youth reveal themselves in this ballet with full force.\" World-famous impresario Sol Hurok said that Plisetskaya was the only ballerina after Pavlova who gave him \"a shock of electricity\" when she came on stage. Rudolf Nureyev watched her debut as Kitri in \"Don Quixote\" and told her afterwards, \"I sobbed from happiness. You set the stage on fire.\"\n\nAt the conclusion of one performance at the Metropolitan Opera, she received a half-hour ovation. Choreographer Jerome Robbins, who had just finished the Broadway play, \"West Side Story\", told her that he \"wanted to create a ballet especially for her.\"\n\nPlisetskaya's most acclaimed roles included Odette-Odile in \"Swan Lake\" (1947) and Aurora in \"Sleeping Beauty\" (1961). Her dancing partner in \"Swan Lake\" states that for twenty years, he and Plisetskaya shared the world stage with that ballet, with her performance consistently producing \"the most powerful impression on the audience.\"\n\nEqually notable were her ballets as \"The Dying Swan\". Critic Walter Terry described one performance: \"What she did was to discard her own identity as a ballerina and even as a human and to assume the characteristics of a magical creature. The audience became hysterical, and she had to perform an encore.\" She danced that particular ballet until her late 60s, giving one of her last performances of it in the Philippines, where similarly, the applause wouldn't stop until she came out and performed an encore.\n\nNovelist Truman Capote remembered a similar performance in Moscow, seeing \"grown men crying in the aisles and worshiping girls holding crumpled bouquets for her.\" He saw her as \"a white spectre leaping in smooth rainbow arcs\", with \"a royal head\". She said of her style that \"the secret of the ballerina is to make the audience say, 'Yes, I believe.'\"\n\nFashion designers Yves Saint Laurent and Pierre Cardin considered Plisetskaya one of their inspirations, with Cardin alone having traveled to Moscow over 30 times just to see Plisetskaya perform. She credits Cardin's costume designs for the success and recognition she received for her ballets of \"Anna Karenina,\" \"The Seagull\", and \"Lady with the Dog\". She recalls his reaction when she initially suggested he design one of her costumes: \"Cardin's eyes lit up like batteries. As if an electrical current passed through them.\" Within a week, he had created a design for \"Anna Karenina\", and over the course of her career he created ten different costumes for just \"Karenina\".\n\nIn 1967, she performed as Carmen in the \"Carmen Suite\", choreographed specifically for her by Cuban choreographer Alberto Alonso. The music was re-scored from Bizet’s original by her husband, Rodion Shchedrin, and its themes were re-worked into a \"modernist and almost abstract narrative.\" Dancer Olympia Dowd, who performed alongside her, writes that Plisetskaya's dramatic portrayal of Carmen, her favorite role, made her a legend, and soon became a \"landmark\" in the Bolshoi's repertoire. Her Carmen, however, at first \"rattled the Soviet establishment,\" which was \"shaken with her Latin sensuality.\" She was aware that her dance style was radical and new, saying that \"every gesture, every look, every movement had meaning, was different from all other ballets... The Soviet Union was not ready for this sort of choreography. It was war, they accused me of betraying classical dance.\"\n\nSome critics outside of Russia saw her departure from classical styles as necessary to the Bolshoi's success in the West. \"New York Times\" critic Anna Kisselgoff observed, \"Without her presence, their poverty of movement invention would make them untenable in performance. It is a tragedy of Soviet ballet that a dancer of her singular genius was never extended creatively.” A Russian news commentator wrote, she \"was never afraid to bring ardor and vehemence onto the stage,\" contributing to her becoming a \"true queen of the Bolshoi.\" Her life and work was described by the French ballet critic André Philippe Hersin as \"genius, audacity and avant-garde.\"\n\nAfter Galina Ulanova left the stage in 1960, Maya Plisetskaya was proclaimed the \"prima ballerina assoluta\" of the Bolshoi Theatre. In 1971, her husband Shchedrin wrote a ballet on the same subject, where she would play the leading role. \"Anna Karenina\" was also her first attempt at choreography. Other choreographers who created ballets for her include Yury Grigorovich, Roland Petit, Alberto Alonso, and Maurice Béjart with \"Isadora\". She created \"The Seagull\" and \"Lady with a Lapdog\". She starred in the 1961 film, \"The Humpbacked Horse\", and appeared as a straight actress in several films, including the Soviet version of \"Anna Karenina\" (1968). Her own ballet of the same name was filmed in 1974.\nWhile on tour in the United States in 1987, Plisetskaya gave master classes at the David Howard Dance Center. A review in \"New York\" magazine noted that although she was 61 when giving the classes, “she displayed the suppleness and power of a performer in her physical prime.” In October that year, she performed with Rudolf Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov for the opening night of the season with the Martha Graham Dance Company in New York.\n\nPlisetskaya's husband, composer Rodion Shchedrin, wrote the score to a number of her ballets, including \"Anna Karenina\", \"The Sea Gull\", \"Carmen,\" and \"Lady with a Small Dog\". In the 1980s, he was considered the successor to Shostakovich, and became the Soviet Union's leading composer. Plisetskaya and Shchedrin spent time abroad, where she worked as the artistic director of the Rome Opera Ballet from 1984 to 85, then the Spanish National Ballet of Madrid from 1987 to 1989. She retired as a soloist for the Bolshoi at age 65, and on her 70th birthday, she debuted in Maurice Béjart's piece choreographed for her, \"Ave Maya\". Since 1994, she has presided over the annual international ballet competitions, called \"Maya\", and in 1996 she was named President of the Imperial Russian Ballet.\nShe was awarded the Prince of Asturias Award for the Arts in 2005 with the ballerina Tamara Rojo also. She was awarded the Spanish Gold Medal of Fine Art. In 1996, she danced \"the Dying Swan\", her signature role, at a gala in her honor in St. Petersburg.\n\nOn her 80th birthday, the \"Financial Times\" wrote: In 2006, Emperor Akihito of Japan presented her with the Praemium Imperiale, informally considered a Nobel Prize for Art.\n\nPlisetskaya died in Munich, Germany, on 2 May 2015 from a heart attack. Plisetskaya was survived by her husband, and a brother, former dancer Azari Plisetsky, a teacher of choreography at the Béjart Ballet in Lausanne, Switzerland. According to her last will and testament, she was to be cremated, and after the death of her widower, Rodion Shchedrin, who is also to be cremated, their ashes are to be combined and spread over Russia.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin expressed his condolences, and Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said that \"a whole era of ballet was gone\" with Plisetskaya. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko extended condolences to her family and friends:\n\nPlisetskaya's tour manager, Maxim Gershunoff, who also helped promote the Soviet/American Cultural Exchange Program, describes her as \"not only a great artist, but also very realistic and earthy ... with a very open and honest outlook on life.\"\n\nDuring Plisetskaya's tours abroad, she became friends with a number of other theater and music artists, including composer and pianist Leonard Bernstein, with whom she remained friends until his death. Pianist Arthur Rubinstein, also a friend, was able to converse with her in Russian. She visited him after his concert performance in Russia. Novelist John Steinbeck, while at their home in Moscow, listened to her stories of the hardship of becoming a ballerina, and told her that the backstage side of ballet could make for a \"most interesting novel\".\n\nIn 1962, the Bolshoi was invited to perform at the White House by president John F. Kennedy, and Plisetskaya recalled that first lady Jacqueline Kennedy greeted her by saying \"You're just like Anna Karenina.\"\n\nWhile in France in 1965, Plisetskaya was invited to the home of Russian artist Marc Chagall and his wife. Chagall had moved to France to study art in 1910. He asked her if she wouldn't mind creating some ballet poses to help him with his current project, a mural for the new Metropolitan Opera House in New York, which would show various images representing the arts. She danced and posed in various positions as he sketched, and her images were used on the mural, \"at the top left corner, a colorful flock of ballerinas\".\n\nPlisetskaya made friends with a number of celebrities and notable politicians who greatly admired and followed her work. She met Swedish actress Ingrid Bergman, then living in the U.S., after a performance of \"Anna Karenina\". Bergman told her that both their photographs, taken by noted photographer Richard Avedon, appeared on the same page in \"Vogue\" magazine. Bergman suggested she \"flee Communism\", recalled Plisetskaya, telling her \"I will help you.\"\n\nActress Shirley MacLaine once held a party for her and the other members of the Bolshoi. She remembered seeing her perform in Argentina when Plisetskaya was sixty-five, and writes \"how humiliating it was that Plisetskaya had to dance on a vaudeville stage in South America to make ends meet.\" Dancer Daniel Nagrin noted that she was a dancer who \"went on to perform to the joy of audiences everywhere while simultaneously defying the myth of early retirement.\"\n\nMacLaine's brother, actor Warren Beatty, is said to have been inspired by their friendship, which led him to write and produce his 1981 film \"Reds\", about the Russian Revolution. He directed the film and costarred with Diane Keaton. He first met Plisetskaya at a reception in Beverly Hills, and, notes Beatty's biographer Peter Biskind, \"he was smitten\" by her \"classic dancer's\" beauty.\n\nPlisetskaya became friends with film star Natalie Wood and her sister, actress Lana Wood. Wood, whose parents immigrated from Russia, greatly admired Plisetskaya, and once had an expensive custom wig made for her to use in the \"Spartacus\" ballet. They enjoyed socializing together on Wood's yacht.\n\nU.S. Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, the younger brother to president John F. Kennedy, befriended Plisetskaya, with whom he shared the birth date of 20 November 1925. She was invited to gatherings with Kennedy and his family at their estate on Cape Cod in 1962. They later named their sailboat \"Maya\", in her honor.\n\nAs the Cuban Missile Crisis had ended a few weeks earlier, at the end of October 1962, U.S. and Soviet relations were at a low point. Diplomats of both countries considered her friendship with Kennedy to be a great benefit to warmer relations, after weeks of worrisome military confrontation. Years later, when they met in 1968, he was then campaigning for the presidency, and diplomats again suggested that their friendship would continue to help relations between the two countries. Plisetskaya summarizes Soviet thoughts on the matter:\n\nOf their friendship, Plisetskaya wrote in her autobiography:\n\nRobert Kennedy was assassinated just days before he was to see Plisetskaya again in New York. Gershunoff, Plisetskaya's manager at the time, recalls that on the day of the funeral, most of the theaters and concert halls in New York City went \"dark\", closed in mourning and respect. The Bolshoi likewise planned to cancel their performance, but they decided instead to do a different ballet than planned, one dedicated to Kennedy. Gershunoff describes that evening:\n\nPlisetskaya was honored on numerous occasions for her skills:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324349", "title": "Andrew Hurley", "text": "Andrew Hurley\n\nAndrew Hurley may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324353", "title": "List of Nigerians", "text": "List of Nigerians\n\nThis is a list of notable Nigerian people. It includes some but not all notable Nigerians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324355", "title": "Slap and Tickle", "text": "Slap and Tickle\n\n\"Slap And Tickle\" was the fourth and final single released from Squeeze's second album, \"Cool for Cats\". \"Slap and tickle\" is a British euphemism for sexual activity. The track peaked at number 24 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe track \"Slap and Tickle\" is also featured on two of their albums, \"Cool for Cats\" and \"Spot the Difference\", as well as the compilation album \"Singles - 45's and Under\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2324362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324362", "title": "Interstate 565", "text": "Interstate 565\n\nInterstate 565 (I-565) is a Interstate spur that connects I-65 in Decatur with U.S. Route 72 (US 72) in Huntsville, in the U.S. state of Alabama.\n\nI-565 serves the cities of Decatur, Madison, and downtown Huntsville. It also provides a route to the Huntsville International Airport. The interstate forms a part of Appalachian Development Highway System Corridor V. US 72 Alternate (US 72 Alt.) travels concurrently with I-565 for its entire length.\n\nI-565's connection with the rest of the Interstate Highway System occurs at its western terminus, at an interchange with I-65. The interchange was extant prior to I-565's construction; it served Alabama State Route 20 (SR 20), which previously extended eastward into Huntsville. (The interchange was rebuilt and improved as part of the I-565 construction.) From the interchange, I-565 takes a brief northerly swing to bypass the town of Mooresville before joining and subsuming the former right of way of SR 20 through rural southeastern Limestone County. Progressing eastward, as the western edge of the city of Madison it diverges slightly to the south of the former SR 20 route, traveling parallel to it a short distance away. (This portion of the old SR 20 route is now named Madison Boulevard.)\nIn Greenbrier, the route junctions with Greenbrier Road (which is closed to be converted into a Partial cloverleaf interchange for the new Mazda/Toyota plant) and County Line Road, which is among the most congested interchanges in the state. Immediately after the junction with County Line Road, the route enters Madison County and immediately junctions with the main thoroughfare for Huntsville International Airport.\n\nContinuing east, I-565 goes through the southern part of Madison, rejoining the former SR 20 route near the Huntsville–Madison city line. Here, I-565 once again subsumes the old route's right of way as it travels along the south edge of Cummings Research Park and the University of Alabama in Huntsville campus, and the north edge of Redstone Arsenal. At Governors Drive, I-565 takes a slight turn northward away from the old route and continues through an area generally referred to as \"West Huntsville\". It enters a long elevated stretch, and has an interchange with Memorial Parkway just south of University Drive, and then gradually curving towards the northeast, passes north of downtown Huntsville and through a former cotton mill district. At Oakwood Avenue, it subsumes what was once the easternmost half mile of Andrew Jackson Way, traveling over Chapman Mountain to its eastern terminus where it joins US 72.\n\nAfter the completion of I-565, the SR 20 designation was removed from all remaining portions of the former route east of I-65.\n\nWhen the Interstate Highway System was first laid out during the mid-1950s, I-65 was routed on a north–south bee line connecting Nashville, Tennessee with Birmingham, Alabama. This route passes just to the east of Decatur, which was a major river port on the Tennessee River at the time. Huntsville, however, was still a small town about east of I-65.\n\nDuring the late 1950s and through the 1960s, Huntsville underwent massive population growth due to the establishment of the U.S. Army Missile Command at Redstone Arsenal, and the new NASA Marshall Space Flight Center. By 1960, Huntsville had grown to be more than twice the size of Decatur. It became clear that an Interstate Highway spur route would be beneficial to connect Huntsville with I-65, and to the rest of the country. \"I-565\" was chosen as the Federal Highway Administration's number for this proposed spur expressway. It was decided that rather than terminating at the western edge of Huntsville, I-565 would extend farther eastward, providing an east–west freeway for Huntsville. On the eastern edge of Huntsville, I-565 was designed to feed into US 72, which was being widened to a four-lane highway traveling from Huntsville to Kimball, Tennessee, where it feeds into I-24.\n\nConstruction of I-565 began in 1987, and the freeway was opened on October 26, 1991. By the time construction had begun, Huntsville had become one of the most populous cities in the contiguous United States without a freeway connection to the Interstate system. Construction was performed in phases.\n\nPhase 1 opened in 1989, and extended from the east side of Mooresville to County Line Road (exit 7, which was originally constructed to serve as a terminus taking traffic between I-565 and SR 20). At the time, traffic from I-65 still had to drive through Mooresville to where the interstate started while the Mooresville overpasses and bridges over creeks were constructed.\n\nPhase 2 added a bypass through Madison. The Interstate still ended at County Line Road requiring traffic to take SR 20 through Madison until about Slaughter Road where a temporary entrance/exit merged traffic back onto I-565. The route then traveled along the old Governors Drive path past the Space and Rocket Center until it terminated with two lanes exiting at what is now the Governors Drive exit. This bypass through Madison allowed construction of the bridges over Zeirdt Road and the earthwork to be done near what is now the golf driving range and for construction of the Wall Triana exit and airport exit. The eastern terminus at Governors drive was to allow for construction of the elevated sections crossing Memorial Parkway and extending over Pratt and Oakwood to the terminus at US 72.\n\nPhase 3 opened the Interstate from County Line Road to Governors Drive exit. This gave access via the Airport exit and Wall Triana exit.\n\nPhase 4 was completed in 1991-92, with the completion of the bridges and overpasses near Mooresville and the Interstate was opened directly from I-65, bypassing the city of Mooresville.\n\nPhase 5 opened the \"elevated sections\" from Governors Drive to the US 72 intersection. At the time, this intersection with US 72 was no longer interstate and was controlled by a red-light. This also opened the interchange of I-565 and Memorial Parkway.\n\nWhen I-565 was first opened, it was signed as a north–south highway. This created some confusion because the highway travels roughly east–west. It was re-signed soon after opening. In 1996, the entirety of I-565 was designated the \"Admiral Alan B. Shepard Highway\" in honor of astronaut Alan Shepard.\n\nUnlike many urban Interstate Highways, which have a uniform speed limit of , I-565 has a speed limit of , continuing well into the city. Just west of the interchange with Memorial Parkway, the speed limit decreases to and remains so for the entire portion east.\n\nOn November 20, 2006, a school bus carrying high school students collided with another vehicle or swerved to avoid a collision and drove off an elevated off-ramp, falling nose-first approximately to the ground. Four teenage girls were killed in the accident.\n\nPhase 6 was completed in 2010. This slightly extended I-565 from the then red-light at US 72 to the east end and converted the connection with US 72 from an at-grade intersection into a full interchange. This kept traffic going over Chapman Mountain from having to stop at the intersection which created morning and afternoon commuter backups. After this intersection, controlled access officially stops, but the highway is still a four-lane highway and does not require a stop until the red-light at the bottom of Chapman Mountain at the Moores Mill intersection.\n\nPlans are in place to extend I-565 east several miles past the interchange with US 72 along a newly upgraded freeway section of US 72 east of Huntsville. Construction could start on two new exits at Moores Mill Road and Shields Road by 2015.\n\nAn extension of I-565 west, from the current terminus at I-65, along the route of SR 20 and US 72 Alt. to its intersection with US 31 near Decatur, is also planned. In January 2007, politicians in Northwestern Alabama announced that they would launch a campaign to extend I-565 westward to Florence. I-565 is part of a proposed highway that would connect Memphis, Tennessee, with Atlanta, Georgia, via Rome , Georgia, and Chattanooga, Tennessee as part of ISTEA High Priority Corridor 7, with a possible numbering of \"Interstate 28\".\n\nThe Huntsville \"5 Year Plan\" shows adding additional westbound lane from Maysville Road to Shields Road (cost $9 million in FY2014) and closing the median opening where I-565 terminates into US 72 on Chapman Mountain. This would also include a connector road between Epworth Drive and Maysville Road (cost $5 million FY2014). In addition, \"Projects Being Considered\" to include additional lanes on I-565 from Wall Triana to County Line Road interchange (cost $60 Million) and additional lanes on I-565 from County Line Road interchange to I-65 (cost $60 Million).\n\nWork began on Phase 7 in December 2013 to upgrade the interchange of I-565 and County Line Road at exit 7, adding exits and on-ramps to for access to/from the east. The upgrade was budgeted to cost $30 million with the City of Madison funding $1.7 million of the project. The new interchange added ramps providing access for traffic exiting westbound and entering eastbound, so that the interchange now has a full set of ramps. The exit was re-opened with new ramps in April 2015.\n\nAdding an exit at Zeirdt Road at an estimated cost of $20 million is also being discussed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324370", "title": "Fort Worth Japanese Garden", "text": "Fort Worth Japanese Garden\n\nThe Fort Worth Japanese Garden is a Japanese Garden in the Fort Worth Botanic Garden. The garden was built in 1973 and many of the plants and construction materials were donated by Fort Worth's sister city Nagaoka, Japan. Attractions at the garden include a zen garden, a moon viewing (tsukimi) deck, waterfalls, cherry trees, Japanese maples, a pagoda, and fishfood dispensers to feed the hundreds of koi in the Japanese Garden's three ponds. The garden hosts two annual events, the Spring Festival and the Fall Festival, featuring demonstrations of Japanese art and culture.\n\nScott Brooks, the Fort Worth Japanese Garden's senior gardener, reports:\nThe Fort Worth Japanese Garden was originally constructed with materials donated from numerous individuals, businesses, and institutions in north Texas and elsewhere in the USA. In the 1990s, Fort Worth's Japanese sister city, Nagaoka, donated an authentic Mikoshi (a sacred palanquin) to Fort Worth, which is currently housed within the garden's precincts. Several trees, including pines and flowering cherries, were similarly donated. Finally, Mr. Shigeichi Suzuki, a landscape architect from Nagaoka, donated plans for a karesansui-style addition to the Garden in 1997. The addition was completed in 2000, and is now called the 'Suzuki Garden'.\n<br><br>\nThe Fort Worth Japanese Garden was built into a little valley, originally a gullied bluff, that opened onto the floodplain of the Trinity River's Clear Fork branch. Enlarged as a gravel quarry, the site also served at various times as a watering hole for cattle, a trash dump, and a squatter's camp. Today, the secluded valley serves as a Japanese-style 'stroll garden' (kaiyushiki teien).\n<br><br>\nAt the heart of the landscape is a system of ponds, surrounded by hills (tsukiyama), and enclosed by a network of interconnected paths, pavilions, bridges, and decks. As the name implies, the garden unfolds as an ever-changing series of landscape perspectives to visitors who stroll along those thoroughfares.\n<br><br>\nBuilt in the tradition of Edo-period (1600-1868) stroll gardens, the Fort Worth Japanese Garden integrates several styles of garden design into a single landscape. Examples of the 'Hill-and-Pond' (tsukiyama rinsentei), 'Dry Landscape' (karesansui), 'Tea Garden' (roji), and 'Enclosed-Garden' (tsubo niwa), types are all expressed there. In addition, the garden features architectural elements derived from venues historically associated with Japanese gardening. These include Buddhist temples, Imperial villas, the estates of Samurai lords, and the townhouse gardens of wealthy merchants. \n<br><br>\nSeveral unconventional architectural elements are exhibited in the Fort Worth Japanese garden. One of them, called the 'Pavilion', is derivative of a Shinto shrine's main hall. It stands above the ground on posts, and features several gabled roofs with criss-crossed extensions (chigi). Another unusual garden element is the 'Mikoshi', an ornate palanquin donated to Fort Worth by the citizens of Nagaoka, Japan. Likewise, a 'taijitu' (yin-yang symbol), a graceful Indochinese Buddha, and three stone monkeys (Mizaru, Kikazaru, and Iwazaru), are all atypical additions unique to this Fort Worth exhibit.\n<br><br>\nThe 'Karesansui Garden' (formerly called the 'Meditation Garden'), is patterned after Kyoto's famous 'Garden of the Abbot's Quarters', at the Ryoanji temple complex. It is a classic fifteen-stone, 'Hira niwa' (Flat Garden) composition, that has its own unique characteristics. One of them is an elevated and enclosed viewing veranda, evocative of a Japanese-style roofed bridge (rokyo). It surrounds the flat garden, allowing it to be viewed from all sides. Another is the exclusion of plant material from the exhibit's core. The fifteen boulders are surrounded by patterned gravel (samon), enclosed within a stone retainer, and surrounded by black volcanic scoria. The only plants allowed to flourish within this composition are the fruticose lichens which have colonized the boulder's surfaces. This minimalist exhibit stands as an exuisite metaphor of the famously sparse Zen aesthetic.\n<br><br>\nThe Fort Worth Japanese Garden's 'Moon-Viewing Deck' is a creative adaptation of the Ginkakuji temple's famous 'Kogetsudai' sand cone. Fort Worth's version is intended to be an interactive karesansui exhibit, in which visitors may ascend the flat-topped cone via steps, and view the composition from above. A 'Taijitu' (a yin-yang symbol), lies embossed in exposed-aggregate concrete at the summit. This highly unusual (but fun) addition to a Japanese garden is ultimately a cosmological symbol of Chinese origin. It also has other interpretations, including its most important contemporary association with Korean culture, and as a metaphor for oriental mysticism in American 'Pop' culture. The exhibit also features an amphitheatre that is countersunk into the same platform as the cone. Together, they serve as a performance venue for the garden's two annual festivals (matsuri), and as a moonlit chapel for weddings.\n<br><br>\nTwo karesansui (dry landscape) exhibits at the Fort Worth Japanese Garden are evocative of rivers that originate in mountainous terrain. One of them begins adjacent the garden's 'Pavilion', and 'flows' down a winding, boulder-lined channel, to a small lake or sea. Here, the 'water' consists entirely of ornamental gravel, and can be viewed from several levels along its length. The other exhibit is near the garden's 'Moon-Viewing' deck. Like the first, it begins in a group of boulders that are intended to suggest a craggy range of mountains. This 'river' of mixed cobbles then descends along a terraced, boulder-lined channel, that is, in turn, surrounded by a berm of fine-textured turf. It disappears in the midst of several large boulders, like a river descending into a canyon. This creative departure from karesansui tradition was intended to suggest a purely American landmark. It is a garden metaphor of the Colorado River, which rises in the Rocky Mountains, flows across an elevated plateau, and descends into the depths of the Grand Canyon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324373", "title": "HDMS Tulugaq (Y388)", "text": "HDMS Tulugaq (Y388)\n\nHDMS \"Tulugaq\" [Du-lou-ack] (Kalaallisut: Winter Raven) was a Royal Danish Navy which until 21 December 2017 was stationed in Greenland. On \n22 December 2017 she was sold by an internet auction into private ownership.\n"}
{"id": "2324374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324374", "title": "Fruit of the Holy Spirit", "text": "Fruit of the Holy Spirit\n\nThe Fruit of the Holy Spirit is a biblical term that sums up nine attributes of a person or community living in accord with the Holy Spirit, according to chapter 5 of the Epistle to the Galatians: \"But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.\" The fruit is contrasted with the which immediately precede it in this chapter.\n\nTraditionalist Catholicism might follow the Vulgate version of Galatians in listing 12 fruits: charity, joy, peace, patience, benignity (kindness), goodness, longanimity (forbearance), mildness (gentleness), faith, modesty, continency (self-control), and chastity. This tradition was defended by Thomas Aquinas in his work \"Summa Theologica\". But the New American Bible approved for Catholic liturgical use in the United States follows the Greek and lists the original nine.\n\nAquinas pointed that numbered among the fruits of the Holy Spirit are certain virtues, such as charity, meekness, faith, chastity, and kindness. Augustine defined virtue as \"a good habit consonant with our nature.\" \n\nThough traditionally discussed as nine attributes of the Fruit of the Spirit, the original Greek term translated as \"fruit\" is singular. Aquinas explained, \"Consequently fruit is mentioned there in the singular, on account of its being generically one, though divided into many species which are spoken of as so many fruits.\" Augustine's commentary on Galatians 5:25-26 says, \"the Apostle had no intention of teaching us how many [either , or fruits of the Spirit] there are; but to show how the former should be avoided, and the latter sought after.\"\n\n\"Agape\" (love) denotes an undefeatable benevolence and unconquerable goodwill that always seeks the highest good for others, no matter their behavior. It is a love that gives freely without asking anything in return, and does not consider the worth of its object. \"Agape\" is more a love by choice than \"philos,\" which is love by chance; and it refers to the will rather than the emotion. \"Agape\" describes the unconditional love God has for the world. Paul describes love in 1 Corinthians 13:4–8:\n\nAccording to Strong's Greek Lexicon, the word ἀγάπη [G26] (Transliteration: agapē) means love, i.e. affection or benevolence; specially (plural) a love-feast:—(feast of) charity(-ably), dear, love.\n\n\nOutline of Biblical Usage:\nThe Greek word ἀγάπη (agapē) occurs 117 times in 106 verses in the Greek concordance of the NASB.\n\nThe joy referred to here is deeper than mere happiness; it is rooted in God and comes from Him. Since it comes from God, it is more serene and stable than worldly happiness, which is merely emotional and lasts only for a time.\n\nAccording to Strong's Greek Lexicon, the Greek word listed in the verse is χαρά (G5479), meaning 'joy', 'gladness', or 'a source of joy'. The Greek χαρά (chara) occurs 59 times in 57 verses in the Greek concordance of the NASB.\n\nJoy (Noun and Verb), Joyfulness, Joyfully, Joyous:\n\"joy, delight\" (akin to chairo, \"to rejoice\"), is found frequently in Matthew and Luke, and especially in John, once in Mark (Mar 4:16, RV, \"joy,\" AV, \"gladness\"); it is absent from 1 Cor. (though the verb is used three times), but is frequent in 2 Cor., where the noun is used five times (for 2Cr 7:4, RV, see Note below), and the verb eight times, suggestive of the Apostle's relief in comparison with the circumstances of the 1st Epistle; in Col 1:11, AV, \"joyfulness,\" RV, \"joy.\" The word is sometimes used, by metonymy, of the occasion or cause of \"joy,\" Luk 2:10 (lit., \"I announce to you a great joy\"); in 2Cr 1:15, in some mss., for charis, \"benefit;\" Phl 4:1, where the readers are called the Apostle's \"joy;\" so 1Th 2:19, 20; Hbr 12:2, of the object of Christ's \"joy;\" Jam 1:2, where it is connected with falling into trials; perhaps also in Mat 25:21, 23, where some regard it as signifying, concretely, the circumstances attending cooperation in the authority of the Lord.\n\nNote: In Hbr 12:11, \"joyous\" represents the phrase meta, \"with,\" followed by chara, lit., \"with joy.\" So in Hbr 10:34, \"joyfully;\" in 2Cr 7:4 the noun is used with the Middle Voice of huperperisseuo, \"to abound more exceedingly,\" and translated \"(I overflow) with joy,\" RV (AV, \"I am exceeding joyful\"). \n\nThe Greek word εἰρήνη (Strong's G1515)(eirēnē)(transliteration: i-ray'-nay), probably derived from a primary verb εἴρω eírō (to join), means peace (literally or figuratively); by implication, prosperity:—one, peace, quietness, rest, + set at one again.\n\nThe word \"peace\" comes from the Greek word \"eirene,\" the Greek equivalent for the Hebrew word \"shalom,\" which expresses the idea of \"wholeness, completeness, or tranquility in the soul that is unaffected by the outward circumstances or pressures.\" The word \"eirene\" strongly suggests the rule of order in place of chaos.\"\nThe Greek εἰρήνη (eirēnē) occurs 92 times in 86 verses in the Greek concordance of the KJV. The KJV translates Strong's G1515 in the following manner: peace (89x), one (1x), rest (1x), quietness (1x). The outline of Biblical usage is as follows:\n\nJesus is described as the Prince of Peace, who brings peace to the hearts of those who desire it. He says in John 14:27: \"Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid\". In Matthew 5:9 he says, \"Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called sons of God.\"\n\nGenerally the Greek world applied this word to a man who could avenge himself but did not. This word is often used in the Greek Scriptures in reference to God and God's attitude to humans. Exodus 34:6 describes the Lord as \"slow to anger and rich in kindness and fidelity.\"\n\nPatience, which in some translations is \"longsuffering\" or \"endurance\", is defined in Strong's by two Greek words, \"makrothumia\" and \"hupomone.\"\nThe first, pronounced (mak-roth-oo-\"mee\"-ah) comes from \"makros\", \"long\", and \"thumos,\" \"temper\". The word denotes lenience, forbearance, fortitude, patient endurance, longsuffering. Also included in \"makrothumia\" is the ability to endure persecution and ill-treatment. It describes a person who has the power to exercise revenge but instead exercises restraint. (Strong's #3115)\nThe latter, hupomone, (hoop-om-on-\"ay\") is translated \"endurance\": Constancy, perseverance, continuance, bearing up, steadfastness, holding out, patient endurance. The word combines \"hupo,\" \"under\", and \"mone,\" \"to remain\". It describes the capacity to continue to bear up under difficult circumstances, not with a passive complacency, but with a hopeful fortitude that actively resists weariness and defeat, (Strong's #5281) with hupomone (Greek ὑπομονή) being further understood as that which would be \"as opposed to cowardice or despondency\"\n\"With lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love\".\n\nIn Greek, old wine was called \"\"chrestos\"\" which meant that it was mellow or smooth. Christ used this word in Matthew 11:30, \"For my yoke is easy, and my burden light.\"\n\nKindness is acting for the good of people regardless of what they do, properly, \"useable, i.e. well-fit for use (for what is really needed); kindness that is also serviceable\".\n\nStrong's \"#5544:\" Kindness is goodness in action, sweetness of disposition, gentleness in dealing with others, benevolence, kindness, affability. The word describes \"the ability to act for the welfare of those taxing your patience.\" The Holy Spirit removes abrasive qualities from the character of one under His control. (emphasis added)\n\nThe word kindness comes from the Greek word \"chrestotes\" (khray-\"stot\"-ace), which meant to show kindness or to be friendly to others and often depicted rulers, governors, or people who were kind, mild, and benevolent to their subjects. Anyone who demonstrated this quality of \"chrestotes\" was considered to be compassionate, considerate, sympathetic, humane, kind, or gentle. The apostle Paul uses this word to depict God's incomprehensible kindness for people who are unsaved (see Romans 11:22; Ephesians 2:7; Titus 3:4).\n\nOne scholar has noted that when the word \"chrestotes\" is applied to interpersonal relationships, it conveys the idea of being adaptable to others. Rather than harshly require everyone else to adapt to his own needs and desires, when \"chrestotes\" is working in a believer, he seeks to become adaptable to the needs of those who are around him. (\"Sparkling Gems from the Greek\", Rick Renner)Kindness is doing something and not expecting anything in return. Kindness is respect and helping others without waiting for someone to help one back. It implies kindness no matter what. We should live \"in purity, understanding, patience and kindness; in the Holy Spirit and in sincere love; in truthful speech and in the power of God; with weapons of righteousness in the right hand and in the left\".\n\n\nPopular English Bibles (e.g. NIV, NASB, NLT) translate the single Greek word \"chrestotes\" into two English words: kindness and goodness. \"Wherefore also we pray always for you, that our God would count you worthy of this calling, and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith with power\". \"For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth\", with agathosune being \"found only in Biblical and ecclesiastical writings, uprightness of heart and life\".\n\nThe root of \"pistis\" (\"faith\") is \"peithô\", that is to persuade or be persuaded, which supplies the core-meaning of faith as being \"divine persuasion\", received from God, and never generated by man. It is defined as the following: objectively, trustworthy; subjectively, trustful:—believe(-ing, -r), faithful(-ly), sure, true.\n\n\nThe Greek πιστός (pistos) occurs 67 times in 62 verses in the Greek concordance of the KJV: faithful (53x), believe (6x), believing (2x), true (2x), faithfully (1x), believer (1x), sure (1x).\n\nOutline of Biblical Usage\n\n\nExamples:\n\"O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of old are faithfulness and truth\". \"I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith\".\n\nThe writer of the Letter to the Hebrews describes it this way: \"Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God\".\n\nGentleness, in the Greek, \"prautes\", commonly known as meekness, is \"a \"divinely-balanced\" virtue that can only operate through faith (cf. ; ).\nThe \"New Spirit Filled Life Bible\" defines gentleness as \"a disposition that is even-tempered, tranquil, balanced in spirit, unpretentious, and that has the passions under control. The word is best translated 'meekness,' not as an indication of weakness, but of power and strength under control. The person who possesses this quality pardons injuries, corrects faults, and rules his own spirit well\".\n\"Brothers and sisters, if someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. But watch yourselves, or you also may be tempted\".\n\"Be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love\".\n\nThe Greek word used in Galatians 5:23 is \"\"enkrateia\"\", meaning \"strong, having mastery, able to control one's thoughts and actions.\"\n\nWe read also: \"...make every effort to add to your faith goodness; and to goodness, knowledge; and to knowledge, self-control; and to self-control, perseverance; and to perseverance, godliness; and to godliness, mutual affection; and to mutual affection, love\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324377", "title": "Ramanujan theta function", "text": "Ramanujan theta function\n\nIn mathematics, particularly q-analog theory, the Ramanujan theta function generalizes the form of the Jacobi theta functions, while capturing their general properties. In particular, the Jacobi triple product takes on a particularly elegant form when written in terms of the Ramanujan theta. The function is named after Srinivasa Ramanujan.\n\nThe Ramanujan theta function is defined as\n\nfor |\"ab\"| < 1. The Jacobi triple product identity then takes the form\n\nHere, the expression formula_3 denotes the q-Pochhammer symbol. Identities that follow from this include\n\nand\n\nand\n\nthis last being the Euler function, which is closely related to the Dedekind eta function. The Jacobi theta function may be written in terms of the Ramanujan theta function as:\n\nWe have the following integral representation for the full two-parameter form of Ramanujan's theta function:\n\nThe special cases of Ramanujan's theta functions given by formula_9 and formula_10 also have the following integral representations:\n\nThis leads to several special case integrals for constants defined by these functions when formula_12 (cf. theta function explicit values). In particular, we have that \n\nand that\n\nThe Ramanujan theta function is used to determine the critical dimensions in Bosonic string theory, superstring theory and M-theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324378", "title": "Dong Ping", "text": "Dong Ping\n\nDong Ping is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the four great classical novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"General of Double Spears\", he ranks 15th among the 36 Heavenly Spirits, the first third of the 108 Stars of Destiny.\n\nDong Ping is from Shangdang (上黨), located in present-day Yuncheng, Shanxi. He serves as the garrison commander in Dongping Prefecture (東平府; present-day Dongping County, Shandong). A fearsome warrior, he is nicknamed \"General of Double Spears\" as he fights with a pair of spears. He is good-looking and an expect in music and the arts to boot. Therefore, he is sometimes called \"Debonair General of Double Spears\".\n\nSong Jiang leads a force to attack Dongping while Lu Junyi attacks Dongchang as a way to decide between them who would lead Liangshan. He sends Yu Baosi and Wang Dingliu to demand the prefect hands over the city's grains and fodder. The prefect is cowed, but Dong Ping calms him down and suggests executing the two to strike fear in the bandits. But the prefect only orders Yu and Wang be beaten and thrown out.\n\nLiangshan's Shi Jin volunteers to sneak into Dongping to sabotage it from within. He takes cover in the house of a prostitute whom he has earlier patronised. But he is arrested as the brothel's owner squeals on him. The Liangshan outlaws immediately attack the city. Dong Ping battles with some of Liangshan's good fighters but neither side wins.\n\nMeanwhile, Dong Ping is unhappy with the prefect for repeatedly declining his proposal to marry his daughter.\n\nOne night, the outlaws taunt Dong Ping and lure him out of the city. Not knowing it is a trap, Dong Ping falls into a hidden pit and is captured. Song Jiang's sincerity convinces him to surrender. Dong Ping then tricks the prefect to open the city gates. Dong Ping kills the prefect and seizes his daughter.\n\nDong Ping is appointed one of the Five Tiger Generals of the Liangshan cavalry after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the Grand Assembly. He participates in the campaigns against the invading Liao army and rebel forces on Song territory following amnesty by Emperor Huizong for Liangshan.\n\nDuring the expedition against Fang La, Dong Ping and \"Featherless Arrow\" Zhang Qing are assigned to take down Dusong Pass (獨松關; located south of present-day Anji County, Zhejiang). Although injured in the left arm by a projectile, Dong Ping continues to battle fight Li Tianrun, one of Fang La's generals. When he finally retreats to treat his wound, Zhang Qing takes on Li Tianrun. Li slays Zhang Qing when the latter's spear gets stuck in a tree. Seeing that, Dong Ping charges forth and kills Li. But Li Tianrun's comrade Zhang Tao sneaks up on him and slices him in two from behind.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324379", "title": "Clayton's", "text": "Clayton's\n\nClayton's may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2324384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324384", "title": "Americans for Medical Progress", "text": "Americans for Medical Progress\n\nAmericans for Medical Progress (AMP) is a charity that aims to protect and advocate for society's investment in medical research. As a specific goal, AMP states that it promotes \"public understanding of and support for the appropriate role of animals in biomedical research so that scientists are able to continue their quest for cures and improved methods of treatment for illness, injury and disease.\" Although in favor of moderate animal welfare measures, the AMP is often sharply critical of more radical animal rights groups such as PETA and the similarly named Americans For Medical Advancement.\n\nAMP issues the Albert. B. Sabin Hero of Science Award to honor leading medical scientists and advocates of biomedical research. Past recipients have included Dr. Sabin himself, Nobel laureate Joseph E. Murray, vaccine designer Maurice Hilleman, and herceptin developer Dennis Slamon, as well as opera legend Beverly Sills, actress Barbara Barrie, and former U. S. Representatives John E. Porter and Patricia Schroeder for their support and advocacy of medical research.\n\nIn Spring 2008 the organization awarded Tom Holder, the spokesman for Pro-Test, the Michael D. Hayre fellowship in public outreach. This allowed Holder to move to the United States, and with the support of AMP, set up Speaking of Research a campus-oriented group supporting animal research with similar tactics to Pro-Test. In July 2009 AMP announced three new Hayre Fellows to work on local and national advocacy efforts.\n\nIn April 2009 Americans for Medical Progress launched the Pro-Test Petition in conjunction with Speaking of Research and UCLA Pro-Test. According to Holder the petition offered the public \"[an] opportunity to show [their] support for the scientists and [their] opposition to the use of threats and violence\". This petition, to defend animal research, is similar to The People's Petition which gained over 20,000 signatures in the United Kingdom. The Pro-Test Petition has accumulated over 10,000 signatures to date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324387", "title": "HDMS Agdlek (Y386)", "text": "HDMS Agdlek (Y386)\n\nHDMS \"Agdlek\" [Ash-laerc] (: \"long-tailed duck\") was the lead ship of the of arctic patrol cutter in the Royal Danish Navy. \"Agdlek\" was commissioned in March 1974 and decommissioned in April 2008 after 34 years of service.\n"}
{"id": "2324396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324396", "title": "Directory traversal attack", "text": "Directory traversal attack\n\nA directory traversal (or path traversal) consists in exploiting insufficient security validation / sanitization of user-supplied input file names, such that characters representing \"traverse to parent directory\" are passed through to the file APIs.\n\nThe goal of this attack is to use an affected application to gain unauthorized access to the file system. This attack exploits a lack of security (the software is acting exactly as it is supposed to) as opposed to exploiting a bug in the code.\n\nDirectory traversal is also known as the codice_1 (dot dot slash) attack, directory climbing, and backtracking. Some forms of this attack are also canonicalization attacks.\n\nA typical example of vulnerable application in PHP code is:\n<?php\n$template = 'red.php';\nif (isset($_COOKIE['TEMPLATE'])) {\ninclude (\"/home/users/phpguru/templates/\" . $template);\n\nAn attack against this system could be to send the following HTTP request:\n\nGET /vulnerable.php HTTP/1.0\nCookie: TEMPLATE=../../../../../../../../../etc/passwd\nGenerating a server response such as:\n\nHTTP/1.0 200 OK\nContent-Type: text/html\nServer: Apache\n\nroot:fi3sED95ibqR6:0:1:System Operator:/:/bin/ksh \ndaemon:*:1:1::/tmp: \nphpguru:f8fk3j1OIf31.:182:100:Developer:/home/users/phpguru/:/bin/csh\nThe repeated codice_1 characters after codice_3 has caused \ncodice_4 to traverse to the root directory, and then include the Unix password file codice_5.\n\nUnix codice_5 is a common file used to demonstrate directory traversal, as it is often used by crackers to try cracking the passwords.\n\nHowever, in more recent Unix systems, the passwd file does not contain the hashed passwords. They are, instead, located in the shadow file which cannot be read by unprivileged users on the machine. It is however, still useful for account enumeration on the machine, as it still displays the user accounts on the system.\n\nListed below are some known directory traversal attack strings:\n\nCommon Unix-like directory traversal uses the codice_1 characters.\nSudo, a privilege management program ubiquitous in Unix is vulnerable to this attack when users use the glob wildcard (e.g. chown /opt/myapp/myconfig/* could be exploited with the command sudo chown baduser /opt/myapp/myconfig/../../../etc/passwd).\n\nMicrosoft Windows and DOS directory traversal uses the codice_8 or codice_1 character sequences.\n\nEach partition has a separate root directory (labeled codice_10 for a particular partition C) and there is no common root directory above that. This means that for most directory vulnerabilities on Windows, the attack is limited to a single partition.\n\nThis kind of attack has been the cause of numerous Microsoft vulnerabilities.\n\nCanonicalization problem.\n\nSome web applications scan query string for dangerous characters such as:\nto prevent directory traversal. However, the query string is usually URI decoded before use. Therefore, these applications are vulnerable to percent encoded directory traversal such as:\n\nCanonicalization problem.\n\nUTF-8 was noted as a source of vulnerabilities and attack vectors by Bruce Schneier and Jeffrey Streifling.\n\nWhen Microsoft added Unicode support to their Web server, a new way of encoding codice_1 was introduced into their code, causing their attempts at directory traversal prevention to be circumvented.\n\nMultiple percent encodings, such as\ntranslated into codice_25 or codice_26 characters.\n\nPercent encodings were decoded into the corresponding 8-bit characters by Microsoft webserver. This has historically been correct behavior as Windows and DOS traditionally used canonical 8-bit characters sets based upon ASCII.\n\nHowever, the original UTF-8 was not canonical, and several strings were now string encodings translatable into the same string. Microsoft performed the anti-traversal checks without UTF-8 canonicalization, and therefore not noticing that (HEX) codice_27 and (HEX) codice_28 were the same character when doing string comparisons. Malformed percent encodings, such as codice_29 was also utilized.\n\nThe use of archive formats like zip allows for directory traversal attacks: files in the archive can be written such that they overwrite files on the filesystem by backtracking. Code that uncompresses archive files can be written to check that the paths of the files in the archive do not engage in path traversal.\n\nA possible algorithm for preventing directory traversal would be to:\n\n<?php\ninclude($_GET['file'] . '.html');\nThe user can use the NULL character (indicating the end of the string) in order to bypass everything after the $_GET. (This is PHP-specific.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324404", "title": "Li Ying (Water Margin)", "text": "Li Ying (Water Margin)\n\nLi Ying is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the four great classical novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"Striking Hawk\", he ranks 11th among the 36 Heavenly Spirits, the first third of the 108 Stars of Destiny.\n\nThe novel depicts Li Ying as unique-looking with eyes like those of a hawk, a head like that of a tiger, arms like those of an ape and a waist like that of a wolf. In battles he dons a red robe, rides a white stallion and wields a steel spear. He is known for his skill of throwing daggers with deadly accuracy, for which he is nicknamed \"Striking Hawk\".\n\nLi Ying is from Yunzhou (), Zhongshan Prefecture (), located in present-day Dongping County, Shandong province. He is the master of the Li Family Manor, which stands with the Zhu and Hu Family Manors on the Lone Dragon Ridge (). Wealthy and owning a militia force, Li Ying is generous and likes to make friends with chivalrous men.\n\nShi Qian is seized by the Zhu Family Manor after he stole a rooster from its inn for meal. Fleeing their pursuers, Yang Xiong and Shi Xiu, who are travelling with Shi to join the Liangshan outlaws, land in the neighbouring Li Family Manor. They run into Li Ying's steward Du Xing, who has once received help from Yang Xiong. Du brings them to his master Li Ying, who thinks the incident is a minor misunderstanding. He writes a letter to the Zhus, politely asking them to release Shi Qian. As his request is rejected, he writes a second letter and sends Du Xing to deliver it. This time the Zhus even insult him, alleging that he is in cahoots with Liangshan. Infuriated, Li leads some men to the Zhu Manor to demand a redress. Zhu Biao hits Li Ying with an arrow, causing him to fall off his horse. Yang Xiong and Shi Xiu rush forth to snatch him to safety.\n\nYang Xiong and Shi Xiu reach Liangshan Marsh where they seek help. Liangshan's chief Chao Gai sends Song Jiang to lead Liangshan forces to attack the Zhu Family Manor. It is a tough battle that takes the outlaws three offensives to finally overrun the place. Li Ying did not participate in the fighting because he wanted no association with the outlaws. Besides he was nursing his injured arm.\n\nSong Jiang, however, wants Li Ying to join his band. After the battle ended, he sends men to the Li Family Manor disguised as constables sent to arrest Li Ying and Du Xing for collaboration with outlaws. As the two are \"escorted\" to the prefectural office, the Liangshan outlaws \"rescue\" them. When Li Ying realises he has been conned, he has no choice but to join Liangshan.\n\nLi Ying is placed in charge of Liangshan's finance and stocks alongside Chai Jin after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the \"Grand Assembly\". He follows the Liangshan heroes on their campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces on Song territory following amnesty from Emperor Huizong for Liangshan. He is one of the few Liangshan heroes who survive all the campaigns.\n\nThe emperor appoints Li Ying as an official in recognition of his contributions. Six months into his job, Li Ying hears that Chai Jin has resigned and returned home. He too feigns illness and quits his post. He and Du Xing go back to their manor at Lone Dragon Ridge and live in comfort for the rest of their lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324407", "title": "PyMOL", "text": "PyMOL\n\nPyMOL is an open source molecular visualization system created by Warren Lyford DeLano. It was commercialized initially by DeLano Scientific LLC, which was a private software company dedicated to creating useful tools that become universally accessible to scientific and educational communities. It is currently commercialized by Schrödinger, Inc. PyMOL can produce high-quality 3D images of small molecules and biological macromolecules, such as proteins. According to the original author, by 2009, almost a quarter of all published images of 3D protein structures in the scientific literature were made using PyMOL.\n\nPyMOL is one of the few open-source model visualization tools available for use in structural biology. The \"Py\" part of the software's name refers to the program having been written in the programming language Python.\n\nPyMOL uses OpenGL Extension Wrangler Library (GLEW) and FreeGLUT, and can solve Poisson–Boltzmann equations using the Adaptive Poisson Boltzmann Solver. PyMOL used Tk for the GUI widgets and had native Aqua binaries for macOS through Schrödinger, which were replaced with a PyQt user interface on all platforms with the release of version 2.0.\n\nEarly versions of PyMol were released under the Python License. On 1 August 2006, DeLano Scientific adopted a controlled-access download system for precompiled PyMOL builds (including betas) distributed by the company. Access to these executables is now limited to registered users who are paying customers; educational builds are available free to students and teachers. However, most of the current source code continues to be available for free, as are older precompiled builds. While the build systems for other platforms are open, the Windows API (WinAPI, Win32) build system is not, although unofficial Windows binaries are available online. Anyone can either compile an executable from the Python-licensed source code or pay for a subscription to support services to obtain access to precompiled executables.\n\nOn 8 January 2010, Schrödinger, Inc. reached an agreement to acquire PyMOL. The firm assumed development, maintenance, support, and sales of PyMOL, including all then-valid subscriptions. They also continue to actively support the PyMOL open-source community. In 2017, Schrödinger revamped the distribution system to unify the user interface under Qt and the package management under Anaconda, and released it as PyMol v2. This version restricts some new functionalities and adds a watermark to the visualization if used unlicensed beyond the 30-day trial period; the overall license policy is similar to the DeLano system. The source code remains mostly available, this time under a BSD-like license. As with the previous distribution, unofficial Windows binaries in the wheel format are available, and indeed Linux distributions continue to provide their own builds of the open-source code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324410", "title": "Sidrat al-Muntaha", "text": "Sidrat al-Muntaha\n\nThe Sidraṫ al-Munṫahā (; lit. \"Lote-Tree of the Utmost Farthest Boundary\") is a large enigmatic lote tree or Sidr tree that marks the end of the seventh heaven, the boundary which no creation can pass, according to Islamic beliefs. During the Isra and Mi'raj, Muhammad, being the only one allowed, traveled with the archangel Gabriel to the tree (where the angel stopped) beyond which it is said that God assigned the five daily prayers.\n\nSura 53, \"\"An-Najm\"\" (\"The Star\"), verses 10-18 reads:\nThe tree is also referred to in Sura 34, verse 16 and Sura 56, verse 28.\n\nA modern Qur'an commentary entitled \"Tafsīr al-karīm al-raḥman fī tafsīr kalām al-manān\" by Abd ar-Rahman ibn Nasir as-Sa'di, while commenting on , the Sidrat al-Muntahā, (Lote-Tree of the Extremity) explained:\nAbdullah Yusuf Ali, whose \"\" is among the most widely known English versions of the Qur'an, explained that this tree \"marked the bounds of heavenly knowledge as revealed to men, beyond which neither Angels nor men could pass.\"\n\nGeorge Sale, the 18th century English scholar, has \"beyond which Angels themselves must not pass; or, as some rather imagine, beyond which no creature's knowledge can extend.\" Sale also notes that one commentator states that line 16 refers to the \"host of angels worshipping\" around the tree and another that it is about the birds which sit on its branches.\n\nThe 19th century English explorer, Richard Burton reported seeing an ancient Sidr tree in the mosque containing Muhammad's tomb in Medina. It was in a garden dedicated to Muhammad's daughter Fatimah. The fruit from the tree was being sold to pilgrims and its leaves used for washing dead bodies.\n\nThe Sidrat al-Muntahā (usually transcribed as \"Sadratu'l-Muntahá\" in writings of the Baháʼí faith; see Baháʼí orthography) is a metaphor for the Manifestation of God.\n\nThe lote-tree is used as a symbol, for example, by the Qatar Foundation: \"The Sidra tree, growing strong and proud in the harshest of environments, has been a symbol of perseverance and nourishment across the borders of the Arab world. What is the significance of this glorious tree? With its roots bound in the soil of this world and its branches reaching upwards toward perfection, it is a symbol of solidarity and determination; it reminds us that the goals of this world are not incompatible with the goals of the spirit.\" The evergreen tree \"Ziziphus spina-christi\" represents this symbol in natural form.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324412", "title": "Verizon New York", "text": "Verizon New York\n\nThe New York Telephone Company (NYTel) was organized in 1896, taking over the New York City operations of the American Bell Telephone Company.\n\nThe Telephone Company of New York was formed under franchise in 1876. The principals were Charles A. Cheever and Hilborne Roosevelt. Its purpose was to rent telephone instruments to users, who were expected to provide wires to connect them, for example from factory to office. Such connections already existed for private telegraphs, and the new invention promised to save the cost of hiring a private telegraph operator. Manufacturers of steel wire for the Brooklyn Bridge then under construction were especially prominent among the customers under this scheme, using their own product.\n\nWestern Union subsidiaries, including Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph, Gold and Stock Telegraph, and American Speaking Telephone, based their New York and San Francisco operations on the telephone exchange principle and thus were larger and more advanced than the local Bell operations. Under the November 1879 settlement of the Elisha Gray patent infringement lawsuit, Western Union handed over its telephone operations to National Bell Telephone, which then renamed itself American Bell Telephone. The merged local company was called the Metropolitan Telephone and Telegraph Company. In 1896 the operations of Metropolitan Telephone and Telegraph Company and the Westchester Telephone Company (which served northern suburban areas, including parts of then-Westchester County which subsequently were incorporated into New York City as the borough of the Bronx) were consolidated under the name of the New York Telephone Company.\n\nThe New York and New Jersey Telephone Company, a Bell licensee serving Long Island and Staten Island, was broken up and its New York properties merged with the New York company as the City and Suburban Telephone Company in 1897. American Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T) eventually acquired a controlling interest and restored the New York Telephone name.\n\nThe company went underground in the 1920s, creating expensive new outside plant that fixed its geometry for the century to come. New cable ducts brought more reliable service to customers. They converged at approximately twenty wire centers, which were connected by larger trunk cable ducts running along the East and West Sides of Manhattan. The locations were one to two miles apart, close to concentrations of office workers while avoiding high prices for land. At each wire center a new central office arose to house telephone switchboards, panel switches and other inside plant, along with technicians, clerks, operators, and other workers. The largest of these was also the corporate headquarters, at 140 West Street on the Lower West Side, about a half mile from AT&T headquarters at 195 Broadway.\n\nThe Manhattan and Bronx parts of the underground system are owned by the Empire City Subway Company subsidiary. Similar construction, on a smaller scale, went on in Brooklyn, Buffalo and other urban areas. Suburban and rural service also expanded, mostly with aerial cable or open wire plant and Strowger switches.\n\nForecasters in the late 1960s underestimated demand, resulting in a shortage of capacity in Manhattan, NYTel's principal profit area. Customers had to wait weeks for a new line or a repair, and sometimes minutes for dial tone on an existing line. The new 1ESS Stored Program Control exchanges had software bugs that kept them from carrying full load. Deferred maintenance choked main distribution frames (MDFs) with dead jumpers. There were not enough cables to office buildings, nor enough underground conduits to install them. Morale was poor in all levels and departments, and strikes were frequent.\n\nThe company's response was to hire and train thousands of new employees and to purchase new equipment on which they could work. Underground construction took years, but emergency installation of Anaconda Carrier pair gain systems normally used in rural areas expanded service while construction was in progress. Bell Labs added processing power to their new systems and fixed the software bugs. A new wire center at 1095 Avenue of the Americas and 42nd Street relieved four others in Midtown Manhattan of part of their load, as well as providing the company with a new headquarters for the next several decades. The crisis subsided during the 1970s, decreasing the amount of workers needed to facilitate the development of the industry.\n\nOn February 27, 1975, a fire in the telephone building at 204 Second Avenue and East 13th Street destroyed the MDF, disconnecting tens of thousands of customers, and obsolescent switching equipment was destroyed or damaged by smoke. Located at the south end of the East Side trunk cable duct under Second Avenue, this building connects many circuits to Brooklyn which were disrupted. A Bell System mobilization dealt with the crisis, including replacing the destroyed MDF. An obsolete and recently retired exchange at the West 18th Street office, not yet melted down for scrap metal, was temporarily resurrected to serve thousands of E13 customers though existing crosstown cables. The damaged Number One Crossbar Switching System (1XB switch) was cleaned, and a Number One Electronic Switching System (1ESS switch) that had been destined for the 104 Broad Street exchange was diverted. This was the largest loss of telephone service from fire in United States history until the September 11 attacks.\n\nNew York Telephone was an AT&T subsidiary until the AT&T breakup effective January 1, 1984. At that time, New York Telephone, along with the New England Telephone & Telegraph Company, became part of a Regional Bell operating company named NYNEX. The company was referred to as \"New York Telephone, a NYNEX Company\" before being called simply \"NYNEX\" starting on January 1, 1994. On August 15, 1997, NYNEX was acquired by Bell Atlantic, who kept the Bell Atlantic name. On June 30, 2000, Bell Atlantic acquired GTE to form the current Verizon Communications, with the corporate headquarters remaining same 1095 Avenue of the Americas location until 2006 when HQ returned to 140 West Street.\n\nNew York Telephone provides local telephone service throughout the state of New York, with the exception of the areas served by the Rochester Telephone Company and other smaller independent local exchange companies. The company also serves the Greenwich and Byram exchanges in Connecticut. (The rest of Connecticut is served by SNET.)\n\nNew York Telephone, then operating under the Bell Atlantic brand, was the first Bell telephone company to win approval to provide long-distance service within its operating territory in December 1999, following the Telecommunications Act of 1996.\n\nThe September 11, 2001, attacks destroyed the small telephone exchange inside the World Trade Center, that served the Center, and damaged the company's largest exchange building, the Verizon Building at 140 West Street, across Vesey Street. The destruction included cables under Vesey Street as well as inside plant damaged when I-beams and steel from the towers ran through the building. Service was disrupted to approximately 300,000 business and consumer voice circuits, 3,600,000 data circuits (including the New York Stock Exchange), and 10 cell towers.\n\nPolice Department headquarters lost telephone service, but the nearby NYTel building at 375 Pearl Street had its own small exchange which only lost part of its connections to the rest of the network. Madison Street was closed and cables run out the lower windows of the two buildings and along the pavement to bring immediate service to a few hundred police telephone lines.\n\nWorkers from throughout the country, including 3,000 Verizon employees plus non-Verizon employees, helped restore service, allowing the network to carry 230,000,000 calls during the first week following the attacks. During the restoration efforts, trunk cables were run out windows and down the side of the building, flowing through streets closed to traffic, until they found an undamaged manhole for them to enter. DMS-100 and other exchange equipment was damaged and replaced the following year. The building was completely renovated restoring it to its former glory as corporate headquarters. In a ceremony on December 8, 2005, Verizon moved its corporate headquarters from 1095 Avenue of the Americas to 140 West St.\n\nIn later years the company sold parts of several exchange buildings, and returned its headquarters to 1095 Avenue of the Americas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324427", "title": "Keladi", "text": "Keladi\n\nKeladi is a temple town in Sagara Taluk of the state of Karnataka in India. Keladi is located about 8 km from the town of Sagara.\n\nIt is the place whence the \"Ikkeri\" chiefs derived their origin, which is thus related:\n\nTwo brothers named Chavuda Gowda and Bhadra Gowda, living in the village of Hale-bayal, in the Keladi taluk of the Chandragutti \"paragana\", had two servants or slaves, named Yadava and Murari, who cultivated their masters' fields. A cow they had was discovered to shed her milk over a certain ant-hill, which, on digging into, Chavuda Gowda found, contained a \"linga\", over which, therefore, he built a small temple. A little time after, the servants, when ploughing, turned up an old sword, which they put into the thatch of the house, intending to make a scythe of it. But they discovered that if a crow perched on the shed the sword leaped out in the form of a serpent and killed it. On this, Chavuda Gowda took it and, carefully cleaning it, kept in his house, giving it the name of \"Nagaramuri\". At another time, the ploughshare struck against the ring of a cauldron, which contained treasure. Afraid to disturb it, Chavuda Gowda covered it up again, but that night had a dream, in which he was directed to offer a human sacrifice and take the treasure. On hearing this, his two slaves volunteered to be the victims on condition that their memory was preserved. All the preparations being made, the place was dug up at night and the slaves, after ablutions, prostrated themselves to the cauldron and were beheaded with the sword Nagaramuri.\n\nWith this accession of wealth, the Gowdas raised a small force and began to subdue the neighbouring villages. But they were seized and sent to Vijayanagar by order from the king, and there put into custody. Hearing that a Palegar near Balihalu was rebellious, they made an offer through the court musicians to punish him if allowed to do so. Permission being given, they went with a force and killed the Palegar, on which they were released and confirmed in the possession of the places they had captured, receiving from the king a seal \"(sikha moharu)\". The town of Keladi was then founded, together with the temple of Rameshwara.\n\nOne day while the Gauda was hunting, a hare turned upon his hounds, indicating heroic virtue in the soil of the place in which this occurred. He therefore removed his town to the spot, calling \"Ikkeri\". His son and successor, with the sanction of Sadasiva Raya, the Vijayanagar sovereign, took the name of Sadasiva-Nayak.\n\nTwo mounds, called Kalte, at the entrance to Keladi are pointed out as the scene of the human sacrifices.\n\nThe principal building in the place is the double temple of \"Rameshwara\" and \"Virabhadra\", a large and plain structure built in the Hoysala-Dravida style.\n\nAfter the disintegration of Vijayanagar Empire in the Battle of Talikota, the Keladi Nayakas created an independent kingdom and it remained so until it was annexed to Mysore Kingdom by Hyder Ali.\n\nShivappa Nayaka and Chennamma were the rulers of this kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324431", "title": "The Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½", "text": "The Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½\n\nThe Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½ is a 1967 James Bond spin-off novel carrying the Glidrose Productions copyright. It was first published in the United Kingdom by the Jonathan Cape publishing company in 1967 and later in 1968 in the United States by Random House. The American edition was retitled \"003½: The Adventures of James Bond Junior\". The novel was written under the pseudonym R. D. Mascott.\n\nAlthough the novel is based around a character who is the nephew of James Bond, in Ian Fleming's own novels, Bond in fact was an only child and an orphan.\n\nIn 1966 Harry Saltzman announced a television series about a ten-year-old who fought SPECTRE that could have been based on \"003½\" but nothing became of it. At some other point Bond film producers Saltzman and Broccoli planned to make either a theatrical feature or a TV series based on the \"003½\" premise. The producers discussed story ideas with several unidentified screenwriters in London.\n\n\"The Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½\" is considered a failed attempt at launching a youth-oriented line of fiction aimed at 8 to 14-year olds. A moderately successful television series of the same name was launched in 1991, produced by Eon Productions / Danjaq. The success of the show spawned numerous novelisations, a video game, and comic books. Unrelated to \"003½\", Ian Fleming Publications began publishing a successful youth-oriented line of Young Bond adventures featuring James Bond as a teenager in the 1930s beginning in 2005.\n\nAlthough an officially licensed spin-off from the James Bond series, its place within the canon of the books—if any—has never been established.\n\nIt was not known who wrote \"The Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½\", although many authors have been named as possibilities, including Roald Dahl and Kingsley Amis. Amis was usually seen as unlikely since a year later he released \"Colonel Sun\" under the pseudonym Robert Markham; however, unlike R. D. Mascott, Amis's authoring of \"Colonel Sun\" was never a secret. Amis's writing style was also not similar to Mascott. Roald Dahl, on the other hand, did share some similarities, specifically with one book he wrote in 1975, \"Danny, the Champion of the World\". Dahl completed the screenplay for \"You Only Live Twice\" for Eon Productions in 1967, the same year \"The Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½\" was published. Although there was evidence to suggest Dahl may have written \"003½\", there was equally as much evidence to suggest he had not.\n\nSeveral authorities attributed the novel to Arthur Calder-Marshall. Calder-Marshall had written a number of books especially similar in style; his descriptions of characters and environments in his books \"The Magic of My Youth\" (1951) and \"The Scarlet Boy\" (1961) also resembled those in \"The Adventures of James Bond Junior 003½\". It had also been suggested that the initials R. D. are a play on the name Arthur, which is typically shortened to Artie.\n\nSeveral years ago, the now defunct 007Forever.com website made a detailed case for the claim that Arthur Calder-Marshall was indeed the author behind the R.D. Mascott pseudonym. This incredibly detailed analysis focused greatly on the writing style, and compared specific paragraphs from \"003½: The Adventures of James Bond Junior\" to several of Calder-Marshall's novels which were published at roughly around the same time.\n\nAs reported at Her Majesty's Secret Servant, the identity of Mascott was kept a secret for decades until it was confirmed by his executors to be Arthur Calder-Marshall (19 August 1908 – 17 April 1992).\n\nThe plot follows James Bond Junior while he tries to uncover what is going on at Hazeley Hall. He and Sheelagh Smith, his \"girlfriend,\" follow the clues of this mystery, but the information is given to the commander of the police, Sir Cuthbert Conningtower, when James is injured. Conningtower ultimately gets the credit for solving the case and threatens James if he says anything.\n\nJames Bond (Junior): son of David Bond, nephew of James Bond 007. Has his own gang of schoolmates, the \"Pride of Lions\". James' housemaster and Dr. Hartshorn dub him 003 1/2. Writes to his famous uncle who sends him a sheath knife.\n\nMrs. Raggles: James's caregiver while his parents are in Dar es Salaam. At the climax, she contacts Commander Sir Cuthbert Conningtower about what James discovers at Hazeley Hall.\n\nMrs. Frame: former owner of Hazeley Hall. Had given James exclusive access to the bothy. James had stored his goods in there. She dies in her sleep at start of story.\n\nMr. Merck: German. Mammoth build. Broad spatulate nose, curly hair, large lips. Close-cropped ginger hair, curly ginger beard, ginger hairs on the back of his fists. Speaks in a high squeaky voice. The new owner of Hazeley Hall. Steals £2m gold bullion en route from the Soviet Union to Britain at Gatwick airport.\n\nSheelagh Smith: child, slightly younger than James. She lives at Hazeley Hall with Merck. Draws and sketches. Her mother Katherine Smith is in Holloway Prison doing a six-month stretch for shoplifting. James entices her with sketching materials to get inside Hazeley Hall Manor so that he can get his goods from the bothy.\n\nMaureen Gubb (Auntie Mo): Red-headed slattern. Thin, beaky face and flabby neck. Merck's cook and housekeeper. Sheelagh Smith's caregiver.\n\nDonal: Merck's henchman. Tall, muscular, barrel chested. Wears track suits. Auntie Mo's beau.\n\nPaddie: Merck's henchman. Bandy-legged. \"A squirt\".\n\nCommander Sir Cuthbert Conningtower: Ex-naval-Intelligence author of \"Spies I've Espied\". Drives an XK120 Jaguar. Complexion the colour of a half-ripe blackberry. Drinks gin. Wears dentures. Philanderer. Steals credit for James's investigative work.\n\nAudrey Wedderburn: Actress. Plays \"Chastity Carstairs\" on ITV's \"Stormbusters\". Breeds Guard Dogs. Sells them to Merck. Assists Commander Sir Cuthbert Conningtower. Sheelagh sketches her at Hazeley Hall. James assumes that there may be more between them then stopping crime. James sees her late one night with Conningtower in his Jaguar.\n\nLady Conningtower: Commander Sir Cuthbert Conningtower's wife. Once beautiful, now wrinkled, but still proud and noble, even when anxious.\n\n\"Pride of Lions\": James's own gang. The Pride used to play in Hazeley Hall's ammunition dump. They resent Merck fencing-in Hazeley Hall so they retaliate with guerilla warfare: put silver sand in petrol tanks, puncture tires with one-inch carpet nails, put water in the oil tank, attempt – but fail – to poison guard dogs. On James's advice, the Pride launch \"Operation Barker\": distract Merck's guard dogs all night so that James can sneak into Hazeley Hall. While there, James sees Merck in a police car and his men in military uniforms driving camouflaged Bedford trucks as they set out to steal the gold bullion.\n\nSquirrel Joram: \"Pride of Lions\" member. Comes from a family of poachers. Current King of the Pride after James went away for a year to prep school. Squirrel resents James returning, fears James will reclaim leadership of the Pride. James and Squirrel had been best of friends; they fall out over Sheelagh Smith. James realises that Squirrel poisoned Sheelagh's Alsatian puppy. Squirrel Joram tells James that Sheelagh is a \"nit-ridden gyppo\". They kick James out of the \"Pride of Lions\".\n\nBill Asher: \"Pride of Lions\" member. Chemist's son.\n\nCharlie North: \"Pride of Lions\" member.\n\nJon Ling: Boy Scout, and James's replacement in the \"Pride of Lions\".\n\nBobbie Maws: \"Pride of Lions\" member.\n\nAlfie Maws: Bobbie Maws' father. Publican (\"Lion and Unicorn\"). Gangly man with a raw face part-paralysed down one side. Suspects stolen gold bullion is at Hazeley Hall. The \"Pride of Lions\" hold their meetings in the \"Lion and Unicorn\".\n\nMrs. (Nance) Maws: Alfie Maws' wife. Bobbie Maws' mother. \"Lion and Unicorn\" cook. Won't let her husband contact police about theory Merck has stolen gold bullion at Hazeley Hall. Police have been snooping around their pub and troubling them for serving drinks after hours.\n\nNobby Scales: Postman. Jack of all trades. Knows everybody's business. Uses GPO van to kill one of Merck's Doberman Pinschers.\n\nCaptain David Bond: James Bond Junior's father. (James Bond 007's brother.) Airline pilot. Inherited Monkshill estate (in Beacon Hill on the Kent-Sussex border) from his own father three years prior. At story's end Hazeley Hall comes on the market again and Captain David Bond buys the stables, the walled garden and the bothy. Captain Bond shows a profit on the sale of Monkshill.\n\nMrs. Bond: James Bond Junior's mother. Her sister Penny is in the hospital so she and her husband David Bond fly to Dar es Salaam to look after Penny's kids.\n\nLes Bottome: Daily Clarion crime reporter.\n\nCanon Wycherly-Pidgeon: Vicar.\n\nMr. Hignett, B.Sc. Manchester: Headmaster of the Secondary Modern. Face like dough with currants for eyes. Aspirates and drops his aitches.\n\nSergeant Daintree: Constabulary. According to Alfie Maws, Daintree is a \"six-foot-three strip of eighteen-carat ignorance.\" Merck complains that Hignett's students are suspected of vandalising Merck's land rovers.\n\nSatan: Merck's Alsatian (male). Sheelagh one of dog's handlers. James befriends dog with Sheelagh's help.\n\nCerberus: Merck's Alsatian (female). Sheelagh one of dog's handlers. James befriends dog with Sheelagh's help.\n\nMr. Dash: Mrs. Frame's gardener.\n\nMr. Manvell (and daughter): Veterinary; owns a kennel on lot next to the Hazeley property. Drives a Land-Rover. Nearly collides with Lady Conningtower driving her husband's Jaguar late one night.\n\nDr. Hartshorn: tends to injured James at book's end. Diagnoses James with pleurisy, double pneumonia and a torn ligament.\n\nMiss Hubbard: local children's author. Claims she has fairies not only at the bottom of her garden but also at the top.\n\nClaire Tomalin in \"The Observer\" said, \"the story is a small perfect triumph in the hands of a master. This is probably the best bet for Christmas if you want to hand out spinal rather than moral chills.\"\n\nThe \"Library Journal\" said, \"This imported British spin-off from the adult series doesn't exude literary quality but is a notch above what might be expected. After a sluggish beginning in which Bond family relationships and the basis for the story's intrigue are explained, the adventures of the youthful 003 1/2 (James Bond's nephew) gain momentum as he ferrets out the mystery of a heavily\"guarded estate and runs up against gold robbers and guard dogs. The crooks are finally apprehended in a satisfying, albeit predictable manner. Flashes of irony and some humor enliven this otherwise ordinary adventure story.\"\n\nUrsula Robertshaw writing for \"The Illustrated London News\" complained that the book is \"Very definitely for boys. It's all very exciting, but racy and rather bloody, and so not to be given to the sons of very prim parents.\"\n\nChildren's fiction critic Margery Fisher was more critical: \"003 1/2 seems to be satire on three levels. First, with its bullion robbers and the indomitable amateur boy who cracks the code, as it were, the book sends up the junior thriller; young Bond with his blacked and infra-red camera and judo principles (\"Don't go against the enemy, go with him\") is a remote cousin of Miss Blyton's water-pistol-carrying kids. Then (and I am less certain of the author's intention here) the fast-moving events and casual cruelty of the story may be a satire on the exploits of Jimmy's notorious uncle; if so, it is a satire many readers won't see or won't want to. Mascott has given us glimpses of the sordid and a nearer approach to danger (and one brilliant female character drawn in the round). But one swallow doesn't make a summer and all Sheelagh's gibes and kisses and dirty clothes don't make this a genuinely realistic book.\"\n\n\"Punch\" critic Marjorie D. Lawrie praised Christopher Chamberlain's \"satisfying illustrations\", but otherwise had no opinion of the book\n\n"}
{"id": "2324435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324435", "title": "Peng Qi", "text": "Peng Qi\n\nPeng Qi is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"General of Heavenly Vision\", he ranks 43rd among the 108 Stars of Destiny and seventh among the 72 Earthly Fiends.\n\nA native of Dongjing (東京; present-day Kaifeng, Henan), the imperial capital of the Song Empire, Peng Qi is descended from generations of military men. He himself serves as a military instructor in Yingzhou (in present-day Anhui province). As he fights with a trident with three Spikes and two Blades (), he is nicknamed \"General of Heavenly Vision\", an allusion to the three-eyed deity Erlang who uses a similar weapon.\n\nAfter Liangshan defeated and killed Gao Lian, the governor of Gaotangzhou (高唐州; present-day Gaotang County, Shandong) to rescue Chai Jin, Emperor Huizong appoints the general Huyan Zhuo at the recommendation of Grand Marshal Gao Qiu, who is Gao Lian's cousin, to command an army to stamp out the stronghold. Huyan in turn asks for Han Tao and Peng Qi to be his lieutenants.\n\nIn the first clash with Liangshan, Huyan Zhuo and his two assistants run into a marathon fight with a succession of Liangshan warriors. Peng Qi comes to face Hu Sanniang. Not knowing that the amazon is a good thrower of lasso, Peng Qi is engrossed in parrying her sabres that he is caught off-guard when she hurls her noose. Blocked by Hu and Sun Li, Huyan Zhuo could not rescue him. He sends out his cavalry consisting of groups of chain-linked armoured horses, which charge forth in combined ferocity. Overwhelmed, the outlaws hole up in Liangshan with the marsh as buffer as they work out a counter-attack.\n\nBrought before Song Jiang, Peng Qi is moved by the warm respect accorded him by the Liangshan leader that he agrees to join the stronghold. When Ling Zhen, an artillery officer specially sent on request by Huyan to come shell Liangshan with cannons, is also captured, Peng Qi succeeds in persuading him to switch allegiance.\n\nTang Long recommends that his cousin Xu Ning could beat Huyan's cavalry with his expertise in hooked lance. After being trained by Xu, who is recruited through an elaborate trick, the hooked lancer squad of Liangshan fell the cavalry of Huayan routing his force. Captured, Han Tao also surrenders upon the advice of Peng Qi.\n\nPeng Qi is appointed as one of the leaders of the Liangshan cavalry after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the Grand Assembly. He participates in the campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces in Song territory following amnesty from Emperor Huizong for Liangshan.\n\nIn the attack on Changzhou in the campaign against Fang La, Peng Qi and Han Tao encounter Gao Keli and Zhang Jinren. After Han is killed by the two, Peng is determined on revenge but is fatally stabbed at his side by Zhang Jinren.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324437", "title": "Thomas Blatt", "text": "Thomas Blatt\n\nThomas \"Toivi\" Blatt (born Tomasz Blatt; April 15, 1927 – October 31, 2015) was a Jewish-American Holocaust survivor, writer of mémoires, and public speaker, who at the age of 16 escaped from the Sobibór extermination camp during the uprising staged by the Jewish prisoners in October 1943. The escape was attempted by about 300 inmates, many of whom were recaptured and killed by the German search squads. Following World War II Blatt lived in the Soviet-controlled Poland until the Polish October revolution. In 1957, he emigrated to Israel, and in 1958 settled in the United States.\n\nThomas \"Toivi\" Blatt was born on April 15, 1927, to a Jewish family in Izbica, Second Polish Republic, where his father owned a liquor store. The population of the town was 90 percent Jewish at the time according to the \"Holocaust Encyclopedia\". Tomasz (Toivi) also had a brother. During the occupation of Poland by Nazi Germany in World War II, his family was forced into the Izbica Ghetto created by the SS in 1941, the largest transit ghetto in the Lublin Reservation. On April 28, 1943, Blatt was taken to Sobibór by truck with about 400 Jews from Izbica. Members of his family were killed there on arrival. Thomas (age 16) along with 40 young men was selected to join the \"Arbeitsjuden\" in the Lower, and later, the Upper Camp, where he cut the hair of naked women before gassing. \n\nDuring the one year and a half in which the Sobibór killing centre operated, at least 167,000 people were murdered there, according to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum; virtually all of the victims were Jews, mostly from Poland, France and the Netherlands. Other estimates range from 200,000 (Raul Hilberg) to 250,000 (Dr. Aharon Weiss, and Czesław Madajczyk).\n\nBlatt was among some 300 \"Sonderkommando\" prisoners who attempted to escape from the camp during the uprising staged by the Sobibór underground on October 14, 1943.\n\nIn 1957, Blatt emigrated from Stalinist Poland to Israel and in 1958 settled in the United States. In the late 1970s and 1980s, he worked for Richard Rashke, an American journalist and author who wrote the \"Escape from Sobibor\" first published in 1982. Blatt was commissioned by Rashke to help him locate and interview Sobibór survivors for the story of the revolt.\n\nBlatt also did his own research. In 1983, he interviewed Karl Frenzel after his release from prison, a Nazi German who had been third in command at Sobibór. Frenzel, convicted at trial and sentenced to life in prison for his actions at the camp, was released on appeal after serving 16 years. Blatt later claimed that his interview was the first one after World War II in which an extermination camp survivor spoke face-to-face with a camp functionary.\n\nThe 1983 book by Rashke was adapted into the award-winning 1987 television film, \"Escape from Sobibor\". It portrayed the events leading up to, and including the uprising in Sobibór. Blatt served as a technical adviser on the film. The revolt leaders Leon Feldhendler and Alexander Pechersky, as well as other camp prisoners including Blatt were played by actors. The film was directed by Jack Gold and shot in Yugoslavia.\n\nBlatt wrote two books about Sobibór. His first mémoire, \"From The Ashes of Sobibor\" (1997), is about his life before the war and the German occupation of Izbica leading up to the deportation of his family to the Sobibór death camp. His second mémoire titled \"Sobibor: the forgotten revolt\" (1998) also based on his own experience and supplementary research, and written with the help of his son Leon Blatt, describes the story of the prisoner revolt of October 14, 1943, as remembered by Alexander Pechersky and others. The book material was used as the source for his personal website by the same name.\n\nBlatt lived in Santa Barbara, California. He died at his home on October 31, 2015, at the age of 88.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324445", "title": "Jean Pierre Essome", "text": "Jean Pierre Essome\n\nJean Pierre Essome is a Cameroonian musician and actor. He is known for his makossa music. Essome is featured in the movie \"Before the Sunrise\", released in Cameroon and Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "2324457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324457", "title": "Skip Holtz", "text": "Skip Holtz\n\nLouis Leo \"Skip\" Holtz Jr. (born March 12, 1964) is an American football coach who is the current head coach at Louisiana Tech University. He was head coach at the University of South Florida from 2010 to 2012 before being released. Prior to 2010, Holtz served as the head coach of the East Carolina University football team. Additionally, Holtz was the head coach of the Connecticut Huskies football team between 1994 and 1998 and an assistant head coach for the University of South Carolina Gamecocks between 1998 and 2004.\n\nSkip's father, Lou Holtz, is an acclaimed former head football coach and worked as a commentator on the television channel ESPN. Due to his father's career as a collegiate football coach, Skip was exposed to football from an early age. At the time of Skip's birth, Lou was a football assistant for the Connecticut Huskies. Skip attended Fayetteville High School in Arkansas and played on the school's football team as the team's quarterback while his father was the head coach at the University of Arkansas. After graduating from Fayetteville High School, Skip attended Holy Cross College for two years. He then transferred to Notre Dame, where he earned a bachelor's degree in business management. While at Notre Dame, he lettered in football as a special teams member and backup wide receiver.\n\nSkip Holtz grew up in many towns while his father coached football. After Skip was born in Connecticut, the Holtz family moved to Columbia, South Carolina for two years, as his father worked as an assistant coach at the University of South Carolina. In 1968, the family moved to Columbus, Ohio after Holtz took a job at Ohio State University. One year later, the Holtz family moved to Williamsburg, Virginia and The College of William & Mary for Lou's first head coaching position. After two seasons, Lou took a head coaching position with the Wolfpack of North Carolina State University. The family lived in Raleigh, North Carolina for four years until Lou accepted a head coaching job for the National Football League's New York Jets. The family lived in Cold Spring Harbor, New York for one year, while Lou coached the Jets. After resigning from the Jets, Lou took his family back to the American South when he accepted the head coaching job in Fayetteville, Arkansas, at the University of Arkansas in 1977. In Fayetteville, Skip attended Fayetteville High School and graduated in 1982.\n\nWhile at high school in Fayetteville, Skip played for the school's football team at the quarterback position, bringing moderate success to the program. As a high school junior, he visited Notre Dame and met with head football coach Gerry Faust and head basketball coach Digger Phelps. In his final year of high school, Skip was denied admission to Notre Dame due to average grades and his failure to learn a foreign language. Coaches Faust and Phelps encouraged Skip to enroll at nearby Holy Cross College, located adjacent to the university in Notre Dame, Indiana. After two years of study at Holy Cross, Skip had improved his grades and transferred to Notre Dame. After his first year, Skip decided he wanted to speak with Coach Faust about walking on to the football team during his senior year. The discussions were cut short, however, as after the 1985 season, Coach Faust resigned. Replacing Faust was Skip's father, Lou, who eagerly accepted his son as a walk-on. Skip began spring practice before the 1986 season as a quarterback, but quickly changed to flanker due to his lack of throwing ability. As a flanker, he earned 54 yards on three receptions at the Blue-Gold intra-squad game in the spring of 1986. During the fall of 1986, Skip played in all 11 games on special teams. He never caught a pass, but rushed once for one yard.\n\nDue to Skip's lack of success on the field and his desire to remain associated with football, he began to investigate the possibility of becoming a coach. After Skip told Lou he wanted to start coaching, Lou put together a list of potential coaches who would give him the best training. The list included Tom Osborne, Joe Paterno, and Terry Donahue, but upon hearing of Skip's interest, Florida State head coach Bobby Bowden said, \"if you can be here in two days, I've got a job for you at Florida State.\" \nUpon arriving at Florida State in 1987, he became the graduate assistant coach. He met his future wife, Jennifer, in Coach Bowden's office while in Tallahassee. He left after two years to become the wide receivers coach at Colorado State University under coach Earle Bruce. After one season, he went back to Notre Dame to coach under his father.\n\nHoltz's first job at his alma mater was to serve as wide receivers coach, and he filled the position for two years. In 1992, the team began a search for a new offensive coordinator. Lou's first choice, Joe Moore, declined. Lou then asked Skip for recommendations to fill the position. Skip initially said he wanted the position but said of Lou, \"he couldn't do it at that time with me [Skip] being his son.\" Skip then mentioned Mark Richt, who was then the offensive coordinator at Florida State. Lou Holtz called Coach Bowden to ask permission to speak to Mark Richt. Coach Bowden said Holtz could hire Richt as long as he could hire Skip. Coach Holtz said, \"Well, if I'm just going to switch coaches, I might as well hire Skip.\" Skip became Notre Dame's offensive coordinator in 1992. Between 1992 and 1994, Skip and his father recorded 40 wins, eight losses, and one tie, an 82.7% winning percentage. Together, they coached Notre Dame to the Cotton Bowl Classic twice, beating Texas A&M both times. Skip had the third-best total offense in the NCAA during the 1992 football season.\n\nFollowing his success at Notre Dame, Skip Holtz was asked to become the head coach of the Connecticut Huskies. He accepted the offer and took his first head coaching job on December 23, 1993. He replaced Tom Jackson, who had gone 14–19 over the past three years and had decided to resign on November 17, 1993. He agreed to a four-year contract at a salary of $95,000 a year. Even though Skip came from a \"major football institution\" (Notre Dame), University of Connecticut President Dr. Harry J. Hartley said that the hire \"should not be seen as a signal that Connecticut intends to upgrade its program.\" Despite Hartley's remarks, Holtz planned to help elevate the team from I-AA to I-A. Holtz commented on Hartley's remarks by saying \"I'd love to have the opportunity to coach a Division I team here...\" In 1998, UConn, after 100 years of football and five years with Skip Holtz as its head coach, played in its first Division I-AA playoff game. The Huskies scored two fourth-quarter touchdowns to beat Hampton University, 42–34. In the next round of the playoffs, the Huskies lost to the eventual runner-up, Georgia Southern, on December 5. Two days later, Skip resigned as head coach of the Huskies in order to rejoin his father, who had taken the head coaching job at South Carolina the day before the Huskies' loss. As the leader of the Huskies football team, he accumulated a winning percentage of .596 (34–23) over five seasons.\n\nOn December 4, 1998, The University of South Carolina announced that Lou Holtz would serve as its next head football coach. Lou asked Skip if he would move down to Columbia to become his offensive coordinator—the same position Skip held during his final two years at Notre Dame. Skip accepted the offer, in part due to a desire to live closer to his parents and so his children could spend more time with their grandparents. In 1996, Skip's mother, Beth, was diagnosed with throat cancer. Two years later, the cancer spread to her liver, lung, adrenal glands, and ovary. Meanwhile, Skip and Lou continued to coach football at South Carolina. As Lou began to struggle as head coach, the question of his eventual successor arose. When Skip was hired in 1998, Lou had included a clause in the hiring contract that Skip would succeed him after he retired. South Carolina Athletic Director Mike McGee rebutted by saying, \"There are no formal or informal guarantees at him,\" and \"It's always helpful to have potential succession in a staff.\"\n\nThe 2000 and 2001 seasons brought South Carolina back to national prominence with consecutive Outback Bowl wins over Ohio State and season ending rankings in the Top 25. However, after going 5–7 the following two seasons and suffering a season-ending blowout in 2003 by intrastate rival Clemson, Skip was demoted from the offensive coordinator and assistant head coaching positions to quarterbacks coach. Four assistant coaches—including the team's defensive coordinator—were fired in the same shakeup that saw Skip demoted. On November 22, 2004, one season after Skip's demotion, Lou Holtz announced he was retiring as head coach of South Carolina. The next day, South Carolina announced Steve Spurrier as the next head football coach. Coach Spurrier announced that he was keeping only three members of Lou Holtz's staff. Letters were sent to all the other staffers—including Skip Holtz—informing them that they likely would not be retained.\n\nWith his firing imminent, Holtz resigned. Because he was formerly a head coach, Skip had several offers from Division I-A and Division I-AA teams. After several interviews, he elected to take the head coaching position at East Carolina University. East Carolina announced Skip Holtz as their 19th head football coach on December 3, 2004. Holtz assumed control of a program that won just three games in its past 25 contests. Skip signed 23 athletes in his first recruiting class, including his first commit, Rob Kass. Also included in the recruiting class was future NFL player Aundrae Allison. Skip's first victory at ECU came in the first game of the 2005 season as the Pirates defeated the Duke Blue Devils 24–21 at Dowdy–Ficklen Stadium. The victory was ECU's first non-conference Division I win since 2000, when the Pirates won the Galleryfurniture.com Bowl against Texas Tech. During Holtz's first season, the Pirates also defeated conference foes Rice, Southern Methodist University, Marshall University, and the University of Alabama Birmingham.\n\nIn 2006, Holtz's second season as head coach, ECU won seven games, including victories over intrastate rival North Carolina State University, Conference USA East rival Southern Miss, and ACC foe Virginia. As a reward for their season, the Pirates earned their first bowl game under Holtz's tenure, playing the Bulls of the University of South Florida in the Papajohns.com Bowl, losing 24–7. Despite the bowl loss, the 2006 season was ECU's first winning season since 2000, and the Papajohns.com Bowl was the Pirates' first bowl game since 2001.\n\nIn 2007, Holtz's team won eight games, including wins over intrastate rival North Carolina and going 3–2, versus Conference USA East opponents. Finishing second in the East Division, Holtz’s team was invited to the Hawai'i Bowl to play #24 Boise State University. East Carolina won the bowl game 41–38. This was the first bowl victory since the 2000 Galleryfurniture.com Bowl versus Texas Tech. It was also the first back-to-back winning season and bowl berth since the 1999 and 2000 seasons.\n\nThe 2008 season was opened with two upsets over ranked opponents; 17th ranked Virginia Tech in week one and 8th ranked West Virginia. This was the first time a Conference USA team beat three ranked teams in a row. Skip finished up the season 9–5, which included a C-USA East Division title and C-USA Champions title. This was the first time the Pirates played in the C-USA Championship Game. It also was the first conference title since 1976. The Pirates played in the Liberty Bowl, losing to Kentucky, 25–19. This was the third Liberty Bowl appearance. The last time the Pirates went to three straight bowl games was the 1999, 2000 and 2001 seasons. In 2009 Skip Holtz led the ECU Pirates to a second CUSA championship.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, it was announced that Holtz accepted the head coach position at the University of South Florida, in Tampa, Florida, taking the place of the recently fired Jim Leavitt. A press conference to introduce Holtz to the community was held for January 15, 2010. When someone in the crowd called out, \"Beat Florida!\", Holtz replied, \"That's why I'm here!\" However, the Bulls would eventually end up on the short end of the stick in their match-up with the Gators later that season, 38–14.\n\nHoltz earned his first win as head coach of the Bulls on September 1, 2010 in USF's season opener against Stony Brook 59–14. Later that season, Holtz led his Bulls to the program's first victory over the Miami Hurricanes. At the end of the season Holtz lead the USF Bulls to a mostly dominant 31–26 victory over the Clemson Tigers at the Meineke Car Care Bowl. This would mark the first Bowl victory for USF over a BCS team. The Bulls finished with an 8–5 record, but 3–4 in Big East play.\n\nTo start the 2011 season, Skip Holtz led the Bulls to an emotional homecoming against his Alma Mater, Notre Dame. After the 6 hour game and 2 rain delays, USF left South Bend with a 23–20 victory. However, the Bulls finished the season with a disappointing record of 5–7, 1–6 in Big East play. The 2012 season was even worse as the Bulls fell to a dismal 3–9, 1–6 in Big East play. USF fired Holtz at the conclusion of the 2012 season.\n\nOn December 13, 2012, Holtz accepted an offer to become the head coach for the Louisiana Tech Bulldogs. His first season, 2013, was a down year, as he finished well below expectations at 4–8. However, 2014 would see a big turnaround. Holtz's Bulldogs went on to finish first in C-USA West at 9–5 with a 35–18 win over Illinois in the Heart Of Dallas Bowl. In 2015, the Bulldogs continued their success finishing 9–4 and winning the New Orleans Bowl over Arkansas State, 47–28.\n\nHoltz and his wife Jennifer Fitzgerald, whom he met while he was working at Florida State, have two sons and a daughter. Outside of the football team, Holtz is deeply involved with an annual spring golf tournament named the \"Drew Steele-Skip Holtz Golf Classic\". Drew Steele is the son of former East Carolina basketball coach Mike Steele and has Down syndrome. When they first met, Holtz was impressed by Drew's positive attitude, and he has since called upon Drew to help motivate the football team, both as a speaker and through work with the team. The \"Drew Steele-Skip Holtz Golf Classic\" benefits citizens of Pitt County with special needs.\n\nHoltz has participated in 21 postseason games in his coaching career. Twelve games occurred while he was head coach and eight when he was an assistant coach. Of the twelve games where he was the head coach, ten occurred in the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) (formerly Division I-A) and two occurred in Division I-AA (now known as Football Championship Subdivision). As a FBS head coach, he is 8–3 in bowl games.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324458", "title": "U.S. Route 24 in Michigan", "text": "U.S. Route 24 in Michigan\n\nUS Highway 24 (US 24) is a United States Numbered Highway that runs from Minturn, Colorado, to Independence Township, Michigan. In Michigan, it is also known as Telegraph Road and runs for as a major north–south state trunkline highway from Bedford Township at the Ohio state line through Metro Detroit. The highway runs through three counties in southeastern Michigan, Monroe, Wayne and Oakland, as it parallels the Lake Erie shoreline and bypasses Metro Detroit on the west. Telegraph Road connects several suburbs together and passes through the western edge of Detroit before it terminates northwest of Clarkston at an interchange with Interstate 75 (I-75).\n\nThe northern part of the highway follows a section of an old Indian trail called the Saginaw Trail that connected Detroit with points further north. The southern sections in the Downriver area south to Monroe parallel telegraph lines from the mid-19th century. These lines gave the road its name. Later this road was added to the state highway system in the early 20th century. It was upgraded and extended during the 1920s to serve as a western bypass of Detroit. The US 24 designation was applied to the highway on November 11, 1926, when the United States Numbered Highway System was inaugurated. Since that time, an alternate route, Alternate US Highway 24 (Alt. US 24) was designated between the state line and the Gibraltar area; this highway later became part of I-75. In 1970, the northernmost section gained the US 10 designation when that highway was rerouted. That overlap was eliminated in 1986, and US 24 was extended north to Clarkston to replace a segment of US 10. At the same time, a business loop in Pontiac was redesignated for US 24 in addition to its connector routes it has.\n\nLike other state highways in Michigan, US 24 is maintained by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT). In 2011, the department's traffic surveys showed that on average, 85,302 vehicles used the highway daily between the \"Mixing Bowl\" and 12 Mile Road and 6,401 vehicles did so each day in southern Monroe County, the highest and lowest counts along the highway, respectively. All of US 24 north of I-275 is listed on the National Highway System, a network of roads important to the country's economy, defense, and mobility.\n\nUS 24 crosses the Ohio state line and follows Telegraph Road northeasterly through Monroe County. The highway runs parallel to the Lake Erie shoreline, farther inland than both I-75 (Detroit–Toledo Freeway) or M-125 (Dixie Highway). The area around the trunkline is a mixture of farm friends and clusters of houses. Luna Pier Road connects US 24 to M-125 near Erie; this roadway is an unsigned highway called Connector US 24 (Conn. US 24) that runs as a connector route between the two highways. Further north, US 24 passes to the west side of Monroe, meeting the eastern terminus of M-50 (Custer Road) near Custer Airport. The trunkline crosses the River Raisin near this intersection as well. North of Monroe near Stoney Creek, M-125 merges into US 24 and terminates. Further north, US 24 crosses I-275 before passing near the Flat Rock Speedway. The highway then crosses the Huron River and into Wayne County, entering the Downriver area.\nTelegraph Road runs through downtown Flat Rock as it parallels the Lake Erie shoreline. North of the city in Brownstown Township, Telegraph Road and US 24 turn due north; a second Conn. US 24 runs along Dix–Toledo Highway to connect US 24 to I-75 near Woodhaven. There is a third Conn. US 24 in Taylor that provides access from southbound US 24 to southbound I-75 and from northbound I-75 to northbound US 24 between a pair of interchanges near the Southland Center. Telegraph continues northward through Taylor, widening into a boulevard and gaining a median. Traffic turning left onto the road needs to perform a Michigan left maneuver to do so, and drivers changing directions along US 24 have to use the U-turn crossovers in the median. From here north, the road runs through residential areas of the suburb approximately east of Detroit Metropolitan Airport, lined with various businesses immediately adjacent to the roadway. It crosses the South Branch of the Ecorse River. There are a pair of interchanges on US 24 for Ecorse Road and I-94 (Detroit Industrial Freeway), the latter being of the single point urban interchange (SPUI) design.\n\nNorth of the Van Born Road intersection, Telegraph crosses into Dearborn Heights for the first time and over the North Branch of the Ecorse River. Past the river, the highway enters Dearborn. In the middle of its course through that city, US 24 crosses US 12 (Michigan Avenue) south of a branch of the River Rouge and the Dearborn Hills Golf Course. Telegraph crosses back into Dearborn Heights at the intersection with M-153 (Ford Road) west of St. Hedwig Cemetery. North of the cemetery, in the a section of the Middle River Rouge Park, Telegraph crosses the middle branch of that river before entering the southeastern corner of Redford Township. There is an interchange for a boulevard section of Plymouth Road before US 24 meets I-96 (Jeffries Freeway) on a section of the border with Detroit.\n\nTo the northeast of the I-96 interchange is the Elisa Howell Park as US 24 continues due north along a segment of the Detroit–Redford Township boundary. The trunkline crosses into Detroit completely north of Puritan Street. Telegraph passes through urban residential neighborhoods on the city's far west side flanked by various municipal parkland along the River Rouge to its immediate east. US 24 eventually intersects with M-5 (Grand River Avenue), one of the five principal avenues of the Detroit street plan, south of 7 Mile Road. When it crosses M-102 (8 Mile Road), US 24 leaves Wayne County and Detroit and enters Oakland County at the city of Southfield.\n\nRunning through Southfield, Telegraph Road continues due north to a location between 9 and 10 Mile roads. There the highway curves to the northwest and back north to approach the \"Mixing Bowl\", a complex interchange near 11 Mile Road that includes connections to I-696 (Reuther Freeway) and M-10 (Lodge Freeway and Northwestern Highway). Between the Mixing Bowl and 12 Mile Road, Telegraph runs through a commercial district in Southfield, and north of 13 Mile Road, the highway forms part of the border between the villages of Franklin and Bingham Farms; this area is predominantly suburban residential subdivisions.\n\nAt 14 Mile Road, US 24 crosses into Bloomfield Township and begins to meander between the lakes of Oakland County's lake country. The highway turns to the northwest before crossing Square Lake Road (19 Mile) south of Pontiac. Square Lake Road forms part of Business US 24 (Bus. US 24), a business loop that runs into downtown Pontiac; Telegraph Road bypasses downtown to the southwest and west. At the interchange with Orchard Lake Road on the border between Pontiac and Sylvan Lake, US 24 turns northward along Pontiac's western border as an undivided roadway. Telegraph intersects M-59 (Huron Road) on the border between Waterford Township and Pontiac.\nNorth of the Summit Place Mall, Telegraph Road ends at the intersection with Dixie Highway and the northern end of Bus. US 24 (Cesar Chavez Avenue). US 24 turns northwesterly along Dixie Highway, crossing into Waterford Township. The highway meanders again through lake country flanked by residential subdivisions of the township. South of Clarkston, US 24 intersects the southern end of M-15. US 24 bypasses the city to the west and terminates at an interchange with I-75.\n\nIn 1701, the first transportation routes through what became the state of Michigan were the lakes, rivers and Indian trails. One of these Indian trails, the Saginaw Trail followed a path from the Detroit area north to Saginaw; this trail ran along what is now Dixie Highway from Pontiac northwards.\n\nTelegraph lines were first installed from the Detroit area south to the Monroe area in the mid-19th century with additional lines north to Pontiac completed around 1868. As these communication lines were installed, roadways were added as needed to provide access for maintenance. The parallel road from Dearborn south was named for these lines, becoming Telegraph Road. When the state initially signposted its state highways in 1919, Telegraph Road from the Ohio state line north to Dearborn was assigned the original M-10 designation. The same year, the Dixie Highway, an auto trail that ran south from Detroit to Miami, Florida, was extended through Pontiac northward to the Straits of Mackinac. The numerical highway designation was changed to US 24 when the United States Numbered Highway System was inaugurated on November 11, 1926.\n\nHighway traffic coming north from Toledo was forced to pass through Detroit to get to points north at the time. To ease the congestion downtown, a westerly bypass was constructed in the 1920s. Between Flat Rock and Dearborn, the upgraded highway was opened in 1922, with an extension to Stoney Creek the following year. The new road was built north from Michigan Avenue to Grand River Avenue in 1924. The extension to the state line was finished in 1925, and the remainder to Dixie Highway north of Pontiac was done in 1930. At the time, US 24 was extended north to the corner of Telegraph and Square Lake roads, with M-58 routed along the western Pontiac bypass. The highway was widened into a multi-lane highway starting in 1936.\n\nBy 1945, a divided highway designated Alternate US 24 (Alt. US 24) was opened from the state line north to Erie. This divided highway, now named the Detroit–Toledo Expressway, was extended in 1956 to Gibraltar, and the Alt. US 24 designation was continued north to connect back to the mainline near Woodhaven. The former connection near Erie became a connector route, now part of Conn. US 24 and Conn. M-125. Additional segments of freeway were opened through 1958, and the I-75 designation was applied to the freeway the following year, becoming the first segment of Interstate Highway so signed in Michigan.\n\nBetween 1960 and 1963, the four-lane undivided highway was turned into a seven- and eight-lane divided highway in Wayne County. At this time, the Michigan State Highway Department, predecessor to MDOT, added median crossovers along Telegraph Road. These additions were used to eliminate left turns at intersections and shift traffic less than away from the intersection. The distance complicated traffic flow. Later this concept was refined and used at the intersection of 8 Mile Road and Livernois Avenue, becoming the first Michigan left intersection in the state.\n\nIn 1970, US 10 was moved from its routing along Woodward Avenue between Detroit and Pontiac to follow the Lodge Freeway. From the northern end of the Lodge to Square Lake Road near Pontiac, US 10 and US 24 were run concurrently along Telegraph Road. North of Square Lake Road, US 10 continued along Telegraph back to Dixie Highway as before. In 1986, US 10 was truncated to end at Bay City instead of continuing on to Detroit. In the process, Telegraph Road lost its US 10 co-designation, US 24 was extended to its current northern terminus near Clarkston and the existing Bus. US 10 in Pontiac was redesignated to become a Bus. US 24 instead.\n\nThe interchange with I-94 had only two bridges and left hand exits were used throughout. This interchange was reconfigured in 2005 to a SPUI design that was completed in December of that year. A pair of bridges called the Gateway Bridge (alternately \"Gateway to Detroit\") was incorporated in the new interchange.\n\nOn November 30, 2005, President George W. Bush signed the 2006 appropriations bill related to the US Department of Transportation and other agencies. Contained in that law was a provision that named a stretch of US 24 from I-96 to its northern end at I-75 the \"Max M. Fisher Memorial Highway\"; the highway was dedicated in May 2008. In June 2012, Governor Rick Snyder signed a bill from the Michigan Legislature that designated a section of Telegraph Road in Taylor for Cpl. Matthew Edwards, a member of the Taylor Police Department that was killed in the line of duty.\n\nThere are one business loop in Pontiac and three connector routes for US 24 in Michigan. The connectors run between US 24 and I-75 in Erie, Taylor and Woodhaven. There used to be an alternate route signed for US 24 between the state line and the Gibraltar area. This route was incorporated into I-75 in 1959.\n\nBusiness US Highway 24 (Bus. US 24) is a business loop running through downtown Pontiac. The highway starts at an intersection between US 24 (Telegraph Road) and Square Lake Road in Bloomfield Township southwest of downtown Pontiac. From there, the business loop follows Square Lake Road eastward to an intersection with M-1 (Woodward Avenue) and Business Loop Interstate 75 (BL I-75). The two business loops merge and run concurrently northward on Woodward Avenue into Pontiac. On the southern edge of downtown, Woodward Avenue splits to form a one-way loop round the central business district. Northbound BL I-75/Bus. US 24 follows the eastern side of the loop and intersects a pair of one-way streets that carry M-59 through the city. At the northern intersection, westbound M-59 merges onto Woodward Avenue Loop. Northbound BL I-75 splits from the concurrency at the intersection with Perry Street; the southbound direction of BL I-75 merges onto the loop at this intersection. Northbound Bus. US 24 splits from the loop at Cesar Chavez Avenue. From there, the business loop continues through the northern end of Pontiac, rejoining the southbound traffic at an intersection with Oakland Avenue at the northern edge of town. Bus. US 24 follows Dixie Highway once it crosses into Waterford Township. The northern end of the business loop as an intersection with US 24 where the parent highway transitions from Telegraph Road to Dixie Highway in Waterford Township.\n\nIn 1985, the Michigan Department of Transportation received permission from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials to truncate US 10 to Bay City, and when the change was made the following year, US 24 replaced US 10 on Telegraph Road north of Square Lake Road, and Bus. US 10 through downtown was redesignated Bus. US 24.\n\nMajor intersections\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324459", "title": "Lycoming Creek", "text": "Lycoming Creek\n\nLycoming Creek is a tributary of the West Branch Susquehanna River located in Tioga and Lycoming counties in Pennsylvania in the United States.\n\nAs the crow flies, Lycoming County is about northwest of Philadelphia and east-northeast of Pittsburgh. Lycoming Creek has its river source in Tioga County and is in length from the Tioga County / Lycoming County line to its confluence with the West Branch Susquehanna River at Williamsport. Smaller streams feeding Lycoming Creek include Pleasant Stream, Grays Run, Roaring Branch, Hoagland Run, and Trout Run.\nApproximately 81.5% of the Lycoming Creek watershed is in Lycoming County, with 16.5% in Tioga County, and 1.5% in Sullivan County. The watershed has a total population of 19,978 (as of 2000) and a total area of . Of that area, are forested, are given to agricultural uses, only are developed, and the remaining is classified as barren.\n\nLycoming Creek is a popular site for trout fishing and is usually heavily stocked with fish in the spring, especially in its upper reaches in Lycoming County. Much of the creek runs through heavily wooded areas, including the Tiadaghton State Forest near Grays Run. North of Trout Run, Pennsylvania Route 14 runs parallel to the creek. From Trout Run south to Williamsport, U.S. Route 15 (and old route 15) run parallel to the creek. Historic Bowman Field, home to the minor league baseball Williamsport Crosscutters, is located along the creek near its mouth in the western Newberry section of Williamsport.\n\nLycoming Creek, which begins in McNett Township, served as a highway of sorts during the colonial era of Pennsylvania's history. The local Lenape (Delaware) people called it Legani-hanne, meaning \"sandy stream\" - the name was later rendered by Europeans as Lycaumick and then Lycoming. The stream was used by early explorers and the Native Americans in the area as a means of travel. They were able to float their canoes down the creek and into the West Branch Susquehanna River. This mode of transportation was considerably faster than walking the path.\n\nConrad Weiser guided Moravian missionaries along the creek and path to reach Onondaga, the capital of the Iroquois Confederacy in 1737. Raiding parties of Indian warriors used the creek and path in 1770 when conducting attacks on the West Branch Susquehanna Valley strongholds of Fort Muncy and Fort Freeland. Fort Freeland was also attacked and captured by Loyalists in July 1779. Colonel Thomas Hartley led the 6th Pennsylvania Regiment up the Sheshequin Path during the American Revolution. Hartley's expedition in 1778 preceded the Sullivan Expedition of 1779. Both Hartley and Sullivan were instrumental in claiming the frontier of Pennsylvania and New York for the forces of the Continental Army. As Hartley and his men passed through Lewis Township the Sheshequin path was widened. The widening of the path helped to open this area to settlement in the years following the Revolution.\nIn 1839, the Williamsport and Elmira Railroad was built along the creek from Williamsport to Ralston, and was extended to the source of the creek and beyond to Elmira, New York, in 1854. The railroad was reorganized in 1860 as the Elmira and Williamsport Railroad, and came under the control of the Northern Central Railway in 1863, and later the Pennsylvania Railroad. U.S. Route 15 and Pennsylvania Route 14 were later built up the length of the creek. In 1972, flooding caused by Hurricane Agnes washed out several rail bridges and resulted in the abandonment of the railroad north of Hepburnville; the remainder was abandoned in 1986.\n\nThere was severe flooding on Lycoming Creek on January 19 and 20, 1996, when a combination of heavy snow on the ground, heavy rains and subsequent melting, and ice dams led to flooding two feet higher than that seen in 1972 with Hurricane Agnes. Six people died as a result of flooding on Lycoming Creek in the greater Williamsport area, and there was millions of dollars of damage to property.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324464", "title": "Han Tao", "text": "Han Tao\n\nHan Tao is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"General of Hundred Victories\", he ranks 42nd among the 108 Stars of Destiny and sixth among the 72 Earthly Fiends.\n\nA native of Dongjing (東京; present-day Kaifeng, Henan), the imperial capital of the Song Empire, Han Tao is a skilled warrior who serves as a military instructor in Chenzhou (陳州; present-day Huaiyang County, Henan). Nicknamed \"General of Hundred Victories\" as he is purportedly unbeatable in combat. he fights with a lance made of jujube wood. \n\nAfter Liangshan defeated and killed Gao Lian, the governor of Gaotangzhou (高唐州; present-day Gaotang County, Shandong) to rescue Chai Jin, Emperor Huizong appoints the general Huyan Zhuo at the recommendation of Grand Marshal Gao Qiu, who is Gao Lian's cousin, to command an army to stamp out the stronghold. Huyan in turn asks for Han Tao and Peng Qi to be his lieutenants.\n\nIn the first clash with Liangshan, Huyan Zhuo and his two assistants run into a marathon fight with a succession of Liangshan warriors. Han Tao engages Qin Ming but apparently could not live up to his nickname. Put on the defensvie, Han escapes when Huyan Zhuo comes to take on Qin. In that clash Peng Qi is captured by Hu Sanniang. Huyan then sends out his cavalry consisting of groups of chain-linked armoured horses, which charge forth in combined ferocity. Overwhelmed, the outlaws hole up in Liangshan with the marsh as buffer as they work out a counter-attack. \n\nTang Long recommends that his cousin Xu Ning could beat Huyan's cavalry with his expertise in hooked lance. After being trained by Xu, who is recruited through an elaborate trick, the hooked lancer squad of Liangshan fell the cavalry of Huayan routing his force. Captured, Han Tao surrenders upon the advice of Peng Qi, who has transferred his allegiance to Liangshan.\n\nHan Tao is appointed as one of the leaders of the Liangshan cavalry after the Grand Assembly of the 108 Stars of Destiny. He participates in the campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces in Song territory following amnesty from Emperor Huizong for Liangshan.\n\nIn the attack on Changzhou in the campaign against Fang La, Han Tao fights the enemy commander Gao Keli. He falls off his steed when Gao hits him in the face with an arrow, thereupon he is killed by the latter's comrade Zhang Jinren, who spears him in his throat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324468", "title": "Minister for Greenland", "text": "Minister for Greenland\n\nMinister of Greenland () was a cabinet post for affairs with the Danish Arctic territory.\n\nTom Høyem was Minister from 1982 and served till 1987 briefly (succeeded by Mimi Jakobsen).\nIn September 1987 the post were laid down, and responsibility transferred to the Prime ministers office.\n\nSince 1979, Greenland has been governed locally or Home Rule with a parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324475", "title": "Houman Younessi", "text": "Houman Younessi\n\nHouman Younessi (28 May 1963 – 23 March 2016) was an American educator, practitioner, consultant and investigator in informatics, large scale software development processes, computer science, decision science, molecular biology and functional genomics. He was a research professor at University of Connecticut, and was previously the head of faculty and professor at Hartford Graduate Campus of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Hartford, Connecticut and prior to that, a member of the faculty at Swinburne University of Technology in Hawthorn, Victoria, Australia where he attained tenure in 1997.\n\nYounessi is recognized for his work in the fields of defect management, software and system development processes and is an authority in object-oriented computing. Examples of his work include the OPEN and the SBM methodologies and, more recently, recombinant programming.\n\nA multi-disciplinarian, Younessi is also trained in molecular biology, genomics and bioinformatics. His primary interest is in systems and functional biology, particularly work that pertains to disease and development. He also holds a master's degree in management, specializing in realistic alternative frameworks in economics and finance.\n\nYounessi died on 23 March 2016, due to complications arising from small cell lung cancer. Younessi had survived four bouts of cancer since an initial diagnosis of malignant chordoma in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2324480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324480", "title": "SS Cornhusker State (T-ACS-6)", "text": "SS Cornhusker State (T-ACS-6)\n\nSS \"Cornhusker State\" (T-ACS-6) is a crane ship in ready reserve for the United States Navy. She is stationed in Newport News, Virginia under operation control of the Military Sealift Command (MSC). The ship was named for the state of Nebraska, which is also known as the \"Cornhusker State\".\n\n\"Cornhusker State\" was laid down on 27 November 1967, as the container ship CV \"Stag Hound\", ON 520743, IMO 6916433, a Maritime Administration type (C5-S-73b) hull under MARAD contract (MA 207). Built by Bath Iron Works, Bath, Maine, hull no. 356, she was launched on 2 November 1968, and delivered to MARAD 20 June 1969, entering service for American Export-Isbrandtsen Lines. She was sold to Farrell Lines in 1978 without name change. The ship was returned to MARAD in 1986 and laid up in the National Defense Reserve Fleet (NDRF). In 1987-1988 she was converted to a type (C5-S-MA73c) Crane Ship by Norfolk Shipbuilding & Drydock, Norfolk, Virginia. Completed on 12 April 1988, she was placed in service as SS \"Cornhusker State\" (T-ACS-6) and assigned to the Ready Reserve Force (RRF), under operation control of the Military Sealift Command (MSC). \n\n\"Cornhusker State\" has been in ready reserve at Newport News, Virginia since 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324482", "title": "Bakers Square", "text": "Bakers Square\n\nBakers Square Restaurant & Bakery (also known as Bakers Square) is a casual dining restaurant chain in the United States. Known for its pies, Bakers Square also offers full breakfast, lunch and dinner menus. The chain is owned by American Blue Ribbon Holdings. In January 2019, it had 39 locations and as of January 2020, the chain operates 22 locations in Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin.\n\nBakers Square began in December 1969 with a single restaurant called Mrs. C's in Des Moines, Iowa, that became popular for its pies. Pillsbury purchased Mrs. C's around that time, renamed it Poppin' Fresh Pies, and opened additional locations. VICORP, owners of the Village Inn restaurant chain, purchased Poppin' Fresh Pies from Pillsbury in 1983 and renamed the chain Bakers Square. \n\nBakers Square restaurants are primarily located in the Upper Midwest. Except for the Des Moines area, Bakers Square and Village Inn operate in separate markets. The original Mrs. C's restaurant, on Merle Hay Road in Des Moines, remained in business as a Bakers Square until it closed on April 2, 2008, as parent company VICORP filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy. In 2009, American Blue Ribbon Holdings, a company owned by Fidelity National Financial and Newport Global Advisors, acquired the assets of VICORP, including Village Inn and Bakers Square.\n\nIn late 1993, VICORP acquired from Eric A. Holm the rights to the small Florida chain Angel's Diner. Holm had also sold the rights to Golden Corral, and VICORP was forced to pay Golden Corral $1 million to secure the exclusive rights. The intent was to convert under-performing Village Inn and Bakers Square units to this new concept. After building seven units, VICORP realized that the concept was not economically viable and wrote off $11M on the venture. During this time, Eric Holm filed for personal bankruptcy.\n\nOn April 3, 2008, VICORP filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code. VICORP closed 56 company-owned restaurants as a result of the move, leaving a total of 343 Village Inn and Bakers Square locations. Village Inn restaurants are found in the Midwest states such as Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Indiana, and Nebraska, the Western United States, Texas, Virginia, and Florida.\n\nBakers Square once had a large presence in California with over 90 locations and competed directly with Marie Callender's, Coco's Bakery, and Carrows restaurants. Bakers Square entered the California market when its parent company acquired the Sambo's chain in October 1984. Many Sambo's locations were converted to Bakers Square restaurants and the ones that weren't were sold to other chains, including Denny's. \n\nVICORP's Bakers Square concept flourished in California through the early 2000s. The declining economy took its toll on the restaurant industry: by 2005 profit margins began to decline. Bakers Square restaurants began closing rural and suburban California locations as leases expired. Those that remained open were not remodeling, as were other chains, and the business continued to decline.\n\nBy February 2009, more than 80 California locations had closed. Most locations were shuttered and are vacant today while a few locations around the Los Angeles area converted to Du-par's Restaurant & Bakery or Polly's Pies. The last location in operation in Southern California was in San Diego. This Bakers Square was located on hotel property and was required to continue operations until a new lessee was secured. This was the result of an agreement between VICORP and the hotel chain (formerly Holiday Inn). The location is now Du-par's and the pub became Du-par's Pub. \nIn addition, VICORP closed its Los Angeles County pie production facility in Santa Fe Springs. Two such facilities are still operating in Oak Forest, IL, and Chaska, MN. These facilities, formerly VICOM, now \"Legendary Baking,\" produce 18 million pies per year for Bakers Square, Village Inn, and J. Horner's, a food service and retail line. \n\nIn March 2009, four Bakers Square locations in the San Francisco Bay Area were acquired by Shari's Restaurants. These continued operating under the Bakers Square name for eight months.\n\nVICORP also ceased operations in Michigan, where it once had a concentration of Bakers Square restaurants.\n\nOn January 24, 2020, Bakers Square permanently closed 9 locations. Locations closed in Illinois include Alsip, Lansing, Libertyville, Orland Park (La Grange Rd), and Springfield. The Merrilville, IN and North Olmsted, OH locations also closed, along with two locations in Minnesota, those in Brooklyn Park and Eden Prairie. \nOn January 27, 2020, American Blue Ribbon Holdings, parent company of Bakers Square and Village Inn, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after closing 33 locations across both brands.\n"}
{"id": "2324489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324489", "title": "Village Inn", "text": "Village Inn\n\nVillage Inn is a casual dining restaurant chain in the United States. Its restaurants are known for their breakfast menu items. Also, they feature a variety of salads, sandwiches, burgers, melts and dinner items. Their pies have won numerous awards from the American Pie Council (APC).\n\nAs of January 2020, Village Inn operates 159 restaurants in Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wyoming and the territory of Guam.\nIn September 2015, Village Inn operated 212 restaurants. Village Inn's parent company, American Blue Ribbon Holdings, is based in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nVillage Inn was founded by James Mola and Merton Anderson, who opened the first Village Inn Pancake House in Denver in 1958. They incorporated as Village Inn Pancake House, Inc., in December 1959, and began franchising in 1961, with Dow Sherwood opening the first franchised locations in Tampa. In 1982, Village Inn became the publicly traded VICORP Restaurants, Inc. VICORP acquired the Poppin' Fresh Pies chain from Pillsbury in May 1983, renaming it Bakers Square.\n\nIn 1984, VICORP acquired 71 restaurants from Ralston Purina's Continental Restaurant Systems division and 175 former Sambo's restaurants in California, Florida, and Arizona. The California locations were converted to Bakers Square restaurants while the Florida and Arizona locations were converted to Village Inn, but the conversions led to a decline in profits for the company and 15 of the converted Florida locations would close by 1989.\n\nBy the end of the 1980s, \"Pancake House\" was dropped from the name of the chain as Village Inn began offering lunch and dinner menus in addition to breakfast. During the early 1990s, all Village Inn restaurants underwent a large-scale renovation that featured new green mansard roofs and neon signage. In May 2001, the investment firms of Goldner Hawn Johnson & Morrison, Inc., and BancBoston Capital acquired VICORP and the company has been privately held ever since.\n\nIn late 1993, Vicorp acquired the rights to a small Florida chain called Angel's Diner from founder Eric A. Holm. Unfortunately, he had also sold the rights to Golden Corral and Vicorp was forced to pay Golden Corral $1 million to secure the exclusive rights. The intent was to convert underperforming Village Inn and Bakers Square units to this new concept. After building seven units, Vicorp realized that the concept was not economically viable and wrote off $11 million on the venture. During this time frame, Eric Holm filed for personal bankruptcy.\n\nOn April 3, 2008, VICORP filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code. VICORP closed 56 company-owned restaurants as a result of the move, leaving a total of 343 Village Inn and Bakers Square locations.\n\nIn 2009, American Blue Ribbon Holdings, a company owned by Fidelity National Financial and Newport Global Advisors, acquired the assets of Vicorp, including Village Inn and Bakers Square.\n\nIn 2010, Village Inn locations started updating to the new corporate logo, with several locations implementing it.\n\nOn January 24, 2020, Village Inn closed 24 locations suddenly, with employees showing up for their shifts met by locked doors. Locations closed in Arizona include Chandler (Alma School Rd), Gilbert, Mesa (Dobson Rd and McKellips Rd), and Phoenix (Bell Rd at 3rd). Aurora (Colfax Ave), Broomfield, Littleton (Ken Caryl Ave), Castle Rock, Monument, and Wheat Ridge locations closed in Colorado, while Lakeland, Tampa (N Dale Mabry Hwy), and Winter Garden locations closed in Florida. Iowa lost locations in Clinton, Coralville, and Des Moines. Locations closed in North Salt Lake City, Orem, Roy, Sandy, and West Jordan, Utah, along with Omaha, Nebraska (Dodge St) and Albuquerque, New Mexico (La Orilla).\n\nOn January 27, 2020, American Blue Ribbon Holdings, parent company of Village Inn and Bakers Square, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after closing a total of 33 locations across both brands. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324500", "title": "John Ponet", "text": "John Ponet\n\nJohn Ponet (c. 1514 – August 1556), sometimes spelled John Poynet, was an English Protestant churchman and controversial writer, the Bishop of Winchester and Marian exile. He is now best known as a resistance theorist who made a sustained attack on the divine right of kings.\n\nPonet was from Kent. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1533, was elected a fellow of Queens' College, Cambridge in the same year: and proceeded to obtain a Masters of Arts in 1535.\n\nPonet was a pupil and one of the humanist circle of Thomas Smith, who claimed that the new pronunciation of Ancient Greek had been introduced by himself, Ponet, and John Cheke. Smith and Cheke also were proponents of mathematics, and Ponet was one of their numerous followers. A sundial of his design was installed at Hampton Court.\n\nPonet was ordained a priest at Lincoln on 10 June 1536. From 1539 to 1541 he was a university professor of Greek. In the later 1530s and early 1540s he took on college offices at Queens', acting as bursar and Dean.\n\nBy the time of the Prebendaries' Plot, Ponet was a partisan of Thomas Cranmer. By 1545, he was Cranmer's chaplain.\nBy November 1548, Ponet had married, though the Parliament of England had not yet removed the ban on clerical marriage. In the power struggles of the early reign of Edward VI, he was a supporter of Edward Seymour, Duke of Somerset, and suspicious of his rival the Earl of Warwick (later the Duke of Northumberland). Following Somerset's fall from political power, Ponet was arrested in November 1549, perhaps in connection with his translation from Ochino, which flattered Somerset and was dedicated to him.\n\nBy spring 1550 Ponet was rehabilitated, and preached before the king. In March 1550, he was nominated as bishop of Rochester, and was consecrated at Lambeth Palace on 29 June. In January 1551, he was appointed to a commission to investigate anabaptists in Kent.\n\nOn 8 March 1551 Ponet was appointed to the see of Winchester, replacing Stephen Gardiner. As a diocesan he agreed a reduction in the income of the see, to the benefit of the government. His own salary fell to £1300 compared to £3000 for his predecessor.\n\nIn 1553, the Roman Catholic Mary I succeeded to the English throne. With the group of nearly 800 others, Protestants and mainly of higher social status, Ponet and his wife left for continental Europe. Ponet was the highest-ranking ecclesiastic among the Marian exiles. His exact movements are still a matter of debate, however. As a married man, he was deprived of his bishopric. John Stow claimed that during Wyatt's rebellion in early 1554, Ponet participated in the uprising. He is known to have been in Strasbourg after the rebellion's defeat with his wife. A child was born to them in later in 1554, and they were granted citizenship in February 1555. Peter Carew, who was one of the rebels, took refuge with Ponet at Strasburg.\n\nPonet died at Strasburg in August 1556.\n\nPonet rejected outright the idea that the King was ordained by God to rule his Church on Earth. His major work was \"A Shorte Treatise of Politike Power\" (1556), in which he put forward a theory of justified opposition to secular rulers. Ponet had used the library of Peter Martyr Vermigli, a less radical resistance theorist. The work justified tyrannicide. The \"Treatise\" was a seminal volume that later political philosophers such as John Locke expanded on, and influenced John Adams. An anonymous work, it had seven chapters, and a conclusion, and proposed a radical resistance theory, of the Calvinist type and based on biblical exemplars. Chapter VII, \"What Confidence is to be Given to Princes and Potentates\", published the murder story \"Arden of Faversham\".\n\nThis work also presented some recent political history, in Ponet's account of the palace revolution of 1549, and the fall of Somerset. He held responsible, as supporters of John Dudley (then Earl of Warwick), Thomas Wriothesley, 1st Earl of Southampton, Henry FitzAlan, 19th Earl of Arundel, and Richard Southwell. It did not accord any legitimacy to Dudley's subsequent attempt to displace Mary Tudor from the succession. Its contemporary focus was not on secular politics, but the church powers of the Marian bishops.\n\nIn 1549 Ponet dedicated a work defending clerical marriage to the Duke of Somerset. This work, \"A Defense for marriage of priests by scripture and auncient writers proved\", was one of the most comprehensive works on the subject written in the English reformation. It used examples of scriptural allowance of marriage, scriptural figures who married and early Church figures who married or permitted it to priests to argue priests should be able to marry. In October 2013 a manuscript \"A Traictise declarying and plainly prouying, that the pretensed marriage of Priestes … is no mariage\" (1554), from the Mendham Collection and sold by the Law Society, was barred from export by Ed Vaizey. It contains the views on clerical marriage of Stephen Gardiner, and those of Ponet. In 1556 appeared \"An Apologie Fully Answeringe ... a Blasphemous Book\", an answer to \"A Defence of Priestes Mariages\" by Thomas Martyn. It was published after Ponet's death by Matthew Parker, whose role may have been largely editorial.\n\nIn 1549 also, Ponet published \"A Trageodie, or, Dialogue of the Unjust Usurper Primacy of the Bishop of Rome\", a translation of a work by Bernardino Ochino. It argued against the Primacy of the Bishop of Rome; and in claiming the Papacy had fallen into heresy, may have been intended to undermine expectations of the effectiveness of the Council of Trent, convened from 1545, by proposing that conciliarism was a dead letter. It contained also Cranmer's reasoning on the Pope as Antichrist.\n\nA catechism added by Ponet to the 42 Articles of 1553 formed the basis of a later catechism of Alexander Nowell (1570). It was commissioned from Ponet by John Dudley, 1st Duke of Northumberland. A translation by Michaelangelo Florio (1553) was the first Italian book published in England.\n\nOther works attributed to Ponet are \"Diallecticon viri boni et literati\" (1557) which was edited by his friend Anthony Cooke, and translated into English by Elizabeth Hoby in 1605; and possibly \"An Answer unto a Crafty and Sophistical Cavillation\" (1550) as ghost-writer for Cranmer. The \"Diallecticon\", an anonymous publication, was an irenical discussion of the Eucharistic controversy within the Protestant churches. The work was edited in 1688 by Edward Pelling. William Goode in the 19th century argued that earlier attributions to Cooke were correct.\n\nPonet married twice. In July 1551, his first wife was found by a consistory court at St Paul's Cathedral to have a legal pre-contract marriage to a butcher and he was forced to divorce her and compensate him. He married his second wife, Maria Hayman, on 25 October of the same year; she was the daughter of one of the Archbishop Thomas Cranmer's financial officers. After his death, having sold his books to Anthony Cooke, Mary Ponet had to apologise to Peter Martyr, some of whose volumes were in the sale.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324505", "title": "Tammie Leady", "text": "Tammie Leady\n\nTammie Leady (born 11 August, Port Arthur, Texas) is a certified personal trainer and a fitness and figure competitor based in Atlanta, Georgia. She is also a fitness model who has appeared in a number of magazines, including \"Flex\", \"American Curves\" and \"Muscle & Fitness\". As a personal trainer, she writes in various columns about improving ones physical health and well-being.\n\nIn 1997, Leady relocated to Tampa, Florida, and began competing in fitness competitions, placing 20th in the 1997 Fitness America Nationals. In 1999, \"Atlanta Sports and Magazine\" named her the \"Fittest Female in Atlanta\" and in 2001, she earned her status as IFBB Pro fitness competitor by winning the Team Universe National Championships. In June, 2005, she finished in eighth place in the Toronto Pro Figure competition held in Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324508", "title": "One (Dirty Vegas album)", "text": "One (Dirty Vegas album)\n\nOne is the second album by British house music trio Dirty Vegas, released 18 October 2004 in the UK (see 2004 in British music).\n\nOn August 6, band member Steve Smith delivered an acoustic performance of several of the songs from the upcoming album.\n\nThe album was released by Capitol Records and Parlophone in Europe on 18 October 2004. A limited number of promotional two-record vinyl copies were also available. The album was later released in the United States, on 30 November 2004.\n\nAhead of the album's release in the States, a club and theater tour was announced. The tour included sixteen dates, starting in Washington, DC on 26 October.\n\n\"One\" garnered generally negative reviews from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 35, based on 8 reviews, making it the worst-reviewed album of 2004.\n\nSteve Lowe of \"Blender\" heavily criticized the group's AOR tracks filled with earnest lyrics and Richard Marx-like production, concluding that \"If this exhaustingly awful album repeats its predecessor’s success, the world will seem more confusing than ever.\" \"The Guardian\"s Dorian Lynskey also panned the overall work of the album, \"At best, it suggests Duran Duran indulging their U2 fantasies. At worst, the brain scrabbles for comparisons. The post-millennial Bruce Hornsby? Mike & The Mechanics go to Ibiza? Frontman Steve Smith delivers lyrics that he presumably made up on the spot in the voice of a man who rolls up the sleeves of his sports jacket. \"One\"s sole redeeming feature is that its title helpfully informs reviewers how many stars to give it.\"\n\nAllMusic's David Jeffries said of the group in this album that \"They're still dreamy and maudlin, and still not lyricists who will threaten Dylan, but the production is slick and hides the band's shortcomings.\" David Dierksen of \"PopMatters\" said that despite sounding like the group's self-titled debut, he praised the album's production for capturing their live performances and instilling a lot of energy and enthusiasm in the tracks, saying that \"What Dirty Vegas has really accomplished with this release is a completely unpretentious piece of work designed to move folks who want nothing more than something fun and catchy to listen to. And bless ‘em for pulling it off because even the simplest pop can be botched.\" Brian Howe of \"Paste\" praised the group for its mixture of acoustics, electronica and orchestral music to craft tracks that contain multi-layered intricacies in their structures, concluding that \"When so much music is so bleak, a little unlikely optimism might be a crucial palliative measure, rather than Pollyanna-ish head-burying, and it’s sanguinity that Dirty Vegas delivers in spades.\"\n\nThe album was released in various countries in October and November 2004.\n"}
{"id": "2324520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324520", "title": "Craig Bierko", "text": "Craig Bierko\n\nCraig Philip Bierko (born August 18, 1964) is an American actor and singer.\n\nBierko was born in Rye Brook, New York, the son of Pat (Distillator) and Rex Bierko, who ran a local community theatre. Bierko's mother was a Jewish-born convert to Roman Catholicism. Bierko has said he is \"very connected\" to his Jewish heritage. His surname is Polish. He attended Blind Brook High School and then went on to Boston University intending to study broadcast journalism at the School of Public Communications but graduated from Northwestern University in 1986 with a BS in theater arts from the School of Speech.\n\nBierko got his break in 1990 when he was cast opposite Valerie Bertinelli and Matthew Perry in the CBS sitcom \"Sydney\"; however, the production lasted just 13 episodes. He went on to make steady appearances in various television shows including \"Amen\", \"The Powers That Be\", \"Wings\" and \"Ally McBeal\". Bierko may be best known for his role as Timothy in the 1996 action film \"The Long Kiss Goodnight\" (a role he credits as the beginning of his penchant for \"darker\" roles), as Max Baer in the film \"Cinderella Man\", as Tom Ryan in \"Scary Movie 4\" (spoofing Tom Cruise throughout the film) and on the Broadway stage as Harold Hill in \"The Music Man,\" or as the lead in \"The Thirteenth Floor\". He was also the original choice for the character of Chandler Bing on the sitcom \"Friends\" but turned it down. He had a small role as a jazz musician love interest for Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker) in the fourth season of \"Sex and the City\". He had another small role as attorney Jeffrey Coho during the third season of the ABC television series \"Boston Legal\" and as a lead in the short-lived \"Unhitched\". He was also cast as Dave Lister in the pilot for the American TV version of \"Red Dwarf\", which was not picked up as a series. He appeared in 2001's \"Kate & Leopold\" in an uncredited role, and in TV's \"\" as Andy Eckerson, a United States Deputy Marshal who is working with the SVU (and ex-flame Det. Olivia Benson) to recapture an escaped convict. \n\nBierko also appeared in the Lifetime dramedy series \"UnREAL\" as Chet, the \"eccentric and drug-using\" creator of a reality dating show.\n\nBierko was slated to appear on Broadway in the Manhattan Theatre Club production of \"To Be or Not to Be\" but withdrew from the production August 29, 2008, for unspecified reasons. He starred as Sky Masterson in the Broadway revival of \"Guys and Dolls\" which began performances at the Nederlander Theatre on February 5, 2009, and officially opened on March 1, 2009. The production closed on June 14, 2009 after 113 performances. He performed the role of Peter in the 2011 New York Philharmonic production of Stephen Sondheim's \"Company\" with Neil Patrick Harris, Patti Lupone and Stephen Colbert.\n\nBierko was slated to replace Bertie Carvel as Miss Trunchbull in \"Matilda the Musical\" at the Shubert Theatre along with Jill Paice as Miss Honey on September 3, but did not start performances until September 17 due to a \"minor injury\". On November 19, it was announced that Bierko will not return to the role of Miss Trunchbull due to \"medical circumstances\", following a shoulder injury sustained during rehearsals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324559", "title": "Tom Høyem", "text": "Tom Høyem\n\nTom Høyem (born 10 October 1941) is a Danish and German politician, and former headmaster in the European Schools.\n\nBetween September 1982 and September 1987, Høyem served as Minister for Greenland within the Danish government under the premiership of Poul Schlüter. He was succeeded by Mimi Jakobsen.\n\nOn 14 September 1984, Høyem was awarded the honour of kommandør af Dannebrogordenen.\n\nHøyem has served as independent election observer for Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe on behalf of the Danish government in Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro, Ukraine, Palestine and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nBetween 1987 and 2015, Høyem served successively as the Director (headmaster) of the European School, Culham (1987-1994), the European School, Munich (1994-2000), and the European School, Karlsruhe (2000-2015). \n\nIn 1994, Høyem joined the Freie Demokratische Partei, the German liberal party, and in 2004 he was elected to serve on the Gemeinderat (council) of the city of Karlsruhe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324566", "title": "Carl Parcher Russell", "text": "Carl Parcher Russell\n\nCarl Parcher Russell, historian, ecologist, and administrator, was born January 18, 1894 in Fall River, Wisconsin. He joined the National Park Service (NPS) in 1923 as a Naturalist in Yosemite National Park. In 1931 he received a Ph.D. in Ecology from the University of Michigan. He served as an officer for the NPS for 34 years, from 1923 until his retirement in 1957. He was the Chief Naturalist of Yosemite from 1923 to 1929. He specialized in frontier history, studying its material culture in minute detail, and documented pioneer life for the NPS and others.\n\nDr. Russell served in several regional positions in the NPS, including NPS Chief Naturalist of Yosemite (1923–1929), regional director, and Yosemite National Park Superintendent. Dr. Russell retired from the park service in 1957 and died June 19, 1967.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324569", "title": "Chai Jin", "text": "Chai Jin\n\nChai Jin is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the four great classical novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"Little Whirlwind\", he ranks 10th among the 36 Heavenly Spirits, the first third of the 108 Stars of Destiny.\n\nThe novel depicts Chai Jin as handsome-looking with eyebrows like those of a dragon, eyes like those of a fenghuang, red lips and white teeth. He is a descendant of Chai Rong, the second emperor of the short-lived Later Zhou dynasty. In the Chenqiao Mutiny of 960 AD, the Later Zhou general Zhao Kuangyin seized the imperial throne from Chai Rong's young son Chai Zongxun and founded the Song dynasty. According to \"Water Margin\", Zhao felt guilty about the usurpation and treated the Chai clan well, granting them many privileges valid also to their descendants. These included immunity from punishment should they breach the law, a privilege inscribed in a \"danshu tiequan\" (丹書鐵券; literally, \"iron certificate inked in red\"). Chai Jin inherits his ancestors' residence in Cangzhou, Hebei, and the \"danshu tiequan.\"\n\nLin Chong, Wu Song and Song Jiang have all taken shelter in Chai Jin's residence when they are on the run from the law. That is because Chai's \"danshu tiequan\" bars authorities from searching his house. Chai also spends generously on chivalrous men and is fairly good in martial arts. Many Liangshan outlaws regard him as their protector placed in high society.\n\nYin Tianxi is the brother-in-law of Gao Lian, the prefect of Gaotangzhou (高唐州; around present-day Gaotang County, Shandong). Gao Lian is in turn a cousin of Grand Marshal Gao Qiu. Yin wants to seize the mansion of Chai Jin's uncle, so he keeps harassing the latter to the point of beating him up. Chai Jin rushes to Gaotangzhou, but his uncle soon dies from his injuries. Yin comes again to seize the house. He orders his men to beat Chai Jin, who obstructs his way. Liangshan's Li Kui is with Chai Jin at that time as he has been ordered to stay away from the stronghold for a while as an appeasement to Zhu Tong, whom he has antagonised. Seeing Chai Jin is bullied, Li Kui charges forth and thrashes Yin to death. Chai Jin tells Li to flee. Upon learning of Yin's death, Gao Lian is furious and orders Cai Jin‘s arrest, dismissing the \"danshu tiequan\" as a piece of empty document.\n\nSong Jiang takes an army to Gaotangzhou to save Chai Jin. After Gongsun Sheng defeats Gao Lian in a battle of magic, the outlaws enter Gaotangzhou‘s prison. But they could not find Chai Jin. A jailer reveals that he has hidden him in a dry well to keep him from being harmed by Gao. Li Kui volunteers to go down the deep well to fetch Chai up. As Chai Jin has suffered a great deal, he is close to death when he is out of the well. Fortunately, he survives.\n\nChai Jin joins the outlaw band at Liangshan, knowing that the \"danshu tiequan\" is a fraud. He and Li Ying are placed in charge of Liangshan's finance and stocks after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the \"Grand Assembly\". He participates in their campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces on Song territory following amnesty from Emperor Huizong for Liangshan.\n\nMidway in the campaign against Fang La's rebel forces, Chai Jin and Yan Qing travel to Fang's base in Qingxi County (清溪縣; present-day Chun'an County, Zhejiang) in the guise of merchants in a plan to infiltrate it. Chai Jin, using the false name \"Ke Yin\" (), is brought before Fang, who is instantly charmed by his looks and oratory skill. He even marries his daughter to him. During Fang‘s last battle with Liangshan, Chai Jin suddenly sets upon his forces. Fang La‘s side is thrown into disarray, leading to his capture.\n\nChai Jin is one of the Liangshan heroes who survive all the campaigns. Although he initially accepts Emperor Huizong's offer to serve in the imperial court, he soon resigns, certain that he would one day be harmed for having been Fang La's son-in-law. He returns to Cangzhou and lives in comfort for the rest of his life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324576", "title": "A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits", "text": "A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits\n\nA Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits is the title of a master's thesis written by computer science pioneer Claude E. Shannon while attending the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1937. In his thesis, Shannon, a dual degree graduate of the University of Michigan, proved that Boolean algebra could be used to simplify the arrangement of the relays that were the building blocks of the electromechanical automatic telephone exchanges of the day. Shannon went on to prove that it should also be possible to use arrangements of relays to solve Boolean algebra problems.\n\nThe utilization of the binary properties of electrical switches to perform logic functions is the basic concept that underlies all electronic digital computer designs. Shannon's thesis became the foundation of practical digital circuit design when it became widely known among the electrical engineering community during and after World War II. At the time, the methods employed to design logic circuits were \"ad hoc\" in nature and lacked the theoretical discipline that Shannon's paper supplied to later projects.\n\nPsychologist Howard Gardner described Shannon's thesis as \"possibly the most important, and also the most famous, master's thesis of the century\". A version of the paper was published in the 1938 issue of the \"Transactions of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers\", and in 1940, it earned Shannon the Alfred Noble American Institute of American Engineers Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324593", "title": "Anterior tibial artery", "text": "Anterior tibial artery\n\nThe anterior tibial artery of the leg carries blood to the anterior compartment of the leg and dorsal surface of the foot, from the popliteal artery.\n\nIt is accompanied by the anterior tibial vein, along its course.\n\nIt crosses the anterior aspect of the ankle joint, at which point it becomes the dorsalis pedis artery.\n\nThe artery originates at the distal end of the popliteus muscle posterior to the tibia. The artery typically passes anterior to the popliteus muscle prior to passing between the tibia and fibula through an oval opening at the superior aspect of the interosseus membrane. The artery then descends between the tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus muscles.\n\nThe branches of the anterior tibial artery are:\n\nAs the artery passes medial to the fibular neck it becomes vulnerable to damage during a tibial osteotomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324595", "title": "Metal foam", "text": "Metal foam\n\nA metal foam is a cellular structure consisting of a solid metal (frequently aluminium) with gas-filled pores comprising a large portion of the volume. The pores can be sealed (closed-cell foam) or interconnected (open-cell foam). The defining characteristic of metal foams is a high porosity: typically only 5–25% of the volume is the base metal. The strength of the material is due to the square-cube law.\n\nMetal foams typically retain some physical properties of their base material. Foam made from non-flammable metal remains non-flammable and can generally be recycled as the base material. Its coefficient of thermal expansion is similar while thermal conductivity is likely reduced.\n\nOpen celled metal foam, also called metal sponge, can be used in heat exchangers (compact electronics cooling, cryogen tanks, PCM heat exchangers), energy absorption, flow diffusion, and lightweight optics. The high cost of the material generally limits its use to advanced technology, aerospace, and manufacturing.\n\nFine-scale open-cell foams, with cells smaller than can be seen unaided, are used as high-temperature filters in the chemical industry.\n\nMetal foams are used in compact heat exchangers to increase heat transfer at the cost of reduced pressure. However, their use permits substantial reduction in physical size and fabrication costs. Most models of these materials use idealized and periodic structures or averaged macroscopic properties.\n\nMetal sponge has very large surface area per unit weight and catalysts are often formed into metal sponge, such as palladium black, platinum sponge, and spongy nickel. Metals such as osmium and palladium hydride are metaphorically called \"metal sponges\", but this term is in reference to their property of binding to hydrogen, rather than the physical structure.\n\nOpen cell foams are manufactured by foundry or powder metallurgy. In the powder method, \"space holders\" are used; as their name suggests, they occupy the pore spaces and channels. In casting processes, foam is cast with an open-celled polyurethane foam skeleton.\n\nClosed-cell metal foam was first reported in 1926 by Meller in a French patent where foaming of light metals, either by inert gas injection or by blowing agent, was suggested. Two patents on sponge-like metal were issued to Benjamin Sosnik in 1948 and 1951 who applied mercury vapor to blow liquid aluminium.\n\nClosed-cell metal foams were developed in 1956 by John C. Elliott at Bjorksten Research Laboratories. Although the first prototypes were available in the 1950s, commercial production began in the 1990s by Shinko Wire company in Japan. Closed-cell metal foams are primarily used as an impact-absorbing material, similarly to the polymer foams in a bicycle helmet but for higher impact loads. Unlike many polymer foams, metal foams remain deformed after impact and can therefore only be deformed once. They are light (typically 10–25% of the density of an identical non-porous alloy; commonly those of aluminium) and stiff and are frequently proposed as a lightweight structural material. However, they have not been widely used for this purpose.\n\nClosed-cell foams retain the fire resistance and recycling potential of other metal foams, but add the property of flotation in water.\n\nFoams are commonly made by injecting a gas or mixing a foaming agent into molten metal. Melts can be foamed by creating gas bubbles in the material. Normally, bubbles in molten metal are highly buoyant in the high-density liquid and rise quickly to the surface. This rise can be slowed by increasing the viscosity of the molten metal by adding ceramic powders or alloying elements to form stabilizing particles in the melt, or by other means. Metallic melts can be foamed in one of three ways:\nTo stabilize the molten metal bubbles, high temperature foaming agents (nano- or micrometer- sized solid particles) are required. The size of the pores, or cells, is usually 1 to 8 mm. When foaming or blowing agents are used, they are mixed with the powdered metal before it is melted. This is the so-called \"powder route\" of foaming, and it is probably the most established (from an industrial standpoint). After metal (e.g. aluminium) powders and foaming agent (e.g.TiH) have been mixed, they are compressed into a compact, solid precursor, which can be available in the form of a billet, a sheet, or a wire. Production of precursors can be done by a combination of materials forming processes, such as powder pressing, extrusion (direct or conform) and flat rolling.\n\nComposite metal foam (CMF) is formed from hollow beads of one metal within a solid matrix of another, such as steel within aluminium, show 5 to 6 times greater strength to density ratio and more than 7 times greater energy absorption than previous metal foams.\n\nA plate less than one inch thick has enough resistance to turn a .30-06 Springfield standard-issue M2 armor piercing bullet to dust. The test plate outperformed a solid metal plate of similar thickness, while weighing far less. Other potential applications include nuclear waste (shielding X-rays, gamma rays and neutron radiation) transfer and thermal insulation for space vehicle atmospheric re-entry, with twice the resistance to fire and heat as the plain metals.\n\nCMF can replace rolled steel armor with the same protection for one-third the weight. It can block fragments and the shock waves that are responsible for brain injuries. Stainless steel CMF can block blast pressure and fragmentation at 5,000 feet per second from high explosive incendiary (HEI) rounds that detonate 18 inches from the shield. Steel CMF plates (9.5 mm or 16.75 mm thick) were placed 18 inches from the strikeplate held up against the wave of blast pressure and against the copper and steel fragments created by a 23×152 mm HEI round (as in anti-aircraft weapons) as well as a 2.3mm aluminium strikeplate.\n\nA foam is said to be stochastic when the porosity distribution is random. Most foams are stochastic because of the method of manufacture:\n\n\nA foam is said to be regular when the structure is ordered. Direct molding is one technology that produces regular foams with open pores. Metal foams can also be produced by additive processes such as selective laser melting (SLM).\n\nPlates can be used as casting cores. The shape is customized for each application. This manufacturing method allows for \"perfect\" foam, so-called because it satisfies Plateau's laws and has conducting pores of the shape of a truncated octahedron Kelvin cell (body-centered cubic structure).\n\nMetal foam can be used in product or architectural composition.\n\nFoam metal has been used in experimental animal prosthetics. In this application, a hole is drilled into the bone and the metal foam inserted, letting the bone grow into the metal for a permanent junction. For orthopedic applications, tantalum or titanium foams are common for their tensile strength, corrosion resistance and biocompatibility.\n\nThe back legs of a Siberian Husky named Triumph received foam metal prostheses. Mammalian studies showed that porous metals, such as titanium foam, may allow vascularization within the porous area.\n\nOrthopedic device manufacturers use foam construction or metal foam coatings to achieve desired levels of osseointegration.\n\nThe primary functions of metallic foams in vehicles are to increase sound damping, reduce weight, increase energy absorption in case of crashes, and (in military applications) to combat the concussive force of IEDs. As an example, foam filled tubes could be used as anti-intrusion bars. Because of their low density (0.4–0.9 g/cm), aluminium and aluminium alloy foams are under particular consideration. These foams are stiff, fire resistant, nontoxic, recyclable, energy absorbent, less thermally conductive, less magnetically permeable, and more efficiently sound dampening, especially when compared to hollow parts. Metallic foams in hollow car parts decrease weakness points usually associated with car crashes and vibration. These foams are inexpensive to cast with powder metallurgy, compared to casting other hollow parts.\n\nCompared to polymer foams in vehicles, metallic foams are stiffer, stronger, more energy absorbent, and resistant to fire and the weather adversities of UV light, humidity, and temperature variation. However, they are heavier, more expensive, and non-insulating.\n\nMetal foam technology has been applied to automotive exhaust gas. Compared to traditional catalytic converters that use cordierite ceramic as substrate, metal foam substrate offers better heat transfer and exhibits excellent mass-transport properties (high turbulence) and may reduce the quantity of platinum catalyst required.\n\nMetal foams are used for stiffening a structure without increasing its mass. For this application, metal foams are generally closed pore and made of aluminium. Foam panels are glued to the aluminium plate to obtain a resistant composite sandwich locally (in the sheet thickness) and rigid along the length depending on the foam's thickness.\n\nThe advantage of metal foams is that the reaction is constant, regardless of the direction of the force. Foams have a plateau of stress after deformation that is constant for as much as 80% of the crushing.\n\nTian et al. listed several criteria to assess a foam in a heat exchanger. The comparison of thermal-performance metal foams with materials conventionally used in the intensification of exchange (fins, coupled surfaces, bead bed) first shows that the pressure losses caused by foams are much more important than with conventional fins, yet are significantly lower than those of beads. The exchange coefficients are close to beds and ball and well above the blades.\n\nFoams offer other thermophysical and mechanical features:\n\n\nCommercialization of foam-based compact heat exchangers, heat sinks and shock absorbers is limited due to the high cost of foam replications. Their long-term resistance to fouling, corrosion and erosion are insufficiently characterized. From a manufacturing standpoint, the transition to foam technology requires new production and assembly techniques and heat exchanger design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324598", "title": "Kenn Harper", "text": "Kenn Harper\n\nKenn Harper (aka \"Ilisaijikutaaq\", tall teacher) is a Canadian writer, historian and former businessman. He is the author of \"Give Me My Father's Body\", an account of Greenland Inuk Minik Wallace, had a regular column on Arctic history in \"Nunatsiaq News\" and is a former landlord.\n\nHarper relocated to the Arctic in 1966 as a teacher at Broughton Island, now known as Qikiqtarjuaq. He later lived in Padloping Island, Pangnirtung, Arctic Bay (all in the Canadian Eastern Arctic) and Qaanaaq, Greenland, and worked at various times as a teacher, development officer, and entrepreneur. He eventually settled in Iqaluit, Nunavut, where he bought the Arctic Ventures general store, which was previously owned by Bryan Pearson. He sold the company to Arctic Co-operatives Limited in 2012.\n\nHarper became known as a historian of the Arctic. For ten years (2005-2015), he wrote \"Taissumani\", a regular column on Arctic history in \"Nunatsiaq News\". He is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society, and the Royal Canadian Geographical Society. In 1986 he published \"Give Me My Father's Body: The Life of Minik, the New York Eskimo\", which tells the story of Minik Wallace, a member of the Inughuit or \"Polar Eskimo\" tribe who was among a group taken by Robert Peary from his home in northwest Greenland to New York City. It was republished under the same title in 2000 by Steerforth Press. In 2017 Steerforth Press published a much-expanded version, containing new information on Minik's life, under the title \"Minik, The New York Eskimo\".\n\nIn 2005, Harper was appointed Honourary Danish Consul, an unpaid posting in Iqaluit. On 9 June 2014, Harper was recognised by the Government of Denmark for his work with the presentation of the Order of the Dannebrog. The appointment of \"Ridder\" (Knight) had been made in April and was approved by the Government of Canada. He gave up the position of Honourary Consul in 2017.\n\nHarper is also an enthusiastic wrestling fan, notable for bringing Maximum Pro Wrestling to Iqaluit as a charity show to raise money for youth sports.\n\nHarper is fluent in English, Inuktitut and conversational Danish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324602", "title": "Zhu Tong", "text": "Zhu Tong\n\nZhu Tong is a fictional character in \"Water Margin\", one of the four great classical novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed \"Lord of the Beautiful Beard\", he ranks 12th among the 36 Heavenly Spirits, the first third of the 108 Stars of Destiny.\n\nZhu Tong is a chief constable in Yuncheng County in present-day Shandong province. Eight \"chi\" and four or five \"cun\" tall, he sports a beard one \"chi\" and five \"cun\" long. His sparkling eyes and long flowing beard give him a look resembling Guan Yu of the Three Kingdoms era. He is thus nicknamed, like Guan, \"Lord with a Beautiful Beard\". \n\nZhu Tong and fellow chief constable Lei Heng are close friends of Chao Gai, the headman of Dongxi village in Yuncheng. When Yuncheng receives order to arrest Chao, who is found to have led the hijack of birthday gifts in transportation to Imperial Tutor Cai Jing, the job falls on Zhu Tong and Lei Heng. Both Zhu and Lei want to help Chao Gai escape, not knowing the other thinks the same. Zhu Tong gets Lei into agreeing to break into Chao‘s house from the front while he himself blocks the rear. When Chao Gai, Wu Yong, Liu Tang and Gongsun Sheng charge out of the rear gate, Zhu Tong ensures they get to safety.\n\nSoon after Chao Gai is elected chief of Liangshan Marsh, he sends gifts to repay Zhu Tong and Song Jiang, who had also contributed to his escape, for their help. Song kills his mistress Yan Poxi in anger when she threatens to report him after discovering through the gifts his connection to Liangshan. The magistrate orders Zhu Tong and Lei Heng to search for Song Jiang at his father‘s house. Zhu Tong asks Lei Heng to watch over Song's father while he alone finds Song, who is hiding in a pit under the floor in the study. Song has once told Zhu there is this hiding place. Zhu tells Song to flee. He reports to the magistrate that Song Jiang could not be found.\n\nLei Heng gets into a bitter conflict with a songstress and kills her when she insults and slaps his mother. The magistrate exiles him to Jizhou (薊州; present-day Ji County, Tianjin), with Zhu Tong to escort him there. Zhu releases Lei while on the way. As the magistrate is fond of Zhu Tong, he hands him the light sentence of exile to Cangzhou.\n\nIn Cangzhou, Zhu Tong‘s looks endear him to the local prefect, who lets him work in his office. The prefect's four-year-old son also finds Zhu Tong charming with his long exquisite beard and often wants to play with him. One night when Zhu is outdoor with the boy, Lei Heng and Wu Yong approach him. When he is vehemently turning down their invitation to join Liangshan, Li Kui, on the cue of Wu Yong, takes away the child and hacks him to death. Upon finding the body of the boy, Zhu is furious and wants to kill Li Kui. But he is prevented by Wu Yong and Lei Heng. Seeing that he has no other choice, Zhu Tong reluctantly joins Liangshan.\n\nZhu Tong is appointed as one of the Eight Tiger Cubs Vanguard Generals of the Liangshan cavalry after the 108 Stars of Destiny came together in what is called the Grand Assembly. He participates in their campaigns against the Liao invaders and rebel forces on Song territory following amnesty from Emperor Huizong for Liangshan. He makes great contributions and is one of the few Liangshan heroes who survive the expeditions. He accepts an official appointment and dedicates the rest of his life to serving the Song Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324604", "title": "Monguor language", "text": "Monguor language\n\nThe Monguor language (; also written Mongour and Mongor) is a Mongolic language of its Shirongolic branch and is part of the Gansu–Qinghai sprachbund (also called the Amdo sprachbund). There are several dialects, mostly spoken by the Monguor people. A written script was devised for Huzhu Monguor (Mongghul) in the late 20th century, but has been little used. A division into two languages, namely Mongghul in Huzhu Tu Autonomous County and Mangghuer in Minhe Hui and Tu Autonomous County, is considered necessary by some linguists. While Mongghul was under strong influence from Amdo Tibetan, the same holds for Mangghuer and Sinitic languages, and local varieties of Chinese such as the Gangou language were in turn influenced by Monguor.\n\nMonguor has five vowels: .\n\nMongolian numerals such as the following are only in use in the Mongghul dialect, while Mangghuer speakers have switched to counting in Chinese. Note that while the Mongolian script has only \"arban\" for 'ten', Middle Mongolian *\"harpa/n\" including *\"h\" can be reconstructed from the scripts.\nE. Gaspardone\nBulletin de l'École française d'Extrême-Orient Année 1933 Volume 33 Numéro 1 p. 1014\nhttp://www.persee.fr/doc/befeo_0336-1519_1933_num_33_1_4683\n\n"}
{"id": "2324613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324613", "title": "503rd Infantry Regiment (United States)", "text": "503rd Infantry Regiment (United States)\n\nThe 503rd Infantry Regiment, formerly the 503rd Parachute Infantry Regiment (503rd PIR) and the 503rd Airborne Infantry Regiment (503rd AIR), is an airborne infantry regiment of the United States Army. The regiment served as an independent regiment in the Pacific War during World War II; at Fort Campbell, Kentucky; in Okinawa, Japan; and in Germany. Regimental elements have been assigned to the 2nd Infantry Division, the 11th Airborne Division, the 24th Infantry Division, 25th Infantry Division, the 82nd Airborne Division, 101st Airborne Division, and the 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team. Regimental elements have participated in campaigns in the Vietnam War, Operation Enduring Freedom–Afghanistan, and Operation Iraqi Freedom. The regiment claims 15 Medal of Honor recipients: two from World War II, 10 from Vietnam, and three from Afghanistan. A parent regiment under the U.S. Army Regimental System. The regiment's 1st and 2nd Battalions are active, assigned to the 173rd Airborne Brigade, based at Caserma Ederle, Vicenza, Italy.\n\n\nOn 14 February 1942, just two months after the American entry into World War II, the 503rd Parachute Infantry Regiment was formed, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel William M. \"Bud\" Miley. The regiment's 1st and 2nd Battalions were formed at Fort Benning, Georgia, from the 503rd and 504th Parachute Battalions, respectively. En route to Australia, the 503rd picked up a third battalion in Panama, where they had been undergoing jungle training. Unlike many other airborne units, which were deployed in the European Theater of Operations (ETO), the 503rd was the first airborne regiment to fight in the Pacific, and as an independent unit.\n\nThe unit's first operation was an unopposed landing at Nadzab, in the Markham Valley, New Guinea, on 5 September 1943. Although the landings were unopposed, the troops were later attacked by enemy bombers from the air. The 503rd's deployment helped force the Japanese evacuation of a major military outpost at Lae. During their overland withdrawal, the third battalion of the 503rd had a major skirmish with the Japanese rear guard.\n\nOn 3–4 July 1944, 1st and 3rd Battalions of the 503rd were delivered by parachute to Kamiri Airfield on the island of Noemfoor off the coast of Dutch New Guinea, sustaining significant casualties from the jump. To reduce further casualties, the 2nd Battalion was delivered amphibiously. At the Battle of Noemfoor, the 503rd played a major role in the elimination of the Japanese garrison on that island. As a result of his heroic actions during the battle, paratrooper Sergeant Ray E. Eubanks was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor. Airfields constructed on Noemfoor after its capture enabled the advance of Allied troops from New Guinea to the Philippines.\n\nFollowing a non-combat landing on the island of Leyte in the Philippines, the 503rd Regimental Combat Team (RCT) made a major amphibious landing on Mindoro Island in the central Philippines on 15 December 1944. Originally, it was intended for the 503rd to jump on Mindoro, but due to inadequate airstrip facilities on Leyte, an airborne landing was not possible. During the Battle of Mindoro, the 503rd was subjected to intense air and naval actions, at one point being shelled for 25 minutes by a Japanese naval task force. One company of the 503rd RCT engaged in a fierce battle against a company-size Japanese force defending an enemy air raid warning station on the north end of the island. The success of the Mindoro operation enabled the United States Army Air Forces to construct and operate air strips and forward air bases to support later landings in the Philippines at Lingayen Gulf, Luzon.\n\nOn 16 February 1945, the 503rd RCT jumped on Fortress Corregidor (\"the Rock\") to liberate that island from occupying Japanese forces. Braving intense fire, the paratroopers rushed forward and overcame the heavy blockhouse defenses, dropping explosives into embrasures to kill hidden Japanese gunners. For its successful capture of Corregidor, the unit was awarded a Presidential Unit Citation and received its nickname, \"the Rock Regiment\" from it. The regimental insignia was designed by Private First Class Thomas M. McNeill while recuperating from his injuries and dengue fever, hepatitis, and malaria on Mindoro Island, following the battle of Corregidor.\n\nAfter returning to Mindoro, the 503rd was alerted for another combat jump, this time in the central Philippines to reinforce the 40th Infantry Division in its fight on Negros island. However the jump was canceled and the combat team landed amphibiously on 7 April 1945. It would spend the remainder of the war conducting mopping up operations on the island, often against fanatical enemy resistance. After Japan's surrender in August 1945, over 6,150 Japanese soldiers surrendered to the 503rd, although some continued to hold out until October.\n\nInactivated at Camp Anza, California, in December 1945, it was reactivated and redesignated as the 503rd Airborne Infantry Regiment in February 1951 and assigned to the 11th Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, following the departure of the 187th Airborne Infantry Regiment to Korea as a separate airborne regimental combat team. In 1956 the 503rd went with the rest of the 11th Airborne Division to posts in southeastern Germany.\n\nThe 503rd was relieved on 1 March 1957 from assignment to the 11th Airborne Division and was concurrently reorganized and redesignated as the 503rd Infantry, a parent regiment under the Combat Arms Regimental System. This year marked the point during which infantry regimental numbers ceased indicating actual tactical units but instead were used in designating battle groups of Pentomic divisions, which did not have regiments and battalions.\n\nOn 1 July 1958 the 11th Airborne Division was inactivated and its personnel and equipment reflagged as the 24th Infantry Division; however, two of the division's five battle groups remained on jump status with Airborne designations: the 1st Airborne Battle Group, 187th Infantry, and the 1st Airborne Battle Group, 503d Infantry. This was a short-term assignment, however, and on 7 January 1959 1-503d was relieved from assignment to the 24th Infantry Division and assigned to the 82d Airborne Division at Fort Bragg.\n\nThe move was accompanied by the rotation of the only other airborne battle group, 1-187th, from the 24th to the 82nd. Concurrently 1-504th and 1-505th were relieved from the 82nd and assigned to the 8th Infantry Division in central Germany. At Fort Bragg, 1-503rd joined 2-503rd, already assigned to the 82nd, as one of the division's five battle groups.\n\nOn 24 June 1960 the 1st ABG, 503d Infantry was relieved from assignment to the 82d Airborne Division and assigned to the 25th Infantry Division in Hawaii, remaining there until 1 July 1961 when it was relieved from the division as it traveled to Okinawa. The ABG was accompanied by Battery C (Abn), 319th Artillery, later reorganized and redesignated as HHB, 3d Battalion (Abn), 319th Field Artillery. On 26 March 1963 it was assigned to the newly-activated 173d Airborne Brigade, and shortly thereafter it was reorganized and redesignated as the 2d Battalion, 503d Infantry on 25 June 1963. Additionally, on 26 March 1963 the 1st ABG, 503d Infantry was relieved from assignment to the 82d Airborne Division, assigned to the 173d Airborne Brigade and subsequently reorganized and redesignated as a battalion as well.\n\nIn May 1965, two battalions of the 503rd Infantry deployed as part of the 173rd Airborne Brigade to Vietnam as the first major U.S. Army ground combat unit to be deployed, joined later by 4-503rd Inf and 3-503rd Inf (bearing the lineages of the former Company D and Company C, 503rd PIR, respectively). During its six years in Vietnam, the four battalions of the 503rd participated in fourteen campaigns, earning two more Presidential Unit Citations and a Meritorious Unit Commendation. The 2nd Bn (Abn), 503rd Inf participated in the only combat jump of the war during \"Operation Junction City\" in 1967. It redeployed to the U.S. in July 1971, having the distinction of being one of the last units to leave Vietnam.\n\nFollowing the return of the 173rd Brigade (Separate) to the U.S. was its inactivation when its assets were used to form the 3rd Brigade (Airborne), 101st Airborne Division (Airmobile). The 1-503rd was relieved from the 173rd effective In August 1971. The 1-503rd was deactivated and 4-503rd was reassigned as 1-503rd 173rd Brigade Separate and on 14 January 1972 reassigned to 3rd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division (Airmobile). The 2-503rd continued as 2-503rd, 173rd Airborne Brigade (Separate)and on 14 January 1972 relieved and reassigned as 2-503rd 3rd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division (Airmobile). The 3-503rd was relieved and reactivated as 3rd-187th 173rd Airborne Brigade (Separate) and on 14 January 1972 reassigned to 3rd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division (Airmobile). The 3rd Brigade, along with other supporting division units, saw its jump status terminated on 1 April 1974 when the 101st became a completely airmobile division (renamed Air Assault on 4 October 1974).\n\nThe lineage of 2-503rd was inactivated on 1 October 1983 and relieved from assignment to the 101st, followed by 1-503rd on 16 November 1984. The existing battalions were reflagged as units of the 187th Infantry Regiment during the implementation of the U.S. Army Regimental System (ARS).\n\nOn 16 December 1986 both 1-503d and 2-503d were reactivated and assigned to the 2d Brigade, 2d Infantry Division in Korea when two existing infantry battalions were reflagged. Stationed together at Camp Hovey, they formed the division's 2d Brigade, which also included the 1st Battalion, 506th Infantry. Both battalions of the 503d performed annual rotations to Warrior Base, just south of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), from where they patrolled the DMZ; manned guard posts Collier, Oullette, and 128; and served as a quick-reaction force for the DMZ.\n\nThe 2nd Bn, 503rd Inf was inactivated on 29 September 1990 in Korea and relieved from assignment to the 2nd Infantry Division, but 1-503rd and 1-506th remained and became air assault battalions within the division. (Although locally referred to as air assault battalions, they were never recognized as such by DA and were employed as regular infantry battalions.) The 2nd Bn, 503d returned to active status as an airborne battalion on 16 December 2001 when it was assigned to the 173rd Airborne Brigade and activated in Italy. The company names were kept from its lineage in Korea: A Company (Able), B Company (Battle), C Company (Chosen), D Company (Destined), H Company (Hound), HHC (Blacksheep).\n\nIn March 2003, the Turkish government refused to allow American ground forces, which were positioned at their ports, to move through Turkey in order to establish a northern front in support of \"Operation Iraqi Freedom\". America needed another option and the paratroopers of the 173rd Airborne Brigade provided that option. On 26 March at 2000 hours, fifteen C-17 aircraft delivered 20 heavy platforms and 959 paratroopers of the 173rd Airborne Brigade onto Bashur Drop Zone in the vicinity of Bashur, Iraq. This combat parachute assault was the beginning of \"Operation Northern Delay\" and established the coalition's northern front.\n\nThe parachute assault force consisted of HHC, 173rd Airborne Brigade; 1st Battalion (Airborne), 508th Infantry Regiment commanded by LTC Harry Tunnell; 2nd Battalion (Airborne), 503rd Infantry Regiment commanded by LTC Dominic J. Caraccilo; 74th Infantry Detachment (Long Range Surveillance); D Battery (Airborne), 319th Field Artillery Regiment; 173rd Support Company (Combat); 501st Support Company (Forward), 250th Forward Surgical Team; ODA (-), 2nd Battalion, 10th Special Forces Group (Airborne); 4th Air Support Operations Group (USAFE); and the 86th Contingency Response Group (assigned to the 86th Airlift Wing (USAFE). The paratroopers were under the command of Colonel William C. Mayville Jr., commander of the 173rd Airborne Brigade. The aircraft from which the units were delivered into battle were the C-17s of the 62d and 446th Airlift Wings from McChord AFB, Washington and the 437th Airlift Wing and 315th Airlift Wing (AFRES) from Charleston AFB, South Carolina. The C-17s were under the command of Colonel Robert “Dice” R. Allardice, commander of the 62nd Airlift Wing. This airborne operation was not only the largest since the 1989 invasion of Panama, but was the first airborne personnel insertion ever conducted with the C-17.\n\nThe successful establishment of a northern front was essential to the coalition's battle plan. Without a northern front, six Iraqi divisions arrayed in northern Iraq remained free to move south to reinforce Baghdad. Fast-moving Coalition forces were closing on Baghdad with the expectation of having to capture the Iraqi capital from three defensively arrayed divisions. Six additional Iraqi divisions streaming from the north could dramatically affect the balance of power around Baghdad.\n\nAnother factor was the oil-rich area of Kirkuk Governorate. The oil wealth of the Kirkuk area would be crucial to rebuilding Iraq but the Iraqi army had shown a willingness to destroy their country's own future simply to spite the Coalition. Securing the oil fields and airbases of Kirkuk was assigned to the 173rd Airborne Brigade.\n\nThe success of the 173rd Airborne Brigade in its securing of Bashur and Kirkuk and its subsequent control and rebuilding of Kirkuk and later the As Sulaymaniyah Governorate was unmatched in-theater. The troopers integrated forces from fifteen other units, to include five Army divisions, to accomplish every mission.\n\nIn the summer of 2004, the 1-503rd deployed with the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division from Korea to violent Ramadi, Iraq, where its soldiers took part in the battle of Fallujah and conducted combat operations in the violent Al-Anbar province. At that point in the war, Ramadi was considered the most dangerous city in Iraq, and the battalion suffered high losses during the deployment. 1-503rd was targeted by daily small arms, RPG, and mortar attacks and experienced a significant number of vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices, also known as VBIEDS or car bombs. Despite this, 1-503rd was very successful in their mission to curb insurgent activity. According to an interview with Lieutenant Colonel James Raymer, by 2006, insurgent activity was markedly lowered from the year that 1-503rd conducted operations in Ramadi. Additionally, 1-503rd played a critical role in the 2005 elections in Iraq in Ramadi. In the spring of 2005, the 173rd began its second deployment in three years to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom VI. 2d BN (ABN) 503d IN deployed to Regional Command South demonstrating unparalleled bravery fighting anti-coalition forces in the bloodiest spring since the original invasion in 2001. The ROCK fought the Taliban and Al Qaeda in the Provinces of Helmand, Zabul and Kandahar and excelled in all aspects of the deployment to include facilitating a peaceful parliamentary election process in the fall of 2005.\n\nUpon completion of its year-long deployment to Iraq, 1-503rd did not return to Korea, but instead relocated to Fort Carson, Colorado, with the rest of the brigade. It was redesignated on 1 October 2005 as the 1st Battalion, 503rd Infantry Regiment, inactivated on 15 November 2005, relieved from assignment to the 2nd Infantry Division, and assigned on 15 June 2006 to the 173rd Airborne Brigade, where the battalion was activated with the assets of the existing 1-508th.\n\nIn May 2007, the 173rd ABCT (including both 1-503rd and 2-503rd) deployed to Afghanistan. Both units fell under the NATO ISAF mission. The 2-503rd remained as part of TF Bayonet and the unit was the subject of several articles detailing their operations during OEF VIII. The 1-503rd was attached to the 4th BCT, 82nd Airborne and then 4th BCT, 101st Airborne as part of TF Fury and TF Currahee, respectively.\n\nOn 7 February 2011, 2-503rd was awarded the Valorous Unit Award for their actions during OEF VIII from 25 January to 30 July 2008. The official citation reads: \"For extraordinary heroism in action against an armed enemy. During the period 25 January 2008 to 30 July 2008, the Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 503d Infantry Regiment and its subordinate units displayed exceptionally meritorious service assigned as Task Force Rock in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Kunar Province. Task Force Rock's professionalism and dedication to the mission under fire went beyond the call of duty and contributed greatly to the success of Task Force Bayonet. The actions of Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 2d Battalion, 503d Infantry Regiment and its subordinate units are in keeping with the finest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon the unit, the 173d Airborne Brigade Combat Team and the United States Army\". The subordinate units of HHC, 2d Battalion, 503d Infantry Regiment included: Companies A, B, C, D, F; Battery B (4th Battalion, 319th Field Artillery Regiment); Battery C, (3d Battalion, 321st Field Artillery Regiment); and Headquarters and Headquarters Company (Special Troops Battalion, 173d Abn Bde).\n\nOn 26 October 2011, 2-503rd was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation for the soldiers' \"extraordinary heroism in action against an armed enemy\" from 5 June to 10 November 2007.\n\nStaff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta received the nation's highest award for valor after running through heavy enemy fire to rescue a badly wounded comrade during a deadly ambush on 25 October 2007, in the Korengal Valley. Soldiers from the battalion also earned two Distinguished Service Crosses, the second-highest valor award, and 27 Silver Stars, the third-highest award for valor.\n\nMedal of Honor recipients:\nSilver Star recipients:\nMarch 1968\n\n\n\n\nNote: The published Army lineage predates the War on Terrorism. Comparison of the deployment dates of regimental elements with the War on Terrorism campaigns estimates that the battalion will be credited with participation in the six campaigns listed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324617", "title": "Sandstone universities", "text": "Sandstone universities\n\nThe sandstone universities are an informally defined group comprising Australia's oldest tertiary education institutions. Most were founded in the colonial era, the exceptions being the University of Queensland (1909) and The University of Western Australia (1911). All the universities in the group have buildings constructed primarily of sandstone. Membership of the group is based on age; some universities, such as the private Bond University, have sandstone-plated buildings but are not considered sandstone universities.\n\nThe label \"sandstone university\" is not completely synonymous with membership of the Group of Eight, which includes the Australian National University, Monash University and the University of New South Wales, but not the University of Tasmania. Nevertheless, the connotations (prestige, a focus on research, and curricula that have a strong emphasis on theory rather than practice) are much the same for the two groups. Australian Government survey data of university graduates has indicated in the past that students who enter sandstone universities come from higher income families, and that graduates largely have higher paid occupations or positions of influence, prompting claims of elitism and social division.\n\nSandstone universities can be taken to be either universities founded before World War I, or the oldest university in their respective state; either definition gives the same set of universities.\n\n!University\n!class=\"unsortable\"|Location\n!Established\n!Undergraduates \n!Postgraduates\n!Endowment\n!Academic staff\n!class=\"unsortable\"|Colors\n"}
{"id": "2324628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324628", "title": "Russian All-Military Union", "text": "Russian All-Military Union\n\nThe Russian All-Military Union (, abbreviated РОВС, \"ROVS\") is an organization that was founded by White Army General Pyotr Wrangel in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes on 1 September 1924, initially headquartered in the town of Sremski Karlovci. The organization′s ostensible purpose was provision of aid to the veterans of the Russian White movement (usually of the Imperial Russian Army as well), soldiers and officers alike, who now lived outside the USSR; the undeclared aim was to maintain a Russian military organisation with a view to fighting the Bolsheviks.\n\nShortly after its establishment in Serbia in September 1924 by General Wrangel, on 16 November the supreme command of the ROVS, along with all White Army formations in exile, was assumed by Grand Duke Nikolai Nikolaevich, who had until August 1915 been the Supreme Commander of the Russian armed forces during WWI and since 1922 resided in France.\n\nAside from anti-communism, the ROVS did not have an official political orientation, somewhat adhering to the old Russian military dictum: \"The army is outside politics\" (in Russian \"Армия вне политики\"), believing that the political orientation of Russia cannot be predetermined by émigrés living outside of its borders (the philosophy of \"non-predetermination\" or in Russian \"непредрешенчество\"). Many (but not all) of its members had monarchist sympathies but were divided on whether the House of Romanov should return and whether the government should be autocratic or democratic.\n\nThe ROVS, along with other similar Russian émigré organizations, became a prime target for the Soviet secret intelligence service, the GPU/OGPU. The OGPU even set up a fictitious anti-communist monarchist organization, the Monarchist Union of Central Russia, which was used to undermine the ROVS′ activities in the USSR. The ROVS′ secret counter-intelligence branch, the \"Inner Line\" (in Russian \"Внутренная Линия\") set up by General Alexander Kutepov in the mid-1920s, was also severely compromised, among other things by suspected recruitment by OGPU of Gen Nikolai Skoblin, who was a senior operative in the Inner Line. Two of the ROVS's successive chairmen, Gen Alexander Kutepov and General Yevgeny Miller, were kidnapped by Soviet agents, in 1930 and 1937 respectively, Miller being brought to the USSR to be interrogated and executed. General , who succeeded Miller as the ROVS chairman, had to quit the post shortly after and was expelled from Bulgaria where he had resided due to the fact that his son was exposed as a Soviet agent. The OGPU/NKVD′s successful operations against the ROVS as well as infighting, intrigues, and antagonisms in the wider Russian émigré community demoralised and rendered impotent an organisation, which by the time World War II began in 1939 had also become largely irrelevant due to the geopolitical realignment. After the outbreak of the war, the ROVS was virtually paralysed, as the war split the ROVS′ leadership and membership into two opposing camps: those who advocated war against, or for, Germany. Gen , who assumed the ROVS presidency in March 1938, was personally of pro-Germany political orientation, a stance opposed by such renowned émigré figures, among others, as General Anton Denikin. \n\nDuring the war, the ROVS maintained a cautious position, not siding officially with Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union but waiting for the emergence of an independent Russian Liberation Army. However, some, acting as interpreters, joined the ranks of the Wehrmacht at the early stage of war on the German-Soviet Front. The reason for that was ROVS quasi-ideology, in no small way encapsulated in the idea of 'irreconcilability', which meant fighting against the Soviet power in any way possible.\n\nAccording to a 1988 oral history interview with Nikita Ivanovich Yovich, \"Years passed, gradually people began dying off. In 1986, the most senior man still alive turned out to be Captain Ivanov who lived in Detroit. Captain Ivanov received a communication from Paris saying that as the most senior man he was now obliged to assume the presidency of the R.A.S.U. He was ninety-one. He needed a deputy and I was recommended to him. I received a letter from this Captain Ivanov whom I had never met, an official letter -- 'Dear Nikita Ivanovich, As of such and such a date, I have become the President of the Russian Armed Services Union. I am alone and am requesting your help.' And so I answered the letter, -- 'Dear Captain Ivanov: I was brought up to be a soldier -- that means, never volunteer for duty, but never shirk it.' A week later, I received orders from him, stating that as of such and such a date Lieutenant Nikita Ivanovich Yovich would be serving as his deputy. He gave me various orders, xeroxing lists and so forth, which I carried out. After a few years I began having problems with my health and I wrote to Captain Ivanov requesting to be relieved of my duties. I received no reply. I wrote again. All of a sudden I receive a letter saying that Captain Ivanov has had a stroke and is paralyzed. I phoned him, but there was no answer. And then I received orders from him, which he had somehow been able to sign -- I had been appointed president of the Russian Armed Services Union.\"\n\nThe ROVS continued to be active into the 1990s, having evolved into an organization that was principally concerned with the historical preservation of the pre-communist and anti-communist Russian military tradition. In the ROVS's possession were a significant number of Russian imperial and White Army battle flags and standards, which were meant to be returned to Russia when \"a national Russian army\" was once again in existence.\n\nAlthough its significance and influence in the Russian émigré community had ceased several decades before, in 1992, ROVS became active in Russia itself. In the mid-1990s, however, since the communist regime had fallen and the Soviet Union was no more, a split emerged within ROVS on whether to continue the organization's existence.\n\nIn 2000, Vladimir Vishnevsky, a US resident and the ROVS chairman at that time, requested a vote on this issue. The vast majority of members voted against the dissolution of ROVS. Vishnevsky died of cancer in that same year.\n\nBefore WWII ROVS was divided into departments (), based on regions or/and countries:\n\nAccording to the data contained in the declassified UDBA documents of 1955, in 1934 ROVS′s global membership totaled 400,000 people, which included 206,000 people in Europe, 175,000 in the Far East, and 25,000 in America.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324639", "title": "Syngenta", "text": "Syngenta\n\nSyngenta AG is a global company that produces agrochemicals and seeds and is based in Basel, Switzerland. As a biotechnology company, it conducts genomic research. It was formed in 13 November 2000 by the merger of Novartis Agribusiness and Zeneca Agrochemicals. Syngenta is the world’s largest crop chemical producer it ranked third in seeds and biotechnology sales.\nSales in 2015 were approximately US$13.4 billion, over half of which were in emerging markets. It is owned by ChemChina, a Chinese state-owned enterprise.\n\nBased in Basel, Switzerland, Syngenta was formed in 13 November 2000 by the merger of Novartis Agribusiness and Zeneca Agrochemicals. \n\nNovartis was formed of the 1996 merger of the three Swiss companies: Geigy, which has roots back to 1758; Sandoz Laboratories which was founded in 1876; and Ciba, founded in 1884. Ciba and Geigy merged in 1971.\nZeneca Agrochemicals was part of AstraZeneca, and formerly of Imperial Chemical Industries. ICI was formed in the UK in 1926. Two years later, work began at the Agricultural Research Station at Jealotts Hill near Bracknell.\n\nIn 2004, Syngenta Seeds purchased Garst, the North American corn and soybean business of Advanta, as well as Golden Harvest Seeds. On 5 December 2004, the European Union ended a six-year moratorium when it approved imports of two varieties of genetically modified corn sold by Monsanto and its Swiss rival, Syngenta.\n\nIn 2005, Syngenta opposed a Swiss ban on genetically engineered organisms. On 28 November 2005, Switzerland enacted a five-year ban on the farming of genetically modified crops, underscoring the problems facing the European Commission and biotech companies like Syngenta, Bayer and Monsanto as they try to overcome consumer doubts about safety.\n\nIn 2014, Monsanto sought to acquire Syngenta for a reported $40 billion, but Syngenta rejected the offer. Since April 2015 Monsanto and Syngenta had been working with their investment banks Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs respectively on a deal. The U.S. Treasury tried to stop the deal for tax inversion. Syngenta's Board of Directors rejected an even better offer by Monsanto during August 2015, and Monsanto withdrew from the negotiations on 26 August.\n\nAccording to the Swiss business weekly, \"\", many Syngenta shareholders were enraged, both by the company's refusal to enter into takeover negotiations with Monsanto, and with the subsequent offer withdrawal. This resulted in a group of investors responding by creating the \"Alliance of Critical Syngenta Shareholders\", which urged the Board to \"evaluate all options for value creation without prejudice\".\n\nIn a 2015 interview, Chairman Michel Demaré was asked whether Syngenta could remain independent. He responded, \"If you have the patience to wait for cycles to materialize, then it would be possible. But in these circumstances, where our shareholders have a kind of a benchmark share price, what they think this company is worth, it is very difficult to say that we can deliver this in the next twelve months.\" He thereby acknowledged that the company needs to be sold, especially given industry consolidation, which is creating larger competitors.\n\nThe failed Monsanto buyout caused Syngenta shares to increase by nearly 40%. In February 2016, ChemChina, a Chinese state-owned enterprise, offered to purchase Syngenta for $43 billion (480 Swiss francs per share), a deal which the company \"unanimously recommended to shareholders\". In April 2017, the Federal Trade Commission, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, and the European Commissioner for Competition approved of the acquisition, allowing the largest foreign takeover in Chinese history to proceed. To secure approval, ChemChina agreed to divest from pesticide production of paraquat, abamectin, and chlorothalonil. As an additional condition for the acquisition, 67 percent of the shareholders of Syngenta had to offer their shares to ChemChina. According to a press release, over 80 percent of shareholders agreed to the takeover by May 4, 2017. The transaction was planned to close on June 7, 2017 and the transaction closed on 26 June 2017. \n\nIn November 2017, Syngenta agreed to purchase Nidera from Cofco International.\n\nIn March 2018, Syngenta announced plans to acquire Strider, a Brazilian agtech company. In July, Syngenta acquired Floranova, a flower and vegetable seeds breeder based in the UK.\n\nIn September 2019, the company acquired all the assets of The Cropio Group, an agri-technology company.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's mergers, acquisitions, spin-offs and historical predecessors:\n\nSyngenta has eight primary product lines which it develops, markets and sells worldwide;\nIts five product lines for pesticides are selective herbicides, non-selective herbicides, fungicides, insecticides and seed care. \nThree product lines for seed products include corn and soya, other field crops and vegetables. In 2014, sales from crop protection products accounted for US $11.381 billion, i.e. 75% of total sales. Field crop seeds include both hybrid seeds and genetically engineered seeds, some of which enter the food chain and become part of genetically modified food. According to Syngenta, in the US their \"proprietary triple stack corn seeds expanded to represent around 25 percent of units sold.\" In 2010, the US EPA approved insecticidal trait stacks including Syngenta's AGRISURE VIPTERA™ gene, which offers resistance to certain corn pests. Syngenta cross-licenses its proprietary genes with Dow AgroSciences and thus is able to include Dow's Herculex I and Herculex RW insect resistance traits in its seeds. It sells a VMAX soybean that is resistant to glyphosate herbicide.\n\nKey Syngenta brands include Actara (Thiamethoxam), Agrisure (corn with Viptera trait), Alto (Cyproconazole), Amistar (azoxystrobin), Avicta, Axial, Bicep II, Bravo, Callisto, Celest, Cruiser (TMX, Thiamethoxam), Dividend, Dual, Durivo, Elatus, Fusilade, Force, Golden Harvest, Gramoxone, Hilleshoeg, Karate, Northrup-King (NK), Proclaim, Revus, Ridomil, Rogers, Score, Seguris, S&G, Tilt, Topik, Touchdown, Vertimec and Vibrance.\n\nAtrazine is an herbicide of the triazine class. Atrazine is used to prevent pre- and post-emergence broadleaf weeds in crops such as maize (corn) and sugarcane and on turf, such as golf courses and residential lawns.\n\nIt is one of the most widely used herbicides in US and Australian agriculture. Atrazine has been banned in the European Union. There has been controversy over atrazine's effects on amphibians, but the EPA has concluded \"that atrazine does not adversely affect amphibian gonadal development\".\n\nThe European Commission decided to suspend use of the company's insecticide Cruiser (thiamethoxam, TMX) on crops pollinated by bees. Syngenta together with Bayer is challenging this ban in court.\n\nSyngenta's predecessor, Ciba-Geigy, introduced the insecticide Galecron chlordimeform in 1966, and it was removed from the market in 1988. In 1976, Ciba-Geigy told regulatory authorities that it was temporarily withdrawing chlordimeform because ongoing long-term toxicology studies - particularly studies to determine if long-term exposure could cause cancer - showed that it was causing cancer, and that it has already started to monitor its workers' exposure and had found chlordimeform and its metabolites in the urine of its workers.\nCiba-Geigy then applied for, and was granted, permission to market Galecron at lower doses for use only on cotton. However, as further long term monitoring data was obtained, regulators banned chlordimeform in 1988. In a 1995 class action in the US, Ciba-Geigy agreed to cover costs for employee health monitoring and treatment. In 2005, Syngenta reported that employee health monitoring was continuing at the company's Monthey, Switzerland site.\n\nLike many agriculture companies, Syngenta also works in the biofuel space. In 2011, it announced the corn trait ENOGEN to reduce substantially the consumption of water and energy versus conventional corn. Several ethanol producers plan to process such improved corn. For example, Syngenta has signed a commercial agreement with Three Rivers Energy, LLC of Coshocton, Ohio, US to use grain featuring Enogen trait technology following the 2014 corn harvest.\n\nIn 2007, Queensland University in Australia contracted with Syngenta to research different inputs for biofuels as a renewable energy source.\n\nSyngenta is led by CEO J. Erik Fyrwald. The other Directors are Vinita Bali, Stefan Borgas, Gunnar Brock, David Lawrence, Eleni Gabre-Madhin, Eveline Saupper, Jacques Vincent, and Jürg Witmer.\nSyngenta employs over 28,000 people in over 90 countries.\n\nIn 2001, the United States Patent and Trademark Office ruled in favor of Syngenta which had filed a suit against Bayer for patent infringement on a class of neonicotinoid insecticides. The following year Syngenta filed suits against Monsanto and other companies claiming infringement of its U.S. biotechnology patents covering genetically modified corn and cotton. In 2004, it again filed a suit against Monsanto, claiming antitrust violations related to the U.S. biotech corn seed market, and Monsanto countersued. Monsanto and Syngenta settled all litigation in 2008.\n\nSyngenta was defendant in a class action lawsuit by the city of Greenville, Illinois concerning the adverse effects of atrazine in human water supplies. The suit was settled for $105 million in May 2012. A similar case involving six states has been in federal court since 2010.\n\nIn the US, Syngenta is facing lawsuits from farmers and shipping companies regarding Viptera genetically modified corn. The plaintiffs in nearly 30 states contend that Syngenta's introduction of Viptera drove down US grain market prices, leading to financial harm, and that Syngenta acted irresponsibly by doing too little to enable shipping companies to export the grain to approved ports. Before Viptera's 2010 introduction Syngenta secured all US and NCGA-recommended export approvals, but none from China. China had imported little to no US grain prior to 2010, and at the time was not considered a major partner, but it became a major partner in 2010, when it dramatically increased US grain imports. For three years, China imported U.S. Viptera grain without formal approval. In November 2013, Chinese officials destroyed a U.S. grain shipment containing Viptera grain, started rejecting all US shipments with the GM grain, but continued to accept it from all countries other than the US. That same year, US corn market prices dropped $4 per bushel, causing over $2.9B in losses, with just over half of that loss occurring prior to China's November rejection. China later approved the GM corn in 2014 but US corn grain market prices have not rebounded. Syngenta lost the first lawsuit to reach trial, in Kansas on 23 June 2017, and was ordered to pay the farmers $217 million. However, Syngenta has stated it would appeal the verdict.\n\nOn 21 October 2007, a Brazilian peasant organization, the Landless Workers' Movement (), led a group of landless farmers in an invasion of one of the company's seed research farms, in protest against genetically-engineered (\"genetically modified\") vegetables and in hopes of obtaining land for landless families to cultivate. After the invasion had begun, a team from NF Security arrived in a minibus and a fight with gunfire ensued. A trespasser and a security guard were killed, and some trespassers and security guards were wounded.\n\nThe Brazilian police investigation completed in November 2007 blamed the confrontation and death of the trespasser on nine employees and the owner of NF Security; the leader of MST was blamed for trespassing. The inquiry found that the invader was fatally shot in the abdomen and in the leg. The security guard was shot in the head. Eight others were injured, five of them invaders.\n\nThe Civil Court of Cascavel granted an order for the repossession of the site on 20 December 2007 and on 12 June 2008, the remaining MST members left the Santa Teresa site they had been invading. On 14 October 2008, Syngenta donated the 123-hectare station to the Agronomy Institute of Paraná (IAPAR) for research into biodiversity, recovery of degraded areas and agriculture production systems, as well as environmental education programs.\n\nCourt case\n\nIn November 2015, Judge Pedro Ivo Moreiro, of the 1st Civil Court of Cascavel, ruled that Syngenta must pay compensation to the family of Valmir Mota de Oliveira (\"Keno\"), who was killed in the attack, and to Isabel Nascimento dos Santos who was injured. In his sentence the judge stated that \"to refer to what happened as a confrontation is to close one’s eyes to reality, since […] there is no doubt that, in truth, it was a massacre disguised as repossession of property\". The version of events put forward by Syngenta was rejected by the Court. In May 2010 Syngenta was condemned by the IV Permanent People's Tribunal for human rights violations in Brazil.\n\nThere has been a long running conflict between Syngenta and University of California at Berkeley biologist Tyrone Hayes.\n\nAccording to an article in the 10 February 2014, issue of \"The New Yorker,\" Syngenta's public-relations team took steps to discredit Hayes, whose research is purported to suggest that the Syngenta-produced chemical atrazine was responsible for abnormal development of reproductive organs in frogs. The article states that the company paid third-party critics to write articles discrediting Hayes's work, planned to have his wife investigated, and planted hostile audience members at scientific talks given by Hayes.\n\nDuring a 21 February 2014 interview conducted on \"Democracy Now\", Hayes reiterated the claims. After the interview aired, Syngenta denied targeting Hayes or making any threats, calling those statements \"uncorroborated and intentionally damaging\" and demanding a retraction and public apology from Hayes and \"Democracy Now\".\n\nIn 2010 Syngenta forwarded an ethics complaint to the University of California Berkeley, complaining that Hayes had been sending sexually explicit and harassing e-mails to Syngenta scientists. Legal counsel from the university responded that Hayes had acknowledged sending letters having \"unprofessional and offensive\" content, and that he had agreed not to use similar language in future communications.\n\nThe issue has been described as \"one of the weirdest feuds in the history of science”, by Dashka Slater in her 2012 profile of Hayes in Mother Jones magazine.\n\nSyngenta is in the transparency register of the European Union as a registered lobbyist. For 2017, it declared a €1,500,000 - €1,750,000 expenditure of lobbying in European institutions.\n\nSyngenta's contributions to US federal candidates, parties, and outside groups totaled $140,822 during the 2018 election cycle, ranking it 20th on the list of companies in its sector. Its lobbying expenditures in the US during 2018 were $770,000, ranking it 7th in its sector.\n\nThe objectives and goals of the Syngenta Foundation are \"to work with rural communities in the Semi-arid regions of the world and improve their livelihoods.\" This non-profit organization supports sustainable food security projects in a number of countries.\nThe Syngenta Foundation addressed the World Food Day Symposium in 2005 as an output of the Millennium Ecosystem Report.\n\nIn 2007, Syngenta's Canadian division was named one of Canada's Top 100 Employers, as published in Maclean's magazine, one of only a handful of agribusiness firms to receive this honour.\nIn October 2008, Syngenta Crop Protection Canada, Inc. was recognized as one of Waterloo Area's Top Employers, as announced in the Waterloo Region Record, Guelph Mercury and Cambridge Times. In 2011, Syngenta was named among the top 10 employers in biotechnology by Science magazine. The 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index named Syngenta one of the best performing chemical companies worldwide. Syngenta was one of five chemical companies in the World and Europe indices based on economic, social and environmental performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324648", "title": "Oddo–Harkins rule", "text": "Oddo–Harkins rule\n\nThe Oddo–Harkins rule holds that an element with an even atomic number (such as carbon: element 6) is more abundant than both elements with the adjacently larger and smaller odd atomic numbers (such as boron: element 5 and nitrogen: element 7, respectively, for carbon). This tendency of the abundance of the chemical elements was first reported by Giuseppe Oddo in 1914 and William Draper Harkins in 1917.\n\nAll atoms bigger than hydrogen are formed in stars or supernovae through nucleosynthesis, when gravity, temperature and pressure reach levels high enough to fuse protons and neutrons together. Protons and neutrons form the atomic nucleus, which accumulates electrons to form atoms. The number of protons in the nucleus, called atomic number, uniquely identifies a chemical element.\n\nThe Oddo–Harkins rule argues that elements with odd atomic numbers have one unpaired proton and are more likely to capture another, thus increasing their atomic number. It is possible that in elements with even atomic numbers, protons are paired, with each member of the pair balancing the spin of the other; even parity thus enhances nucleon stability.\n\nThis postulate, however, does not apply to the universe's most abundant, and simplest element from the periodic table of elements: hydrogen, with an atomic number of 1. This may be because, in its ionized form, a hydrogen atom becomes a single proton, of which is theorized to have been one of the first major conglomerates of quarks during the initial second of the Universe's inflation period, following the Big Bang. In this period, when inflation of the universe had brought it from an infinitesimal point to about the size of a modern galaxy, temperatures in the particle soup fell from over a trillion degrees to several million degrees.\n\nThis period allowed for the fusion of single protons and deuterium nuclei to form helium and lithium nuclei but was too short for every H ion to be reconstituted into heavier elements. In this case, helium, atomic number 2, remains the even numbered counterpart to hydrogen. Thus, neutral hydrogen—or hydrogen paired with an electron, the only stable lepton—constituted the vast majority of the remaining unannihilated portions of matter following the conclusion of inflation.\n\nAnother exception to the rule is beryllium, which, even with an even atomic number (4) is more rare than the odd number elements to either side of it (lithium and boron). This is because most of the universe's lithium, beryllium, and boron are made by cosmic ray spallation, not ordinary stellar nucleosynthesis, and beryllium has only one stable isotope, causing it to lag in abundance with regard to its neighbors, which both have two stable isotopes.\n\nThe pattern arises after the runaway fusion in a dying massive star occurs, in which a given mass of the various even and odd numbered elements are formed by a slightly greater mass of the elements hydrogen and helium. The newly formed elements are ejected in the explosion and eventually join the rest of the galaxy's interstellar medium.\n\nWhen fusion occurs with larger and larger nuclei, the energy input becomes increasingly larger and the energy output becomes increasingly smaller; the point at which these two potentials meet on the periodic table of elements is somewhere around the elements iron, atomic number 26, and nickel, atomic number 28. Fusion of heavier elements than this does not release energy, and so the probability of finding discrepancies in the Oddo–Harkins rule becomes lower.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324660", "title": "Abemama", "text": "Abemama\n\nAbemama (Apamama) is an atoll, one of the Gilberts group in Kiribati, and is located southeast of Tarawa and just north of the Equator. Abemama has an area of and a population of 3,299 . The islets surround a deep lagoon. The eastern part of the atoll of Abemama is linked together by causeways making automobile traffic possible between the different islets. The outlying islands of Abatiku and Biike are situated on the southwestern side of the atoll.\n\nThe village of Kariatebike serves as the government center for the atoll which includes an administration building, the police station and a hospital.\nAbemama was formerly known as Roger Simpson Island, Dundas Island, Hopper Island, or Simpson Island.\n\nAbemama has a land area of with a width varying from to . The island has 3 main islets; the largest and main islet has 11 villages and is home to most of the population. Abatiku, an islet located at the north-western reef, and Biike just south of it, have much smaller populations.\n\nThe island is blessed with a massive lagoon area and an abundance of lagoon fish, shellfish, and worms. There are also some seaweed farms.\nCauseways were constructed to link all villages on the main islet making transportation easy. The island resembles an incomplete “G” letter, with two reef passages; one is located in between Abatiku and Tabiang village at the north-western end. The other is between Biike and Kenna, the latter being the southernmost end of the main islet. The island is surrounded with an exposed reef at the windward side and submerged reef at the leeward side where Biike and Abatiku are situated. Most of the important food crops in Kiribati such as coconut, giant taro, pandanus and breadfruit grow well in Abemama.\n\nHappened on by Captain Charles Bishop in 1799, he referred to Abemama on the map he created as Roger Simpson Island, after one of his friends.\n\nThe island was surveyed in 1841 by the US Exploring Expedition.\n\nIn the mid to late 19th Century, Abemama was ruled by a single paramount chief. This contrasts with the Northern Gilbert Islands where groups of families or \"kainga\" would have their own separate leaders, and the Southern Gilberts (from Nonouti southwards) where the old men or \"unimwane\" collectively would meet in the maneaba to govern. Some European sources describe the chiefly family of Abemama as \"the Gilbert Islands ruling family\" but local sources recognise that the \"unimwane\" wield much of the power even on Abemama, and governing the whole of the Gilbert Islands as a single unit is a logistical challenge even in modern times.\n\nNonetheless the chiefly family of Abemama has a long history of providing overall leadership, and during the time of Tem Binoka ruled over Kuria and Aranuka also. The chiefly family of Abemama remains highly regarded and respected to this day.\n\nAbemama is known as the island where the declaration of a British Protectorate was first proclaimed by Captain Davis of on 27 May 1892.\n\nAbemama Post Office opened around 1910.\n\nRobert Louis Stevenson, Fanny Vandegrift Stevenson and her son Lloyd Osbourne spent 2 months on Abemama in 1889. Near Tabontebike is the tomb of tyrant-chief Tem Binoka, who was immortalized by Stevenson in his account of the 1889 voyage of the \"Equator\" published as \"In the South Seas\" Robert Louis Stevenson, Fanny Vandegrift Stevenson and Lloyd Osbourne returned to Abemama in July 1890 during their cruise on the trading steamer the \"Janet Nicoll\".\n\nJapan occupied the Gilberts on 10 December 1941.\n\nOn 21 November 1943, the American submarine landed a company of 78 U.S. Marine Corps Amphibious Reconnaissance Scouts with Australian Army Lt George Hand formerly of the Ocean Island Defence Force acting as an interpreter to seize the island. They defeated the Japanese garrison with fire support from \"Nautilus\". On the morning of 25 November, a native reported to the Marines that the remaining Japanese committed suicide.\n\nAbemama is an island of beautiful beaches with a crystal clear blue lagoon. In Abemama, you still can find physical evidence of American and Japanese WWII relics, cultural shrines and sites/monuments relating to their traditional spirits and famous King Binoka. Abemama is close enough to the capital of South Tarawa for a weekend getaway, and is often visited by cruising yachts due to its very sheltered lagoon. The lagoon is abundant in bonefish, a popular species with sport anglers.\n\nAbemama Atoll Airport is located on the north end of Abemama near the village of Tabiang. It has regular connections with the international airport in Tarawa twice weekly, on Wednesday and Sunday.\n\nThere are three guest houses on Abemama; the Island Council guest house, Chevalier College guest house, and one private lodge.\n\nThe island has the following Christian senior high schools:\n\nKing George V School, a secondary school for boys which opened in Bairiki in 1922, moved to Abemama, and then to Bikenibeu in 1953.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324666", "title": "Padre Bay", "text": "Padre Bay\n\nPadre Bay is a bay within Lake Powell, on the Colorado River in Kane County and San Juan County, Utah. Its waters reach an elevation of 3704 feet / 1129 meters. Located 13.5 miles northeast of Glen Canyon Dam in Lake Powell, Padre Bay is the largest expanse of open water on the man made lake. Padre Bay is bounded by Alstrom Point and the island of Gunsight Butte on the west and Gooseneck Point on the east. Cookie Jar Butte lies between them on the north shore of the bay. At the southern mouth of the bay, north of Dominguez Butte on the south shore is Padres Butte, formerly an island, now with lower water in the lake the tip of Padre Point. Padres Butte marks the location of the Crossing of the Fathers, which is approximately a mile west of the butte. It currently lies under nearly four hundred feet of water.\n\nPadre Bay is named for the padres who first recorded and used the Crossing of the Fathers, a historical river crossing of the Colorado River in 1776. A group of ten men, the Dominguez–Escalante Expedition, led by the priests Silvestre Vélez de Escalante and his superior Francisco Atanasio Domínguez, were en route home from a failed attempt to find an overland trail to Monterey, California. They had first attempted to cross the Colorado River at Lee's Ferry in Arizona.\n\nNearby hiking attractions are the \"weathering pits,\" perfectly round depressions that range between 10 and 50 feet (3 to 15 m) in diameter and are between 20 and 70 feet (6 to 21 m) deep.\n"}
{"id": "2324679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324679", "title": "Ulnar artery", "text": "Ulnar artery\n\nThe ulnar artery is the main blood vessel, with oxygenated blood, of the medial aspect of the forearm. It arises from the brachial artery and terminates in the superficial palmar arch, which joins with the superficial branch of the radial artery. It is palpable on the anterior and medial aspect of the wrist.\n\nAlong its course, it is accompanied by a similarly named vein or veins, the ulnar vein or ulnar veins.\n\nThe ulnar artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the brachial, begins a little below the bend of the elbow in the cubital fossa, and, passing obliquely downward, reaches the ulnar side of the forearm at a point about midway between the elbow and the wrist. It then runs along the ulnar border to the wrist, crosses the transverse carpal ligament on the radial side of the pisiform bone, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, which enter into the formation of the superficial and deep volar arches.\n\nForearm:\nAnterior ulnar recurrent artery,\nPosterior ulnar recurrent artery,\nCommon interosseous is very short around 1 cm and gives rise to the anterior, posterior, and recurrent interosseous arteries and\nClose to the wrist it gives off the palmar carpal branch which is the ulnar contribution to the palmar carpal arch and it also gives a dorsal carpal branch which is the ulnar contribution to dorsal carpal arch\n\nHand:\nDeep palmar branch of ulnar artery which passes through the hypothenar muscles to anastomose with the deep palmar arch which is formed predominantly by the radial artery and\nthe terminal branch of the ulnar artery is then to form the superficial palmar arch.\n\nIn its upper half, it is deeply seated, being covered by the Pronator teres, Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus, and Flexor digitorum superficialis; it lies upon the Brachialis and Flexor digitorum profundus.\n\nThe median nerve is in relation with the medial side of the artery for about 2.5 cm. and then crosses the vessel, being separated from it by the ulnar head of the Pronator teres.\n\nIn the lower half of the forearm it lies upon the Flexor digitorum profundus, being covered by the integument and the superficial and deep fasciæ, and placed between the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Flexor digitorum superficialis.\n\nIt is accompanied by two venæ comitantes, and is overlapped in its middle third by the Flexor carpi ulnaris; the ulnar nerve lies on the medial side of the lower two-thirds of the artery, and the palmar cutaneous branch of the nerve descends on the lower part of the vessel to the palm of the hand.\n\nAt the wrist the ulnar artery is covered by the integument and the volar carpal ligament, and lies upon the Flexor retinaculum of the hand. On its medial side is the pisiform bone, and, somewhat behind the artery, the ulnar nerve.\n\nThe ulnar artery varies in its origin in the proportion of about one in thirteen cases; it may arise about 5 to 7 cm. below the elbow, but more frequently higher, the brachial being more often the source of origin than the axillary.\n\nVariations in the position of this vessel are more common than in the radial. When its origin is normal, the course of the vessel is rarely changed.\n\nWhen it arises high up, it is almost invariably superficial to the Flexor muscles in the forearm, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarely between the fascia and integument.\n\nIn a few cases, its position is subcutaneous in the upper part of the forearm, and subaponeurotic in the lower part.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324694", "title": "Patrick Stump", "text": "Patrick Stump\n\nPatrick Martin Stumph (born April 27, 1984), known professionally as Patrick Vaughn Stump, is an American musician, singer, songwriter, record producer, actor and film composer. He is the lead vocalist and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Fall Out Boy, originally from Wilmette, Illinois.\n\nHis solo work has been described as \"funky and R&B infused\", while \"Billboard\" noted him as \"one of the best voices in pop punk\". Fall Out Boy has achieved four top ten singles on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and four number one albums on the \"Billboard\" 200, firstly with \"Infinity on High\" in 2007, and again in 2013 with \"Save Rock and Roll\", 2015 with \"American Beauty/American Psycho\", and 2018 with \"Mania\". Stump has collaborated with other artists (including Damnation A.D. and Timbaland) and has produced albums for artists including Cobra Starship and Gym Class Heroes.\n\nAfter Fall Out Boy's hiatus in late 2009, Stump released his debut solo album, \"Soul Punk\", on October 18, 2011. It was preceded by the six-song EP titled \"Truant Wave\" on February 22, 2011. He toured in the US and Europe in support. He returned to Fall Out Boy in 2013 with the album \"Save Rock and Roll\", and the EP \"PAX AM Days.\" In January 2015, the sixth album \"American Beauty/American Psycho\" was released, while in January 2018 their seventh album \"Mania\" was released, both debuting at No.1 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nStump was born in Evanston, Illinois to David, a folk singer, and Patricia (née Vaughn) Stumph, an accountant. He is the youngest of three children. He grew up in Glenview, Illinois and attended Glenbrook South High School. His parents divorced when he was eight years old. He grew up with a passion for music, later stating, \"I was always playing music... it was always kind of present.\" He originally played the drums in various local Chicago power violence and hardcore punk bands, including Public Display Of Infection, Xgrinding processX, Patterson, and, for two shows, Arma Angelus. His musical idols growing up included Michael Jackson, Elvis Costello, Tom Waits, and Nat King Cole.\n\nFall Out Boy's founding guitarist Joe Trohman met Stump over a mutual musical interest, and introduced Stump to bassist Pete Wentz. After originally auditioning as the drummer, Stump became the lead singer and later guitarist for the band. Trohman and Stump switch between lead and rhythm guitar in recording sessions and at live shows, although Stump views himself as more of a rhythm guitarist because of his drumming background. He is the lead vocalist, guitarist, and primary composer for the band, with bassist Pete Wentz taking lyrical duties. The band's first mini-LP, \"Fall Out Boy's Evening Out with Your Girlfriend\", was released in March 2003 on Uprising Records. They then released their first full-length album, \"Take This to Your Grave\" on Fueled by Ramen on May 6, 2003. In the same year, Stump decided to professionally drop the \"h\" in his surname to reduce mispronunciations.\n\nIn 2003, Stump and his fellow band members went on to sign with Island Records, and released the acoustic-based EP \"My Heart Will Always Be the B-Side to My Tongue\" CD and DVD in 2004 to hold fans over while the group recorded their major label debut. The EP debuted at No. 153 on the \"Billboard\" 200, Fall Out Boy's first entry on that chart (their next entry week would be at No. 9 with \"From Under the Cork Tree\"). It also peaked at No. 5 on the \"Billboard\" Heatseeker Albums and No. 10 on the \"Billboard\" Independent Albums. This was followed by their third studio album, \"From Under the Cork Tree\" released on May 3, 2005, which was the band's mainstream breakthrough. It has since been certified double platinum by the RIAA, with a sales total of more than 2.5 million. It debuted and peaked at No. 9 on the \"Billboard\" 200, becoming the band's first top-10 album. The chart-topping lead single \"Sugar, We're Goin Down\" reached No. 8 on the Hot 100 and received heavy airplay rotation at Pop and Alternative radio. The album's second single, \"Dance, Dance\", also enjoyed mainstream success, peaking at No. 9 on the Hot 100 and becoming Fall Out Boy's second top-10 hit. It won various awards and was certified platinum. The band heavily toured in 2005 and 2006 in support of \"From Under the Cork Tree\", including headlining Warped Tour, the Nintendo Fusion Tour, and the Black Clouds And Underdogs tour, as well as playing a secret show under the name of Saved Latin at a small venue. Fall Out Boy was nominated for the Best New Artist Grammy Award in 2005.\nFall Out Boy's third studio effort, \"Infinity on High\", was released to major chart success in 2007. It debuted at No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart with 260,000 sales, becoming the group's first No. 1 album and second top 10 release. It also debuted atop other various \"Billboard\" charts and charted in the top five worldwide. \"Infinity\" was spurred on by the lead single, \"This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race\", which hit No. 2. \"Thnks fr th Mmrs\", the second single from the album, peaked at No. 11. Fall Out Boy toured all year worldwide in support of it, with arena gigs in the US.\n\n\"Folie à Deux\" was released on December 10, 2008. Its sales were less than stellar in comparison to \"Infinity on High\", but gave the band its third consecutive top 10 album, debuting and peaking at No. 8 on the \"Billboard\" 200 with 150,000 opening week sales. The lead single, \"I Don't Care\", landed at No. 21 on the Hot 100 and went Platinum. The band was the opening act for Blink-182's reunion tour in 2009. They released their first greatest hits album, \"Believers Never Die – Greatest Hits\", later that year, featuring all of their previous single releases, two new songs, including the single \"Alpha Dog\", and two rarities. In late 2009 the band took an indefinite break to \"decompress\", with the band members embarking on various side projects, with Stump going solo, Trohman and Hurley forming heavy metal supergroup The Damned Things, and Wentz starting the electropop/experimental group Black Cards.\n\nOn February 4, 2013, Fall Out Boy unexpectedly announced their return. April 12 of the same year, the band released a new album entitled, \"Save Rock and Roll,\" a new song, \"My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light Em Up)\", and dates for a new tour. The band played their first show in over three years on the night of February 4 in Chicago. \"Save Rock and Roll\" peaked at No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" 200, selling 154,000 copies in its first week, becoming the band's 4th consecutive top 10 album. With Fall Out Boy, Stump toured heavily throughout 2013 and 2014 on the album, selling out arenas worldwide, with bands such as Paramore on the Monumentour. In October 2013, they released a new EP, \"PAX AM Days\" which they recorded in a two-day session with producer Ryan Adams.\n\nSixth studio album \"American Beauty/American Psycho\" was released to become the band's third \"Billboard\" 200 No. 1 album, debuting with 192,000 first week sales and 218,000 equivalent album units. The album was preceded by the triple Platinum top 10 single \"Centuries\". \"Uma Thurman\" was released to mainstream radio on April 14, 2014 and peaked at 22 on the 'Billboard' Top 100, and were certified as Platinum in August 2015.\n\nIn April 2017, Fall Out Boy released \"Young and Menace\", the lead single for the seventh studio album. The band's seventh album \"Mania\" was officially released January 19, 2018 and debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, making it the band's third consecutive and fourth chart-topping debut overall.\n\nOn August 23, 2018, the band released an EP called \"Lake Effect Kid.\" The EP includes a new version of a demo, with the same name, from the band's 2008 mixtape, \"CitizensFOB Mixtape: Welcome to the New Administration\".\n\nIn September 2018, Fall Out Boy headlined Wrigley Field in the band's hometown of Chicago, marking a milestone in their career as their first headline show at a stadium.\n\nOn December 7, 2018 Fall Out Boy received their second Grammy nomination for Best Rock Album for \"MANIA\".\n\nIn January 2010, Stump announced he was working on a self-written, performed and produced solo album. Later during that year he leaked the title of \"Soul Punk\", which was eventually released on October 18, 2011.\n\nStump explained that he named the album \"Soul Punk\" because he wanted to contribute to the musical vernacular of both. \"I'm just as pissed off as I was while screaming in punk bands, but I feel like I'm directing it into something positive and centered around love.\" He created a video on his website that shows him playing numerous instruments, starting with drum kit then adding more such as synthesizer, cowbell, electric guitar and bass, amongst others. He performed new songs at his debut solo performance at SXSW 2010 in Austin, Texas, including \"As Long As I Know I'm Getting Paid\" and \"Love, Selfish Love\", which may have originally been from an earlier version of his solo album, but have since been included as a part of his solo debut EP, \"Truant Wave\".\n\nOn November 29, 2010, Stump put up on his website two different versions of his debut song, \"Spotlight\", one called \"Spotlight (Oh Nostalgia)\", and the other \"Spotlight (New Regrets)\", with download links for both. Stump expressed that after months he still could not decide which version he liked better and asked his fans to vote on a poll for the version of the single they liked better and wanted to have on the album. The polls closed leaning toward \"Spotlight (Oh Nostalgia)\", however Stump has since decided to include \"Spotlight (New Regrets)\" on \"Soul Punk\" and put \"Spotlight (Oh Nostalgia)\" on his debut EP, \"Truant Wave\", claiming that the votes were too close and that he felt as if \"Oh Nostalgia basically needed its own record\", building \"Truant Wave\" around it.\n\nHe released the first EP of his solo career, \"Truant Wave\", digitally on February 22, 2011 through his own record label, Nervous Breakdance Media. The EP consisted of songs Stump \"felt strongly about but didn't have place for within the narrative of \"Soul Punk\"\" and featured Alph-A-Bit, Om'mas Keith of Sa-Ra, David-Andrew \"D.A.\" Wallach of Chester French, and Driis.<ref name=\"NEW DIGITAL EP 'TRUANT WAVE' AVAILABLE ON ITUNES 2/22\"></ref>\n\nOn April 6, 2011, Stump contributed an original song, entitled \"Saturday Night Again\" to the album \"\".\n\nA month later, on May 6, 2011, he updated his website and also posted to his Facebook and Twitter, announcing \"I feel like I'm gonna explode 5.9.11\" with a link which led to a video called \"Tsar bomba\", which was a video of a bomb explosion. The \"I feel like I'm gonna explode\" phrase came from his song \"Explode\", which Stump premiered at his live show and ended up on \"Soul Punk\". \"Explode\" was released on May 9, 2011. NyMag.com commented that the song is \"heavily indebted to Michael Jackson and, in good news for FOB loyalists, not totally unlike Stump's old band\". The song's video caption read \"Soul Punk: coming late Summer\". On June 27, 2011, Stump wrote on his Facebook and Twitter page, \"Tuesday\". The next day (the Tuesday he was referring to), Stump released a remix of a \"Soul Punk\" track, \"This City\", featuring rapper Lupe Fiasco. On July 26, the remix was released as the album's first single to iTunes.\n\nStump played twelve small shows around the United States in support of \"Soul Punk\" and \"Truant Wave\". He visited Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. The tour began on April 3, 2011 in Chicago and ended on April 15 in California. It was his first tour as a solo artist. Shows were also scheduled in London (2 dates); Paris and Cologne. His five-piece backing band consists of bassist Matt Rubano (formerly of Taking Back Sunday), guitarist Michael Day, keyboardist/saxophonist Casey Benjamin (who has performed with Mos Def and Q-Tip), and drummer Skoota Warner. With the addition of Janice Cruz Brooks singing background vocals for the New York City shows at Joe's Pub. He performed in a sleek black tuxedo, white moon boots and fingerless leather gloves, and on some songs he played the electric guitar. His setlist varied from show to show, and premiered new songs \"Explode\", \"Allie\", \"Cryptozoology\" and \"Everybody Wants Somebody\" which turned out to be \"Soul Punk\" tracks. Covers performed included \"Cupid's Chokehold\" by Gym Class Heroes, \"All of the Lights\" by Kanye West, \"Kiss My Sass\" by Cobra Starship, \"Me and Mrs. Jones\" by Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff, and \"Nothing Compares 2 U\" by Prince. He played songs from \"Truant Wave\" as well as \"Spotlight (New Regrets)\" which he previously released as a 7\" vinyl.\n\nIn May 2011, Stump was the opening act for Bruno Mars and Janelle Monáe on their \"Hooligans In Wondaland Tour\" for four shows. He began his second US tour (first full-length headline tour) August 3, 2011. Prior to that he performed at Fuji Rock Festival in Japan on July 30. As part of his US tour he played Lollapalooza in Chicago. He announced a month-long US fall tour in support of Panic! at the Disco, beginning on October 9. After the tour, he headlined the Metro in Chicago. He has been a guest at many radio shows. His TV guest appearances include \"Good Morning New Orleans\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", and \"Hoppus on Music\".\n\nIn a blog post in February 2012 after disappearing from the internet, Stump mentioned that he would halt performing. He stated that the relentless criticism he has received from \"Soul Punk\" and Fall Out Boy's latest release, \"Folie à Deux\", felt like \"some big cosmic sign that says I should disappear\" and that although he was prepared for criticism, he was not prepared to accept that people who ostensibly supported something he was involved in would turn into \"haters\" and attack his ambition and slimmed down image. He went on to write \"It's tempting to say I won't ever play/tour/record again, but I think that's probably just pent up poor-me emotional pessimism talking.\"\n\nOn May 20, he returned to blog and offer an explanation of his lack of updates and his music career. Confirming by saying: \"I won't ever quit music, I just may not release some of my own for a little bit\" and that he may tour to support Soul Punk in the future. He says that in the last 6 months of going silent he has taken acting classes and co-written and collaborated with other musicians. These collaborations include: Escape The Fate, Kat Graham, Amountboyz, The King Blues, All Time Low, Before You Exit, and Yellowcard.\n\nAs of February 2013, \"Soul Punk\" has sold 23,000 copies in the US.\n\nOn November 30, 2014, when asked if another solo album would be made, Stump responded, \"There's hope but it will be a minute.\"\n\nOn July 18, 2016, Stump won Best Vocalist at the 2016 Alternative Press Music Awards for his efforts in Fall Out Boy.\n\nAs a producer, along with a handful of Fall Out Boy tracks, Stump has worked with The Hush Sound on \"Like Vines\", Gym Class Heroes on \"As Cruel As School Children\" and Cobra Starship on \"¡Viva La Cobra!\". He also produced the song \"Little Weapon\" on Lupe Fiasco's \"The Cool\". He was featured in a song by hip-hop group The Roots originally intended for their 2008 album \"Rising Down\". In 2008, he executive- and co-produced The Cab's \"Whisper War\" and Gym Class Heroes' \"The Quilt\", as well as several tracks on Tyga's \"No Introduction\".\n\nIn addition to producing albums, Stump has also remixed various tracks for soundtracks or special releases. Among various others, he made a \"Queen Of Apology\" remix for The Sounds on the Snakes on a Plane soundtrack, a remix of the Fall Out Boy single \"Dance, Dance\" available on the \"Sugar, We're Goin' Down\" EP, a \"Sugar, We're Goin Down\" remix on Fall Out Boy's \"From Under the Cork Tree\" special edition release, and \"Pace Yourself\" for The Higher on their album, \"On Fire\". He also remixed Good Charlotte's \"Little Things\" for their remix compilation, \"Greatest Remixes\". \n\nOn February 1, 2009, Gretsch released the G5135CVT-PS Patrick Vaughn Stump Signature Series \"STUMP-O-MATIC\" Electromatic® CVT, based on their model body with personal stylings by Patrick Stump such as a \"kill switch\" and stripes. Also, Stump signed and gave away two of his signature guitars that he used to record Fall Out Boy's fifth album, \"Folie à Deux\". He has another Stump-O-Matic with white and silver stripes, which he used for most of the guitar recording on \"Soul Punk\" and at his solo concerts.\n\nStump appeared as a guest with Daryl Hall from Hall and Oates on \"Live From Daryl's House\", playing guitar on several of Hall and Oates' own songs, as well as on a couple of Fall Out Boy selections, such as \"Sugar, We're Goin Down\" and \"I Don't Care\" and, additionally, performing as a drummer/vocalist on a version of \"What a Catch Donnie.\"\n\nDuring the production of \"Soul Punk\", Stump contributed a cover of Buddy Holly's \"Everyday\" to the 2011 tribute album, \"\" to a positive reception. Victoria Asher provided backing vocals. Stump and the album's contributing artists performed at the tribute event at the Music Box Theater.\n\nOn September 23, 2012, Stump contributed lead guitar and vocals for a performance of \"Black Hole Sun\" with Robert Glasper Experiment at the London iTunes Festival. He later contributed vocals to the track \"I Stand Alone\", on the album \"Black Radio 2\", which premiered September 23, 2013.\n\nHe created his own version of the theme song for The CW's TV series, \"One Tree Hill\", featured on the third episode of season 8, \"The Space in Between\". He provided a song for Season 5 Episode 3 \"Big Trouble in Little Clerks 2\" of Adult Swim's \"Robot Chicken\" in which he parodied James Cameron's \"Avatar\". \n\nIn late 2014, he appeared on reality TV shows \"The Voice\" as an advisor and on \"The Sing-Off\".\n\nOn November 5, 2015 it was announced that Stump had written and produced a song called \"Trophy Boy\" for the soundtrack of upcoming animated film \"Charming\" to be sung by High School Musical star Ashley Tisdale, Avril Lavigne and G.E.M.\n\nStump composed an original ride score for the on-ride audio system for the enhanced Incredible Hulk Coaster, a roller coaster at Islands of Adventure theme park in Orlando, which re-opened on August 4, 2016.\n\nIn early 2016, he was revealed to be contributing to Blink-182's fifth studio album, California. Stump was later given songwriting credits on two songs off the album, \"Sober\" and \"San Diego\". He also co-wrote \"10 Victoria's Secret Angels\" for MAX's studio album \"Hell's Kitchen Angel\", who MAX described as 'one of his favorite collaborations'.\n\nStump has song writing credits on Black Veil Brides frontman, Andy Black's, debut solo album \"The Shadow Side\", contributing to the album's leading single, \"We Don't Have to Dance\".\n\nIn addition to writing for other artists, Stump has been involved in the composition of original scores for a number of films. He has scored the music for \na new short film adaptation of Alice In Wonderland, \"Wonderland\", a comedic take on the classic tale, as well as worked on the music for Gnome Alone (2018) and the upcoming comedy-drama Changeland.\n\nIn September, 2018, Stump announced he'd be the composer for the first feature film, entitled \"Spell\", produced by Crush Pictures, a subsidiary of Crush Management of which Fall Out Boy and Stump are members. Stump stated that the film's score was his real solo album; “I did the solo thing, and I loved making that record [2011's \"Soul Punk\"]. But now as a composer, I’m like, “Oh, \"this\" is my solo record. This my real solo record, writing music for films, TV, and stuff.”\n\nA further composition effort of Stump includes his work on the original score for the 6-part documentary series \"Let Science Speak\", which aims to \naim is to combat the “escalating efforts to suppress environmental science and silence scientists\". On working on the documentary, Stump stated that he was first approached to compose only for the documentary's trailer, but was then asked to compose music for the whole series. Stump explained how composing is something he has always wanted to do, despite not being classically trained.\n\nIn January 2008, Stump was a guest star on the television crime-drama \"Law & Order\". He appeared in the second episode of Season 18 as Marty Dressler, a lowly employee of an electrical company, who is suspected in the kidnapping of the wife and daughter of an executive. The episode, \"Darkness\", aired on January 2, 2008, on NBC as part of the two-hour series season premiere. There was a rumor that he was not paid for this episode, but he has debunked that and said that he was paid well for his appearance.\n\nStump made a short film in 2009, \"Moustachette\" which has been shown at film festivals. It stars Stump himself, Pete Wentz, and Yellowcard's Ryan Key. It was released online in September 2011.\n\nStump guest-starred as a lab technician on an episode of \"House\" in the episode \"We Need the Eggs\" (season 8, episode 17), which aired on April 16, 2012. He also made a cameo appearance in the 2008 film \"Sex Drive\" along with his Fall Out Boy bandmates.\n\nAlongside his live-action appearances, Stump has partook in a few voice acting roles, particularly in a handful of \"Robot Chicken\" sketches and, most recently, providing the voice for the character Ruberiot in the Disney XD cartoon \"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\", where he also provided his vocal talents for the song \"The Ballad of Star Butterfly\".\nIn 2017, he guest starred in \"Teen Titans Go!\".\n\nHe has also appeared in \"The Young Blood Chronicles\", Fall Out Boy's eleven-part music video story to support the band's 2013 album \"Save Rock and Roll\" with bandmates.\nStump married his longtime girlfriend, Elisa Yao, in 2012. They live in Chicago together.\n\nIn March 2014, Stump sang \"Let's Get It On\" by Marvin Gaye as the first dance at his step-brother's wedding.\n\nStump announced in September 2014 that he and his wife were expecting their first child, and on 13 October their son Declan was born. While being honored as the distinguished alumnus at 2016 graduation ceremony for Glenbrook South High School, from which he graduated in 2002, it was revealed Stump's wife was pregnant with their second child. In an interview with Music Choice in 2018, Stump spoke of his children having access to his record collection and asking him to play \"Head Hunters\", an album by Herbie Hancock.\n\nStump lost 65 pounds when Fall Out Boy went on hiatus, due in part to growing health issues, including asthma and pre-diabetes, with which he was diagnosed. He suffered from high cholesterol and high blood pressure as well.\n\nIn 2012, Stump was elected a member of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences's Chicago Chapter Governors.\n\nSome of Stump's major influences are Michael Jackson, Prince, David Bowie, Phil Collins, Peter Gabriel, who are reflected specifically in Soul Punk. Stump's influences also include bands such as The Beatles and Green Day, and artists such as Elvis Costello, John Cage, Marvin Gaye, Nina Simone, Tom Waits, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart,\nLudwig van Beethoven, Sergei Prokofiev, Dmitri Shostakovich, Igor Stravinsky, John Williams, Danny Elfman, Erich Wolfgang Korngold, and Jerry Goldsmith.\n\nArma Angelus\nFall Out Boy\n\n\nStudio albums\n\nExtended plays\n\nWith other artists \n"}
{"id": "2324701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324701", "title": "June sucker", "text": "June sucker\n\nThe June sucker (\"Chasmistes liorus\") is an endangered species of fish endemic to Utah Lake and the Provo River in the U.S. state of Utah. It is a gray or brownish fish with a paler belly, growing up to about . It lives alongside the Utah sucker, which has a much wider range, and because the populations of both fish having been much reduced by fishing, other species such as the common carp have been introduced into the lake. As a result, the June sucker has become \"critically endangered\" as the pure species is lost as a result of hybridization with the Utah sucker, and predatory fish feed on its larvae. Conservation measures have been put in place and fish are being raised in a fish hatchery for reintroduction.\n\nIt is a member of the sucker family Catostomidae, and occurs in sympatry with the benthic Utah sucker \"Catostomus ardens\". Unlike most other suckers, the June sucker is not a bottom-feeder. Its mouth is more rostrally oriented, allowing it to collect zooplankton from the midwater. The fish is dark gray or brownish dorsally, with a white or slightly greenish belly. It has a lifespan over 40 years. Typical specimens range from 17 to 24 in (43 to 61 cm) and reach a weight of 5 lb (2.3 kg.)\n\nThe June sucker is known only from Utah Lake in the United States and its feeder streams and the adjacent Provo River.\n\nThis species was once plentiful in its native lake. Some contributions to its decline include predation on its young by introduced species such as the common carp and walleye, pollution and turbidity, drought, alteration of water flow, and loss of some native vegetation. It also hybridizes with the Utah sucker (\"Catostomus ardens\") and unhybridized fish may not remain.\n\nBiologists have been rearing the June sucker in Red Butte Reservoir, and more recently in the Springville, Utah, fish hatchery, which had been closed due to an outbreak of whirling disease. As whirling disease does not affect June suckers, the hatchery was reopened to house them. After the June suckers grow to a certain size, they are released into Utah Lake to help build the population.\n\nThe June Sucker Recovery Implementation Program coordinates and implements recovery actions for the June sucker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324711", "title": "Rogers–Ramanujan identities", "text": "Rogers–Ramanujan identities\n\nIn mathematics, the Rogers–Ramanujan identities are two identities related to basic hypergeometric series and integer partitions. The identities were first discovered and proved by , and were subsequently rediscovered (without a proof) by Srinivasa Ramanujan some time before 1913. Ramanujan had no proof, but rediscovered Rogers's paper in 1917, and they then published a joint new proof . independently rediscovered and proved the identities.\n\nThe Rogers–Ramanujan identities are\n\nand\n\nHere, formula_3 denotes the q-Pochhammer symbol.\n\nConsider the following:\n\nThe Rogers–Ramanujan identities could be now interpreted in the following way. Let formula_5 be a non-negative integer.\n\nAlternatively,\n\nIf \"q\" = e, then \"q\"\"G\"(\"q\") and \"q\"\"H\"(\"q\") are modular functions of τ.\n\nThe Rogers–Ramanujan identities appeared in Baxter's solution of the hard hexagon model in statistical mechanics.\n\nRamanujan's continued fraction is \n\nJames Lepowsky and Robert Lee Wilson were the first to prove Rogers–Ramanujan identities using completely representation-theoretic techniques. They proved these identities using level 3 modules for the affine Lie algebra formula_24. In the course of this proof they invented and used what they called formula_25-algebras. \nLepowsky and Wilson's approach is universal, in that it is able to treat all affine Lie algebras at all levels.\nIt can be used to find (and prove) new partition identities. \nFirst such example is that of Capparelli's identities discovered by Stefano Capparelli using level 3 modules for \nthe affine Lie algebra formula_26.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324714", "title": "FERET database", "text": "FERET database\n\nThe Facial Recognition Technology (FERET) database is a dataset used for facial recognition system evaluation as part of the Face Recognition Technology (FERET) program. It was first established in 1993 under a collaborative effort between Dr. Harry Wechsler at George Mason University and Dr. Jonathan Phillips at the Army Research Laboratory in Adelphi, Maryland. The FERET database serves as a standard database of facial images for researchers to use to develop various algorithms and report results. The use of a common database also allowed one to compare the effectiveness of different approaches in methodology and gauge their strengths and weaknesses.\n\nThe facial images for the database were collected between December 1993 and August 1996, accumulating a total of 14,126 images pertaining to 1199 individuals along with 365 duplicate sets of images that were taken on a different day. In 2003, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) released a high-resolution, 24-bit color version of these images. The dataset tested includes 2,413 still facial images, representing 856 individuals. The FERET database has been used by more than 460 research groups and is managed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). \n\n"}
{"id": "2324715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324715", "title": "Theresa Yelverton", "text": "Theresa Yelverton\n\nTheresa Yelverton (\"née\" Maria Theresa Longworth; – 13 September 1881) was an English woman who became notorious because of her involvement in the \"Yelverton case\", a 19th-century Irish law case, which eventually resulted in a change to the law on mixed religion marriages in Ireland.\n\nLongworth was born in Cheetwood, Manchester, Lancashire, England, the youngest of seven children born to Thomas Longworth, a silk manufacturer. After meeting Major William Charles Yelverton, Viscount Avonmore on a steamer in August 1852, falling in love with him, and pursuing him for several years, she married him secretly on 15 August 1857 at Rostrevor, County Down, Ireland, allowing her to be styled as, and to have earned the title, \"Thérèse Yelverton, Viscountess Avonmore\". She was a nurse in 1857 in Galata, Russia during the Crimean War.\n\nHowever, the Viscount remarried within the year, bringing about a series of trials (most notably, \"Thelwall v. Yelverton\", between 21 February 1861 and 4 March 1861) during the course of which he allegedly used his influence with the House of Lords to annul his first marriage. The case brought notoriety and created very mixed feelings. \"Theresa was alternately vilified and celebrated, portrayed as a victim who had been 'mercilessly abandoned' and accused of being a lascivious seducer. Sometimes she was depicted as innocent and pure, at others as a ruthless social climber. After six years of trials and appeals, she finally lost her case. In the process, however, she had become a minor celebrity.\"\n\nAfterwards, she led an itinerant life and supported herself by writing about her travels. Francis Farquhar wrote that she \"spent the summer of 1870 in Yosemite, where she attached herself to the Hutchings family and made eyes at John Muir. He escaped to the woods, but not before she had noted enough of his conversation and his ways of life to make him over into Kenmuir, the hero of her novel.\"\n\nShe died in 1881 in Pietermaritzburg, Natal, South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324724", "title": "Sherwin-Williams", "text": "Sherwin-Williams\n\nSherwin-Williams Company is an American Fortune 500 company in the general building materials industry. The company, with headquarters in Cleveland, Ohio, primarily engages in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of paints, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial, and retail customers primarily in North and South America and Europe. The company is mostly known through its Sherwin-Williams Paints line. Its consumer brands group manufactures products under such trade names as Dutch Boy, Krylon, Dupli-Color, VHT (a division of Dupli-Color), Minwax, Thompson’s WaterSeal, Pratt & Lambert, White Lightning, Purdy and Kool Seal.\n\nFounded by Henry Sherwin and Edward Williams in Cleveland in 1866, the company operates through four segments: The Americas Group (known as \" 'Sherwin-Williams Stores\"'), Consumer Brands Group, Latin America Coatings Group, and Performance Coatings Group.\n\nAmericas Group, known as Sherwin-Williams Paints, was the first section of the company to be established, in 1866. These stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams branded architectural paints and coatings, industrial and marine products, and original equipment manufacturer product finishes and similar items. As of January 1, 2011, the Paint Stores Group operated 3,954 individual paint stores. By January 1, 2016, the Paints stores group had expanded to 4,080 stores.\n\nThe Consumer Brands Group develops, manufactures, and distributes various paints, coatings, and related products, under the brand names of Duron, Frazee, MAB, Minwax, Geocel, Kool Seal, Krylon, Mautz, , Bestt Liebco, Thompson's WaterSeal, H&C, Pratt & Lambert, Uniflex, White Lightning, Martin-Senour, Dutch Boy and anthony angelillo to third party customers in addition to overseeing the operations maintained by The Americas Group.\n\nOn August 28, 2007, Sherwin Williams purchased Columbia Paint & Coatings. On July 6, 2011, Sherwin-Williams acquired Leighs Paints, based in Bolton UK, manufacturers of intumescent and high performance industrial coatings. In late 2012, Sherwin Williams began the process of purchasing the Comex Group. Comex was the 4th largest paint manufacturer in North America. After Mexican antitrust regulators voted against the deal twice, Sherwin-Williams bought Comex's US and Canadian divisions for $165 million on September 16, 2013. PPG, US-based paint and coating company, acquired Comex's Mexican division for $2.3 billion.\n\nIn 2007, the company introduced its first \"Idea Center\" in Shaker Heights, Ohio, in an effort to provide customers with an interior design environment as contrasted with its conventional paint stores.\n\nThe Sherwin-Williams Automotive Finishes segment develops, manufactures, and distributes various motor vehicle finish, refinish, and touch-up products. It also licenses certain technology and trade names worldwide, as well as distributes Sherwin-Williams branded automotive finish and refinish products through its network of automotive branches. The Automotive Finishes segment opened their 200th automotive branch in Calumet Park, IL on September 21, 2007. The International Coatings segment develops, licenses, manufactures, and distributes various paints, coatings, and related products worldwide through 76 company-operated specialty paint stores, as of the above date, and by outside selling functions to other dealers and distributors.\n\nThe Sherwin-Williams Spray Source service centers offer new equipment, parts and accessories, maintenance and repairs to rental programs. There are over 100 service centers located across the U.S. and Puerto Rico. They have factory-trained technicians that provide maintenance and repairs on paint sprayers, pressure (cleaners) washers, conventional spray guns, HVLP (High Volume Low Pressure) systems, plural-component equipment from manufacturers like EXEL North America, Kremlin Rexson, Sames, Johnstone, Graco, Titan/Speeflo, Spraytech/Wagner, Capspray, ITW Binks, AccuSpray, Mi-T-M, Pressure Pro, and more. They provide repairs like maintenance, emergency and warranty, telephone troubleshooting support, on-site demonstrations, and training. Prior to 2008, the program was called SherWorks.\n\nIn 1929, Sherwin-Williams Mexico started operations. Headquarters is in Mexico City.\n\nSherwin-Williams Mexico has 109 branches and 200 dealers.\n\n\"STIR\" magazine is a bi-annual publication delivering color news and resources to residential and commercial interior designers and architects throughout North America. The magazine is created and published by Hanley Wood, LLC. The first issue was published in 2004.\n\nBetween 1981 and 1989, Sherwin-Williams owned Gray Drug.\n\nIn March 2016, it was announced that Valspar would be acquired for $9.3 billion U.S. dollars. The merger was finalized 1 June 2017.\n\nIn September, 2019, after years of rumor and speculation, the company announced that it was moving its global headquarters - then in downtown Cleveland - to a larger, more expandable, high-technology-friendly site. It would consider remaining in Cleveland, but was evaluating sites in the region and out of state. \n\nAfter five months, in February 2020, Sherwin-Williams declared it would remain in the city of Cleveland, which would provide hundreds of jobs for the region as well as an estimated $600 million investment in a new one-million-square-feet HQ building that will become a worksite for 3,500 employees. The company is also building a new 500,000 sq. ft. research and development center on the site of a former VA hospital in Brecksville, OH, saying a suburban, less densely populated location would work better with its research and coating development processes. \nThe first step in the procedure took place in March 2020 when the company paid $49.5 million for property currently used as parking lots in downtown Cleveland in an apparent cash transaction. The HQ building is expected to open in 2023.\n\nSherwin-Williams, an American company primarily engaged in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of paints, coatings and related products has been subject to several recent and significant controversies. There has been increasing scrutiny from both the public and governmental agencies, such as the SEC. The issues have ranged widely from cancer-causing toxins contaminating new residential properties to financial fraud.\n\nIn January 2014, the Santa Clara County Superior Court ruled that Sherwin-Williams, NL Industries and ConAgra were jointly and severally liable for $1.15 billion, to be paid into a lead paint abatement fund to be used to remove lead paint from older housing. The judge ruled that the paint companies manufactured, marketed, and sold lead paint without disclosing the health risks to the consumers in spite of \"actual and constructive knowledge that it was harmful.\" In March 2014 Sherwin-Williams was denied a new trial.\n\nAs per their 2013 annual report, Sherwin-Williams considers this case without merit and will appeal the decision. The process may take another two years. The disposition of \"The People v. ConAgra Grocery Products Company et al.\" in the California 6th Appellate District Court on November 14, 2017 is that \n\nOn February 14, 2019 the California Supreme Court denied the defendants' request for review, sending the case back to the trial court as ordered by the Appellate Court.\n\nOn April 9, 2018, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett and representing attorneys uncovered that Sherwin-Williams tried to ”shift the blame to contaminated water in an effort” to avoid tens of millions of dollars in settlements. As many as 170 children have been affected by the potentially fatal lead poisoning.\n\nOn June 28, 2018 Consumer Watchdog declared a national boycott of paint from Sherwin-Williams “stores after the paint maker said it was going forward with a deceptive California ballot measure to erase its liability to the public for poisoning families with lead in its paint.” Sherwin-Williams has allegedly been evading accountability resulting in severe damage to its company brand.\n\nIn 2014, a charity promotion was created indicating that $1 million would be contributed to the Angels Baseball Foundation “any time an Angels batter parked a home run ball in the can. Well, left-fielder Justin Upton did just that last Tuesday, September 19, 2017 in the ninth inning. That’s when it transpired that there was a catch all along: The ball had to enter the can on the fly. Upton’s homer ball bounced at least once before caroming into the can. So, no contribution.” The organization has been nationally criticized for the marketing ploy and the ethics of the organization have been put into question.\n\nIn late 2017, a lawsuit was filed against Sherwin-Williams, claiming it was responsible for eighty of its major coating products for being defective. Customers have repeatedly claimed that the quality of the products have failed a few months after applying the coating by peeling and chipping away. Attorneys are now examining all other products for similar faults.\n\nOn August 22, 2017 a federal “class action lawsuit was filed in the New Jersey Federal Court” against Sherwin-Williams. Residents are expecting the court “to hold Sherwin-Williams accountable for the contamination that is causing residents, including children, to develop cancer and other serious medical conditions.” The residents concern is that contamination has now migrated to surrounding residences and businesses within Gibbsboro, causing a cancer cluster within the town. In August, 2018, the lawsuit was tossed by a federal judge due to the claims of the suit being too broad.\n\nAccording to the Wall Street Journal, in June 2018 a credit rating agency analyst with insider information regarding the then-unannounced acquisition of Valspar by Sherwin-Williams, and two acquaintances were arrested and charged “with securities fraud and conspiracy and face additional civil violations in the continuing investigation.” The investigation includes information that the men used inside information before the deal was announced. Financial contracts, transactions and firms associated with the organization may face increased scrutiny as a result. No Sherwin-Williams employees were connected to the crime.\n\n\"STIR\" magazine has won several industry awards, including a 2005 FOLIO award for best design, new custom publication, as well as a 2007 Pearl Award from the Custom Publishing Council for the best in custom Publishing category.\n\nOn June 20, 2011, \"Computerworld\" named The Sherwin-Williams Company the #58 Best Place to Work in IT.\n\nIn 2015, Sherwin-Williams was recognized as the most used brand as well as the winner for brand familiarity and quality rating in the Paints category by the Builder magazine.\n\nAs of 2018, Sherwin-Williams was ranked 190th on the Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by revenue.\n\nSherwin-Williams' major competitors are PPG, RPM International Inc., Axalta Coating Systems, BASF (through Ace Hardware and Lowe's), Behr, (through The Home Depot), Kelly-Moore Paints, and Benjamin Moore. There are also several smaller, regional competitors, though Sherwin-Williams has acquired a few of them (such as MAB and Columbia Paint & Coatings and Parker Paints) in recent years. Valspar was acquired in June 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324730", "title": "USS Cyrene (AGP-13)", "text": "USS Cyrene (AGP-13)\n\nUSS \"Cyrene\" (AGP-13) was a motor torpedo boat tender for the United States Navy. She was laid down as \"Cape Farewell\", a Maritime Commission type (C1-A) hull under a Maritime Commission contract, at Pusey and Jones Corp., Wilmington, Delaware. \"Cyrene\" was launched 8 February 1944 as \"Cape Farewell\", sponsored by Mrs. G. L. Coppage. She was acquired by the Navy on 28 April 1944, and was commissioned 27 September 1944 with Commander F. A. Munroe, Jr., United States Naval Reserve, in command.\n\nDeparting Norfolk, Virginia 10 November 1944, \"Cyrene\" arrived at Manus on 13 December to escort two squadrons of motor torpedo boats to Hollandia, New Guinea. She then sailed on convoy duty to Leyte, arriving 1 January 1945.\n\n\"Cyrene\" then served as tender for motor torpedo boats, and on 17 January 1945 became flagship for Commander, Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons, 7th Fleet. After the war ended, she sailed from Samar on 21 December 1945 and arrived at San Francisco on 7 January 1946, reporting to the 12th Naval District for repair work in decommissioning small craft. \"Cyrene\" was decommissioned 2 July 1946 and delivered to the War Shipping Administration for disposal the same day.\n\nDon Rickles, actor and comedian, served as a Seaman First Class aboard \"Cyrene\".\n\nOne of her lifeboats is now in use at Rochester, England, where it has been converted into a live-aboard vessel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324741", "title": "Jim Loscutoff", "text": "Jim Loscutoff\n\nJames Loscutoff Jr. (February 4, 1930 – December 1, 2015) was a professional basketball player for the NBA's Boston Celtics. A forward, Loscutoff played on seven Celtics championship teams between 1956 and 1964.\n\nLoscutoff was born in San Francisco, California, the son of Nellie George (Ramzoff) and James Loscutoff. His parents were Russian. He starred in basketball at Palo Alto High School, graduating in 1948. Loscutoff then attended Grant Technical College, a two-year college near Sacramento, California before proceeding to the University of Oregon. In his final season at Oregon, Loscutoff led the team in scoring and rebounding with 19.6 points per game and 17.2 rebounds per game. He still holds the Oregon school record for rebounds in a game with 32.\n\nStanding 6'5\", Loscutoff was selected with the third non-territorial pick of the first round in the 1955 NBA draft. He was originally drafted by coach Red Auerbach to provide some much-needed defensive nerve for the Celtics team, which (despite becoming the first team to average 100 points per game in the 1954–55 season) had one of the worst defensive records in the league.\n\nDuring his rookie year, Loscutoff set a then-record for the Celtics with 26 rebounds in a game. In 1957, he sank the final two free throws of a 125-123 double overtime victory over the St. Louis Hawks that gave the Celtics their first NBA championship. In nine seasons, from 1955 to 1964, he played forward and won seven championships as part of the legendary Celtics teams of the 1960s. Loscutoff was described as the Celtics hatchet-man, and his defense and strength were part of the defensive greatness of the 1960s Celtics, alongside Hall-of-Famer Bill Russell.\n\nLoscutoff's nicknames included \"Jungle Jim\" and \"Loscy\". The organization wished to honor Loscutoff, but he asked that his jersey number (18) not be retired, so that a future Celtic could wear it. Instead, the Celtics added a banner with his nickname \"Loscy\" to the retired number banners hanging from the rafters of their arenas. The number was later retired in honor of another Celtic great, Dave Cowens.\n\nLoscutoff lived in Florida and Andover, Massachusetts, where his family owns a day camp for children. His wife was artist Lynn Loscutoff. He died in Naples, Florida on December 1, 2015 from complications of Parkinson's disease and pneumonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324743", "title": "West Hoathly", "text": "West Hoathly\n\nWest Hoathly is a village and civil parish in the Mid Sussex District of West Sussex, England, located south west of East Grinstead. In the 2001 census 2,121 people, of whom 1,150 were economically active, lived in 813 households. At the 2011 Census the population increased to 2,181. The parish, which has a land area of , includes the hamlets of Highbrook, Selsfield Common and Sharpthorne. The mostly rural parish is centred on West Hoathly village, an ancient hilltop settlement in the High Weald between the North and South Downs.\n\nThe area was already settled by the 11th century, when St Margaret's Church was founded. Names recorded at that time include \"Hadlega\" and \"Hodlega\"—later standardised to \"Hodlegh\" and \"Hothelegh\", then (West) Hoathly. This Anglo-Saxon word signifies a heath-covered clearing. The parish lay on the edge of the dense woodland of the Ashdown Forest.\n\nAt the time of the Domesday survey in 1086, the land covered by the present parish was held by the manors of Ditchling and Plumpton to the southeast. The rectory of the church was associated with Lewes Priory. By the 16th century, the manor of Gravetye was in existence. Gravetye Manor house, built in 1598, still stands in extensive grounds north of the village.\n\nIn 1556, West Hoathly resident Ann Tree was burnt at the stake in East Grinstead for refusing to renounce Protestantism; she was one of 17 \"Sussex Martyrs\" who suffered this fate. A brass memorial in the church commemorates her.\n\nIn 1624 a side from West Hoathly was involved in what is believed to be the earliest known organised cricket match in Sussex, which took place at Horsted Keynes.\n\nWest Hoathly was connected to the British railway network when the Lewes and East Grinstead Railway was built in 1882. A station was provided east of the village, between the village itself and Sharpthorne.\n\nThe line passed under a sandstone ridge by means of a 731yd long tunnel. The line and station closed on 16 March 1958, and the station stood derelict for many years, with the footbridge and down-platform buildings removed in 1964 and the station house demolished in 1967. The preserved Bluebell Railway, (now 11 miles in length) runs along part of the route of the former Lewes and East Grinstead Railway. The West Hoathly station site was purchased by the Bluebell Railway on 30 November 1975, and the line re-opened through the site in 1992, but the station itself otherwise remains disused.\n\nAlso known as \"Great-upon-Little\", this natural landscape formation is in a wooded area southwest of the village, near the road to Ardingly. It is an exposed outcrop of sandstone with a harder band overlying a soft stratum at ground level. The lower stratum has weathered significantly, making the upper section overhang like the cap of a mushroom.\n\nThere are two Anglican churches in the civil parish. St Margaret's Church, dedicated to Margaret of Antioch, stands on North Lane in West Hoathly. It has Norman origins, although much of the fabric of the building is 13th-century. The church has a tower with a Perpendicular Gothic broach spire, a single-aisled nave, a chancel and a side chapel. The terraced churchyard is a well-known viewpoint, with far-reaching views across the Weald. All Saints Church at Highbrook was paid for by two wealthy local sisters who thought that church attendance among the hamlet's residence was being hampered by the long distance they had to travel to St Margaret's Church. Architects Richard H. Carpenter and Benjamin Ingelow designed the large, stone-built church in 1884. The churches have separate ecclesiastical parishes but are part of a united benefice, served by the same vicar.\n\nSt Dunstan's Roman Catholic church is in West Hoathly. English Heritage describe the building as \"a curiosity\": it was a cottage with an attached butcher's shop until its conversion into a church in 1957. In Sharpthorne, the Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion—a small Nonconformist denomination with links to Methodism—has a place of worship, the Sharpthorne Community Church. It was founded by members of an older church in nearby Turners Hill. There was also a Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion chapel at the north end of West Hoathly from 1826 until the early 21st century. The timber-framed building survives, but is disused.\n\nThe parish has many medieval houses and farms. The oldest is Tickeridge, near Selsfield Common and the preserved Kingscote railway station. Its modernised exterior hides a 14th-century timber-framed Wealden hall house of \"high antiquarian interest\". The gabled solar wing dates from the 16th century. Gravetye Manor, built in 1598, has an Elizabethan façade and was built for a local ironmaster: northern Sussex was an important ironmaking area for several centuries. Later abandoned to smugglers, the building and its grounds were rejuvenated in 1884 when \"the greatest English gardener\" William Robinson bought it. He also designed the gardens. Upon his death in 1935 the manor, set in a large area of woodland, passed to the Forestry Commission for use as a base for their work. It was converted into a high-class restaurant (now with a Michelin star) in 1958. Chiddinglye, which may have been a separate manor at one time, is a Gothic house of 1866. Next to it is Chiddinglye Farm, an open hall house with 15th- and 16th-century parts. Selsfield House has a Georgian façade.\n\nThe Priest House West Hoathly in the centre of the village opposite St Margaret's Church, was turned into a museum by the Sussex Archaeological Society in 1935. The 15th-century open hall-house, with a five-bay façade and a solar wing, retains some original windows and its king post and trussed roof. Items relating to local and domestic history are on display, and there are formal gardens. Also near the church is Manor House—not named in relation to any historic manor, but built in 1627 as a dower house and associated with the owners of Gravetye Manor. A note in the museum says that it was built for Katherine Infield, widow of Richard Infield of Gravetye Manor. The building materials, the composition and the ornaments of the main facade are identical to the ones of Gavetye Manor. It is approximately H-shaped, built of ashlar, and has prominent mullioned windows and a gabled roof laid with Horsham stone slabs. Old panelling remains in some rooms.\n\nThe village pub is the Cat Inn, housed in an early 16th-century timber-framed building with a tile and brick exterior. Original beams are still visible inside on both storeys.\n\nWest Hoathly Church of England School, which maintains links with St Margaret's Church, is the primary school in the parish.\nThere is also a Steiner (also known as Waldorf education) boarding school called Philpots Manor School that is situated around half a mile from the village.\n\nJasper Vinall from West Hoathly was the first cricketer known to have been killed while playing the game. This happened on 28 August 1624 at Horsted Keynes, East Sussex.\n\nWest Hoathly Football Club were founded in 1902 and currently play their games at The Recreation Ground, The club is split into two teams with the First team playing in the Mid Sussex Division 3 and the seconds in Division 9.\nThe best days of the club's history came in the 1980s where the team won the county league in five consecutive seasons a feat yet to be reproduced since.\n\nThe 2011/12 season was hard for the team, with many players leaving and moving on. Subsequently, both the first XI and second XI teams were relegated to Division 3 and Division 9 respectively.\nThe first team is managed by John Kendall who also runs coaching sessions for both teams, whilst Matt Kendall and Mark Harding run the second XI. \nThe kit for both teams is \nHome - Black and White stripes, Black shorts, Black socks\nAway - White with Red bar down the centre of the shirt, Red shorts, Red Socks\n\nThe team plays its home game at West Hoathly's Recreation Ground, The Pavilion which the team uses as its home area and changing rooms was given to the team in 1925 and since then has undergone many refurbishments the last one being in the 1980s, and now the rooms are sadly in a very bad state with the current set up not passing The FA standard regulations but fortunately in April 2012 the local parish council agreed to let the team redevelop the pavilion adding in two new rooms on either side creating wet and dry rooms and a spacious area with patio area to help house local clubs/sports and scout groups. This work will take place over the summer of 2012 and be undertaken on the majority by members of the parish and team players already in the construction and decorating industry.\nHopefully in the future the club will be able to create a youth team which can be run by players in the first and second XI who are keen on getting into coaching and create a lasting legacy and flow of talent coming through the club.\n\nNear the village of Sharpthorne there is a Site of Special Scientific Interest known as West Hoathly Pit. It is a working clay pit of geological interest with of visible sedimentary layers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324748", "title": "ArenaBowl XIX", "text": "ArenaBowl XIX\n\nArenaBowl XIX was the 2005 championship game of the Arena Football League (AFL), and was played at the Thomas & Mack Center in Paradise, Nevada. The first neutral-site title game in AFL history drew 10,822 fans to see the Colorado Crush defeat the Georgia Force 51–48 to claim the Foster ArenaBowl Trophy. ArenaBowl XIX is widely considered one of the greatest games played.\n\nIn a matchup of two first-time ArenaBowl participants (not counting the Force's appearances in ArenaBowls XIV and XV as the Nashville Kats, as those games are attributed to the new Kats franchise), the Crush claimed the Foster ArenaBowl Trophy in just their third year of existence.\n\nThe Crush got out to a 7–0 lead on the first of four touchdowns by Willis Marshall and added a Clay Rush field goal to extend the lead to 10–0 before the Force got on the scoreboard. The teams then traded touchdowns throughout the remainder of the first half, with the Crush leading 24–20 at the break. The first half was especially notable for being the first time in ArenaBowl history in which neither team threw a passing touchdown.\n\nCrush quarterback John Dutton, the MVP of ArenaBowl XVI, and Force signal-caller Matt Nagy would soon change that, however, as the two combined for seven passing touchdowns in the second half. Rookie Derek Lee caught three touchdown passes in the half for Georgia, but it was not enough to offset the Colorado attack, as Dutton threw two touchdowns to Damian Harrell and another to Marshall \n\nWith 18 seconds remaining, Nagy threw a 20-yard touchdown pass to Chris Jackson, tying the game at 48. However, the Crush quickly moved into field goal range, and kicker Rush converted his third field goal of the day, this one from 20 yards out as time expired, giving Colorado its first ArenaBowl title with a 51-48 win.\n\nMarshall was named both Offensive Player of the Game and Ironman of the Game, with six catches for 111 yards and one touchdown in addition to three rushing touchdowns. Ahmad Hawkins earned Defensive Player of the Game honors by registering the game's lone interception.\n\nColorado coach Mike Dailey earned his second championship ring while Georgia's first-year head coach Doug Plank, the league's 2005 Coach of the Year, came up short in his fourth consecutive ArenaBowl, having lost the previous three as the defensive coordinator for the Arizona Rattlers.\n\n1st Quarter\n2nd Quarter\n3rd Quarter\n4th Quarter\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324768", "title": "National Alliance of Russian Solidarists", "text": "National Alliance of Russian Solidarists\n\nThe National Alliance of Russian Solidarists ( or ), known by its Russian abbreviation \"NTS\" (НТС), is a Russian anticommunist organization founded in 1930 by a group of young Russian anticommunist White emigres in Belgrade, Serbia (then part of Kingdom of Yugoslavia).\n\nThe organization was formed in response to the older generation of Russian emigres (veterans of the White movement) who were perceived as being stagnant and resigned to their loss in the Russian Civil War. The youth which formed NTS decided to take an active role in fighting communism by studying the newly emerging Soviet culture, the psyche of a person living in the Soviet Union, and developing a political program based on the concept of solidarism.\n\nThe solidarist ideology of NTS was built on the Christian understanding of people's collective social responsibility for each other's welfare, and the voluntary cooperation between the different \"layers\" (as opposed to \"classes\") of society, in opposition to the Marxist concept of the class struggle. It also believed strongly in the \"sanctity of the individual\", in contrast to Marxist collectivism.\n\nFrom a 1967 English language NTS pamphlet:\n\nUnlike Communism, Solidarism provides a twentieth-century basis for dealing with present day issues. It rejects a purely materialistic approach to social, economic and political problems. It postulates that man, rather than matter, is the chief problem today. It rejects the concept of class warfare and hatred, and seeks to replace this dubious principle with the idea of co-operation (solidarity), brotherhood, Christian tolerance and charity. Solidarism believes in the innate dignity of the individual and seeks to safeguard as inalienable rights his freedom of speech, conscience and political organization. Solidarists in no way claim that their ideas represent the final answer to all problems, but they believe that man who is master of the atom bomb must also become master of himself and his destiny.\n\nThe platform did not rule out a monarchy, but it refused to pre-decide the question of a free Russia's political structure (the policy of \"non-predetermination\" [Russian: непредрешенчество \"nepredrešhenčhestvo\"]) outside of a popular plebiscite. In this regard it was similar to the White movement which deferred the decision of Russia's political structure to a constituent assembly. However, unlike the White movement, its successor organization, the Russian All-Military Union (ROVS), and other emigre organizations, NTS had developed a specific political program which included a definition of human rights and an economic program. This made the organization attract the attention of General Andrey Vlasov during the Russian Liberation Movement, who borrowed many points from NTS's program in developing his own.\n\nThe NTS platform rejected the traditional labels of \"liberal\" and \"conservative\", claiming \"We are not to the right, or to the left, we are at the front!\" (Мы не справа и не слева, мы впереди! \"My ne sprava i ne sleva, my vperedi!\") The NTS called for a \"second revolution\", as opposed to a \"counter-revolution\", believing that a post-Bolshevik Russia needed to be reborn and avoid returning to the mistakes of the pre-revolutionary era. At the same time, NTS rejected the views of groups such as the Smenovekhovtsi and Mladorossi who called for a reconciliation with the Bolshevik regime, believing that Bolshevism is corrupt and incapable of evolution, therefore it needed to be eradicated, not reformed.\n\nSome liberal critics in the Russian emigre community have accused NTS of having a fascist ideology. For instance, Dr. Marc Raeff wrote in the Slavic Review (Summer, 1989, 48(2), pp. 305–306) that, They [the NTS] rejected both Bolshevism and liberal capitalism and embraced Russian patriotism and the priority of national solidarity based on productive labor contributed by all societal sectors. They displayed a predisposition for a corporatist organization of society and a willingness to accept a temporary dictatorship in order to bring about the nation's moral and spiritual regeneration. Their ideas unmistakably resembled those of Italian fascism and Portuguese and Austrian corporatism. NTS supporters believe the organization always defended democratic participation in government (even in the case of a monarch), championed individual liberties, supported individualism, and rejected chauvinism.\n\nThe NTS initially accepted only young men and women under the age of thirty (occasional exceptions were made), feeling that only the generation which could not in any way be seen as accountable for the events of 1917 could lead this battle. This restriction was removed by World War II. Members could be open or secret; the latter was a frequent option during the NTS's activity in the Russian Liberation Movement.\n\nThe NTS included not only Russians but other traditional peoples of Russia (e.g., Georgians, Balts, Kalmyks), hence the organization used the term \"Rossijane\" (россияне; meaning \"peoples of Russia\") rather than \"Russkie\" (русские; meaning \"ethnic Russians\") in their political programs. Many Russophiles also joined the organization, e.g., Germans, Poles, Slovenians.\n\nThe organization adopted a logo of the Russian flag with the symbol of St. Vladimir, frequently used by Ukrainians, to demonstrate the continuity and interrelatedness of Russian and Ukrainian tradition. The trident was also used by NTS as a revolutionary symbol, called the \"forks of the people's anger\".\n\nPerhaps the most famous NTS member was Alexander Galich, a Russian screenwriter and bard who joined after he was exiled from the USSR for his critical songs and dissident activities.\n\nThe NTS believed that force was the only means by which the Soviet regime could be toppled, and that an internal revolution was the best means for this.\n\nThe group made several attempts at sending its people into the USSR illegally before, during, and after World War II for the purpose of creating an underground revolutionary force in Soviet Russia. The organization, despite the support of foreign intelligence agencies, could not match the powerful network of the OGPU and NKVD. The pre and post war attempts were the least successful, often ending in shootouts with the Soviet authorities, or capture. The war period was the most successful, although there were a high number of casualties who either suffered at the hands of the German Gestapo, or sleeper cells which were uncovered by the Soviet secret police.\n\nThe NTS was also actively involved in the Russian Liberation Movement during the war.\n\nThe organization adopted a new strategy after the war called the \"molecular theory\" of revolution, where Soviet citizens were urged (via propaganda literature and radio messages) to create \"molecular revolutionary groups\" no larger than three people in size in order to minimize the risk of infiltration. These groups were to keep in contact with the NTS center which was located in Frankfurt, Germany. At a ripe moment, the center would coordinate the activity of the molecules and create a revolutionary army out of them.\n\nThe NTS's \"Closed Sector\", the coordination center for underground revolutionary activity, was dissolved in 1991 after the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nSince 2006, there has been increased activity of the St. Petersburg group of the NTS. The group of anti-communist radicals established a link with a major business structure. A website was created, they have held street protests, and established links in the regions. Because of radicalism and informal links, new activists have any conflicts with management of SPb NTS.\n\nThey created an autonomic Association of solidarists-corporatists NTS (NTS(osc)). On behalf of the NTS organization held a number of opposition and anti-communist protests, as well as in its support for the Libyan and Syrian uprisings. Allies of the NTS(osc) have become extremely right-wing organizations (but not racist, in the NTS(osc) includes Caucasian activists) and free trade unions. Now NTS(osc) is a division of the National Alliance of Russian Solidarists. Chairmen of NTS(osc) were Andrew Komaritsin and Stanislav Busigin.\n\nThe NTS actively sent out propaganda leaflets via air balloons and other means, including direct mail. Messages with anti-Stalinist slogans and the NTS's political program were printed on leaflets, handkerchiefs, fake rubles, false books, etc.\n\nThe organization also set up a radio station called Radio Free Russia. Broadcasts were made from West Germany into the Soviet zone until the West German government was pressured by the Soviet government to shut the station down.\n\nThe Posev publishing house was run by NTS as a means of publishing anti-Soviet literature. Samizdat literature smuggled outside of the USSR was published, such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's writings and the poems of Alexander Galich and Bulat Okudzhava. \"Posev\" (Посев, lit. \"sowing\" in Russian) is also the name of a magazine published by NTS since 1945.\n\nThe Posev publishing house now mainly publishes books on Russian history, focusing specifically on the history of the anti-communist movement.\n\n\nThe Soviets responded to NTS's activities via several methods including arrests, assassination attempts, kidnappings, counterpropaganda, and diplomatic pressure. NTS members who were found in Soviet controlled territories were arrested. Several assassination attempts were made against key NTS members. One of them, NTS chairman Georgiy Okolovich, had his would be assassin, Nikolai Khokhlov, confess to him and defect, embarrassing the Soviet government with his media campaign. There were also several bombing attempts.\n\nDr. Rudolf Trušnovič, a prominent NTS member of Slovenian origin, was kidnapped by Stasi agent Heinz Glezke and smuggled abroad in a Soviet diplomatic car to the East German sector. He is believed to have died in transit as a result of the trauma from the struggle that ensued during his kidnapping.\n\nAnti-NTS pamphlets and newsreel films were produced by the USSR. One such pamphlet was supposedly written by Konstantin Cherezov, a former NTS member who defected from Germany back to the USSR. The pamphlet accuses the leaders of NTS being employees of American and British intelligence. It also labels them as drunkards, homosexuals and gamblers who had at one point or another served the Nazi regime.\n\nIn addition, the Soviet government used its international ties to pressure foreign governments to suppress NTS's activities. One such successful example was the closing down of \"Radio Free Russia\" by the West German government.\n\nA song titled \"The Bright Hour Knocks\" (Бьёт светлый час \"B'ot svetlij čas\") became the organization's main song, used as an anthem but never called such. It was written in the early 1930s by NTS member Mikhail Gnilorybov.\n\nAnother song was also very popular, called \"Youth\" (Молодёжная \"Molod'ožnaja\") or \"The Past is the Source of Inspiration\" (В былом источник вдохновенья \"V bylom istočnik vdochnoven'ja\"), written by NTS member Pavel Zelensky (Павел Николаевич Зеленский; 1904–1978) in the late 1930s. This song was also adopted by the Russian Scout organization ORYuR as the anthem of its leadership circle, which had many NTS members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324775", "title": "Ken Dolan", "text": "Ken Dolan\n\nKenneth F. Dolan (January 23, 1943 – April 17, 2018) was an American business anchor, author, and radio host.\n\nKen Dolan was an anchor, along with his wife of 46 years Daria Dolan, for Dolans Unscripted on CNN. They joined CNN in 2003.\n\nThey have also written books on personal finance and hosted several money seminars. Prior to joining CNN, the Dolans were contributors to \"CBS This Morning\" and CBS News Saturday Morning and hosted their own show on the now-defunct CNNfn, as well as hosting radio programs on the WOR Radio Network and NBC Talknet, helping to establish the personal finance genre of talk radio as a viable and credible medium.\n\nDolan held a bachelor's degree in marketing from Boston College. He died April 17, 2018 from cancer at age 75.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324777", "title": "Burnout Revenge", "text": "Burnout Revenge\n\nBurnout Revenge is a racing video game developed by Criterion Games and published by Electronic Arts for PlayStation 2, Xbox and Xbox 360. \"Burnout Revenge\" was also dedicated to the memory of Rabin Ezra, who died on 27 June 2005.\n\nSimilar to its predecessor \"\", \"Revenge\" focuses on a mixture of racing in the midst of rush-hour traffic, and vehicular combat; players use the cars themselves as weapons. \"Revenge\" also expands on the combat side of its gameplay with new features such as \"traffic checking\" (ramming same-way traffic), Vertical Takedowns (landing on a rival car after the player's car drives over a jump), a new game type (Traffic Attack) and significant changes to the gameplay of Crash mode (a game type where players attempt to cause a crash as large as possible). A successor titled \"Burnout Paradise\", was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on 22 January 2008. The game was also made backwards compatible with the Xbox One on 8 May 2018.\n\nIn \"Burnout Revenge\", players compete in a range of racing game types with different aims. These take place within rush-hour traffic, and include circuit racing, Road Rage (where players cause as many rivals to crash as possible within a time limit, or until the player's car is wrecked), Burning Lap (a single-lap, single-racer time attack mode), Eliminator (a circuit race where every thirty seconds, the last-placed racer's car is detonated; the race continues until only one racer is left), and Crash (where the player is placed at a junction with the aim of accumulating as many \"Crash Dollars\" as possible). A new gameplay feature in \"Burnout Revenge\" is the ability to ram same-way small to medium traffic, known as \"traffic checking\", propelling the rammed car forward; the event in which a \"checked\" car hits a rival is considered as a Traffic Takedown. Traffic checking is the focus of a new race type, Traffic Attack (whereby a player must earn a set amount of Crash Dollars through checking traffic), which can be used later on.\n\nDuring these events, players have access to a limited amount of boost which is acquired through various dangerous driving techniques, including but not limited to driving on the wrong side of the road, tailgating opponents and drifting. Unique to the series is the concept of battling other rivals; unlike other video games in the racing genre, players are encouraged, and sometimes even required, to ram rival cars and cause traffic to crash. Causing a rival to crash is referred to as a \"Takedown\", rewarding the player by extending the length of their boost gauge and completely refilling it. In designated events, boost can also be used to activate a \"Crashbreaker\" during a crash, detonating the car and causing other nearby cars to crash. When the rival car takes the player down, the player will have to take the ultimate \"REVENGE\" by taking down the revenge rivals (which the arrow at the top of the car turned red) is referred to as a \"Revenge Takedown\".\n\nIn the main single-player game mode, players compete in a world tour consisting of 169 events across three continents, divided into a series of 11 \"ranks\" (Rank 11 has no events). The ranks which a player has access to is determined by their \"Revenge Rank\", which increases after completing events. By increasing their Rank sufficiently, the player \"ranks up\" and unlocks the next rank of events.\n\nThere are 77 cars in the game, some of which can only be used for crash events. The SUVs and saloon cars are some of them.\n\nThe game also features support for multiplayer gameplay, both online and offline. In addition to the racing modes, the game features three types of Crash modes: Crash Battle (multiple players attempt a junction at the same time), Crash Party (players take turns at attempting junctions across several rounds), and Crash Tour (a golf-like version of Crash Party, with players attempting to accumulate a certain amount of Crash Dollars in as few attempts as possible; after the last round ends the player with the lowest score wins).\n\nThere are two extra vehicles that can be unlocked by the presence of a saved game from another title on the memory card or hard drive when you first create your profile. A \"Madden NFL 06\" save will unlock the \"Madden Challenge Bus\" and a \"\" save will unlock the \"Dominator Assassin\". Both of these cars are available only for Crash events. They are also available for online use if you own an online adapter. Although it may not be hidden, after reaching the \"Elite\" rank, you unlock the Black Elite Racer, which has some references to the game Black. For example, there are bullet holes all around the car, and the license plate on the back reads \"Kellar\", the player's character in Black. And if you achieve 100% game completion, which is the game's toughest challenge, you unlock the Revenge Racer, which was reused in \"Revenge\"'s successor, \"Burnout Paradise\".\n\nThe Xbox 360 version of \"Burnout Revenge\" included several new features and improved the graphics of the game to utilize the power of the console. The game included ten new crash junctions on the Crash Tour. It also included a vastly improved online mode that introduced online Revenge Rivals. This system allowed players to keep track of their number of times they have been taken out or have taken out any given player.\n\nThe new version also included a new Burnout Clips feature, which allows users to save 30-second clips of any offline race played which could be shared with other players over Xbox Live.\n\nOn 8 May 2018, the Xbox 360 version of \"Burnout Revenge\" was made available for backward compatibility with the Xbox One.\n\nThe Xbox 360 version of \"Burnout Revenge\" was the first game to take advantage of kiosk downloads in North America, where players could take their Xbox 360 Memory Unit to participating stores such as GameStop, Circuit City, and Best Buy, and download new content for the game onto it. The provided content varied between kiosks. Xbox Live Marketplace content is also available in the form of new cars.\n\nThe game received \"favorable\" reviews on all systems according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nJim Schaefer of \"Detroit Free Press\" gave the PS2 a score of all four stars and said that it \"proves once again why it is the ultimate spectacle for those of us who just want to feel the rush. You know you're playing a great game when even the pauses in the action are filled with rockin' music, flashy video and big sound effects.\" Ryan Huschka later gave the X360 version the same score and stated that it \"makes online showdowns much more personal.\" Greg Edwards of \"Maxim\" gave the PS2 and Xbox versions a score of nine out of ten and stated: \"Tons of tracks, events, and online races give \"Revenge\" plenty of variety, but it's the blinding speed and the velvety smooth controls that make this the best racing game of the year.\" Eliot Fish of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" gave the game four-and-a-half stars out of five and called it \"relentlessly intense\". However, Tim Meston of \"The Times\" gave it four stars out of five and stated: \"The locations are varied, but with the usual generic locations, and a repetitiveness notic[e]able in the track layout for each stage is reduced somewhat by the addition of numerous shortcuts along each route.\" Scott Jones of the \"Hartford Courant\" gave it three stars out of four and called it \"a car insurance agent's worst nightmare,\" but added that \"there's still something a bit cold and heartless about the 'Burnout' series. Maybe it's all the phony cars (no real car manufacturers, for obvious reasons, were willing to lend their vehicles to the game). Maybe it's because your opponents lack personality. Maybe the series needs a narrative. There's no story, nothing to keep you playing, other than more difficult challenges. And that's just not enough.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2324781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324781", "title": "Nenitzescu indole synthesis", "text": "Nenitzescu indole synthesis\n\nThe Nenitzescu indole synthesis is a chemical reaction that forms 5-hydroxyindole derivatives from benzoquinone and β-aminocrotonic esters.\n\nThis reaction was named for its discoverer, Costin Nenițescu, who first reported it in 1929. It can be performed with a number of different combinations of R-groups, which include methyl, methoxy, ethyl, propyl, and H substituents. There is also a solid-state variation in which the reaction takes place on a highly cross-linked polymer scaffold. The synthesis is particularly interesting because indoles are the foundation for a number of biochemically important molecules, including neurotransmitters and a new class of antitumor compounds.\n\nThe mechanism of a Nenitzescu reaction consists of a Michael addition, followed by a nucleophilic attack by the enamine pi bond, and then an elimination.\n\nThe reaction was first published by Nenitzescu in 1929, and has since been refined by Allen \"et al.\" In his 1966 publication, Allen and coworkers investigated the effects that different substituents on the benzoquinone starting material had on the arrangement of the final product. These steric effects also gave evidence that one of the two current proposed mechanisms was more likely than the other, which led to the publication of the mechanism shown above.\n\nA preliminary study conducted by Katkevica \"et al.\" investigated the reaction conditions for a Nenitzescu synthesis, and reported on the behavior of the reaction when it takes place in various solvents. Their results indicated that the reaction performs best in a highly polar solvent, and further kinetic studies involving variation of the substrate, reagents, solvents, and the presence of lewis acids and bases were proposed. Two years later, Velezheva \"et al.\" went on to report an alternative version of the synthesis using a lewis acid catalyst. They report that the catalyzing effect originates from enamine activation through a diketodienamine-ZnCl complex.\n\nHowever, despite improvements in the conditions, the traditional Nenitzescu synthesis was not suitable for use on a manufacturing scale because of a relatively low yield and polymerization under normal reaction conditions. Originally, it was believed that the benzoquinone had to be used in 100% excess to drive the reaction to completion on this scale, but Huang et al. reported that a 20–60% excess is most effective. Furthermore, they reported that for the ideal conditions for a large-scale reaction, there should be a 1:1.2-1.6 mole ratio between the benzoquinone and the ethyl 3-aminocrotonate, and the reaction should take place around room temperature. These conditions are sufficient for producing batches of 100 kg or more.\n\nOne of the most common variations of the Nenitzescu reaction is the solid phase variant. This reaction, first reported by Ketcha \"et al.\", is shown below.\n\nIt takes place on a highly cross-linked ArgoPore®-Rink-NH-Fmoc resin and functions with a variety of substituents on both reactants. Other solid-phase indole syntheses were also reported, some of which use different scaffolds and metal catalysts to drive the reaction to completion.\n\nThere are also a variety of other reactions that result in the same indole skeleton. In a review article, Taber \"et al.\" categorize these reactions into nine basic types of indole syntheses: Fischer, Mori, Hemetsberger, Buchwald, Sundberg, Madelung, Nenitsescu, van Leusen, and Kanematsu.\n\nThe 5-hydroxyindole skeleton is the foundation for a number of biochemically important molecules. Among them are serotonin, a neurotransmitter; indometacin, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent; L-761,066, a COX-2 inhibitor; and LY311727, an inhibitor of secretory phospholipase. Currently, one of the most interesting applications of the Nenitzescu synthesis is its ability to produce a precursor to antitumor compounds. This synthesis, reported in 2006, involves the reaction of 1,4,9,10-anthradiquinone with various enamines. The products of this reaction constitute a new class of lead structures for anticancer drug design.\n"}
{"id": "2324795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324795", "title": "Somewhere in the Night (film)", "text": "Somewhere in the Night (film)\n\nSomewhere in the Night is a 1946 film noir and psychological thriller directed and co-written by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and starring John Hodiak, Nancy Guild, Richard Conte, and Lloyd Nolan.\n\nThe film tells the tale of a man called George Taylor (John Hodiak), who returns home to the U.S. from fighting in World War II. He is suffering from amnesia, having been badly injured by a grenade. He tries to find his old identity, following a trail left behind by the mysterious Mr. Larry Cravat. He ends up stumbling into a murder mystery involving Nazi loot.\n\n\n20th Century Fox purchased Marvin Borowsky's original, unpublished story \"The Lonely Journey\" and his accompanying screenplay in December 1944 for $11,000. \"Somewhere in the Night\" was Nancy Guild's first film. Production Dates: 21 Nov 1945–24 Jan 1946.\n\nA radio version of the film, starring John Hodiak and Lynn Bari, was broadcast on \"Lux Radio Theatre\" on March 3, 1947.\n\nWhen the film was first released, film critic Bosley Crowther gave the film a negative review, writing \"Lloyd Nolan, Richard Conte, Josephine Hutchinson and several others are competent as varied pawns. Their performances are interesting; it's only too bad that they have such turgid and inconclusive things to do. After a while, the mad confusion of the story inspires a complete apathy.\"\n\nMore recently, film critic Dennis Schwartz praised the film, writing, \"A dark moody noir tale about a marine who gets blown up by a grenade in the South Pacific during a skirmish in WW-II and survives, only to become an amnesia victim...Mankiewicz does a nice job of creating the dark noir mood. The film is spiced up with comedy, excellent performances, plenty of suspense, plus a tense voice-over by John Ireland, and it manages to keep the pot boiling with a quintessential amnesiac story.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324797", "title": "Pentti Saarikoski", "text": "Pentti Saarikoski\n\nPentti Saarikoski (Impilahti, now in the Republic of Karelia September 2, 1937 – Joensuu August 24, 1983) was one of the most important poets in the literary scene of Finland during the 1960s and 1970s. His body of work comprises poetry and translations, among them such classics as Homer's \"Odyssey\" and James Joyce's \"Ulysses\".\n\nAccording to Saarikoski, he was the only person in the world who had ever translated both Homer's and Joyce's Ulysses – a statement that probably holds true even today. Moreover, it only took two years for him to translate Homer's \"Odyssey\" from Victor Bérard's edition, which is thought to be a rather fast accomplishment. Other notable translations include \"Poetics\" by Aristotle and \"Catcher in the Rye\" by J.D. Salinger.\n\nSaarikoski is buried in Heinävesi in the cemetery of the New Valamo monastery.\n\nSaarikoski's breakthrough was both critically and commercially \"Mitä tapahtuu todella?\" (What is actually going on?) published in 1962. The collection of poems heralded a new era in Finnish culture, laying the foundation of Finnish \"participative poetry\", a style whose adherents insisted that poets should participate in politics through their work. Indeed, some of the poems featured in the collection do have a clear political tone, whereas in the 1950s Finnish modernists were generally more inclined to think that art should be done solely for art's sake. Mitä tapahtuu todella? marked also a change in the poet's style. His early works \"Runoja\" (Poems) and \"Toisia Runoja\" (Other Poems), both published in 1958, are not yet \"participative poetry\" or \"democratic poetry\" as the poet himself called his style. Instead, they are distinguished by their references to Greek antiquity while the general style was modern, which has led literary critics to say that Saarikoski's first works form his \"Greek period\". Saarikoski's interest in Greek began very early on. In fact, he studied Greek and literature at the University of Helsinki in the 1950s, though he never received a degree.\n\nDuring the 1970s Saarikoski continued to publish poem collections. His admiration for the Greek philosopher Heraclitus deepened to such lengths that at one point Saarikoski adopted the philosopher's colloquial name \"The Obscure\", \"Hämärä\" in Finnish, to his poetry. Saarikoski began to obscure his poems intentionally and titled one of his collections \"Hämärän Tanssit\" (The Dark One's Dances, translated by Anselm Hollo), which is a reference to Heraclitus. While some of his works especially from the late 1960s had received rather morose reception from critics, his last three poem collections which form \"Tiarnia-trilogy\" (1977, 1980, 1983) are often seen as the second artistic peak point of his career. They were written in Sweden where Saarikoski lived with his last wife Mia Berner. These works reflect pessimism towards technocratic society which is seen as deterring the social participation of citizens. All the works include a word \"dance\" in their title which refers to a form of social resistance.\n\nSaarikoski also wrote columns by the pen-name \"Nenä\" (\"Nose\"). His columns satirized the church, the army, politics and, all in all, conservatism. In his columns, he parodied the official political jargon of his times in a very effective manner.\n\nSaarikoski stood as a candidate for the Finnish People's Democratic League (SKDL) in the parliamentary elections of 1966 and 1970, but was not elected. He became a member of the Communist Party of Finland in 1968.\n\nSaarikoski was a well-known celebrity in Finland due to his controversial personal life. He was an enthusiastic communist, was married four times and consumed alcohol heavily. Saarikoski himself said: \"I make my life fiction so that it would be true\". In an interview, Saarikoski's daughter, Helena Saarikoski, stated that her father was a prime example of a European bohemian, and as such helped to establish an image of a modern intellect in Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324802", "title": "Rosemont—La Petite-Patrie", "text": "Rosemont—La Petite-Patrie\n\nRosemont—La Petite-Patrie (formerly known as Rosemont and Rosemont—Petite-Patrie) is a federal electoral district in Quebec, Canada, that has been represented in the House of Commons of Canada since 1979.\n\nThe district includes the neighbourhood of Petite-Patrie and the western part of the neighbourhood of Rosemont in the Borough of Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie.\n\n\nThe riding was created under the name \"Rosemont\" in 1976 from parts of the ridings of Lafontaine, Maisonneuve—Rosemont, Papineau, and Saint-Michel. The name was changed to \"Rosemont—Petite-Patrie\" in 2000, and then to its current name in 2003.\n\nThis riding gained a small fraction of territory from Outremont during the 2012 electoral redistribution.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n\n \nNote: Conservative vote is compared to the total of the Canadian Alliance vote and Progressive Conservative vote in 2000 election.\n\n \n\n\nRiding history from the Library of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "2324806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324806", "title": "France at the 1980 Summer Olympics", "text": "France at the 1980 Summer Olympics\n\nFrance competed at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, USSR. In partial support of the American-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics, France competed under the Olympic Flag instead of its national flag. 121 competitors, 98 men and 23 women, took part in 85 events in 13 sports.\n\n\n\n\nMen's 100 metres\n\nMen's 200 metres\n\nMen's 800 metres\n\nMen's 1,500 metres\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nMen's 4x400 metres Relay\n\nMen's 50 km Walk\n\nMen's High Jump\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nMen's Triple Jump\n\nMen's Pole Vault\n\nWomen's 100 metres\n\nWomen's 100 m Hurdles\n\nWomen's Pentathlon\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nNine cyclists represented France in 1980. Alain Bondue won a silver medal in the individual pursuit.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n16 fencers, 11 men and 5 women, represented France in 1980.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThree male pentathletes represented France in 1980.\n\nMen's Individual Competition:\n\nMen's Team Competition:\n\nMen's 100m Freestyle\n\nMen's 200m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Butterfly\n\nMen's 4 × 200 m Freestyle Relay\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Medley Relay\n<br>\nWomen's 100m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100m Breaststroke\n"}
{"id": "2324814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324814", "title": "Daria Dolan", "text": "Daria Dolan\n\nDaria Dolan is an American business news anchor, author, and radio host.\n\nPrior to her career in radio and television, Daria was a vice president of a New York Stock Exchange firm. Dolan holds an honorary doctorate in commercial sciences from St. Thomas Aquinas College in New York and a bachelor's degree in theater arts from Webster University in St. Louis.\n\nShe was an anchor, along with her husband of 46 years, Ken Dolan, for \"Dolans Unscripted\" on CNN. They joined CNN in 2003. The Dolans have written five books on personal finance and hosted several money seminars. Prior to joining CNN, they were contributors to CBS \"CBS This Morning\" and \"CBS News Saturday Morning\" and hosted their own show on the now defunct CNNfn. Ken died in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324819", "title": "Gordon Agnew", "text": "Gordon Agnew\n\nGordon B. Agnew is an engineering professor at the University of Waterloo, in Ontario, Canada. Agnew's primary research interests are in the fields of encryption and data security.\n\nHe received his B.Sc. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Waterloo in 1978 and a Ph.D. in 1982 after which he joined the Electrical and Computer Engineering department of University of Waterloo. He has worked closely with industry and is a co-founder of Certicom Corp.\n\nAgnew is a Foundation Fellow of the Institute of Combinatorics and its Applications and was recently inducted as a Fellow of the Canadian Academy of Engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324832", "title": "George W. Melville", "text": "George W. Melville\n\nGeorge Wallace Melville (January 10, 1841 – March 17, 1912) was an American engineer, Arctic explorer, and author. As chief of the Bureau of Steam Engineering, he headed a time of great expansion, technological progress and change, often in defiance of the conservative element of the Navy hierarchy. He superintended the design of 120 ships and introduced the water-tube boiler, the triple-screw propulsion system, vertical engines, the floating repair ship, and the \"distilling ship.\" Appointed engineer in chief of the Navy, Melville reformed the service entirely, putting Navy engineers on a professional rather than an artisan footing.\n\nMelville also established an engineering experiment station near the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis. As engineer-in-chief of the Navy, he fought hard to get an appropriation of $400,000 for an experiment and testing laboratory to be located at Annapolis. He argued that such a facility would be a dependable means for testing machinery and equipment before its installation in Navy ships and aid training engineering officers. Both, he surmised, would increase the efficiency of the Navy.\n\nHe made his first trip to the Arctic in 1873, when he volunteered to help rescue 19 survivors of the \"Polaris\" expedition. Six years later, he volunteered to accompany Lieutenant Commander George W. De Long on his \"Jeannette\" expedition, an arctic expedition on board to the Bering Strait in search of a quick way to the North Pole. \"Jeannette\" became icebound and was eventually crushed; Melville, the 10 others in his small boat, and two from De Long's boat, were the only survivors.\n\nDespite the extreme length and hardships of the trip, he returned in search of De Long and others who might possibly still be alive. He found none but retrieved all records of the expedition. Congress awarded Melville the Congressional Gold Jeannette Medal for his gallantry and resourcefulness; the Navy advanced him 15 numbers on the promotion list. He wrote of the De Long expedition in his book, \"In the Lena Delta\", published in 1884.\n\nMelville was born in New York City on January 10, 1841, the son of Alexander Melville, a chemist, and Sarah Wallace. He was educated at the School of the Christian Brothers, a religious academy, where he studied mathematics, and at the Brooklyn Collegiate and Polytechnic Institute.\n\nHe entered the U.S. Navy on July 29, 1861, and became an officer of the engineer corps, with the rank of third assistant engineer. His first year afloat was spent on the Great Lakes' gunboat , during which time he was promoted to second assistant engineer. Melville served in the sloops of war and from mid-1862 until late in 1864, taking part in the capture of in October 1864.\n\nHe finished the Civil War in the Hampton Roads, Virginia, area working with torpedo boats and as an engineer on the gunboat . After the war was over, First Assistant Engineer Melville served aboard several ships, among them the experimental cruiser , gunboat , steam sloop and Asiatic Squadron flagship . For the remainder of his life, Melville belonged to the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States, serving as national commander-in-chief of the Loyal Legion from 1911 to 1912.\n\nIn 1867, Melville married Henrietta Beatty Waldron of Buffalo. The couple had three children.\n\nIn 1873, he volunteered for duty as chief engineer of for her rescue in Baffin Bay of 19 survivors of the \"Polaris\" expedition to the Arctic.\n\nIn the summer of 1879, he was an eager and daring volunteer when an Arctic expedition under Lieutenant Commander George W. De Long left San Francisco aboard on August 7, 1879, to try to find a quick way to the North Pole via the Bering Strait. \"Jeannette\" became icebound in September and after two years of effort to save her, was crushed by ice floes in the Laptev Sea and sank June 12, 1881 – leaving the crew stranded on the ice floes in mid-ocean in three small boats and with scant provisions.\n\nMelville was the only boat commander to bring his crew to safety in the Lena delta in Siberia. Later, he set out in search of De Long and his men, traveling over a thousand miles in the deadly cold of the Arctic winter only to find them dead. However, he was able to recover and bring back all the records of the expedition. The third boat, under the command of Charles W. Chipp, was never found and Chipp and seven other men were presumed dead.\n\nThe United States Congress rewarded Melville for his gallantry and resourcefulness by advancing him 15 numbers on the promotion list and awarding him the Jeannette Medal. The incredible hardships of the expedition are described in his book, \"In the Lena Delta\", published in 1884.\n\nMelville was promoted to the rank of chief engineer during his time in \"Jeannette\" and again went to the Arctic in in 1884, for the Greely Relief expedition in search of the survivors of an Arctic expedition commanded by Army Lieutenant Adolphus Greely.\n\nMelville was an Inspector of Coal in 1884–1886, then performed his final seagoing duty in the new cruiser . President Grover Cleveland appointed Melville Chief of the Bureau of Steam Engineering August 9, 1887, with the relative rank of commodore.\n\nDuring more than a decade and a half in that post, he was responsible for the Navy's propulsion systems during an era of remarkable force expansion, technological progress and institutional change. Melville superintended the design of 120 ships of the \"New Navy\". Among the major technical innovations that he helped introduce, often in defiance of the conservative opinion within the naval establishment, were the water-tube boiler, the triple-screw propulsion system, vertical engines, the floating repair ship, and the distilling ship.\n\nPromoted to rear admiral March 3, 1899, he was appointed engineer in chief of the Navy December 6, 1900. Melville entirely reformed the service, putting Navy engineers on a professional rather than an artisan footing.\n\nThe Annapolis laboratory was a brainchild of Melville. As engineer-in-chief of the Navy, he fought hard to get an appropriation of $400,000 for an experiment and testing laboratory to be located at Annapolis. In 1903, he finally was successful in obtaining the appropriation for the engineering experiment station.\n\nHis primary argument for the establishment of an experiment station was that it would increase the efficiency of the Navy. His idea was to establish a dependable means for testing—before installation—machinery and equipment designed for Navy ships. His secondary argument was that it could aid in training engineering officers, and therefore, it should be located in Annapolis near the Naval Academy.\n\nPrior to his retirement, Melville headed a committee tasked with studying how to use fuel oil in Navy boilers instead of coal. They strongly recommended that a testing plant be developed to test methods of burning fuel in Navy boilers. On November 18, 1910, the Secretary of Navy authorized \"... the construction and equipment, at an estimated cost of $10,000.00, of a structure simulating a naval fireroom, for the purpose of instigating the subject of fuel oil burning in connection with the design of proposed oil burning battleships\" in an existing building at the Philadelphia Navy Yard.\n\nRetiring from active duty on January 10, 1903, Melville spent his final years in Philadelphia, where he continued to be engaged in matters relating to his profession. His first wife having died in 1882, Melville married Estella Smith Polis in 1907. She died two years later. There was no issue from their marriage.\n\nMelville was the recipient of many honors during his lifetime, both in the United States and internationally. He was one of the 33 founding members of the National Geographic Society. He died in Philadelphia on March 17, 1912.\n\nMelville was a companion of the District of Columbia Commandery of the Naval Order of the United States – a military society of naval officers and their descendants. In 1886, he became a companion of the Pennsylvania Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States and served as its commander from 1908 to 1909 and also served as national commander-in-chief of the Order from 1911 to 1912. He was also a member of the Grand Army of the Republic. He was also an honorary member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and served as its 18th president.\n\nThe U.S. Navy has named two ships in his honor: , 1915–1948; and the oceanographic research ship , 1969–2016. The fuel depot at the Newport Naval Station in Portsmouth, Rhode Island, was named Melville Point. A nearby elementary school is named Melville School. Also bearing his name is Melville, Montana.\n\nThe Navy's George W. Melville Award recognizes outstanding engineering contributions in the applications of knowledge toward research and development of materials, devices, and systems or methods; including design, development, and integration of prototypes and new processes. The Melville Medal is awarded periodically by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in honor of the best original paper from its transactions.\n\nMelville Hall, built in 1937 on the campus of the United States Naval Academy, was used as classroom and laboratory space for the steam and electrical engineering departments. Melville's name lives on as the new hall's Melville Entrance. There is a statue of Admiral Melville in Navy Park at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard.\n\nThe Melville Glacier in Northwest Greenland was named after him by Robert Peary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324835", "title": "Robert Irwin (writer)", "text": "Robert Irwin (writer)\n\nRobert Graham Irwin (born 23 August 1946) is a British historian, novelist, and writer on Arabic literature.\n\nIrwin attended Epsom College, read modern history at the University of Oxford, and did graduate research at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) under the supervision of Bernard Lewis. His thesis was on the Mamluk reconquest of the Crusader states, but he failed to complete it. During his studies, he converted to Islam and spent some time in a dervish monastery in Algeria. From 1972 he was a lecturer in medieval history at the University of St. Andrews. He gave up academic life in 1977 in order to write fiction, while continuing to lecture part-time at Oxford, Cambridge and SOAS. Irwin is currently a Research Associate at SOAS, and the Middle East editor of \"The Times Literary Supplement\". He has published a history of Orientalism and is an acknowledged expert on The Arabian Nights.\n\nMany of Irwin's novels focus on Arabic themes. This includes his first, the acclaimed dark fantasy novel\n\"The Arabian Nightmare\", which was inspired by Jan Potocki's \"The Manuscript Found in Saragossa\". Later novels would focus on diverse subjects, such as British Surrealism (\"Exquisite Corpse\") and Satanism in Swinging London (\"Satan Wants Me\"). A character from \"Satan Wants Me\", the Satanist Charlie Felton, has a cameo in the of the \"League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\" comic. Alan Moore, the comic's creator, has described Irwin as a \"fantastic writer\".\n\nIn 2006, Irwin published \"For Lust of Knowing: The Orientalists and their Enemies\", his critique of Edward Said's \"Orientalism\" (1978). Among various points, he maintains that Said focused his attention on the British and French in his critique of Orientalism, while it was German scholars who made the original contributions. He notes that Said linked the academic Orientalism in those countries with imperialist designs on the Middle East, yet, by the 19th and the early 20th centuries, it was more proper to regard Russia as an empire having imperialist designs on the Caucasus region and Central Asia. Irwin maintains that the issue of Russia's actual imperialist designs is avoided by Said. Another of Irwin's key points is that oriental scholarship, or \"Orientalism\", \"owes more to Muslim scholarship than most Muslims realise.\"\n\nMaya Jasanoff in the \"London Review of Books\" argued: \"...Irwin's factual corrections, however salutary, do not so much knock down the theoretical claims of \"Orientalism\" as chip away at single bricks. They also do nothing to discount the fertility of \"Orientalism\" for other academics. The most thought-provoking works it has inspired have not blindly accepted Said's propositions, but have expanded and modified them.\"\n\n\n\n\"During the Rushdie case, the leader of the largest Buddhist organisation in Britain was asked how Buddhists would react to blasphemy, and he answered: \"We support it, because it makes people think.\" – That was well said. I don't know how to react, but it strikes me that Muhammed is increasingly given a divine status which he didn't have in original Islam. Muhammed is no god. He is a human being making mistakes which, by the way, is evident from the authorised accounts about his life.\"\n\nOn Edward Said's work \"Orientalism\": \"I am a medievalist, but he hates the Middle Ages. Altogether he loathes the past, he does not have the ability to enter into the spirit of other ages. He lies about European novelists and twists their words; I am myself a novelist with great sympathy for some of those whom he denounces in his book. Finally, I am an orientalist, too, and his book is a long and persevering polemic against my subject, so I need to ask: is there anything at all to like in Said's book? – No. It is written far too quickly and carelessly. It abounds with misprints and mis-spelled names. It is an extremely polemic book, and throughout time many polemic books for or against Islam and the Muslim world have been written, but none have been taken seriously in the same way as Said.\"\n\nOn Edward Said:\"The fact is that researchers cannot build anything on Said's thoughts-dead-end. ... He has made it difficult for Westerners to say anything critical about Islam and the Muslim world. You cannot do that because then you run the risk of getting denounced as an orientalist, i.e. a racist, an imperialist and other terrible things.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324836", "title": "Christi Paul", "text": "Christi Paul\n\nChristi Ruth Paul (born January 1, 1969) is a weekday news anchor for HLN and weekend anchor for CNN's \"New Day\".\n\nShe joined the network in the spring of 2003, after working as a reporter and anchor in Boise, Idaho, and Phoenix. While at KTVB in Idaho, she was honored by the Idaho Press Club for her stories about Julianne Prudhomme, a four-year-old girl who underwent a five-organ transplant. She began her career at WDTV in Clarksburg, West Virginia.\n\nPaul was raised in Bellevue, Ohio and attended the University of Toledo, where she earned a bachelor's degree in broadcast journalism. She got her start in broadcast journalism in Clarksburg, West Virginia, working as a news anchor, editor, photographer, and reporter at WDTV.\n\nChristi Paul is married to Peter Paul, and they have three children. She was previously married to reporter and news anchor Rob Koebel, whom she met in West Virginia and with whom she moved to Boise and Phoenix. She is the author of a book entitled \"Love Isn't Supposed to Hurt\" (published in 2012), a memoir of her marriage and the abuse she received from Koebel (named \"Justin\" in the book).\n\nShe is a former Miss Mansfield (Ohio); Miss Greater Cleveland, 1991–92; and third runner up to Miss Ohio, 1993.\n\nShe performed the national anthem before the Atlanta Braves vs. Florida Marlins game on Wednesday, June 6, 2007 and the National Hockey League game on February 24, 2009 between the Colorado Avalanche and the Atlanta Thrashers (both games taking place in Atlanta).\n\nPaul lends her voice to the narration of Skyview Atlanta about the area surrounding the Ferris wheel built around Centennial Olympic Park that opened in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324841", "title": "Guilty Conscience (film)", "text": "Guilty Conscience (film)\n\nGuilty Conscience is a 1985 American TV movie, produced by Robert A. Papazian, written by Richard Levinson and William Link, directed by David Greene, starring Anthony Hopkins, Blythe Danner and Swoosie Kurtz. It premiered on April 2, 1985 on CBS. The film is a drama, but also a mystery, with many plot twists and turns.\n\nArthur Jamison (Anthony Hopkins), a wealthy criminal defence attorney, is facing a costly divorce from his wife, Louise (Blythe Danner). Arthur deals with the predicament by imagining numerous schemes in which he kills her. As a defense attorney, Arthur is familiar with both the courts and the minds of criminals, and he spends much of the film consulting an officious imaginary version of himself (a double played by Donegan Smith) for the perfect scheme to rid himself of Lousie. Arthur runs each murder, or the subsequent trial, through in his mind, searching for problems, loopholes, and the elusive watertight alibi.\n\nArthur's mistress Jackie Willis (Swoosie Kurtz) meets up with Louise in secret. The two concoct a scheme to kill Arthur. They confront Arthur at gunpoint, planning to stage his murder as a suicide. Unfazed, Arthur takes control of the situation, pointing out the flaws and poking holes in what was supposed to be a foolproof scheme. For one thing, Arthur has been cheating on both his wife and his mistress, he was about to go out on a date with a third woman, and thus was not of a mindset to commit suicide.\n\nWorse, Arthur reveals that he had been recording the entire confrontation with Louise and Jackie. He uses the tape to attempt to blackmail Louise, but, enraged by the implosion of her plan, she chases her husband with a gun. A brief struggle ensues, and Louise is shot dead. Now, however, Louise's accidental death implicates Arthur for having murdered her. Arthur had only been bluffing about the tape, there is no evidence that the shooting was an accident other than the word of Jackie, his mistress, who may not be willing to testify to exonerate him. Arthur imagines himself in court, his imaginary self now his own prosecutor, and how the case will unfold.\n\nAt this point the film shows Arthur back at home, again poking holes in the scheme. It is revealed to be yet another of his unrealized, purely imaginary plans.\n\nLouise arrives home, shoots him dead, and phones Jackie to inform the deed is done. The film ends with Louise rearranging the living room to cover up evidence of the murder.\n"}
{"id": "2324842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324842", "title": "George Melville", "text": "George Melville\n\nGeorge Melville may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2324845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324845", "title": "Inner Line", "text": "Inner Line\n\nThe Inner Line () was a secret counter-intelligence branch of the Russian All-Military Union (ROVS), the leading Russian White emigre organization. Gen Alexander Kutepov is credited with setting it up in the mid-1920s.\n\nThe Inner Line was severely compromised by OGPU/NKVD penetration. It was seriously discredited after the kidnapping of ROVS chairman Gen Yevgeny Miller by Soviet agents in 1937, followed by disappearance of Miller′s aide and the Inner Line senior operative Nikolai Skoblin, who as an NKVD agent was instrumental in the abduction operation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324846", "title": "Personal Best (film)", "text": "Personal Best (film)\n\nPersonal Best is a 1982 American drama film written, produced, and directed by Robert Towne. The movie stars Mariel Hemingway and real-life track star Patrice Donnelly, along with Scott Glenn as the coach of the track team.\n\nChris Cahill is a young track-and-field athlete who competes unsuccessfully in the 1976 U.S. Olympic trials. She meets a more experienced competitor, Tory Skinner, and their friendship evolves into a romantic relationship.\n\nThe two are part of a group of women trying to qualify for the American track-and-field team bound for the 1980 Olympic Games. Despite their commitment to their training regimen, their dreams are thwarted when the United States announces its boycott of the Games for political reasons, leaving them with only the informal \"personal best\" marks they achieved during training to connote their achievements.\n\nHemingway trained extensively before the film began shooting.\n\nDonnelly was one of the athletes who helped Towne with research while he was writing the screenplay. After he had trouble finding a professional actress to play Tory Skinner, she agreed to take the role.\n\nThe production was halted in July 1980 because of a strike by the Screen Actors Guild.\n\nMany of the scenes were filmed in San Luis Obispo County. While the sign on the track said \"Cal Poly\", which is a university in San Luis Obispo, it was filmed at the track at Morro Bay High School. There are also two scenes filmed at restaurants in downtown San Luis Obispo; the Cigar Factory and 1865.\n\nFilming also took place in Eugene, Oregon. Locations included Hayward Field and the nearby Track Town Pizza restaurant.\n\nTowne clashed with David Geffen during the production. He would later sue Geffen and others for $110 million.\n\nAlthough Michael Chapman is listed as the director of photography, Reynaldo Villalobos and Caleb Deschanel did uncredited work.\n\n\"Personal Best\" garnered a 73% approval rating at review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes based on 33 reviews. Roger Ebert gave the film four out of a possible four stars and wrote, \"This is a very physical movie, one of the healthiest and sweatiest celebrations of physical exertion I can remember...It is filled with the uncertainties, risks, cares, and rewards of real life, and it considers its characters' hearts and minds, and sees their sexuality as an expression of their true feelings for each other\". Both Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert placed \"Personal Best\" on their lists of the ten best films of 1982. Pauline Kael wrote that \"There has probably never been a growing-up story presented on the screen so freely and uninhibitedly.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" praised the acting of the four leads, but criticized the storyline and the \"prettified slow-motion footage.\"\n\n\"Personal Best\" did well in its initial limited engagement, but ultimately flopped at the box office.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nAn \"SCTV\" sketch entitled \"Chariots of Eggs\" featured a film within a film parodying both this film and \"Chariots of Fire\".\n\nThe 1995 Team Dresch queercore album Personal Best took its name and cover imagery from the film.\n\nThe film is referenced in an episode of the fourth season of \"Friends\", in episode 10 of the first season of \"American Dad!\", in the 1997 \"Ellen\" episode \"The Puppy Episode\", and in the 2012 novel \"The Miseducation of Cameron Post\".\n"}
{"id": "2324849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324849", "title": "Mary Elizabeth Winstead", "text": "Mary Elizabeth Winstead\n\nMary Elizabeth Winstead (born November 28, 1984) is an American actress and singer. Her first significant role came as Jessica Bennett on the NBC soap opera \"Passions\" (1999–2000) and she went on to appear in TV series such as \"Tru Calling\" (2004) and films including the superhero film \"Sky High\" (2005). She came to wider attention as a Scream Queen for her roles in the horror series \"Wolf Lake\" (2001–2002), the giant monster film \"Monster Island\" (2004), the supernatural horror film \"Final Destination 3\" (2006), the slasher film \"Black Christmas\" (2006) and the exploitation horror film \"Death Proof\" (2007).\n\nFurther success came with her roles as John McClane's daughter Lucy Gennero-McClane in \"Live Free or Die Hard\" (2007) and Ramona Flowers in \"Scott Pilgrim vs. the World\" (2010). Her critically acclaimed-performance as an alcoholic struggling with sobriety in the Sundance drama \"Smashed\" (2012) was followed by a series of roles in other well-received independent films, including \"The Beauty Inside\" (2012), \"The Spectacular Now\" (2013), \"Faults\" (2014), \"Alex of Venice\" (2014) and \"Swiss Army Man\" (2016). Winstead continued her Scream Queen roles in the body horror film \"The Thing\" (2011), as Mary Todd Lincoln in the fantasy horror film \"\" (2012) and in the psychological horror thriller film \"10 Cloverfield Lane\" (2016).\n\nShe reprised her role as Lucy Gennero-McClane in \"A Good Day to Die Hard\" (2013) and returned to television with roles in the supernatural drama series \"The Returned\" (2015), the political satire/science fiction comedy series \"BrainDead\" (2016), the period medical drama series \"Mercy Street\" (2016–17) and the black comedy/crime drama anthology series \"Fargo\" (2017). Her recent roles include the comedy drama \"All About Nina\" (2018), the action thriller \"Gemini Man\" (2019) and as the Huntress in \"Birds of Prey\" (2020).\n\nSince 2013, Winstead has performed as half of the music duo Got a Girl, with Dan the Automator.\n\nMary Elizabeth Winstead was born on November 28, 1984, in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, to Betty Lou (née Knight) and James Ronald Winstead, and is the youngest of five children. Her grandfather was a cousin of actress Ava Gardner. When she was five years old, her family moved to Sandy, Utah. She attended Peruvian Park Elementary, where she took advanced classes. She studied dance in a Joffrey Ballet summer program in Chicago, and sang in the International Children's Choir. During her youth, Winstead initially hoped to pursue a career as a ballerina and appeared in local ballet productions. As she entered her teens, she was forced to quit ballet due to her height. She later stated, \"I realized pretty early on that I was already too tall by the time I was 13... you know, your body has to stay that way for your entire life, and it's pretty hard on your muscles and your bones.\" Realizing that a dance career was unlikely, Winstead turned to acting. As she was still a teenager at the time, this required her to be homeschooled through most of high school.\n\nWinstead appeared in a production of \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\" starring Donny Osmond. After her brief performance in that show, Winstead began making appearances in various television series and earned guest roles in \"Touched by an Angel\" and \"Promised Land\". She gained her first major role as Jessica Bennett in the NBC soap opera \"Passions\", from 1999 to 2000. She left to pursue other interests, later stating, \"I really had one of the smallest roles on \"Passions\", so I didn't get too involved... I was able to leave pretty easily\". Winstead's next significant television role was in the short-lived CBS drama series \"Wolf Lake\" (2001–02), as the daughter of Tim Matheson's character. The series was canceled after ten episodes. In 2004, Winstead played a supporting role in MTV's made-for-television film \"Monster Island\". She was offered a role in the film \"A Cinderella Story\", but turned it down as she had just graduated from school and was going on a cruise with friends (where she met Riley Stearns, her future husband).\n\nFollowing a minor role in the indie comedy \"Checking Out\" (2005), she took on a larger role as a school senior turned the main antagonist in the Walt Disney Pictures film \"Sky High\", about an airborne school for teenage superheroes. Winstead said of her role, \"I bounced around. I was either the hero of the sidekicks or the sidekick to the heroes.\" The film was released on July 29, 2005, receiving favorable reviews, and budgeted at US$35 million, it grossed US$63.9 million domestically.\n\nWinstead then began working with filmmakers James Wong and Glen Morgan, previously known for their contributions to \"The X-Files\". She starred in the 2006 horror movie \"Final Destination 3\" (which Wong directed and Morgan produced) as lead character Wendy Christensen, the \"beleaguered heroine who experiences the premonition\" that sets the story in motion. The production was a commercial success, but received a mixed response from critics. Winstead's performance fared positively with reviewers; James Berardinelli stated she \"does as competent a job as one could expect in these dire circumstances,\" while Felix Gonzalez, Jr found her \"likeable\" in her role. Winstead would collaborate again with Morgan and Wong later that year, in the slasher film \"Black Christmas\". The movie, a loose remake of the 1974 film of the same name, follows a group of sorority sisters who are stalked and murdered by the house's former inhabitants during a winter storm. It received poor reviews, but earned her a nomination for Scream Queen at the 2007 Scream Awards. Winstead got a chance to lampoon horror scream queens when \"Tonight Show\" host Jay Leno, unaware of who she was, knocked on her front door and included her in a comedy segment spoofing horror films.\n\nShe appeared in Emilio Estevez's \"Bobby\", a 2006 film depicting the last hours of Robert F. Kennedy. Winstead became interested in \"Bobby\" after learning that Anthony Hopkins would appear in the film. A moderate box office success in selected theaters, \"Bobby\" received mixed reviews with many criticisms directed at the film's script. The film's cast was nominated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Cast in a Motion Picture, but won the Hollywood Film Festival Award for Best Ensemble Cast.\nIn 2007 Winstead appeared in a pair of high-profile event films. Quentin Tarantino cast her as a well-intentioned but vapid and naïve actress in \"Death Proof\", his high-speed segment of the double–feature exploitation horror \"Grindhouse\". She appeared alongside Rosario Dawson, Tracie Thoms, Zoë Bell, and Kurt Russell in the movie's second part, which followed a psychopathic stunt man, played by Russell, stalking and murdering young women. It is the second film to feature Winstead with Russell (after \"Sky High\"), although she only filmed scenes with Dawson, Thoms, and Bell. The production under-performed commercially but attracted significant media buzz and critical acclaim, \"Variety\" magazine noted that \"Death Proof\" \"proves its worth as a stand-alone feature\" and found Winstead's \"emergence\" to be \"one agreeable plus [to the movie]\". Her next film appearance of the year was opposite Bruce Willis in \"Live Free or Die Hard\", portraying John McClane's estranged daughter, Lucy. The movie grossed US$383.5 million and was highly acclaimed.\n\nShe starred in a lead role in \"Make It Happen\", a dance film. The film went straight to DVD in the United States, and fared poorly in its UK release. Nevertheless, it proved a delight for Winstead, who once dreamed of being a dancer. Critics agreed that she was the film's best asset. Reviewer Mike Martin wrote, \"Winstead infuses every moment with an amazing amount of charm\". Matthew Turner of \"ViewLondon\" wrote, \"[Winstead] compensates for the generally poor direction.\"\n\nWinstead co-starred opposite Michael Cera in the film \"Scott Pilgrim vs. The World\", an adaptation of the comic-book Scott Pilgrim, under the direction of Edgar Wright. Her role was Ramona Flowers, a mysterious delivery girl and Scott's love interest. Winstead went through fight training for two months and performed most of her own stunts. Filming occurred from March to August 2009, and the film was released in late 2010, to critical acclaim but poor box office returns. Winstead's performance was well received generally, and earned her a Teen Choice Awards nomination for Choice Actress Action.\n\nWinstead was cast as the lead female in the 2011 prequel film to 1982's \"The Thing\", which followed a group of scientists who discover an alien buried deep in the ice of Antarctica, realizing too late that it is still alive. Winstead portrayed paleontologist Dr. Kate Lloyd, a character she based on her sister, a neurologist. The production received a U.S. theatrical release on October 14, 2011, garnering a mixed critical reception and little commercial interest. Critics singled out Winstead for praise in her performance, with \"Las Vegas Weekly\" asserting that she \"makes for an appealing protagonist, and Kate is portrayed as competent without being thrust into some unlikely action-hero role\".\n\nWinstead appeared opposite Aaron Paul in \"Smashed\", an independent drama directed by James Ponsoldt about a married alcoholic couple (Paul and Winstead) whose relationship is put to test when the wife decides to get sober. She said that the film was shot in 19 days. Screened during the 2012 Sundance Film Festival, Winstead's performance earned her rave reviews, with \"JoBlo.com\" calling it: \"the type of performance that could be Award-worthy if given the right kind of build-up by whichever studio picks it up\". The film was released theatrically on October 12, 2012, and saw Winstead snagging the Dallas International Film Festival Award for Best Actress. During a promotional interview for the movie with website Collider, she expressed pride in working on an independent project: \"It's something I've been trying to do for years and years [...] It's almost like my first movie in a weird way, cause it's my first movie in this world, which is a world I've been trying to break into. [I've wanted] to be around filmmakers that are trying new things and not part of the system, so to speak, and they're doing things on their own terms.\"\n\nWinstead played the role of Mary Todd Lincoln opposite Benjamin Walker in \"\". The film, also released in 2012, received a mixed critical response while it flopped at the box office. Nevertheless, critics praised Winstead's performance. The \"San Jose Mercury News\" called Winstead \"a standout\", and the \"Illinois Times\" film critic wrote, \"Winstead humanizes Mary [Todd Lincoln] by giving her a fiery wit and sense of resolve in the face of considerable adversity\". Winstead was commended for scenes opposite Benjamin Walker, with \"Little White Lies\" writing that they shared: \"a sweet chemistry that gives their handful of scenes an endearing warmth\".\n\nIn 2012, Winstead and Topher Grace appeared in \"The Beauty Inside\", an \"interactive social film\". It was broken into six filmed episodes interspersed with interactive storytelling, all on Alex (the main character)'s Facebook timeline. He awakes each day with a different appearance; Winstead appeared as Leah, Alex's love interest. The web series served as an advertising campaign for Intel and Toshiba; it ran from August 16 through September 20, 2012.\n\nWinstead was also cast in Roman Coppola's \"A Glimpse Inside the Mind of Charles Swan III\" (2013), as Kate, \"the best friend of [Charlie Sheen's] girlfriend who just broke up with him. She is not so supportive of their relationship.\" The film reunited her with Jason Schwartzman and Aubrey Plaza, her collaborators on \"Scott Pilgrim vs. the World\". Winstead next co-starred with Adam Scott, Richard Jenkins, Jane Lynch, Jessica Alba, Amy Poehler, and Catherine O'Hara in \"A.C.O.D.\" (2013), portraying Lauren Stinger, the \"long-time girlfriend of Carter (Scott) and the rock in his increasingly chaotic life.\" Although the film received mixed reviews, Winstead's acting was singled out by the \"Washington Post\": \"Winstead brings surprising depth to a small role, in which she has little to do except wait for her boyfriend to grow up, or to at least let go of his cynicism about love.\" \"Screen Rant\" critic Ben Kendrick wrote: \"[Winstead] and [Alba] also deliver in their contributions – though both of their characters are mainly designed to be mirrors for Carter to examine his own life and choices.\" \"A Glimpse Inside the Mind of Charles Swan III\" and \"A.C.O.D.\" both received a limited theatrical run in North America.\n\nWinstead collaborated again with James Ponsoldt in \"The Spectacular Now\" (2013) as Holly, the sister of Miles Teller's lead character. She appeared with Brie Larson, her co-star in \"Scott Pilgrim vs. the World\", and with Shailene Woodley, Kyle Chandler, and Bob Odenkirk. The film garnered critical acclaim and was an arthouse success. Next, Winstead briefly reprised her role in the film \"A Good Day to Die Hard\" (also 2013), shooting her scenes in only one day. Winstead stated in an interview with \"Yahoo!\" that she was not expecting another sequel but \"[had fun reprising] the father-daughter rapport.\" Winstead's scene was only available in the theatrical version, and was cut from the unrated version.\n\nIn 2014, Winstead was given the title role in \"Alex of Venice\", directed by Chris Messina and penned by Jessica Goldberg. She played \"an environmental lawyer who is left to raise her 12-year-old son alone after her husband bolts.\" Premiering at the 57th San Francisco International Film Festival, reviews for the film were mostly positive, with many critics praising Winstead's part in it; \"Variety\" magazine called her performance \"extraordinary\", saying the film: \"belongs to Winstead, whose minor-key thesping proves as compelling as her heavy lifting in \"Smashed\". Alex's gradual metamorphosis into a richer, more fully realized young woman is accomplished in hundreds of tiny emotional brushstrokes, flitting across her girl-next-door wholesomeness in ever-shifting patterns\". Website \"Twitch Film\" wrote:\n\nIn 2014, Winstead starred in Stearns' debut feature film \"Faults\". Winstead and co-star Leland Orser were praised for their performances, with \"Film School Rejects\" calling it an \"exceptional performance\" and \"Indiewire\" saying \"[Winstead's] inscrutable expression epitomizes this unique movie's enigmatic appeal\", and even \"ranks among her best\". Winstead was next cast alongside Jeremy Renner and Rosemarie DeWitt in \"Kill the Messenger\". The thriller tells the true story of investigative journalist Gary Webb. Winstead portrayed Dawn Garcia, Webb's editor at the San Jose Mercury News. It received a limited theatrical release on October 10, 2014, to favorable reviews but little commercial interest.\n\nBy January 2015, Winstead had been already cast as a series regular on A&E's U.S. remake of the French drama series \"The Returned\", with Sandrine Holt and Agnes Bruckner. The adapted show followed residents in a small town whose lives are disrupted when people who have been dead for many years begin reappearing. It premiered on March 9, 2015, for a 10-episode run, to mostly critical acclaim. The series was cancelled after its first season though, due to low ratings. Also in 2015, she also made a guest-appearance on the August 6 episode of IFC's \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\" (\"Mary Elizabeth Winstead Wears an A-Line Skirt and Pointy Black Boots\").\n\nWinstead next portrayed the leading role of Mary Phinney in PBS' civil rights drama \"Mercy Street\". The six-part series, about two volunteer nurses on opposing sides of the Civil War, premiered on-demand on January 14, 2016, and made its broadcast debut three days later, on January 17. It rated favorably with reviewers, who also showed praise of Winstead's performance; \"Variety\" magazine described her as the \"smart, capable center around which \"Mercy Street\" pivots\" and therefore noted that she was \"so good that it's hard not to wish the show had pared down the sheer number of storylines it attempts to service in its six installments\". The show was renewed for a second season, which premiered on January 22, 2017, and was cancelled after its finale aired.\n\nWinstead headlined the psychological thriller \"10 Cloverfield Lane\", appearing as Michelle, a woman held in a shelter with two men, who claim the outside world is affected by a widespread chemical attack. The film, directed by Dan Trachtenberg, was released on March 11, 2016, to a widely positive reception from critics who, according to website Rotten Tomatoes, agreed that the movie \"makes the most of its confined setting and outstanding cast\". \"Daily Express\" found Winstead \"sympathetic\" and remarked that she \"creates a character who is smart and resourceful\", while writer James Berardinelli called her a \"good choice\" to play the heroine as she is \"strong yet feminine\". \"10 Cloverfield Lane\" had the highest debut at the box office for Winstead in a leading role, with over US$24 million grossed on its opening weekend; it went on to gross US$72 million in North America and US$110.2 million worldwide.\n\nWinstead appeared in \"Swiss Army Man\", an independent comedy-drama directed by Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert. The film, co-starring Daniel Radcliffe and Paul Dano, follows a hopeless man stranded on an island who befriends an apparent dead body as he tries to get back home. It premiered at the 2016 Sundance Film Festival and was released in selected theaters on June 24, to a positive reception. Winstead also had a role in John Krasinski's small-scale dramedy \"The Hollars\", opposite Richard Jenkins, Anna Kendrick, Mary Kay Place, and Margo Martindale. She played the ex-girlfriend of Krasinski's struggling New York City graphic novelist, who returns to his hometown after learning his mother has fallen ill. Like \"Swiss Army Man\", the production was screened at Sundance and received a limited U.S. theatrical release in August 2016.\n\nWinstead appeared in CBS' political comic thriller \"BrainDead\", as leading character Laurel, \"the daughter of a Democratic political dynasty who left Washington, D.C. to become a documentary filmmaker, but is pulled back into the family business when her brother needs political help\". The series received mildly positive reviews by critics, with \"New York Magazine\" calling Winstead's casting the \"smartest decision the makers made\", and \"The A.V. Club\" said that she \"makes an eminently watchable, formidable heroine\". Despite a largely positive critical response, the series debuted to lackluster ratings and after the airing of its 13-episode first season, CBS announced its cancellation.\n\nWinstead starred opposite Ewan McGregor in the third season of \"Fargo\" as Nikki Swango, \"a crafty and alluring recent parolee with a passion for competitive bridge playing with a plan, focused on always being at least one move ahead of her opponents\". The season is set around December 2010 in Minnesota and follows the lives of McGregor and Winstead's criminal couple roles; it premiered on April 19, 2017, to positive reviews. In an interview with \"Variety\", Winstead spoke of the character, \"I'd never played a character like this. Once I was on set and doing it, it was so easy but it took all the elements coming together for me to feel confident and comfortable.\"\n\nIn October 2017, \"Deadline\" reported that Winstead will be starring as lead in the semi-autographical dark comedy \"All About Nina\", opposite Common. In December 2017, it was reported that she will co-star in \"The Parts You Lose\"; the romantic thriller will see her reuniting with her \"Smashed\" co-star, Aaron Paul. In January 2018, it was reported that Winstead was cast as female lead opposite Will Smith in \"Gemini Man\". The film, directed by Ang Lee is set for release on October 4, 2019. In late-September 2018, Winstead was announced to play Huntress in Warner Bros.' DC Comics film \"Birds of Prey (And the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn)\". Directed by Cathy Yan, and starring Margot Robbie, who reprised her role as Harley Quinn, the fim was released in February 2020.\n\nIn February 2019, it is revealed that Winstead is also voice starring in the Netflix adult-oriented animated anthology series \"Love, Death & Robots\". The series saw her reuniting with \"The Beauty Inside\" co-star Topher Grace and was released on March 15.\n\nWinstead has expressed her interest in singing, but initially did not plan on pursuing it as a career. \"I wasn't ever really going to be a singer, but it's just something I've always loved.\" For her part in 2007's \"Death Proof\", Tarantino had Winstead sing an a cappella cover of The Shirelles' hit recording \"Baby It's You\". She was asked without warning to perform the song and the cast were reportedly \"gob-smacked\" by her singing. Winstead and music producer Thai Long Ly eventually co-wrote a song, called \"Warmth of Him\". Although first rumored to be a pre-release single, Winstead confirmed that she was just exploring her interest and did not plan at the time on releasing any music albums.\n\nIn an interview with \"Complex\" magazine for the June/July 2012 issue, Winstead revealed she was working with Dan the Automator and was indeed planning on releasing a music album. The duo formed the band Got a Girl the following year, and released their demo \"You & Me\" on May 21, 2013. The album, titled \"I Love You but I Must Drive Off This Cliff Now\", was released on July 22, 2014 via Bulk Recordings. The first single, \"Did We Live Too Fast\" premiered on June 3, and its music video, directed by Hope Larson, premiered online on June 16. The album features heavy influences of French pop music, with Winstead detailing that the inspiration behind the project came from \"French '60s pop—Jane Birkin, and stuff like that. It's kind of married with Dan's sensibility, which is his beats and a little bit of that low-key hip-hop vibe. So it makes for something that's very unique; it's very lounge-y and light. It's got a little bit of a French quality.\" All lyrics were written by Winstead while all music was composed by Dan the Automator.\n\nWinstead was also featured on the songs \"The Agony\" and \"Look Across The Sky\" on Deltron 3030's second studio album \"Event 2\", released on September 30, 2013.\n\nIn November 2016, Honus Honus from experimental band Man Man released a song on SoundCloud, \"Santa Monica\" that features Winstead. In December 2016, Portugal. The Man released the single and video for \"Noise Pollution (Version A, Vocal Up Mix 1.3)\" from their album \"Woodstock\", featuring Winstead and Zoe Manville.\n\nIn 2010, Winstead married American filmmaker Riley Stearns, whom she met at age 18 on an ocean cruise. She starred in and produced Stearns' debut feature film, \"Faults\", in 2014. She announced their separation in May 2017. It was reported in October 2017 that she was in a relationship with Scottish actor Ewan McGregor, whom she had met on the set of \"Fargo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2324851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324851", "title": "Robert Irwin", "text": "Robert Irwin\n\nRobert Irwin may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324852", "title": "Axel Honneth", "text": "Axel Honneth\n\nAxel Honneth (; ; born 1949) is a German philosopher who is professor of philosophy at both the University of Frankfurt and Columbia University. He was also director of the \"Institut für Sozialforschung\" (Institute for Social Research) in Frankfurt am Main, Germany between 2001 and 2018.\n\nHonneth was born in Essen, West Germany on 18 July 1949, studied in Bonn, Bochum, Berlin and Munich (under Jürgen Habermas), and taught at the Free University of Berlin and the New School before moving to the Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University of Frankfurt in 1996. He also held the Spinoza Chair of Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam in 1999. Between 2001 and 2018 he was director of the Institute for Social Research, originally home to the so-called Frankfurt School, at the University of Frankfurt . Since 2011, he is also Jack C. Weinstein Professor of the Humanities at the department of philosophy at Columbia University in the City of New York.\n\nHonneth's work focuses on social-political and moral philosophy, especially relations of power, recognition, and respect. One of his core arguments is for the priority of intersubjective relationships of recognition in understanding social relations. This includes non- and mis-recognition as a basis of social and interpersonal conflict. For instance, grievances regarding the distribution of goods in society are ultimately struggles for recognition.\n\nHis first main work \"The Critique of Power: Reflective Stages in a Critical Social Theory\" explores the affinities between the Frankfurt School and Michel Foucault. In his second main work \"The Struggle for Recognition: Moral Grammar of Social Conflicts\", the recognition concept is derived mainly from G. W. F. Hegel's early social philosophical works, but is supplemented by George Herbert Mead's social psychology, Jürgen Habermas' communicative ethics, and Donald Winnicott's object relations theory. Honneth's critical adaptation of these is the basis of his critical social theory, which attempts to remedy the deficits of previous approaches. In 2003, Honneth co-authored \"Recognition or Redistribution?\" with the feminist philosopher Nancy Fraser, who criticizes the priority of ethical categories such as recognition over structural social-political categories such as redistribution in Honneth's thought. His recent work \"Reification\" reformulates this key \"Western Marxist\" concept in terms of intersubjective relations of recognition and power. For Honneth, all forms of reification are due to intersubjectively based pathologies rather than the structural character of social systems such as capitalism as argued by Karl Marx and György Lukács.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324889", "title": "Raghu Rai", "text": "Raghu Rai\n\nRaghu Rai (born 1942) is an Indian photographer and photojournalist. He was a protégé of Henri Cartier-Bresson, who appointed Rai, then a young photojournalist, to Magnum Photos in 1977.\n\nRai became a photographer in 1965, and a year later joined the staff of \"The Statesman\", a New Delhi publication. In 1976, he left the paper and became a freelance photographer. From 1982 until 1992, Rai was the director of photography for \"India Today\". He has served on the jury for World Press Photo from 1990 to 1997. He is known for his books, \"Raghu Rai's India: Reflections in Colour\" and \"Reflections in Black and White\".\n\nRaghu Rai, full name Raghunath Rai Chowdhry, was born in the village of Jhang, Punjab, British India (now in Pakistan). He was the youngest of four children.\n\nRai started learning photography in 1962 under his elder brother Sharampal Chowdhry, better known as S Paul who is an award-winning photographer, and in 1965 joined \"The Statesman\" newspaper as its chief photographer. Rai left \"The Statesman\" in 1976 to work as picture editor for \"Sunday,\" a weekly news magazine published in Calcutta. Impressed by an exhibit of his work in Paris in 1971, Henri Cartier-Bresson nominated Rai to join Magnum Photos in 1977.\n\nRai left \"Sunday\" in 1980 and worked as Picture Editor/Visualizer/Photographer of \"India Today\" during its formative years. From 1982 to 1991, he worked on special issues and designs, contributing picture essays on social, political and cultural themes.\n\nRai has specialised in extensive coverage of India. He has produced more than 18 books, including Raghu Rai's Delhi, The Sikhs, Calcutta, Khajuraho, Taj Mahal, Tibet in Exile, India, and Mother Teresa. His photo essays have appeared in many magazines and newspapers including \"Time\", \"Life\", \"GEO\", \"The New York Times\", \"Sunday Times\", \"Newsweek\", \"The Independent\", and the \"New Yorker\".\n\nFor Greenpeace, he has completed an in-depth documentary project on the chemical disaster at Bhopal in 1984, which he covered as a journalist with \"India Today\" in 1984, and on its ongoing effects on the lives of gas victims. This work resulted in a book, \"Exposure: A Corporate Crime\" and three exhibitions that toured Europe, America, India and southeast Asia after 2004, the 20th anniversary of the disaster. Rai wanted the exhibition to support the many survivors through creating greater awareness, both about the tragedy, and about the victims – many who are still uncompensated – who continue to live in the contaminated environment around Bhopal.\n\nIn 2003, while on an assignment for Geo Magazine in Bombay City, he switched to using a digital Nikon D100 camera \"and from that moment to today, I haven't been able to go back to using film.\"\n\nHe has served three times on the jury of the World Press Photo and twice on the jury of UNESCO's International Photo Contest.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"I feel that to be successful in any profession, you need to be passionate and eager to experiment. If photography is your interest, traveling will help you a great deal, as you would get to experiment and learn.\"\n\n\"When I go to a situation, I see something interesting, and I see the enormity and the size of it, and the complexity of it, and I say “Yes God, you’ve shown me this but it’s not enough for me.” So he says “Alright.” Then I keep walking, then he shows me something more complex and bigger. I say “Yes God, It’s nice. But it’s still not enough for me.” So I go on and on and I don’t accept it, and then he knows this child of his is very demanding and restless. And then he opens up and shows me something I have never experienced before. Then I take a picture and say “Thank you God.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2324892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324892", "title": "Yat-Kha", "text": "Yat-Kha\n\nYat-Kha is a band from Tuva, led by vocalist/guitarist Albert Kuvezin. Their music is a mixture of Tuvan traditional music and rock, featuring Kuvezin's distinctive \"kargyraa\" throat singing style, the \"kanzat kargyraa\".\n\nYat-Kha was founded in Moscow in 1991, as a collaborative project between Kuvezin and Russian avant-garde, electronic composer Ivan Sokolovsky. The project blended traditional Tuvan folk music with post-modern rhythms and electronic effects. Kuvezin and Sokolovsky toured and played festivals, and eventually took the name “Yat-Kha,” which refers to a type of small, Central Asian zither similar to the Mongolian \"yatga\" and the Chinese \"guzheng\", which Kuvezin plays in addition to the guitar. In 1993, they released a self-titled album on the General Records label.\n\nAfter the release of \"Yat-Kha\", Kuvezin and Sokolovsky parted creative ways and Kuvezin went on to release five other albums under the name Yat-Kha with other musicians (and less of an emphasis on electronics), beginning with \"Yenisei Punk\" in 1995, with \"morin khuur\" player Alexei Saaia (produced by Lu Edmonds). Sokolovsky issued a remastered version of the \"Yat-Kha\" album, with additional tracks, under the title \"Tundra's Ghosts\" in 1996/97.\n\nSince 2001, they have been performing a live soundtrack to Vsevolod Pudovkin's 1928 silent film \"Storm Over Asia.\" They may release a DVD of this version of the film with Reality Film.\n\nIn 2010, the project released a new album, \"Poets and Lighthouses\", recorded on the Scottish island of Jura with producer Giles Perring. It reached Number 1 on the World Music Charts Europe (WMCE) in January 2011.\n\nAlbums:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324918", "title": "Miargyrite", "text": "Miargyrite\n\nMiargyrite is a mineral, a sulfide of silver and antimony with the formula AgSbS. It is a dimorph of cuboargyrite. Originally discovered in the Freiberg district of Germany in 1824, it has subsequently been found in many places where silver is mined. It usually occurs in low temperature hydrothermal deposits. and forms black metallic crystals which may show a dark red internal reflection. The streak is also red.\n\nMiargyrite is named from the Greek \"meyon\", \"smaller\" and \"argyros\", \"silver,\" as its silver content is lower than most silver sulfides.\n"}
{"id": "2324926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324926", "title": "Tieto", "text": "Tieto\n\nTieto Oyj (until April 2009 TietoEnator) is an IT software and service company providing IT and product engineering services, with approximately 15,000 employees, active in around 20 countries. Tieto is domiciled in Espoo, Finland, and the company's shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and Stockholm.\n\nIn June 2019, Tieto paid EUR 1.2 Bn for the acquisition of similar-sized IT company EVRY. The intention is to expand on the Nordic market. The new company will be named TietoEVRY, have over 24.000 employees and generate a projected revenue of over EUR 3 Bn for the fiscal year 2020.\n\nThe company provides services to the following industry groups: financial services; public, healthcare & welfare; industrial and consumer services. Service lines are technology services and modernization, industry solutions including data-driven businesses organized independently of other businesses; Business Consulting and Implementation; Product Development Services.\n\nAt the end of 2015, the number of full-time employees was over 13,000 in more than 20 countries. 28% are located in Finland, 19% in Sweden, 17% in India, 15% in Czech Republic, 5% in Latvia, and the rest spread across other countries. 28% of the employees worldwide are women. Net sales by country was Finland 47%, Sweden 36%, and International 17%. As of 2014, 42.7% of Tieto's shareholders are Finnish and 3% are Swedish.\n\nTieto started its business operations in Espoo, Finland in 1968 under the name Tietotehdas Oy. During the company's first years, it developed and maintained IT systems mainly for the Union Bank of Finland (\"Suomen Yhdyspankki\", today Nordea), its customers and a few forestry companies.\n\nThe customer base of the company grew during the 1970s, when mini-computers were introduced alongside the existing mainframe computers. Besides mainframe computer services and software, the development of IT systems was also central to the operations of Tietotehdas. Customers represented several industries and operations were organized according to these verticals. During the 1990s, the company experienced rapid growth through a number of acquisitions, mergers and strategic alliances. The company's name was changed from Tietotehdas to TT Tieto in 1995 and Tieto in 1998. In 1996, the company strengthened its exposure in the telecom sector considerably through the acquisition of Avancer. In 1999, Tieto and the Swedish Enator corporation merged to form TietoEnator.\n\nOn 1 December 2008, the company re-launched the corporate brand and marketing name Tieto (which means knowledge in Finnish). The official registered name became Tieto Corporation, and the corporation is led from its Helsinki headquarters. Starting from year 2009, Tieto went with an aggressive strategy of offshore production, reaching up to the end of the decade. The President and CEO of Tieto is Kimmo Alkio, as of November 2011.\nIn December 2015, Tieto signed an agreement to acquire Smilehouse, the largest Finnish solution provider of multichannel commerce with operations primarily in Finland and Sweden. The acquisition was made to strengthen Tieto's position as one of the leading Nordic players in digital Customer Experience Management and to support the company's aim to accelerate growth in this market. Before the acquisition, Smilehouse's annual sales amounted to approximately EUR 10 million. Smilehouse was consolidated into Tieto on 1 December 2015.\n\nIn November 2015, Tieto acquired Imano AB, a Swedish consulting company offering consulting and digitalization services to paper and forestry industries. The acquisition was made to support Tieto's objective of becoming the largest IT services provider in the paper and forestry industries in Sweden and Norway. The company's revenue in 2014 was EUR 7.1 million.\n\nIn June 2015, Tieto signed an agreement to acquire Software Innovation, a software company in the Enterprise Content Management (ECM) business in the Nordic countries. The aim of the acquisition was to increase Tieto's capabilities in enterprise content management across the Nordic countries. In 2014, Software Innovation's net sales amounted to approximately EUR 41 million with an operating margin (EBIT) of 12.5%. In August 2015, The Norwegian Competition Authority approved the acquisition.\nIn December 2015, Tieto announced the relocation of its headquarters in Keilaniemi, Espoo, Finland, in space originally built for Nokia and later occupied by Microsoft Mobile. The office spaces in Keilaniemi are designed for flexible ways of working, with open spaces, co-creative areas and innovation hubs. The move to Keilaniemi is planned to take place in stages, starting in the fourth quarter of 2016; the move has been ongoing since April 2017. Since Tieto's rental agreement in Kilo, Espoo ends in December 2016, the company expects that the move will have both logistical and financial benefits.\n\n\"Energy Components (EC)\" is a Hydrocarbon accounting software product used to allocate units of aliquots of produced hydrocarbons back to its origination based on their current disposition like a temporary storage tank or a sales point. It holds accounts for oil and gas ownership for the hydrocarbons based on the production field equity share of every single partner company. The product monitors hydrocarbons from the\nstart of movements in the production process following the streams through transportation, storages and sales. Benefits of the EC product includes oil and gas production scheduling and petroleum reservoir management, giving transparent and auditable accounts, it reports production data to regulatory authorities and partners, counteracting potential for disputes between partners and with governments. Tieto is providing services for planning, design, customizations and configuration of product installations, and also gives lifecycle support. Customers share their experiences and maintains common interests through \"EC User Forum\". In April 2012, more than 100 customer representatives from more than 20 countries participated in the annual gathering.\n\nThe product has origins in the \"Prosty-system\", developed internally at Statoil, which Statoil conveyed to Tieto for commercialization. Competitors include Field Operations & Production Accounting solutions from Merrick Systems, Inc., P2 Energy Solutions, EnergySys and software from WellPoint Systems, Avocet from Schlumberger.\n\n\"Energy Components (EC)\" is also the publicly known naming on the Tieto Norway entity that delivers the EC and PTS/DaWinci products and related services in partnership with the breakaway company Hytracc Consulting.\n\nDaWinci is a Logistics Management Software that caters for Planning, Transportation Management, Personnel Logistics, Cargo Logistics, POB & Asset Management and KPI & Reporting. DaWinci helps companies in the energy industry to schedule, execute and account for the personnel and cargo transportation between ports, base, field sites, rigs and other locations where crew and cargo need to be mobilized in connection with operations such as in the oil and gas industry. Transportation type may include inter field shuttles. Ports may be land-based heliports. Operational locations may be any type of offshore platform, vessel, FPSO, or onshore plant. The product tracks personnel movements and assist platform management at offshore locations in administering the emergency preparedness, the accommodation units and supports the lifeboat allocation and muster drilling.\n\nDaWinci offers publicly displaying of schedules and itineraries, self-service bookings and check-in for end-users.\n\nBenefits of the product includes updated Personnel On Board information, optimized helicopter utilizations, cost allocation between user companies on shared flights, and adherence to regulatory emergency preparedness functions.\n\nThe DaWinci product origins from a system developed as a joint venture between Statoil and Hydro Oil & Gas that Tieto Norway took over in an acquisition of the company DaWinci Services AS in 2002.\nCompetitors include Collabro's Vantage POB,\nAsset Integrity Personnel On Board (POB),\nand the Logistics Management System (LMS).\n\nSpecific expertise areas offered to customer services are within Banking and insurance; Telecom, automotive and media; Healthcare & welfare; Forest, Energy, Manufacturing; Retail and logistics; Public; ICT operation management.\n\nCurrently, Tieto operates in more than 20 countries, with Finland, Norway and Sweden as the main markets. The company's major delivery centres are located in the Czech Republic, Poland, India and China. Tieto also has operations in Baltics (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania), Canada, Denmark, Germany, Great Britain, Malaysia, the Netherlands and the United States.\n\nTieto operates in Norway as the subsidiary Tieto Norway AS. The business in Norway was developed through a series of acquisitions, starting in 1989 when Enator AB acquired the Norwegian IT consulting company ISI AS.\n\nOther significant acquisitions were Ementor Financial Systems in February 2002, followed by DaWinci Services AS in December of that year. The latter acquisition provided control over the offshore Personnel Transportation & Tracking Solution, giving Tieto Norway a 100% market share of systems for operating the Norwegian Continental Shelf personnel movements.\n\nIn 2010, there was a major demerger by a group of Tieto Norway employees that spun off the company Hytracc Consulting. The new company has established partner offices in the vicinity of the Tieto's offices, hence both companies provide services for shared customers of the Tieto Energy Components system.\n\nIn 2005, the Western Norway Regional Health Authority, Norwegian Helse Vest RHF, signed an agreement with TietoEnator Norway for the delivery of a system for Electronic health records. By the end of 2007, Helse Vest RHF concluded its customer relationship with the company and announced a lawsuit against TietoEnator. They claimed that they had spent time, resources and efforts on the initial project without seeing TietoEnator able to deliver, and thus they were going to claim compensation from TietoEnator. \"\"The word disaster is appropriate\",\" Eric Hansen of Helse Vest RHF expressed to \"Finansavisen\". Likewise, the Southern Norway Regional Health Authority, Helse Sør, experienced their frame agreement from 2004 to make no deliveries, and Helse Sør therefore also considered legal action. For the 2007 fiscal year, TietoEnator Norway recorded a loss of NOK 124,336,000 (according to the net loss indicated on their financial statement, as reported to the Brønnøysund Register Centre).\n\nWhile TietoEnator Norway employed more than 1000 people in 2002, there was a further decline in the number of Tieto Norway employees from 669 to 477 between 2007 and 2011.\n\nThe current business activities in Sweden are undertaken by the subsidiary Tieto Sweden AB based on a restructuring of the former Enator corporation. Enator corporation started in 1977 as a consultant firm created to support the Pronator company with software and project management. In 1990, it merged with Modulföretagen, adopting its logo from Modul and name from Enator. Enator grew to approximately 650 consultants in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. In 1993 it was included in the AxData group as a stand-alone company but was sold to Celsius in 1995. The subsidiary's name, Enator, was applied to the whole group in 1995 when Celsius AB, a publicly traded Swedish company, merged the IT operations it had acquired between 1991 and 1994. Until 1994, there were IT operations in three separate subsidiaries: Telub, Enator and Dialog. The merger of the three subsidiaries led to a restructuring program in 1997. In spring 1996, the corporation was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange under the name of Enator.\n\nDuring 1998, Enator conducted a series of acquisitions to strengthen the company's public sector exposure. The company acquired 51% of shares in the Stockholm-based consulting firm Programmera. In addition, the company acquired two small IT companies – Kvatro Telecom in Trondheim, Norway, and Soft Project in Hamburg, Germany – and divested from operations in Enator Telecom Mechanics. In April 1999, Enator acquired NetDesign in Denmark. After the Enator–Tieto merger in July 1999, the Enator brand was discontinued.\n\nOn 25 November 2011, there was a hardware failure in one of Tieto's Swedish data centers, which affected approximately 50 of its clients, including Apoteket (a national pharmaceuticals retail firm, for whom e-prescriptions were out of service), Bilprovningen (a Swedish motor vehicle inspection firm, which was forced to perform inspections with manual support), SBAB Bank and the Stockholm Municipality school web site. Kristina Westerlind, Head of Marketing and Communications at Tieto Sweden, commented on the incident to Dagens Nyheter: \"\"It is a hardware failure that is very difficult to predict at this time how long it takes to restore everything to normal. It can go fast or it could last a long time.\"\" On 30 November, Tieto services for Apoteket e-prescriptions and SBAB were recovered and operational again. By 13 December, virtually all services were back to normal operations. Confidentiality agreements with customers prevented Tieto from revealing exactly who was affected by this incident. On 22 February 2012, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency published the report on \"Reflections on community safety and preparedness for serious IT incidents\" In March 2012, Tieto released a report investigating the incident.\n\nAn award-winning former Telecom R&D for Tieto but was unfortunately closed due to the lone client's decision to insource the project.\n"}
{"id": "2324929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324929", "title": "Western Lacrosse Association", "text": "Western Lacrosse Association\n\nThe Western Lacrosse Association (WLA) is a men's Senior A box lacrosse sanctioned by the Canadian Lacrosse Association. It consists of seven teams, based in cities throughout southwestern British Columbia. Each year, the playoff teams battle for the right to compete against the Major Series Lacrosse champion for the Mann Cup every September. The championship is hosted alternately between Ontario and British Columbia every year.\n\nThe calibre of lacrosse in the WLA is very high, as the majority of its players also play in the National Lacrosse League during the winter months, while the WLA schedule runs from mid-May to August.\n\nThe league consists of the following teams:\n\n\n1969: New Westminster Labatt Blues\n\n1970: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1971: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1972: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1973: Vancouver Burrards\n\n1974: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1975: Vancouver Burrards\n\n1976: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1977: Vancouver Burrards\n\n1978: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n1979: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n1980: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1981: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1982: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1983: Victoria Payless\n\n1984: Victoria Payless\n\n1985: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1986: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1987: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1988: Coquitlam Adanacs\n\n1989: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1990: Vancouver Burrards\n\n1991: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1992: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1993: Coquitlam Adanacs\n\n1994: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1995: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n1996: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n1997: Coquitlam Adanacs\n\n1998: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n1999: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2000: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2001: Coquitlam Adanacs\n\n2002: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2003: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2004: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2005: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2006: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2007: Coquitlam Adanacs\n\n2008: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n2009: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n2010: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n2011: Langley Thunder\n\n2012: Langley Thunder\n\n2013: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2014: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2015: Victoria Shamrocks\n\n2016: Maple Ridge Burrards\n\n2017: New Westminster Salmonbellies\n\n2018: Maple Ridge Burrards\n\n2019: Victoria Shamrocks\n\nTeams in bold = Mann Cup winner\n\nNew Westminster Salmonbellies\n\nMaple Ridge Burrards\n\nVictoria Shamrocks\n\nCoquitlam Adanacs\n\nBurnaby Lakers\n\nLangley Thunder\n\nNanaimo Timbermen\n\nthe Indians\n\nVancouver Athletic Club / Abbotsford Hotel\n\nNew Westminster Adanacs\n\nRichmond Farmers\n\nVancouver Bluebirds / Home Gas\n\n\"Norvans\"\n\nMilitary teams\n\nNanaimo\n\nBurnaby\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324946", "title": "Gartel", "text": "Gartel\n\nThe gartel is a belt used by Jewish males, predominantly (but not exclusively) Hasidim, during prayer. \"Gartel\" is Yiddish for \"belt\". The word comes from the same source as German \"Gürtel\", which is also cognate with the English \"girdle\", and \"girt\". \n\nThe vast majority of those that wear a Gartel during prayer are Hasidic Orthodox Jews; a smaller number of non-Hasidic Haredim, mostly Lithuanian Jews who emigrated to Jerusalem in the late 18th to early 19th centuries called Perushim.\n\nGartels are generally very modest in appearance. Most are black, but some gartels are white, possibly to be used on some special occasions such as Yom Kippur, and cost more than black counterparts of the same width. Gartels are composed of multiple strings, anywhere from four to over forty in number.\n\nHasidic custom requires that there be a physical divide between the heart and the genitalia during any mention of God's name. It is commonly explained that separating the upper and lower parts of the body manifests a control of the animal instincts of the person by the distinctly human intellect. \n\nAdditionally, donning a \"gartel\" is a preparation for prayer, in accordance with the line \"Prepare to meet your God, O Israel\" in the Biblical verse, Amos 4:12 (Shulchan Aruch O.C. 91:2). The Mishnah Berurah (91:5) states that any waistband is adequate for the first requirement, however for the second requirement more is needed, which the gartel fulfills. \n\nHasidic authorities maintain that a regular belt or the waistband of trousers do not suffice to fulfill this requirement, and that a designated sash is to be used. Other authorities maintain that other modifications, such as donning a formal hat and jacket, suffice to fulfill the second requirement of preparation for prayer, as long as the first requirement is fulfilled.\n\nSome Hasidic groups such as Skver and Belz wear the gartel all day as part of their regular attire.\n\nA gartel is also used by some Hasidim for a Mitzvah tantz.\n"}
{"id": "2324947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324947", "title": "Nvidia Quadro", "text": "Nvidia Quadro\n\nQuadro is Nvidia's brand for graphics cards intended for use in workstations running professional computer-aided design (CAD), computer-generated imagery (CGI), digital content creation (DCC) applications, scientific calculations and machine learning.\n\nThe GPU chips on Quadro-branded graphics cards are identical to those used on GeForce-branded graphics cards. The Quadro cards differ substantially in their ECC memory and enhanced floating point precision, which tremendously reduce the risks of calculation errors.\n\nThe Nvidia Quadro product line directly competes with AMD's Radeon Pro line of professional workstation cards.\n\nThe Quadro line of GPU cards emerged in an effort towards market segmentation by Nvidia. In introducing Quadro, Nvidia was able to charge a premium for essentially the same graphics hardware in professional markets, and direct resources to properly serve the needs of those markets. To differentiate their offerings, Nvidia used driver software and firmware to selectively enable features vital to segments of the workstation market, such as high-performance anti-aliased lines and two-sided lighting, in the Quadro product. The Quadro line also received improved support through a certified driver program. These features were of little value to the gamers that Nvidia's products already sold to, but their lack prevented high-end customers from using the less expensive products.\n\nThere are parallels between the market segmentation used to sell the Quadro line of products to workstation (DCC) markets and the Tesla line of products to engineering and HPC markets.\n\nIn a settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit between SGI and Nvidia, SGI acquired rights to speed-binned Nvidia graphics chips which they shipped under the VPro product label. These designs were completely separate from the SGI Odyssey based VPro products initially sold on their IRIX workstations which used a completely different bus. SGI's Nvidia-based VPro line included the VPro V3 (Geforce 256), VPro VR3 (Quadro), VPro V7 (Quadro2 MXR), and VPro VR7 (Quadro2 Pro).\n\nActual extra cards only for Quadro 4000 cards and higher:\n\n\nQuadro Plex consists of a line of external servers for rendering videos. A Quadro Plex contains multiple Quadro FX video cards. A client computer connects to Quadro Plex (using PCI Express ×8 or ×16 interface card with interconnect cable) to initiate rendering. More data in Nvidia Tesla Cards.\n\nScalable Link Interface, or SLI, is the next generation of Plex. SLI can improve Frame Rendering, FSAA.\n\nQuadro SLI support Mosaic for 2 Cards and 8 Monitors.\n\nWith Quadro SYNC Card support of max. 16 Monitors (4 per Card) possible.\n\nMost Cards have SLI-Bridge-Slot for 2, 3 or 4 cards on one main board.\n\nAcceleration of scienctific calculations is possible with CUDA and OpenCL.\n\nNvidia has 4 types of SLI bridges:\n\n\nMore see SLI.\n\nNvidia supports SLI and supercomputing with its 8-GPU Visual Computing Appliance. Nvidia Iray, Chaosgroup V-Ray and Nvidia OptiX accelerate Raytracing for Maya, 3DS Max, Cinema4D, Rhinoceros and others. All software with CUDA or OpenCL, such as ANSYS, NASTRAN, ABAQUS, and OpenFoam, can benefit from VCA.\nThe DGX-1 is available with 8 GP100 Cards.\n\nMore data in Nvidia Tesla Cards.\n\nThe Quadro RTX series is based on the Turing microarchitecture, and features real-time raytracing. This is accelerated by the use of new RT cores, which are designed to process quadtrees and spherical hierarchies, and speed up collision tests with individual triangles.\n\nThe raytracing performed by the RT cores can be used to produce reflections, refractions and shadows, replacing traditional raster techniques such as cube maps and depth maps. Instead of replacing rasterization entirely, however, the information gathered from ray-tracing can be used to augment the shading with information that is much more photo-realistic, especially regarding off-camera action.\n\nTensor cores further accelerate raytracing, and are used to fill in the blanks in a partially rendered image, a technique known as de-noising. The Tensor core performs the result of deep learning on supercomputers to codify how to, for example, increase the resolution of images. In the Tensor core's primary usage, a problem to be solved is analyzed on a supercomputer, which is taught by example what results are desired, and the supercomputer determines a method to use to achieve those results, which is then done with the consumer's Tensor core. These methods are delivered \"over the air\" to consumers.\n\nRTX is also the name of the development platform introduced for the Quadro RTX series. RTX leverages Microsoft's DXR, OptiX and Vulkan for access to raytracing.\n\nTuring is manufactured using TSMC's 12 nm FinFET semiconductor fabrication process. Quadro RTX also uses GDDR6 memory from Samsung Electronics.\n\nMany of these cards use the same core as the game- and action-oriented GeForce video cards by Nvidia. Those cards that are identical to the desktop cards can be software modified to identify themselves as the equivalent Quadro cards and this allows optimized drivers intended for the Quadro cards to be installed on the system. While this may not offer all of the performance of the equivalent Quadro card, it can improve performance in certain applications, but may require installing the MAXtreme driver for comparable speed.\n\nThe performance difference comes in the firmware controlling the card. Given the importance of speed in a game, a system used for gaming can shut down textures, shading, or rendering after only approximating a final output—in order to keep the overall frame rate high. The algorithms on a CAD-oriented card tend rather to complete all rendering operations, even if that introduces delays or variations in the timing, prioritising accuracy and rendering quality over speed. A Geforce card focuses more on texture fillrates and high framerates with lighting and sound, but Quadro cards prioritize wireframe rendering and object interactions.\n\nWith Caps Viewer (1.38 in 2018) all Windows Users can see data of the graphic Card, the installed Driver and can test some Features. \nGPU-Z reads also data of the graphic cards and the user can send some data for better database.\n\n\n\nSupported CUDA Level of GPU and Card.\n\nFor own Card Test see CUDA-Z Tool\n\n\n Nvidia Quadro 342.01 WHQL: support of OpenGL 3.3 and OpenCL 1.1 for legacy Tesla microarchitecture Quadros.\n\n\nThe Nvidia Quadro NVS graphics processing units (GPUs) provide business graphics solutions for manufacturers of small, medium, and enterprise-level business workstations. The Nvidia Quadro NVS desktop solutions enable multi-display graphics for businesses such as financial traders.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324950", "title": "Group 559", "text": "Group 559\n\nGroup 559 was a transportation and logistical unit of the People's Army of Vietnam. Established on 19 May 1959 to move troops, weapons, and materiel from North Vietnam to Vietcong paramilitary units in South Vietnam, the unit created and maintained the Ho Chi Minh Trail, the supply line that helped the North win the Vietnam War.\n\nThe purpose of these activities was the support of Vietcong in their struggle to topple the southern regime of President Ngo Dinh Diem. This task was made more difficult by the presence of a demilitarized zone (DMZ) on the border separating the two countries, though the North Vietnamese did send some supplies across the DMZ, their major infrastructure went around it. Group 559 developed road lines through Laos and Cambodia that fed into various areas of northern and western South Vietnam. This system of roads became known as the Ho Chi Minh Trail and was used under the supervision of Group 559 to infiltrate weapons, ammunition, and cadres into the South.\n\nSubordinate to the Rear Services General Directorate, the troop consisted of two transportation battalions. In 1960, Group 559 is upgraded to division-level, and established the 70th Regiment. In 1961, the 71st Regiment was set up. By 1962, the group had 6,000 troops organized into two regiments equipped with bicycles and a few trucks. Within one year the force level grew to 24,000 troops and six motorized transport battalions plus engineering, anti-aircraft, and security elements. \n\nAfter the commitment of U.S. and allied forces to the Vietnam War in 1965, Group 559 moved a volume of supplies nearly equal to the total volume of the preceding five years. Increasing North Vietnamese involvement, including the introduction of large ground units, in the southern war and U.S. interdiction of PAVN's logistical system at sea sharply increased the group's overland route. On April 3, 1965, Group 559 acquired the corps-level status of a Military Region reporting directly to the Military Affairs Party Committee and the General Staff, with three subordinate commands for the supply corridors through Laos.\n\nPreparations for large-scale main force offensives, both during and after the U.S. withdrawal sharply increased logistical requirements. In July 1973 the group, redesignated the Truong Son Command, converted sectoral and way station forces into divisions or regiments and established five additional regiments. By late 1974, forces under its command included Anti-Aircraft Division 377, Infantry Division 968, the 5 regional commands (division-level): 470th, 471st, 472nd, 473rd and 571st. plus fourteen regiments and various repair facilities and hospitals with total personnel of 100,495.\n\nDuring Vietnam War, Group 559 transported more than one million tons cargo into the front, inside over 500,000 tons delivered into theater B (). In 1975 when the war ended, Group 559 was reorganized into 12th Corps () to rebuild Ho Chi Minh Trail into roads for economics and national defense.\n\nGroup 579 and Group 959 were created somewhat later, with similar but different missions. Group 579 was charged with infiltrating supplies into South Vietnam by sea, complementing the land based operations of Group 559. It was created in May 1959. (Conboy \"et al.\", p. 8) Group 959 was created to move supplies to Pathet Lao forces in Laos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324951", "title": "Historic roads and trails", "text": "Historic roads and trails\n\nHistoric roads (historic trails in USA and Canada) are paths or routes that \"have great historical importance or fame\". Examples exist from prehistoric times until the early 20th century. They include ancient trackways, tracks, and roads that existed in \"the period of history before the fall of the Western Roman Empire\" in 476 AD. \"The first roads were paths made by animals and later adapted by humans.\" Many historic routes, such as the Silk Road, the Amber Road, and the Royal Road of the Persian Empire, existed before the Christian era and covered great distances.\n\nThe Post Track, a prehistoric causeway in the valley of the River Brue in the Somerset Levels, England, is one of the oldest known constructed trackways and dates from around 3838 BCE. The world's oldest known paved road was constructed in Egypt some time between 2600 and 2200 BC.\n\nThe Romans were the most significant road builders of the ancient world. At the peak of the Roman Empire there were more than of roads, of which over were stone-paved. Another empire, that of the Incas of pre-Columbian South America, also built an extensive and advanced transportation system.\n\nMuch later historic roads include the Red River Trails between Canada and the US, from the 19th century. However, such pioneer trails in these countries often made use of ancient routes created by indigenous people.\n\nThe Silk Road was a major trade route between China and India, Europe, and Arabia. It derives its name from the lucrative trade in silk carried out along its length, beginning in the Han dynasty (207 BCE–220 CE). The Han dynasty expanded the Central Asian section of the trade routes around 114 BCE through the missions and explorations of the Chinese imperial envoy Zhang Qian. The Chinese took great interest in the safety of their trade products and extended the Great Wall of China to ensure the protection of the trade route.\n\nPrior to the Silk Road an ancient overland route existed through the Eurasian Steppe. Silk and horses were traded as key commodities; secondary trade included furs, weapons, musical instruments, precious stones (turquoise, lapis lazuli, agate, nephrite) and jewels. This route extended for approximately . Trans-Eurasian trade through the Steppe Route precedes the conventional date for the origins of the Silk Road by at least two millennia.\n\nSee also the Northern Silk Road, the , Tea Horse Road.\nThe Shudao (), or the \"Road(s) to Shu\", is a system of mountain roads linking the Chinese province of Shaanxi with Sichuan (Shu), built and maintained since the 4th century BC. Technical highlights were the gallery roads, consisting of wooden planks erected on wooden or stone beams slotted into holes cut into the sides of cliffs. The roads join three adjacent basins separated and surrounded by high mountains. Like many ancient road systems, the Shu Roads formed a network of major and minor roads with different roads being used at different historical times. However, a number of roads are commonly identified as the main routes.\n were roads in Japan dating from the Edo period (between 1603 and 1868). They act important roles in transportation like the Appian way of ancient Roman roads. Major examples include the Edo Five Routes, all of which started at Edo (modern-day Tokyo). Minor examples include sub-routes such as the Hokuriku Kaidō and the Nagasaki Kaidō.\n\n\"Kaidō\", however, do \"not\" include San'yōdō, San'indō, Nankaidō and Saikaidō, which were part of the even more ancient system of Yamato government called Gokishichidō. This was the name for ancient administrative units and the roads within these units, organized in Japan during the Asuka period (AD 538–710), as part of a legal and governmental system borrowed from the Chinese. \nMany highways and railway lines in modern Japan follow the ancient routes and carry the same names. The early roads radiated from the capital at Nara or Kyoto. Later, Edo was the reference, and even today Japan reckons directions and measures distances along its highways from Nihonbashi in Chūō, Tokyo.\n\nThe Grand Trunk Road in South Asia was the main road from modern day Bangladesh to northern Pakistan and Afghanistan. A route since antiquity, it was constructed into a coherent highway by the Maurya Empire in 300BC. Soon after, the Greek diplomat Megasthenes (c. 350 – c. 290 BC) wrote of his travels along the road to reach Hindu kingdoms in the 3rd century BC. After invading India over 1,500 years later, Mughals extended the Grand Trunk Road westwards from Lahore to Kabul (the capital of Afghanistan) crossing the Khyber Pass. The road was later improved and extended from Calcutta to Peshawar by the British rulers of colonial India. For many centuries, the road has acted as a major trade route and facilitated travel and postal communication. The Grand Trunk Road remains under use for transportation in India. The Khyber Pass was an all-season mountain pass connecting Afghanistan to western Pakistan.\n\nBrick-paved streets appeared in India as early as 3000 BC.\n\nExcept for Roman roads, European pathways were rarely in good shape and depended on the geography of the region. In the early Middle Ages, people often preferred to travel along elevated drainage divides rather than in the valleys. This was due to thick forests and other natural obstacles in valleys.\n\nThe Amber Road was an ancient trade route for the transfer of amber from coastal areas of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean Sea. Prehistoric trade routes between Northern and Southern Europe were defined by the amber trade. As an important commodity, sometimes dubbed \"the gold of the north\", amber was transported overland by way of the Vistula and Dnieper rivers to the Mediterranean area from at least the 16th century BC. The breast ornament of the Egyptian pharaoh Tutankhamen (ca. 1333–1324 BC) contains large Baltic amber beads. The quantity of amber in the Royal Tomb of Qatna, Syria, is unparalleled for known second millennium BC sites in the Levant and the Ancient Near East. From the Black Sea, trade could continue to Asia along the Silk Road.\n\n\"Hærvejen\" (Danish, meaning \"the army road\") ran from Viborg, Denmark through Flensburg (in the present northern German state of Schleswig-Holstein) to Hamburg. The road runs more or less along the watershed of the Jutland Peninsula, known as the \"Jyske Højderyg\" (Jutland Ridge), similar to the ridgeways in England. By using this route rivers were avoided, or fords used, close to the rivers sources. Over time by this route was improved with paved fords, embankments and bridges. Concentrations of mounds, defensive ditches, settlements and other historic landmarks can be found along the road and sections of it can be traced back to 4000 BC.\n\nRoman roads were physical infrastructure vital to the maintenance and development of the Roman state, and were built from about 300 BC through the expansion and consolidation of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. They ranged from small local roads to broad, long-distance highways built to connect cities, major towns and military bases. These major roads were often stone-paved and metaled, cambered for drainage, and flanked by footpaths, bridleways and drainage ditches. They were laid along accurately surveyed courses, and some were cut through hills, or conducted over rivers and ravines on bridgework. Sections could be supported over marshy ground on rafted or piled foundations.\n\nAt the peak of Rome's development, no fewer than 29 great military highways radiated from the capital, and the late Empire's 113 provinces were interconnected by 372 great roads. The whole comprised more than of roads, of which over were stone-paved. In Gaul alone, no less than of roadways are said to have been improved, and in Britain at least . The courses (and sometimes the surfaces) of many Roman roads survived for millennia; some are overlaid by modern roads.\n\nFrancia or the Frankish Empire was the largest post-Roman Barbarian kingdom in Western Europe. It was ruled by the Franks during Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. It is the predecessor of the modern states of France and Germany. After the Treaty of Verdun in 843, West Francia became the predecessor of France, and East Francia became that of Germany.\n\nThe Old Salt Route or of the Hanseatic League was a medieval trade route in northern Germany that transported salt from Lüneburg to Lübeck.\n\nThe is a ridgeway and an historical boundary path in the Thuringian Forest, Thuringian Highland and Franconian Forest in Central Germany. It was a connecting road between small independent states in Thuringia. The route crosses the Thuringia Forest and the slate mountains of Thuringia and Frankenwald, stretching from Hörschel at the river Werra (near Eisenach) to Blankenstein at the river Saale. It is part of the European long-distance paths network.\n\nThe (king's road) is a medieval road that ran from Frankfurt am Main to Görlitz in south-west Poland. See also the .\n\nAn important medieval German pilgrim route was the (because the most important town along the way is Toulouse, France). This is one of the four medieval pilgrim routes described by Aimery Picaud in his 12th-century \"Pilgrim's Guide\", used by pilgrims from southern and eastern Europe on the Way of St James to Santiago de Compostela. See also the Palatine Ways of St. James.\n\nThe Wittemoor timber trackway is a log causeway or corduroy road across a bog at Neuenhuntdorf, part of the Berne in the district of Wesermarsch in Lower Saxony, Germany. Originating in the pre-Roman Iron Age, it is one of several such causeways which have been found in the North German Plain, particularly in the Weser-Ems region. It has been dated by dendrochronology to 135 BCE. It ran across the Wittemoor bog, connecting the more elevated geest at Hude with the River Hunte. An Iron Age settlement near a spring in the Lintel section of Hude was at the southern end. A section of the trackway has been reconstructed.\n\nBuilt somewhat later, the Wittmoor Bog Trackways are two historic trackways discovered in Wittmoor in northern Hamburg. The trackways date to the 4th and 7th century AD, both linked the eastern and western shores of the formerly inaccessible, swampy bog. A part of the older trackway No. II dating to the period of the Roman Empire is on display at the permanent exhibition of the Archaeological Museum Hamburg in Harburg, Hamburg.\n\nHellweg was the official and common name given to main travelling routes medieval trade route through Germany. Their breadth was decreed as an unimpeded passageway a lance's width, about three metres, which the landholders through which the Hellweg passed were required to maintain.\n\nThe Kulmer Steig is a byword for transport links from the Elbe valley over the eastern part of the Eastern Ore Mountains to Bohemian (). Archaeological finds suggest that this route existed in the Bronze () and the Iron Age (750 BC – early AD) and even in the Neolithic (Stone Age ) \n\nThe Post Track and Sweet Track, causeways or timber trackways, in the Somerset levels, near Glastonbury, are believed to be the oldest known purpose built roads in the world and have been dated to the 3800s BC. The tracks were walkways consisting mainly of planks of oak laid end-to-end, supported by crossed pegs of ash, oak, and lime, driven into the underlying peat. and were used to link the fen islands across the marshes. The Lindholme Trackway is later and dates to around 2900–2500 BC. It fits within a trend of narrowing width and increased sophistication during the third millennium BC. Some argue that this shift could relate to the growing complexity of wheeled transport at the time.\nTracks provided links between farmsteads and fields, other farmsteads, and neighbouring long barrow tombs. They also joined the separate localities to the camp meeting places and cross-country flint roads. Others were more likely to have been processional ways, such as the one leading to the gigantic temple at Avebury in Wiltshire. On British hills, the line of tracks often run a little below the actual crest of a ridge, possibly to afford some shelter from the wind or to avoid travellers presenting themselves to marauders as a target on the skyline.\n\nExamples include the Harrow Way and the Pilgrims' Way, running along the North Downs in southern England. The Harrow Way (also spelled as \"Harroway\") is another name for the \"Old Way\", an ancient trackway in the south of England, dated by archaeological finds to 600–450 BC, but probably in existence since the Stone Age. The \"Old Way\" ran from Seaton in Devon to Dover, Kent. Later the eastern part of the Harrow Way become known as the Pilgrims Way, following the canonisation of Thomas Beckett and the establishment of a shrine in Canterbury, Kent. This pilgrimage route ran from Winchester, Hampshire, via Farnham, Surrey, to Canterbury Kent. The western section of the Harrow Way ends in Farnham, the eastern in Dover.\n\nThe Ridgeway similarly keeps to high ground and for at least 5,000 years travellers have used it. The Ridgeway provided a reliable trading route running along chalk hills from the Dorset coast to the Wash in Norfolk. The high dry ground made travel easy and provided a measure of protection by giving traders a commanding view, warning against potential attacks. The Icknield Way follows the chalk escarpment that includes the Berkshire Downs and Chiltern Hills, in southern and eastern England, from Norfolk to Wiltshire.\n\nOther examples of historic roads in England include the Long Causeway, a Medieval packhorse route that ran from Sheffield to Hathersage and The Mariners' Way in Devon. The latter was created by sailors in the eighteenth century, or earlier, travelling between the ports of Bideford and Dartmouth, Devon, who linked existing lanes, tracks and footpaths to form a direct route.\n\nIn Aberdeenshire, Scotland, ancient tracks include the Causey Mounth, an ancient drovers' road over the coastal fringe of the Grampian Mountains and Elsick Mounth, which was one of the few means of traversing the Grampian Mounth area in prehistoric and medieval times. Roman legions marched along the Elsick Mounth.\n\nIn Roman Britain, many trackways were built upon by the Romans to form the foundations for their roads. Prior to this, people used trackways to travel between settlements but this was unsuitable for the swift movement of troops and equipment. Mastiles Lane was a Roman marching road and later an important route for monks leading sheep from Fountains Abbey to summer pasture on higher ground. Also known as the Old Monks' Road, this is now a Dales walking track.\n\nThe existence of leylines and their relationship with ancient trackways was first suggested in 1921 by the amateur archaeologist Alfred Watkins, in his books \"Early British Trackways\" and \"The Old Straight Track\". Watkins theorized that these alignments were created for ease of overland trekking on ancient trackways during neolithic times and had persisted in the landscape over millennia.\n\nImprovements in metallurgy meant that by 2000 BC stone-cutting tools were generally available in the Middle East and Greece allowing local streets to be paved. Notably, in about 2000 BC, the Minoans built a paved road from Knossos in north Crete through the mountains to Gortyn and Lebena, a port on the south coast of the island, which had side drains, a thick pavement of sandstone blocks bound with clay-gypsum mortar, covered by a layer of basaltic flagstones and had separate shoulders. This road could be considered superior to any Roman road.\n\nThe Via Pythia (or Pythian road) was the route to Delphi. It was revered throughout the Ancient Greek world as the site of the Omphalos stone (the centre of the earth and universe).\n\nThe Sacred Way (, ), in ancient Greece, was the road from Athens to Eleusis. It was so called because it was the route taken by a procession celebrating the Eleusinian Mysteries. The procession to Eleusis began at the Sacred Gate in the Kerameikos (the Athenian cemetery) on the 19th Boedromion. In the present day, the road from central Athens to Aegaleo and Chaidari (the old route to Eleusis) is called after the ancient road.\n\nThe Corlea Trackway is an ancient road built on a bog consisting of packed hazel, birch and alder planks placed lengthways across the track, and occasional cross timbers for support. Other bog trackways or \"toghers\" have also been discovered dating to around 4000 BC. The Corlea trackway dates from approx 148 BC and was excavated in 1994. It is the largest trackway of its kind to be uncovered in Europe.\n\nIreland's prehistoric roads were minimally developed, but oak-plank pathways covered many bog areas, and five great 'ways' () converged at the Hill of Tara. An ancient avenue or trackway in Ireland is located at Rathcroghan Mound and the surrounding earthworks within a 370m circular enclosure.\n\nThe Esker Riada, a series of glacial eskers formed at the end of the last Ice Age, formed an elevated pathway from east to west, connecting Galway to Dublin.\n\nThe Siberian Route (, ), also known as the \"Moscow Highway\" and \"Great Highway\" , was a historic route that connected European Russia to Siberia and China.\n\nThe construction of the road was decreed by the Tsar two months after the conclusion of the Treaty of Nerchinsk, on 22 November 1689, but it did not start until 1730 and was not finished until the mid-19th century. Previously, Siberian transport had been mostly by river via Siberian River Routes. First Russian settlers arrived in Siberia by the Cherdyn river route which was superseded by the Babinov overland route in the late 1590s. The town of Verkhoturye in the Urals was the most eastern point of the Babinov Road.\n\nThe much longer Siberian route started in Moscow as the Vladimir Highway (a medieval road) and passed through Murom, Kozmodemyansk, Kazan, Perm, Kungur, Yekaterinburg, Tyumen, Tobolsk, Tara, Kainsk, Tomsk, Yeniseysk and Irkutsk. After crossing Lake Baikal the road split near Verkhneudinsk. One branch continued east to Nerchinsk while the other went south to the border post of Kyakhta where it linked to camel caravans that crossed Mongolia to a Great Wall gate at Kalgan.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the route was moved to the south. From Tyumen the road proceeded through Yalutorovsk, Ishim, Omsk, Tomsk, Achinsk and Krasnoyarsk before rejoining the older route at Irkutsk. It remained a vital artery connecting Siberia with Moscow and Europe until the last decades of the 19th century, when it was superseded by the Trans-Siberian Railway (built 1891–1916), and the Amur Cart Road (built 1898–1909). The contemporary equivalent is the Trans-Siberian Highway.\n\nStreets paved with cobblestones appeared in the city of Ur in the Middle East dating back to 4000 BC.\n\nThe Royal Road was an ancient highway reorganized and rebuilt by the Persian king Darius the Great (Darius I) of the first (Achaemenid) Persian Empire in the 5th century BCE. Darius built the road to facilitate rapid communication throughout his very large empire from Susa, Syria to Sardis, Turkey.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, suggests that roads were built to facilitate ease of access to the three regional Cities of Refuge in Israel. Deuteronomy has been dated to the seventh century BC. Some translations (e.g. the King James Version) have this: \"Thou shalt prepare thee a way\", while some more modern interpretations are more explicit: \"You shall prepare and maintain for yourself the roads [to these cities]\".\n\nThe Inca road system was the most extensive and advanced transportation system in pre-Columbian South America. It was about long. The construction of the roads required a large expenditure of time and effort. The network was based on two north–south roads with numerous branches. The best known portion of the road system is the Inca Trail to Machu Picchu. Part of the road network was built by cultures that precede the Inca Empire, notably the Wari culture. During the Spanish colonial era, parts of the road system were given the status of . In 2014 the road system became a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nIn Peru part of the Inca road system crossed the Andes to connect areas of the Inca Empire.\n\nA complex system of prehistoric trails are located at Tumamoc Hill near Tucson, Arizona where archaeological traces have been found including petroglyphs, pottery shards and mortar holes. Chaco Canyon in northern New Mexico consists of fifteen major complexes and a system of trails. Timber beams used to construct the cliff dwellings were hauled long distances to the site along the trails. The sixty-mile long ancient Great Hopewell Road of the Adena, Hopewell and Fort Ancient cultures of Ohio connected the Newark Earthworks to the mound group at Chillacothe.\n\nThe Natchez Trace, also known as the \"Old Natchez Trace\", is a historic forest trail within the United States which extends roughly from Natchez, Mississippi, to Nashville, Tennessee, linking the Cumberland, Tennessee, and Mississippi Rivers.\n\nThe trail was created and used by Native Americans for centuries, and was later used by early European and American explorers, traders, and emigrants in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Today, the path is commemorated by the Natchez Trace Parkway and Bridge, which follow the approximate path of the Trace, as well as the related Natchez Trace Trail. Parts of the original trail are still accessible and some segments are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn the American Old West, the Oregon Trail was a 19th-century pioneer route from Illinois to Oregon. The Santa Fe Trail was a major commercial and military artery from Missouri to Santa Fe, New Mexico.\nIn modern times, the Lincoln Highway (dedicated 1913) was the first road for the automobile across the United States of America, spanning 3389 miles coast-to-coast from New York City to San Francisco.\n\nThe Mojave Road (also known as Mohave Trail) was a historical footpath and pack trail used by pre-contact desert-dwelling indigenous people that was later followed by Spanish missionaries, explorers, colonizers and settlers. Its course ran across the Mojave Desert between watering holes approximately 60 miles apart.\n\nCorduroy roads are made by placing logs, perpendicular to the direction of the road over a low or swampy area, and were used extensively in the American Civil War, between Shiloh and Corinth after the battle of Shiloh, and in Sherman's march through the Carolinas\n\nA plank road is a road composed of wooden planks or puncheon logs, which were commonly found in the Canadian province of Ontario as well as the Northeast and Midwest of the United States in the first half of the 19th century. They were often built by turnpike companies.\nThe Plank Road Boom was an economic boom that happened in the United States. Largely in the Eastern United States and New York, the boom lasted from 1844 to the mid 1850s. In about 10 years, over 3,500 miles of plank road were built in New York aloneenough road to go from Manhattan to California, and more than 10,000 miles of plank road were built countrywide.\n\nIn Canada, the Carlton Trail was a fur trade route from south-west Manitoba to Fort Edmonton in Alberta. \n\nThe Red River Trails were a network of ox cart routes connecting the Red River Colony (the \"Selkirk Settlement\") and Fort Garry in British North America with the head of navigation on the Mississippi River in the United States. These trade routes ran from the location of present-day Winnipeg in the Canadian province of Manitoba across the Canada–United States border, and thence by a variety of routes through what is now the eastern part of North Dakota and western and central Minnesota to Mendota and Saint Paul, Minnesota on the Mississippi.\n\nTravellers began to use the trails by the 1820s, with the heaviest use from the 1840s to the early 1870s, when they were superseded by railways. Until then, these cartways provided the most efficient means of transportation between the isolated Red River Colony and the outside world. They gave the Selkirk colonists and their neighbours, the Métis people, an outlet for their furs and a source of supplies other than the Hudson's Bay Company, which was unable to enforce its monopoly in the face of the competition that used the trails.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324955", "title": "Om Prakash Malhotra", "text": "Om Prakash Malhotra\n\nGeneral Om Prakash Malhotra, PVSM (6 August 1922 – 29 December 2015), best known as OP Malhotra, was a senior army officer in the Indian Army who served as the 13th Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army from 19781981. Upon retiring from his military service in India, he served in the Indian Foreign Service when he tenured as the Indian Ambassador to Indonesia 1981-1984, and later served as a political administrator in India as the Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Chandigarh 1990-1991.\n\nMalhotra was born in Srinagar, Kashmir, on 6 August 1922 and received his schooling first at Model High School, Srinagar, and then at Sri Pratap College, Srinagar. He then attended Government College, Lahore, before being selected to join the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.\n\nHe was commissioned into the Regiment of Artillery as a Second Lieutenant in November 1941. His first assignment was with 26 (Jacobs) Mountain Battery in Razmak, North West Frontier Province. He was later assigned to 15 (Jhelum) Mountain Battery which, as part of the 50th Parachute Brigade, fought against the Japanese during the Second World War on the Burmese front. He distinguished himself as a young officer in the Battle of Sangshak where he was wounded in action. He later became Second-in-Command of 13 (Dardoni) Mountain Battery.\n\nMalhotra became an instructor at the School of Artillery in Deolali, and in 1946 attended the Long Gunnery Staff Course at the Royal School of Artillery in Larkhill, United Kingdom. He commanded artillery regiments across India between November 1950 and July 1961 including 37 Coorg Anti Tank Regiment, 20 Locating Regiment and 42 Field Regiment. In between he served at Army HQ, New Delhi, did the Defense Services Staff College course at Wellington and was later an instructor at the Defense Services Staff College, Wellington. He was then posted from 1962-1965 as the Military and Naval Attaché of India to the USSR, concurrently accredited to Poland and Hungary.\n\nUpon return from Moscow in August 1965, Malhotra commanded 1 Artillery Brigade, part of 1 Armoured Division and fought in Sialkot Sector during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965. After the ceasefire with Pakistan he commanded 167 Mountain Brigade at Sela Pass, Tawang District, North-East Frontier Agency. He was promoted to acting Major General in September 1967 and commanded 36 Infantry Division in Saugor for two years, with a promotion to substantive major-general on 28 February 1968. From 29 September 1969 till May 1972 he was Chief of Staff, IV Corps, in Tezpur during the Bangladesh Liberation War. He played a crucial role during the Battle of Sialkot during the Bangladesh Liberation War where, \"the thrust by the 1 Artillery Brigade under his command forced Pakistan to thin forces from its main attack column that had overrun Khemkaran and was making a bid to drive a wedge through the heart of Punjab.\" Subsequently, he was promoted to acting lieutenant-general on 29 May 1972 (substantive from 15 October) and given command of XI Corps in Jalandhar, which he commanded for two years. He was later the GOC-in-C Southern Command located at Pune.\n\nIn 1976, Malhotra was awarded the Param Vishist Seva Medal for \"service of the most exceptional order\". He was Vice Chief of Army Staff before taking over as Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army on 31 May 1978 and serving in that post for three years. He was an Honorary Senior Colonel Commandant of the Regiment of Artillery of the Indian Army and also an Honorary General of the Nepalese Army.\n\nAfter retiring from the Indian Army on 31 May 1981, Malhotra served as the Ambassador of India to Indonesia from 1981-1984. During 1990-1991, he was the Governor of the Indian State of Punjab and Administrator of Chandigarh when militancy in that state was at its height. Malhotra resigned from his post in protest when planned elections in the state were deferred by the National Election Commission without notice. Upon the postponement of the elections he said that \"I have been through three Wars, I have been a General in the Wars, but I have never felt as defeated as I feel today after this announcement by the Election Commission that the Elections have been postponed.\"\n\nA keen sportsman, Malhotra was the Founder President of the Asian Equestrian Federation in 1978. He was also the President of the Delhi Golf Club, New Delhi from 1979 - 1980.\n\nHe served for nine years as the President of the Equestrian Federation of India a post which he took on while serving as Chief of Army Staff and continued in post-retirement. He was responsible for the revival of the cavalry sport of Tent Pegging in India and across Asia,as an equestrian sport. After a demonstration of the sport in New Delhi to HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, the serving President of International Federation for Equestrian Sports, approval was granted for its inclusion as an equestrian sport under regional governance which led to its inclusion in the Asian Games from 1981 onwards.\nMalhotra was a Founder Trustee of the Nehru Trust for the Indian Collections at the Victoria & Albert Museum, and served as the President of India's largest NGO, the \"National Association for the Blind\" in New Delhi. He was the Chairperson of the National Association for the Blind Centre For Blind Women & Disability Studies. He was an active member of Kiwanis Club of New Delhi, patron of the All India Federation of The Deaf, and a Trustee of the Delhi Cheshire Homes.\n\nIn addition, Malhotra was also the Founder and Chairman Emeritus of two charitable organisations Shiksha and Chikitsa.\n\nMalhotra was married to Saroj, with whom he had two children. His son, Ajai Malhotra, was Ambassador of India to the Russian Federation from 2011 - 2013.\n\nMalhotra died at his home in Gurugram due to complications of old age on 29 December 2015. On 31 December 2015 his funeral was held with full military honours at Brar Square. As former Chief of Army Staff from the Regiment of Artillery his body was carried to the funeral on an artillery gun carriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324959", "title": "Roadblock (film)", "text": "Roadblock (film)\n\nRoadblock is a 1951 American film noir starring Charles McGraw and Joan Dixon. The 73-minute crime thriller was shot on location in Los Angeles, California. The film was directed by Harold Daniels and the cinematography is by Nicholas Musuraca.\n\nInsurance investigator Joe Peters (McGraw) and his partner Harry Miller (Louis Jean Heydt) solve a case and prepare to fly home. Joe meets Diane (Dixon) at an airport. She pretends to be his wife without his knowledge in order to get a large discount on the airfare. They wind up sharing a hotel room after a storm forces an unscheduled stop.\n\nJoe is attracted to Diane, despite his dislike for \"chiselers\". She makes it quite clear she loves the finer things in life, which \"Honest Joe\" (as Diane calls him) cannot possibly afford on his small salary of $350 a month, so they part when they reach Los Angeles.\n\nBy coincidence, when Joe and Harry are assigned to check out Kendall Webb (Lowell Gilmore), the prime suspect in a fur robbery, Joe runs into Diane, who is now Webb's girlfriend. Their mutual attraction flares up and Joe, in order to finance a dream life with Diane, decides to use his own inside knowledge of a $1,250.000 cash shipment to set up a robbery for Webb. Joe wants one-third of the money. \n\nIronically, Diane decides that her love for Joe is greater than her love of money. When she tells Joe she wants to get married, he tries to back out of his deal with Webb. However, Webb convinces him that Diane might not feel the same after a few months living on his paltry pay. The robbery coincides with Joe and Diane's honeymoon, giving him an alibi. Eventually, Joe confesses to Diane what he has done.\n\nThe railway mail car robbery is successful, but a railroad employee is injured and later dies. Things go downhill from there. One of the robbers is identified and arrested. Desperate, Joe arranges to meet Webb on a desolate stretch of highway by telling him he has a plan to get them out of their mess. However, after a struggle, he knocks Webb out and stages a car accident in which Webb is killed and his share of the money partially burned.\n\nHarry figures out that his partner is involved and pleads with him to turn himself in. Instead, Joe tries to flee to Mexico with Diane, but is tracked down and shot. He dies in Diane's arms.\n\n\nHans J. Wollstein, writing for Allmovie, calls the film a \"low-budget but highly engrossing film noir\". The film is indeed so low-budget that stock footage has been inserted into the scene where the car accident is set up, meaning that two distinctly different automobiles cause Webb's brutal and fiery death. Presumably the car actually being used in the film was required to be returned intact to the studio stores afterwards.\n\nDennis Schwartz, at Ozus' World Movie Reviews writes, \"In the end everything was done in such a flat manner, that it was hard to care that straight-shooter McGraw lost his integrity and life for an icy broad who ironically would have loved him the way he was.\"\n\nIn \"noir\" fashion, sex and money lead to Peters' destruction in the film. According to film critics Bob Porfiero and Alain Silver, the screenwriters took a hard-boiled mystery plot and combined it with \"an aura of middle-class malaise and pervasive corruption to provide a motivation for Peters' alienation and fall.\" The \"noir\" notion of entrapment is illustrated by the staging of Peters' death in the semi-dry Los Angeles river bed, in one of the first car chases to be filmed there.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324970", "title": "Miconia", "text": "Miconia\n\nMiconia is a genus of flowering plants in the glory bush family, Melastomataceae, native to warm temperate to tropical regions of the Americas. The species are mostly shrubs and small to medium-sized trees up to 15 m tall. The generic name honours Catalan physician and botanist Francesc Micó. Some species are known by the common name johnnyberry.\n\nMany species are threatened by habitat destruction in their native range, and some are feared to be on the brink of extinction. On the other hand, \"M. calvescens\" is a contributing factor in the decline and maybe even extinction of other plants: it has become a highly invasive weed on a number of Pacific Islands where it was introduced, including Hawaii and Tahiti. It is often referred to as the \"purple plague\" or the \"green cancer\" in reference to its habit of overgrowing native ecosystems, and its leaves which are bright green above and bright purple below.\n\n\"Miconia\" fruit are a favorite food of many birds (invasive \"M. calvescens\" spreads by this route). The leaves of some species are eaten by caterpillars of the interesting moth-butterflies (Hedylidae).\n\nAs of 2013, genus \"Miconia\" comprised 1057 species, among them are:\n"}
{"id": "2324972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324972", "title": "Banco Intercontinental", "text": "Banco Intercontinental\n\nBanco Intercontinental (or BANINTER) was the second largest privately held commercial bank in the Dominican Republic before collapsing in 2003 in a fraud tied to political corruption.\n\nBanco Intercontinental was created in 1986 by Ramón Báez Romano, a businessman and former Industry Minister. Later, Ramón Báez Figueroa, took over the bank.\n\nBANINTER Group owned Listín Diario; four television stations, a cable television company, and more than 70 radio stations.\n\nOn April 7, 2003, the government took control of BANINTER.\n\nBáez Figueroa was arrested on May 15, 2003 along with BANINTER vice presidents Marcos Báez Cocco and Vivian Lubrano de Castillo, the secretary of the Board of Directors, Jesús M. Troncoso, and Luis Alvarez Renta, on charges of bank fraud, money laundering and concealing information from the government as part of a fraud scheme of more than RD$55 billion (US$2.23 billion). The sum was equivalent to two-thirds of the national budget of the Dominican Republic at the time of the event.\n\nThe resulting central bank bailout spurred a 30% annual inflation and a large increase in poverty. The government was forced to devalue the peso, triggering the collapse of two other banks, and prompting a US$600 million (420 million €) loan package from the International Monetary Fund.\n\nThough required by the country's Monetary Laws to only guarantee individual deposits of up to RD$500,000 Dominican Pesos (about US$21,000 at the time) placed within the country, the Dominican Central Bank (Banco Central Dominicano) opted to guarantee all $2.2B in unbacked BANINTER deposits, regardless of the amount, or whether deposits were in Dominican Pesos or American Dollars and without apparent knowledge whether the deposits were held in the Dominican Republic or in BANINTER's branches in the Cayman Islands and Panama. The subsequent fiscal shortfall resulted in massive inflation (42%) and the devaluation of the DOP by over 100%.\n\nFormer president Mejía and the Central Bank (Banco Central) stated that the unlimited payouts to depositors were to protect the Dominican banking system from a crisis of confidence and potential chain reaction. However, the overall consequence of the bailout was to reimburse the wealthiest of Dominican depositors, some of whom had received rates of interest as high as 27% annually, at the expense of the majority of poor Dominicans—the latter of whom would be required to pay the cost of the bailout through inflation, currency devaluation, government austerity plans and higher taxes over the coming years.\n\nThe banking crisis ignited harsh fights over BANINTER group's media outlets, including the prominent newspaper Listín Diario, which was temporarily seized and run by the Mejía administration following the bank collapse. In 2003, TV commentator Rafael Acevedo, president of the opinion polling firm Gallup Dominicana, had said that in the BANINTER scandal \"there has been much complicity at every level of society: the government, the media, the church, the military.\".\n\nIn November 2005, Alvarez Renta was found liable by a federal jury in Miami of civil racketeering and illegal money transfers in a conspiracy to loot BANINTER during its final months of existence. Alvarez Renta was ordered to pay $177 Million to the Dominican state. To this date, he still hasn't paid that sum.\n\nThe main executives of BANINTER, Báez Figueroa, his cousin Marcos Báez Cocco, Vivian Lubrano, Jesús Troncoso Ferrúa, as well as the aforementioned Alvarez Renta, were prosecuted by the Dominican state for fraud and money laundering, among other criminal charges. Báez Figueroa's main attorney is Marino Vinicio Castillo, who at the present time holds the position of President Fernandez's Drugs Consultant.\n\nWith 350 prosecutions and defense witnesses slated to testify, ex- president Hipólito Mejía among them, the criminal proceedings against Báez Figueroa began on April 2, 2006. However, the Court decided to postpone the first hearing for May 19, 2006, accepting a motion by the defense lawyers. It was prompted, as detailed at length in the trial by a scandal involving debt writeoffs and sweetheart loans or other financial deals suspected of having favored leading politicians and others.\n\nWhat remains most curious was that the fraud went undetected for 14 years by the country's supposed financial gatekeepers—the Central Bank, the Superintendent of Banks and U. S. accounting company PricewaterhouseCoopers. How Báez Figueroa and his cronies were accused and some convicted of pulling it off provided a glimpse into the gift-giving and favor-swapping common between private business and top government officials in the Dominican Republic.\n\nThe first trial ended in September 2007.\n\nOn October 21, 2007, Báez Figueroa was sentenced by a three-judge panel to 10 years in prison. Additionally, he was ordered to pay restitution and damages totalling RD$63 billion. The laundering charges were excluded, but the other suspected mastermind of the fraud, Luis Alvarez Renta, was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison for money laundering. Marcos Báez Cocco, ex-vicepresident of the Bank, was also found guilty, and sentenced to 8 years.\n\nThe accusations against two other defendants, former BANINTER executive Vivian Lubrano, as well as the secretary of BANINTER Board of Directors Jesús M. Troncoso, were dismissed for lack of evidence.\n\nThe sentence has been widely criticized for its severe contradictions, but more specially because it's been alleged that the judges were pressed by \"the powers that be\". Noted journalist Miguel Guerrero wrote in his column of the daily \"El Caribe\" that the defrauders of BANINTER have been protected \"by a dark combination of political, economic, mediatic and ecclesiastical powers\" and that the sentence was a mamotreto\". In fact, Guerrero went to the extent of saying that everything was fixed beforehand, and the defendants and their lawyers knew it, as did those representing the Central Bank.\n\nIn February 2008, the case went to the Court of Appeals of Santo Domingo and the Court upheld the sentence against Báez Figueroa, Báez Cocco and Alvarez Renta. The decision that had favored Vivian Lubrano was reverted, and she was sentenced to five years in prison and RD$ 18 billion in damages. Charges against Troncoso Ferrua were definitely dropped.\n\nIn July 2008, the Dominican Supreme Court confirmed the decision against the defendants.\n\nNevertheless, Lubrano allegedly fell into a \"deep depression\" and suffered from \"panic attacks\", and she never went to prison. After much debate, President Leonel Fernández gave her full pardon, on December 22, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324980", "title": "Rolling Thunder (film)", "text": "Rolling Thunder (film)\n\nRolling Thunder is a 1977 American neo-noir action thriller directed by John Flynn, produced by Norman T. Herman, and written by Paul Schrader and Heywood Gould, based on a story by Schrader. The film stars William Devane in the lead role alongside Tommy Lee Jones, Linda Haynes, James Best, Dabney Coleman, and Luke Askew in supporting roles.\n\n\"Rolling Thunder\" was released on October 7, 1977 in United States and it was also released in more 7 countries. Upon release, the film received generally positive reviews from critics. The film received praise for its action sequences, atmosphere, direction, music, and cast performances. However, it was criticized for its pace and violent climax. In addition to its critical success, the film was also a box office success with an estimated revenue of $130 million against its $5 million production budget.\n\nIn 1973, Major Charles Rane returns home to San Antonio with Sergeant Johnny Vohden, and two other soldiers, after spending seven years as a POW in Hanoi. He finds a home very different from the one he left when he meets his wife Janet, his son Mark, and local policeman Cliff, waiting to drive him home. Rane soon realizes that his son does not remember him, and that Cliff seems overly familiar with Janet and Mark. Janet admits that she has become engaged to Cliff and has no plans to break it off, despite still having feelings for Rane. Rane stoically accepts this, but privately reacts by self-imposing the same institutionalized daily regime he had in captivity.\n\nThe town is intent on giving Rane a hero's homecoming, and at a grand celebration, he is presented with a red Cadillac and 2,555 silver dollars – one for every day he was a captive plus one for luck – by the 'Texas belle' Linda Forchet (Linda Haynes), who has worn his ID bracelet since he left. Shortly after, Cliff attempts to make peace with Rane; the latter, however, seems resigned to losing his wife, but he is determined not to lose his son and makes efforts to build a relationship.\n\nLinda spots Rane in his new Cadillac at a gas station and invites him to have a drink at the bar where she works. She makes advances toward him, but Rane is emotionally distant and perhaps even unable to connect with anyone.\n\nWhen Rane next returns home, four border outlaws are waiting for him: \"The Texan\", \"Automatic Slim\", \"T Bird\" and \"Melio\". They demand the silver dollars and torture Rane to get them. Rane is totally unresponsive, having flashbacks to his torture in Hanoi as they beat him. The gang resorts to drastic measures and shoves Rane's hand down a garbage disposal, mangling it. At this point Janet and Mark return, and are immediately taken hostage. Rane lies with a mangled arm on the kitchen floor while his son finds and hands over the silver dollars. The gang shoots all three of them, leaving them for dead. Rane survives but his wife and son do not.\n\nSeveral weeks later, Rane is convalescing in a hospital where Linda and Vohden visit him separately. Vohden has signed on for another ten years in the Airborne Division, due to his uncertainty as to what else to do with his life. Although he gives no details to the police, Rane has ideas regarding the identities of his attackers and prepares to take vengeance. His first move upon discharge is to saw down a double-barreled shotgun and sharpen the prosthetic hook which has replaced his right hand.\n\nBefore leaving for Mexico, Rane visits the bar where Linda works and invites her to go with him. She leaves with him, having no idea she is accompanying him on a vendetta. He sends her into a seedy Mexican bar to look for \"Fat Ed.\" She is taken into a backroom where a sleazy lowlife named Lopez immediately begins to harass her. Rane comes to her rescue while also extracting some information. Linda now realizes Rane's intention and though she is alarmed, continues to help. Linda is sent into another seedy bar in a nearby town, as before. Rane locates Automatic Slim and a vicious bar fight ensues; Rane only escapes by wounding Automatic Slim in the crotch with his hook hand.\n\nConducting his own investigation back in Texas, Cliff finds the sawn-off barrel of Rane's shotgun and realizes Rane's plan. Using his police contacts to trace Rane's car, Cliff finds his way to the Mexican border town in which Rane encountered Lopez. Cliff is led to Lopez, and they scuffle. After Lopez leads Cliff on a foot-chase through a stockyard into an abandoned house, a gunfight ensues. Cliff shoots and kills Lopez and two other attackers before Automatic Slim sneaks in behind him, calls to him and shoots him as he turns to respond. As a wounded Cliff crawls toward his dropped weapon, Automatic Slim mercilessly shoots him again, killing him.\n\nLinda and Rane begin to connect further while on the road, with Linda talking about her tomboy past, and Rane talking about things he liked before the war. In a motel room in El Paso, she tries to talk Rane out of revenge one last time. Despite his experiences in Hanoi and of losing his son and wife, Rane may not be as emotionally dead as he seems. Rane leaves a sleeping Linda behind in the motel (with a sizable sum of money), and despite her earlier insistence that she would call the police, she cannot bring herself to follow through, as she hangs up the phone when the police answer her call.\n\nRane, dressed in full uniform, goes to Vohden's house. Vohden, emotionally distanced from his family, asks no questions and is dressed in his Army uniform and ready to go in an instant. Rane plans to attack the remaining members of the gang in a whorehouse. Vohden goes in first and picks up a prostitute named Candy. Once they are upstairs, Rane takes out a guard in the rear yard and goes in the back entrance. Rane signals to Vohden and kicks off a bloody, violent shootout. After surprising The Texan with a hooker, Rane declares \"It's your time, boy\" before shooting him. T-Bird, Melio and several other men are dealt with likewise before the final standoff between Rane and Automatic Slim. Rane kills him, emotionlessly shooting him several times. Bloodied and wounded, Rane and Vohden, supporting each other, walk out of the brothel.\n\nThe film was originally written in 1973 for AIP, where Larry Gordon was head of production. Gordon took the script with him when he left for Columbia, and for a time Schrader was going to direct. However that fell through and the film was set up at 20th Century Fox.\n\nJohn Milius said Schrader wrote the movie for Milius to direct but Milius turned it down. \"I didn’t think I wanted to do something that dark at the time...Boy it was a good script, with wonderful stuff in it. Paul at his best.\"\n\nSchrader's script was rewritten by Heywood Gould. It starred William Devane who John Flynn says \"back then they were priming ... [him] to be a big film star.\"\n\nThe movie was shot in San Antonio, Texas in 31 days. Flynn:\nWe knew we were doing something fairly bold. The producer, Lawrence Gordon, told me to shoot the garbage disposal scene like open-heart surgery, make it as bloody as I possibly could. So I did. When we submitted \"Rolling Thunder\" to the MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America) for a rating, we expected deep cuts, but the censors passed uncut one of the most violent movies in the history of film. \"Rolling Thunder\" was given an R rating!\n\nThe film was originally produced and scheduled for release by Twentieth Century-Fox. The studio previewed it in San Jose in an audience who had just watched the Dirty Harry film, \"The Enforcer\".\n\nDirector John Flynn later explained, \"The first 20 minutes of the film were placid by design -- Devane's homecoming, reunited with his family. Then violence overtakes this family. In the space of two minutes, Devane's hand is ground off and his wife and son are shot dead before his eyes.\"\n\nThe preview audience did not react well to this. In his book, \"Adventures in the Screen Trade\", William Goldman characterized this as \"the most violent sneak reaction of recent years ... the audience actually got up and tried to physically abuse the studio personnel present among them.\"\n\n\"The lobby looked like Guadalcanal,\" recalled producer Larry Gordon. \"Which, by the way, is a salesman's dream.\"\n\nFlynn says Twentieth Century-Fox screened the film for psychiatrists in an attempt to learn what it was that so disturbed the audience. Recalls Flynn, \"They determined that it was like a symbolic castration. So, seeing it incited a (negative) reaction akin to the sneak of the original \"Exorcist\" ...Home is supposedly the place where everyone feels safest. When people are reminded that the home is vulnerable, which we all know it is, that's disturbing.\"\n\nFlynn says, \"There were several discussions about what Fox should do with \"Rolling Thunder\" -- cut it, re-edit it or what.\" Fox insisted on making cuts to the film but Gordon refused and he took the movie to AIP to distribute.\n\nWilliam Devane later recalled:\nIt probably would've made a big difference if they'd actually released it properly. But when they tested it... the Mexicans set the theater on fire! They were really, really, really down on it. So then the studio backed way off, and it never got the release it would've if they'd really jumped on it and supported it. But I didn't understand how to operate in those days. I still don't know how to operate. [Laughs.] But a movie star guy would've done everything he could to force them to release it properly, you know? And Tommy [Lee Jones] and I were just starting. God, that was the first featured role I ever did. Good picture, though. It's a really good picture... You know, they tried to do the same thing to Warren Beatty with \"Bonnie and Clyde\". But Warren was hip enough and smart enough and knew how to put enough pressure on them to get them to release that picture. And I didn't know how to do that. I didn't have any idea.\n\nFlynn says American International Pictures \"distributed it, as is, without re- cutting it. It made them a fortune.\"\n\nFor reasons still not convincingly stated, the film was released in Spain in 1982 as \"El expreso de Corea\" (\"The Korean Express\"), sometimes spelled in the media with a hyphen (\"ex-preso\"), which translates as \"The former prisoner [literally, \"convict\"] from Korea\". A Korean War setting was included as well in the Spanish dubbing instead of the original Vietnam War scenario. A possible reason could be the title's slight similarity with the hugely successful \"El expreso de medianoche\" (Midnight Express), which was released earlier in Spain. However, the replacement of Vietnam by Korea is still left unexplained—even more so considering the fact that the time span of the Korean War, 1950–1953, conflicts with the alleged 7-year stay as POWs in the camp and the actual 1973 setting of the film.\n\nUpon release, \"Rolling Thunder\" received praise for its action sequences, atmosphere, direction, music and cast performances, but was criticized for its pace and violent climax. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a \"Fresh\" rating of 86% based on 14 reviews with an audience rating of 78% (Liked It). Gary Arnold of \"The Washington Post\" wrote in his review, \"Flynn's crisp, laconic direction and evocative use of Southern Texas locations transform Rolling Thunder, now at area theaters, into a more distinctive exploitation movie than it deserves to be.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" noted that \"the movie has some good things, but in the way it has been directed by John Flynn it moves so easily and sort of foolishly toward its violent climax, that all the tension within the main character Charlie has long since escaped the film.\" A review in \"Variety\" noted, \"Its excellent cast performs well, but not well enough; Paul Schrader's story is strong, but not strong enough; and the violence will be too much for some and not enough for others. In sum it neither rolls nor thunders, but with luck, it might just stumble on to a portion of the audience that hailed Schrader's 'Taxi Driver.'\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film three stars out of four and wrote that \"what I like about 'Rolling Thunder' is not the predictable orgy of violence that concludes the picture, but what goes on before—the return of the veteran to his hometown and disjointed family. ... I liked its portrayal of Devane's state of mind. The emotional violence he suffers is more stunning than any physical torture.\" He ranked it #10 on his year-end list of the best films of 1977. Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" slammed the film as \"one of the most revolting exploitation pictures to come along in some time\" and called it \"some kind of ultimate in cynical calculation. The whole numbing predicament of the POW is perceptively, credibly depicted—but only to set up the carnage that follows. Surely, the POWs don't deserve this kind of exploitation on the screen.\"\n\nQuentin Tarantino has called \"Rolling Thunder\" one of his favorite films. Rolling Thunder Pictures, a company founded by Tarantino that briefly distributed reissues of cult films, was named after this film.\n\nThe film was released on Blu-ray and DVD in the United Kingdom by STUDIOCANAL on January 30, 2012.\nThe film was released on Manufactured On Demand DVD by MGM in January 2011. The film was released on Blu-ray in the United States by Shout! Factory on May 28, 2013.\n\nThe film is rated R16 in New Zealand for graphic violence, sex scenes and offensive language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324983", "title": "Hevelli", "text": "Hevelli\n\nThe Hevelli or Hevellians, also known as Stodorans (sometimes \"Havolane\"; or \"Stodoranen\"; or \"Stodoranie\"; or \"Stodorané\") were a tribe of the Polabian Slavs, who settled around the middle Havel river in the present-day Havelland region of Brandenburg in eastern Germany from the 8th century onwards. \n\nWest Slavic tribes (\"Wends\") had settled in the \"Germania Slavica\" region from the 7th century onwards. The \"Hehfeldi\" as they were called by the Bavarian Geographer about 850 built their main fortification at Brenna (later to become Brandenburg an der Havel) and a large eastern outpost at the current site of Spandau. In 906 the Hevelli princess Drahomíra married the Přemyslid duke Vratislaus I of Bohemia. Baçlabič was the prince of Hevelli from 921-936.\n\nBrenna was occupied by the German king Henry the Fowler in his 928/29 Slavic campaign and incorporated into the \"Marca Geronis\". Henry's successor Otto I in 948 established the Bishopric of Brandenburg in order to Christianize the pagan population. These efforts were aborted in the course of the 983 Great Slav Rising in the Northern March, which again defied German control over the region. Together with the neighbouring Sprevane in the east, the Hevelli waged war against not only the German Saxon forces to the west, but also other Slavic tribes. \n\nThe baptized Hevelli prince Pribislav (died 1150) finally bequested his lands to the Ascanian count Albert the Bear. Albert until 1157 could re-conquer the territory of the former Northern March, whereafter he established the Margraviate of Brandenburg. The Slavic Hevelli were gradually assimilated by German settlers in the course of the \"Ostsiedlung\".\n\n\ngenealogie-mittelalter.de (German)\n"}
{"id": "2324984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324984", "title": "Kalki (novel)", "text": "Kalki (novel)\n\nKalki is a 1978 pre/post-apocalyptic novel by American author Gore Vidal.\n\n\"Kalki\" is narrated by Theodora (Teddy) Ottinger, a Southern Californian aviator (\"aviatrix\" in the text) and author, who, after publishing a book called \"Beyond Motherhood\", comes to the attention of Kalki, the leader of a Kathmandu-based religious cult. The cult secretly makes its money through selling drugs and then gives it away using \"lotus lotteries\". Kalki claims to be God and that he is the final Avatar of Vishnu, who is going to end the human race on April 3. The planet will then be rid of the wicked and a fresh, clean start will usher in a new golden age. Ottinger suspects that Kalki will create a worldwide nuclear chain reaction which will annihilate every living thing and leave the planet uninhabitable.\n\nHowever, when the threatened apocalypse does occur, it does not take the form that Ottinger feared, although it still comes to pass, and the human species still succumbs to extinction as a consequence.\n\nThe novel covers many cultural and political topics such as overpopulation, birth control, bisexuality and feminism.\n\nJames J. Kelly, a former soldier in the American military, finds out that the American and Soviet governments are about to conduct tests of a new kind of neutron bomb called the \"model b\" or the nC, which will kill every living thing on the planet, leaving it uninhabitable for centuries. The American generals know the cataclysmic effects of conducting these tests but they acquiesce to the tests anyway, ignoring a report provided to the National Security Council which predicts the end of the world if six or more nCs are simultaneously exploded. Mistakenly assured that the Soviets would not explode reciprocating nCs, the generals are unwittingly about to destroy the whole world.\n\nKelly decides to save the human race through an elaborate religious hoax, declaring himself to be Kalki and announcing the end of the world. His secret plan is to kill off everyone in the world except for himself and his wife Lakshmi. These two would then be the last living human couple on the planet. They would be the Adam and Eve to a new human race, giving birth to three sons and six daughters over the next twelve years, who would then intermarry and in about two centuries, the world would be fairly well populated again.\n\nIn addition to himself and his wife, Kalki decides to bring along three more people to his new world, teachers called Perfect Masters, chosen for their knowledge and the fact that they are all sterile. These three people will teach various fields of science to the new race. Teddy Ottinger will teach engineering, Geraldine O'Connor biology and genetics, and Dr. Giles Lowell medicine. Kalki's wife Lakshmi is herself a physicist, and Kalki is a chemical engineer.\n\nKalki succeeds in carrying out his plan and the \"entire\" world dies, leaving behind only Kalki, his wife Lakshmi and the three other Perfect Masters. However, Kalki's plans go awry when Lakshmi miscarries the first baby girl and it is learnt that Lakshmi is incapable of having children with Kalki. At this point, the only other male in the group, Dr. Lowell, announces that he never had a vasectomy and is the only one now with whom Lakshmi can conceive a child. It had been his plan all along to be the one to father the new human race with Lakshmi, whom he claims to be in love with. When Dr. Lowell admits his treachery, Kalki kills him.\n\nThe story ends with a bleak postscript from Kelly/Kalki, 43 years after the apocalyptic plague. In the interim period, Teddy died 27 years after the plague and Geraldine (Teddy's lover and Kalki's second consort) died, as has Lakshmi. Kalki has become the last human alive, and with his death, the human species will become extinct. It is implied that simians will inherit the post-apocalyptic world.\n\n\n\"Kalki\" was a finalist for the 1978 Nebula Award for Best Novel.\n\nChristopher Lehmann-Haupt gave \"Kalki\" a mixed review, saying that while the story is initially entertaining, \"an icy wind blows throughout the novel, and when all is said and done that wind has blasted the characters and plot of \"Kalki\" into just so many opinions ... By the end, it doesn't seem like fiction at all that we're reading, but just another clever dissertation by Gore Vidal.\"\n\n\"Time\" critic R. Z. Sheppard took a more favorable view, finding the novel \"an amusing, brittle tissue of truths culled largely from the journalistic sources Vidal enjoys satirizing.\" He described \"Kalki\" as \"an apocalyptical extravaganza that craftily combines feminism, homosexuality, mysticism, science fiction, fiction science, the second law of thermodynamics, the first law of survival, high fashion and low animal cunning\" and its plot as \"diabolically clever.\"\n\nOrson Scott Card, writing expressly from a genre perspective, faulted Vidal's narrator as \"intensely boring,\" but praised the apocalyptic conclusion: \"Kalki left me with the haunting feeling that there was something grateful about four billion people leaving life suddenly, without panic. without a chance to soil their last moments with repentance or greed.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2324992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324992", "title": "Sprevane", "text": "Sprevane\n\nThe Sprevane or Sprevani (; Slavonic: \"Sprevjane\") were a Slavic tribe who lived around the river Spree, where Berlin is now, in the Brandenburg area of eastern Germany. They were first recorded in 948 and again in 965 as living in the territory of the Holy Roman Empire under Otto I, Holy Roman Emperor. Archaeological finds point to them coming to the area in the 8th century, and by 825 they started to build a settlement in today's Köpenick, a district of Berlin.\n\nTheir name is from \"Sprevja\" (the local Slavonic form of the river name Spree, meaning \"to the right side\") plus the Slavonic ethnic suffix \"-an\" (= the one living in that area) and \"-e\" meaning plural. The Germanized form, \"Sprewanen\", may have been influenced by the German verb \"wohnen\" (in Old High German, \"wonen\"), meaning \"to dwell\", but is also correct German plural of singular Sprevan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2324994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324994", "title": "Cycling Australia", "text": "Cycling Australia\n\nCycling Australia (CA), the trading name of the Australian Cycling Federation Inc, is the national governing body for bicycle racing in Australia, and represents the interests of affiliated cycling clubs and State federations. It covers the disciplines of road, track, mountain bike, cyclo-cross, BMX. In 2013, Cycling Australia had nearly 50,000 members including Mountain Bike Australia (MTBA) and BMX Australia (BMXA) members.\n\nCycling Australia is a member of the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) and the Oceanian Cycling Confederation (OCC). Is also recognised by the Australian Government, the Australian Olympic Committee, the Australian Commonwealth Games Association and the Australian Paralympic Committee.\n\nUnder the direction of Charlie Walsh at the Australian Institute of Sport and national cycling coach from 1980 to 2001, Australia's international cycling performance ranking moved from between 20 and 30 in track cycling in the world, to the number one ranked nation in 1993 and 1994, and placed third at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney.\n\nThe national coaching team of Shayne Bannan, Martin Barras, Ian McKenzie and Neil Stephens built on this foundation to take Australia to the leading nation in track cycling at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens.\n\nIn late 2011, federal Sports Minister Kate Lundy called for an investigation into Cycling Australia. A review by Justice James Wood produced a 95-page report which described the organisation's set-up as outdated and complicated. In 2012, the national coach Matt White was sacked due to his admissions regarding performance-enhancing drugs. Stephen Hodge stepped down as vice-president for similar reasons following the publicity surrounding the Lance Armstrong doping allegations.\n\nThe federation suffered financial problems in the early 2010s, after the approval of a strategy in 2010, which attempted to increase Cycling Australia's revenue through a programme of events organisation, led to the organisation making significant losses, compounded by lower than expected sponsorship revenue. Under the subsequent short-term presidency of Orica-GreenEDGE team owner Gerry Ryan, the federation's involvement in events organisation reduced, a new board was appointed and a A$2 million loan package was agreed with the Australian Sports Commission, state affiliates and Mountain Bike Australia.\n\nCycling Australia 8 operation departments.\n\nCycling Australia has 9 advisory and planning commissions.\n\nCycling Australia is affiliated with following:\n\nThere is a bicycle racing body in each Australian state and territory:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2324996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2324996", "title": "Sal Solo", "text": "Sal Solo\n\nSal Solo (born Christopher Scott Stevens, 5 September 1961, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, England) is an English singer.\n\nSolo began his career with an obscure band called The News, who only released one 7\" single on GTO Records. He then went on to join seminal punk band Rigormortis, who he recorded several demos with, but remained unsigned due to Solo's departure (drummer Johnnie HaHa and guitarist Steve Savage went on to form Alien Sex Fiend). Later, he achieved fame as the lead vocalist of the pop group, Classix Nouveaux, whom the music press had associated with the then burgeoning New Romantic movement. They released three albums with EMI Records. Solo also achieved some notability as the singer for the French space rock group Rockets, (who sold a million and a half albums in Italy), for their last three albums, after they gave up their former space rock image.\n\nClassix Nouveaux had number one hits in Poland, Portugal, Israel, Iceland and other countries in the early 1980s. They also had one Top 20 and various other Top 50 hits in the United Kingdom, including \"Is It a Dream\", which reached No. 11 in the UK Singles Chart. They toured extensively in more than 30 countries, selling out big arenas. Their most fanatical following was, and still is, in Poland, where they were one of the first Western bands to tour in Communist times, after martial law was lifted.\n\nAfter a pilgrimage to San Damiano, a small village in Italy near Piacenza, Solo embraced the Roman Catholic faith of his childhood and continued in the music industry for a short time. He had a solo hit with \"San Damiano (Heart And Soul)\" which reached No. 15 in the UK Singles Chart, and went to No. 1 in Poland; and a minor hit with \"Music and You\". For \"San Damiano\", he was backed by boy choristers from the St Philip's Choir, but the first television clip (made in Poland, inside the Palace of Culture and Science, directed by Ryszard Karpiński) was recorded with a Polish boys' choir – Lutnia from Warsaw. In 2003, Aled Jones recorded a new version of \"San Damiano\" for his album \"Higher\", which remained in the UK Albums Chart Top 40 for several weeks, and earned a silver disc. The song has also been recorded by other artists, including Angel Voices (St. Philip's Choir), which released their own all-treble version.\n\nAfter 1987, Solo stopped recording music commercially, and became active in youth ministry in the Catholic Church in the UK. During this time, he continued to write and perform new music and in the early 1990s, he released three albums of Christian music through the Christian record label, Word Records, followed by several more released independently. His latest recordings and videos can be found on his own website and on sites such as Myspace and YouTube. In 1999, he moved to Chicago and now works with Catholic teens in the United States and other parts of the world, speaking on matters of faith and justice, and giving concerts and youth retreats.\n\nIn 1997, EMI Gold issued \"The Very Best of Classix Nouveaux\". The original three Classix Nouveaux albums, and his MCA solo album, have now all been reissued on CD by Cherry Red Records in the UK and the company has also issued a compilation of A and B-sides. There is also a live album of a 1982 concert in Strathclyde, Glasgow, issued by River Records in Scotland. Several Classix Nouveaux television and live appearances and music videos can be found on YouTube. However, no concert DVDs have ever been released. Solo says he threw away all the old Classix footage when he left the UK, as he did not think anyone would ever be interested in it again.\n\nHis 20th album, on social justice themes entitled \"We Cry Justice!\", was released in February 2009 by HeartBeat Records in the U.S., and marked a departure from his other recent albums both in the world music style and justice themes, and the fact that it is not a specifically Christian music album. Since the early '80s, he has occasionally produced other artists, and is now busy producing young up and coming singers. The first two albums from those projects were released in 2012 on The Buzz label.\n\nAlbums\n\n"}
{"id": "2325002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325002", "title": "Paul de Kruif", "text": "Paul de Kruif\n\nPaul Henry de Kruif (, rhyming with \"life\") (1890–1971) was an American microbiologist and author of Dutch descent. Publishing as Paul de Kruif, he is most noted for his 1926 book, \"Microbe Hunters\". This book was not only a bestseller for a lengthy period after publication, but has remained high on lists of recommended reading for science and has been an inspiration for many aspiring physicians and scientists.\n\nDe Kruif was born March 2, 1890, in Zeeland, Michigan. In 1912, he graduated from the University of Michigan with a bachelor's degree, and he remained there to obtain a Ph.D., which was granted in 1916. He immediately entered service as a Private in Mexico on the Pancho Villa Expedition and afterwards served as a Lieutenant and a Captain in World War I in France. Because of his service in the Sanitary Corps, he had occasional contacts with leading French biologists of the period.\n\nAfter returning to the University of Michigan as an Assistant Professor, De Kruif briefly worked for the Rockefeller Institute (for Medical Research). He then became a full-time writer.\n\nDe Kruif assisted Sinclair Lewis with his Pulitzer Prize-winning novel \"Arrowsmith\" (1925) by providing the scientific and medical information required by the plot, along with character sketches. Even though Lewis was listed as the sole author, De Kruif's contribution was significant, and he received 25 percent of the royalties. Many believe the characters in the novel represent people known to De Kruif, with Martin Arrowsmith (a physician, unlike de Kruif) possibly representing himself.\n\nWhile working for the Rockefeller Institute, De Kruif submitted an anonymous entry about modern medicine, for a book entitled \"Civilization\". In the article, he decried the state of contemporary medical practice, which, because it lacked scientifically sound practices, he called \"medical Ga-Ga-ism\". De Kruif decried doctors as providing only a \"mélange of religious ritual, more or less accurate folk-lore, and commercial cunning\". When it was discovered that De Kruif was the author of the essay, he was fired from the Rockefeller Institute.\n\nRonald Ross, one of the scientists featured in \"Microbe Hunters\", took exception to how he was described, so the British edition deleted that chapter to avoid a libel suit.\n\nDe Kruif was a staff writer for the \"Ladies' Home Journal\", \"Country Gentleman\", and the \"Readers Digest\", contributing articles on science and medicine. He also served on commissions to promote research into infantile paralysis (polio).\n\n\"The Sweeping Wind\", De Kruif's last book, is his autobiography. \n\nDe Kruif died February 28, 1971, in Holland, Michigan.\n\n\n\n\nDe Kruif's celebrated 1926 book \"Microbe Hunters\" consists of chapters on the following figures of medicine's \"Heroic Age\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325013", "title": "Los Hermanos", "text": "Los Hermanos\n\nLos Hermanos is a rock band from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The group was formed in 1997 by Marcelo Camelo (vocals/guitar), Rodrigo Amarante (guitar/vocals), Rodrigo Barba (drums), and Bruno Medina (keyboards/keyboard bass). Currently they are on an extended hiatus, performing some concerts sporadically.\n\nAlthough the band is Brazilian, the name is Spanish, meaning \"the brothers\", which would be \"Os Irmãos\" in Portuguese.\n\nThen students from Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Marcelo Camelo (Journalism), and Rodrigo Barba (Psychology) formed a band that mixed the hardcore influences with the lightness of lyrics about love. In addition, the band had a saxophonist, and, later, the keyboardist Bruno Medina, Advertising student at the same college, was incorporated to the group. When the musicians Rodrigo Amarante (vocals, guitar and percussion) and Patrick Laplan (bass) joined the band, and with the output of three musicians of their formation (trumpeter Marcio and saxophonists Carlos and Victor), they recorded in 1997 their first material, the demos \"Chora\" and \"Amor e Folia.\"\n\nThe demos affected the underground scene of Rio de Janeiro and later the Los Hermanos were called to play at the \"Superdemos\", a great independent music festival from Rio, and festival Abril Pro Rock, in Recife, Pernambuco.\n\nThe two demos eventually found their way to the hands of Paulo André, the producer of the \"Abril Pro Rock\" festival, in Recife. The band was then invited to perform on one of the biggest alternative music festivals in Brazil, the \"Superdemo\". Their first album self-titled album, released in 1999, became a huge seller on the back of the hit single \"Anna Júlia\". The album's success was driven by the song \"Anna Julia\" chosen - for the record - as the first single, for it was a number that resonated among young people, identified with the Jovem Guarda style lyrics, mixed to a musical group influenced by rock, ska and samba. The album was produced by famed producer Rick Bonadio, known for his work with bands that were selling-phenomena. According to Bonadio, he had been responsible for convincing the band to put the song in the final selection of the repertoire CD. The single was inspired by a band producer's affair, and brought the band not only to radio stations across the country, but also to various events, such as agricultural fairs and soccer games stadiums and micaretas, and to play for more than 80,000 people in some of the country festivals, even with only one record released. The band was a regular on popular television shows. In just one semester, \"Anna Julia\" was already included in the top positions of the leading radio stations in the country. Its music video, which featured the actress Mariana Ximenes, was constantly displayed on programs dedicated to both gender in channels such as MTV. In just one year, \"Los Hermanos\" sold 300,000 copies emplacado and two singles in the hit parade, as the aforementioned \"Anna Julia\" and the second single, \"Primavera\". The album also spawned a Grammy nomination in 2000. In the Multishow award, in 2000, the band won the \"Best Song\" award with \"Anna Julia\", beating competitors such as Chico Buarque. Camelo said, \"Man, I do not even know what to say, I feel embarrassed to win a prize in a category where Chico Buarque is competing.\".\nThe success of \"Anna Júlia\", in a general sense, overshadowed the rest of their career, leading some to think they are a one-hit wonder, despite experiencing success among fans and music enthusiasts with other works. The song has been covered by many different artists, including Jim Capaldi with the guitar solo being played by George Harrison, in his last recorded work.\n\nAfter the success of their first album, in 2001 the band released \"Bloco do Eu Sozinho\", leaving behind the hardcore sound that highlighted their debut, instead favouring a mix of rock, samba, and other Brazilian rhythms. Some of the songs on this album were played at Rock in Rio III. The band lost bassist Patrick Laplan, who alleged musical differences and started his own band, Eskimo. \"Bloco...\" surprised much of the public by being an album with (almost) no resemblance to its predecessor. The euphoria of the first CD was not repeated in sales and the band went on to play in smaller venues, with the decrease of their audience. But from that point, the band gained a major ally in their walk: the public, which showed itself always more faithful. Songs like \"Todo Carnaval tem seu Fim\" (first single), \"A Flor\" and \"Sentimental\", among others, have become minor hits, despite not much airplay. After the release of the album, the critics begin to praise it. It later gained some more notoriety, in the wake of big divergences between the band and their label. The guitarist Rodrigo Amarante, now had more space in the band, with compositions like \"Retrato Pra Iaiá\", \"Sentimental\", \"Cher Antoine\" and \"A Flor\" (this one with Marcelo Camelo). Their road back to a bigger audience was followed by their participation in \"Fordsupermodels\" (the band played on a stage, doing the soundtrack for the fashion show) and Luau MTV, a MTV show on which were included, in acoustic versions, songs from the first and second CDs, to later be released on DVD. \"Bloco do Eu Sozinho\", in spite of being considered (nowadays) as one of the best Brazilian rock albums of all time, did not have much impact in the media, mainly due to the conflicts with the label Abril Music.\n\nThe follow-up to \"Bloco do Eu Sozinho\", \"Ventura\", was released in 2003, and the band's sound was even more influenced by samba, choro and bossa nova. Although these albums weren't as commercially successful as \"Los Hermanos\", they were acclaimed by critics and generated a strong cult following which propelled the band to be regarded as one of the defining alternative rock acts in Brazil, mainly because of their elaborate lyrics and their mixture of Brazilian rhythms with rock.\n\nThe year 2003 arrived and already in BMG (now Sony Music), the Hermanos released the album \"Ventura\". Called \"Bonança\" at first, it was the first Brazilian disc to virtually \"leak\" in its pre-production phase. The third album featured a multi-faceted Los Hermanos. Of \"Samba a Dois\" to the pop rock of \"O Vencedor\", or with the dialogues of \"Conversa de Botas Batidas\" and \"Do Lado de Dentro\", \"Ventura\" was the album that consolidated the band on the national scene. The first single, \"Cara Estranho\", had good presence on the radio and was nominated to some music video awards. Then came \"O Vencedor\" and \"Último Romance\", the latter composed by Rodrigo Amarante, who wrote five of the 15 songs on the CD and started to stand out as a songwriter. The singer Maria Rita, in her eponymous album, recorded three songs of Marcelo Camelo: \"Santa Chuva\", \"Cara Valente\" and \"Veja Bem, Meu Bem\". The shows began to house a legion of fans who had become the trademark of the band. It was on the tour of \"Ventura\" that it was shot the concert that became the DVD \"Live at Cine Íris\". Recorded in Rio de Janeiro, it contained predominantly their latest CD's repertoire. The band also recorded the soundtrack for the short film \"Castanho\", by Eduardo Valente, where the disco style was very evident in the early version of \"Talk ...\" and the song known only as \"Tema do Macaco\".\n\nIn the presentation of the band in the VMB 2003, they were presented by singer and composer Caetano Veloso. In announcing the band, Veloso put a fake red beard, like all members of the front rows of the awards. The action was classified as \"embarrassing\" by keyboardist Bruno Medina.\n\nIn January 2004, the band performed in Domingão do Faustão, a famous TV show in Brazil. During the show, the band played the song \"Anna Julia\", due to the insistence of the presenter Fausto Silva, who said that the band \"never played\" the song. The band received an e-mail from a fan, questioning and criticizing the presenter. This criticism was refuted by keyboardist Bruno Medina, at the very site of banda.\n\nIn July 2004, the singer Marcelo Camelo was assaulted by Chorão, vocalist of the band Charlie Brown Jr.. The attack occurred in the arrivals hall of Fortaleza airport and the aggressor came to be arrested by Federal Police. Even after a note apologizing for the event, Chorão was sued by Camelo and had to compensate the singer for moral damages and reimbursement of canceled commitments. The attack occurred because of statements from Marcelo Camelo and Rodrigo Amarante, in the OI magazine, on the then recent advertising campaign for Coca-Cola soft drink brand. On the occasion, Charlie Brown Jr. was contracted and, in the video, questioned a boy who did not agree with the items offered in commercial.\n\nIn 2008, both \"Bloco do Eu Sozinho\" and \"Ventura\" figured in Rolling Stone magazine's list \"The Top 100 Brazilian Albums of All Time\", placing 42nd and 68th, respectively.\n\nIn 2005 came the fourth CD of the band, \"4\". Produced by Alexandre Kassin, who had also produced the last two albums, it showed a more introspective content and a more impactful approach to MPB. The record, however, would be considered \"irregular\" by the critics. Whether it was the acoustic guitar in \"Sapato Novo\" and bossa \"Fez-se Mar\" or the predominance of a nostalgic mood in the lyrics of Camelo and Amarante, \"4\" again divided the public: the band was in another new direction. The album had a successful single, \"O Vento\", by guitarist Rodrigo Amarante. It was followed by \"Condicional\" and \"Morena\" (the videos for both songs were shot at the same time, with the band playing live, in a room).\n\nIn 2006 the band toured Portugal with The Strokes for the second time and Spain with Portuguese band Toranja.\n\nOn April 23, 2007, after ten years of uninterrupted career work, the band announced a recess for an undetermined time span (hiatus). The note on the official website affirmed that there were no quarrels whatsoever among the band members, the reason for the recess simply being each one's need of time to dedicate to other personal activities. On the same note the band also announced its three final performances on June 7, 8 and 9th, in Rio de Janeiro. The two vocalists of the band released, in 2008, their first personal projects, during the hiatus of the band. Camelo released his brand new album, called Sou, and later another one, called \"Toque Dela\" (2011), while Amarante joined Fabrizio Moretti, drummer of The Strokes, and Binki Shapiro to form the band Little Joy. He also played with the supergroup Orquestra Imperial. In 2013, he released his first solo work, Cavalo (album). Rodrigo Barba went to play drums in the bands Jason and Canastra.\n\nIn 2009, Los Hermanos played at \"Just a Fest\" festival at São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, along with Kraftwerk and Radiohead. But, according to Bruno Medina, these two concerts didn't mean the band would record an album soon.\n\nIn 2010 they played in the SWU Music & Arts Festival and four additional gigs, but without hints of a future reunion or a new album.\n\nTo celebrate the 15th anniversary of the band, in 2012 they toured 13 cities around Brazil.\n\nIn December 2014, it was announced that the band would be headlining three concerts at Marina da Glória during the official celebrations of the 450th anniversary of the band's hometown, Rio de Janeiro, in 2015. After the announcement of these concerts, more than 27.000 fans asked via the crowdfunding website \"Queremos!\" for a tour around other cities in Brazil, that was soon announced, including 8 more cities. A fourth date at Marina da Glória was announced due to high tickets demand.\n\nIn 2015, Marcelo Camelo and his wife, the singer/songwriter Mallu Magalhães, had their first child. They live now in Portugal.\n\nIn 2019, they've released a new single in 14 years, \"Corre, Corre\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325016", "title": "Joan Dixon", "text": "Joan Dixon\n\nJoan Dixon (June 6, 1930 in Norfolk, Virginia – February 20, 1992 in Los Angeles) was an American film and television actress in the 1950s. She is known for her role in the film noir \"Roadblock\" (1951).\n\nDixon's career, while under contract at RKO Pictures, was in the hands of Howard Hughes. He attempted but failed to make her into the star he made of Jane Russell (whom Dixon resembled). Hughes had personal contracts with Dixon, Russell, and Janis Carter.\n\nIn September 1952, it was revealed that Hughes had an agreement with the Ralph E. Stolkin syndicate to lend RKO Pictures the sum of $8,000,000. The loan commitment was made as part of a sales accord following losses sustained by RKO in the previous two years. Earlier Hughes controlled RKO Radio studio.\n\nJoan eloped and married Chicago, Illinois camera manufacturer Theodore (Ted) Briskin in October 1952. Briskin was formerly the husband of Betty Hutton, having married and divorced her twice. Dixon and Briskin were married in a surprise ceremony in the wedding chapel of the Flamingo Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada. She was 23 and he was 35. Their marriage lasted but three weeks, with Dixon leaving Briskin in early November 1952. She was later married to writer William Driscoll, but they divorced in 1959.\n\nThe actress appeared in ten films (mostly westerns), co-starring in a number of cowboy pictures with Tim Holt. She had a starring role in a 1950 crime drama, \"Experiment Alcatraz\". Dixon appeared on a few television programs, including episodes of \"The Ford Television Theatre\" (1957) and \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" (1956).\n\nShe also performed as a vocalist at Dean Martin's nightclub, Dino's Lodge in Los Angeles, California, in December 1960.\n\nShe died on February 20, 1992, in Los Angeles at age 61.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325021", "title": "Firozabad", "text": "Firozabad\n\nFirozabad is a city near Agra in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. It is the centre of India's glassmaking industry and is known for the quality of the bangles and also glasswares produced there.\n\nDuring the reign of Akbar, revenue was brought through the city, which was looted by the afghans. Akbar sent his army led by Firoz Shah Mansab Dar to make the city a cantonment to collect taxes and the city was named after him. The tomb of Firoz Shah is still present today. From early times, it was famous for glass and bangle works, and its related small scale industry is famous throughout the world. The landowners of Firozabad hail from the Sayed, Manihar, Pathan and the Hindu Rajput castes.\nFirozabad is located in north central India, in Uttar Pradesh, 37 km from Agra and around 230 km away from Delhi, at the northern edge of the Deccan Plateau, at . It is located 164 meters (540 ft). \\ above sea level.\n\nThe boundaries of Firozabad district touch Etah district in north and Mainpuri and Etawah districts in the east. The Yamuna river makes its southern boundary. The area of the district is about 0.8% of the total area of Uttar Pradesh, and the population is 1.1% of the state's total population. Approximately 73.6% of the population lives in rural areas. More than half of the workforce is engaged in manufacturing activities. The city is also an important market centre. It has moderate to severe winter and summer seasons. Child labour specially female child labour is practised widely in this city.\n\nThe name Firozabad was given in the regime of Akbar by Firoz Shah Mansab Dar in 1566, the Battle of Chandrawar, between Kannauj and Mohd Ghori was fought here.It is said that Todarmal was passing through this town, on a pilgrimage to Gaya. He was robbed by robbers. At his request, Akbar, sent his Mansab Dar Firoz Shah here. He landed near or about Datauji, Rasoolpur, Mohammadpur Gajmalpur, Sukhmalpur Nizamabad, Prempur Raipura. The tomb of Firoz Shah and ruins of his residence haveli in Katra Pathanan now almost disappeared are the evidence of this fact.\n\nMr. Peter, a businessman working for the Dutch East India Company visited Firozabad on 9 August, 1632, and found the town in good condition. It is written in the gazetteer of Agra and Mathura that in 1596 Faraz was upgraded to a \"pargana\". Faraz was bestowed to Nawab Sadulla Khan as \"jagir\", in the regime of Shahjahan. Jahangir ruled here from 1605 to 1627. Etawah, Budaun, Mainpuri, Faraz were under first class mansabdar of emperor Farrukhsiar. Baji Rao I looted Firozabad and Etmadpur in 1737 in the regime of Mohammad Shah. Jats of Mahawan attacked Faujdar Hakim Kajim ali bahadur jang at Firozabad and killed him on 9 May 1739. Jats ruled Firozabad for 30 years. Gajuddin, Hidayat Vaksh son of Alamgir second his nephew and Mirza baba the son in law, came to Firozabad. Mirza Nabab Khan stayed here till 1782. In the end of the 18th century, Firozabad was ruled by Himmat Bahadur with co-operation of Marathas. The French Army chief of Marathas, D. Wayan, established an ordnance factory in November 1794. Mr. Thomas Traving also mentioned this fact in his book \"Travels in India\". Marathas appointed his subedar Lakwadads here who made a fort near old tehsil, known at present as garie.\n\nGeneral Lek and General Vellajally attacked Firozabad in 1802. In the beginning of British regime Firozabad was in Etawah district but after some time it was attached to Aligarh district. When Sadabad was created as a new district in 1832, Firozabad was attached to it. Later on, in 1833 Firozabad was attached to Agra district. In 1847, the business of lac was flourishing at Firozabad.\n\nIn 1857, zamindar of Firozabad with local public took active parts in freedom struggle. Famous Urdu poet Munir Shikohabadi too was sentenced to Kala pani by the British East India Company government. People of this city took part in \"Khilafat Movement\", \"Quit India Movement\", and \"Namak Satyagrah\" and went to the jail during these national movements. In 1929, Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi, in 1935 Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, in 1937 Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru and in 1940 Subhas Chandra Bose visited Pandit Banarasi Das Chaturvedi, a two time member of Parliament - said to be the father of Hindi Journalism and the recipient of Padma Bushan. Firozabad district was finally established on 5 February 1989. In 2015 it became a Nagar Nigam.\n\nFirozabad is located at . It has an average elevation of 164 metres (538 ft).\n\nThe lowest recorded temperature in Firozabad was −1 °C; the highest was 48 °C.\n\n India census, Firozabad City had a population of 603,797. Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. Firozabad has an average literacy rate of 75.01% higher than the national average of 74%: male literacy is 85.32%, and female literacy is 63%. In Firozabad, 16% of the population is under 6 years of age\n\nFirozabad railway station served by the Delhi-Howrah trunk route of the Indian Railways. Several trains serve the city connecting it to long and short distanced destinations including New Delhi, Howrah, Mumbai, Kanpur, Lucknow, Jaipur, Jammu Tawi, Amritsar, Jamshedpur, Patna, Aligarh, Agra, Hathras, Puri, Ajmer, Ambala, Bareilly, Mathura, Etawah, Gorakhpur and Tundla.\n\nTundla Junction railway station in the Tundla town (20 km west of Firozabad city on National Highway 2) of the Firozabad District is a major railway station of North Central Railways. Due to its proximity to Agra several trains on the Delhi Howrah route which don't stop at Firozabad station make a stop at Tundla Junction hence serving Firozabad as well as Agra cities. \n\nThe city is 45 km east from Agra on National Highway 19 which makes it an important stopover for the transport vehicles on this highway. Firozabad hence is connected to several bus services to the Western and Eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh state. Due to proximity to Agra and hence the borders of Uttar Pradesh with Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh states several inter-state bus services also serve the city. Intra-city transport typically consists of Rickshaws and 3-wheelers\n\nThe City is well connected with Yamuna Expressway and Taj Expressway to national capital New Delhi and state capital Lucknow respectively.\n\nSince few years, Firozabad has been suffering with a severe water pollution problem. The water has been polluted by the indiscriminate discharge of wastes by the industries, causing a literal water \"crisis\". The water has been tendered practically unusable. Citizens have no option but to install water purifiers at home and use packaged drinking water for consumption.\n\nAir pollution by Firozabad's industries have been held responsible among other contributors for the corrosion of the famous Taj Mahal's white marble, due to acid rain and polluted air. Firozabad was then added as part of Taj Trapezium in 1996, which banned the use of coal/ coke in industries located there, the introduction to Gas Pipeline from Gas Authority of India Limited in the glass industries have reduced it to some extent.\n\nShastri Market located in heart of city, is a main shopping market in Firozabad where you can get all sort of shopping items. \nRaniwala Market is also a market located in the heart of city. The market owned entirely by Raniwalas, the family which also owns 6 Jain temples in the city. Raniwala trust is one of the prominent trusts in the city.\n\nDuring ancient times, invaders brought many glass articles to India. These glass articles when rejected, were collected and melted in locally made furnaces called \"Bhainsa Bhatti.\" In this furnace, wood was used as a fuel. These old traditional furnaces are still in use in Sasani near Aligarh and at Purdal Nagar and were originally used only for making smaller bottles and bangles. The glass industry specially the modern glass bangles technology was started and invented by Haji Rustam Ustad. The shrine of Haji Rustam Ustad is in Sofipura, a village on the bank of Yamuna River. His shrine is situated just opposite the shrine of famous sufi saint Shah Sufi. Every year a grand fair (mela) is held to pay homage to the father of Firozabad glass industry \"Haji Rustam Ustad\".This fair is attended by all people irrespective of caste, class or religion. By current production standards, only one bangle at a time can be made using these furnaces. These bangles had no joints and were locally known as \"Kadechhal Ki Chudi\". Over time, production slowly became more widespread among the locals. This was the start of the glass industry in Firozabad. Since then Firozabad has been the home of India's glass industry. White and coloured glass pieces being manufactured for the purpose of assembling jhad and fanus (chandeliers) which were in demand by royal courts and nobles for decorating their assembling and drawing rooms. Later on phials for \"Itra\", scents, and other cosmetic products were made. Gradually, Indian marriage items like bangles, \"kangan\"s, kada, etc. too began to be produced in bulk for the general public. Today, there is area known as \"Bohran Gali\" that sells bangles, kadas, kangans and other items of suhagins (married women).\n\nSince 1989, Firozabad has produced artistic glassware in different colours and shades used in chandeliers and other items. About four hundred glass industries are registered in Firozabad, making different types of glass products. They use natural gas instead of coal. Half of the production of these units is exported. Nowadays, blowing/modeling is done by the Pot Furnace and Regenerative tank furnace in the factories.\n\nFirozabad with the changing time has entered into new era of Glass Manufacturing, it has become a major hub of manufacturing different Glass based items and has registered its global presence, diversifying its industrial base and encouraging ancillary industries including Chemicals, Packaging and more of service sector based industries have flourished in a short span of time.\n\nAll sorts of glass articles, including jars, candle stands, glasses, flower vases, and electric wares such as decorative lights, bulbs and every other sort of glass articles are prepared in this city. These articles are painted with vivid colours and innovative patterns. Etching is done on some products to enhance their beauty. Decoration work is also done on some products by fixing other material on them.\n\nIn Suhag Nagari, holy center of “Jain Nagar” was established by Lt. Seth Chhadamilal. The temple is famous for 45 feet granite Idol of Bahubali largest in North India weighing more that 3500 tonnes. There are many Jain temples near this temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325023", "title": "Lübbenau", "text": "Lübbenau\n\nLübbenau/Spreewald (, ) is a town of 17,897 in the Oberspreewald-Lausitz district of Brandenburg, Germany. It is located in the Spreewald about southeast of Berlin.\n\nLübbenau was first mentioned in a sales document in 1315 but is believed to be much older due to excavations below the castle that show settlement from the 8th or 9th century.\n\nFrom 1364 to 1635, Lübbenau was part of the Kingdom of Bohemia, and then until 1815 Lübbenau was a part of the Electorate of Saxony. From 1815 to 1918, Lübbenau was governed by the Kingdom of Prussia.\n\nThe city comprises the following quarters (\"Ortsteile\"):\n\nLübbenau offers a variety of sights. Departing from the old town center, visitors can explore the marina with its traditional boats, or a castle which set in a nicely arranged park, including an orangerie with a cafe and a hotel. There are cycling routes to nearby villages, and boat rides are popular with tourists. The city wall's history dates back to the Middle Ages and the museum next to the city gate offers insights into the architecture as well as the rich history of the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325025", "title": "Alan R. Moon", "text": "Alan R. Moon\n\nAlan R. Moon (born 18 November 1951) is an author of board games, born in Southampton, England. He is generally considered to be one of the foremost designers of German-style board games. Many of his games can be seen as board game variations on the travelling salesman problem.\n\nAlan R. Moon has worked as a game designer for Avalon Hill, Parker Brothers, and Ravensburger F.X. Schmid USA. His first published game was \"Black Spy\" (Avalon Hill, 1981), inspired by the classic card game, \"Hearts\". But his first game that got him attention was \"Airlines\", published by the German company Abacus in 1990. He started his own publishing company, White Wind in 1990 and ran it until 1997. He now publishes his games through other companies, such as Ravensburger and Days of Wonder.\n\nSince 2000, Alan has been a full-time freelance game designer, with dozens of games to his credit. Moon has won the Spiel des Jahres award twice, for \"Elfenland\" in 1998 and for \"Ticket to Ride\" in 2004; \"Ticket to Ride\" has won almost two dozen other awards worldwide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325027", "title": "Corato", "text": "Corato\n\nCorato (Barese: ) is a town and \"comune\" in Italy. It is located in the Metropolitan City of Bari, Apulia, in southeastern Italy. Founded by the Normans, it became subject to Alfonso V, king of Aragon, at the end of the 15th century, and later to the Carafa family. The chief feature of the old town centre, which is surrounded by modern buildings, is the Romanesque church. It is a twin city of Grenoble, France, where many Coratini immigrated during the 20th century.\n\nCorato was founded in 1046 by Peter I of Trani, adding a castle, four angular towers, the perimetery enclosing walls, four access gates, and two main perpendicular streets. These elements, typical of a mediaeval town, were preserved until the 16th century. From the 17th century onwards Corato started to extend from all four sides of the Norman falling walls, and numerous churches and aristocratic palaces were built.\n\nToday Corato is an agricultural and industrial centre of the hinterland of Bari, placed west from it and at above sea level. It is well known for the olive production: the Coratina olive's name comes from Corato.\n\nOn 12 July 2016, a head-on collision between two passenger trains occurred near Corato. At least 23 people were killed and dozens more injured.\n\n\nCorato is twinned with:\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "2325032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325032", "title": "Bicycle Federation of Australia", "text": "Bicycle Federation of Australia\n\nThe Bicycle Federation of Australia (BFA) was the peak Australian body representing non-competitive cyclists, and directly represented over 20,000 cyclists who belonged to its affiliated groups in all states of Australia. Established in 1979 as a non-profit organisation, it advocated and lobbied Governments and the private sector for the several million Australians who ride bicycles for recreation, sport and transport. It discontinued its operations in February 2010.\n\nBFA was a member of the Cycling Promotion Alliance and was the Australian member of the European Cyclists' Federation. It previously published the \"Australian Cyclist\" magazine.\n\nMember organisations included: Pedal Power ACT, Bicycle NSW, Bicycle Queensland, Bicycle South Australia, Bicycle Institute of South Australia, the \"Cyclists' Action Group\" and the Bicycle Transportation Alliance from Western Australia, Bicycle Tasmania, Bicycle NT, Wheels of Justice and the \"Vintage Cycle Club of Victoria Inc\". In 1998 Bicycle Victoria, which has the largest membership of all Australian bicycle advocacy organisations, did not continue its affiliation with the BFA.\n\nOne of the last major acts of the BFA was to secure significant Federal funding from the Department of Health and Ageing for AustCycle. AustCycle is a joint venture between the Amy Gillett Foundation and Cycling Australia. AustCycle's role is to provide cycling training for all people who want to ride bikes for recreation and transport.\n\nSince February 2010 there had been no peak body to represent non-competitive cyclists in Australia. In August 2013 Bicycle Network announced its intention to broaden nationally and now has offices in Melbourne, Sydney, and Hobart.\n\nThe Bicycle Federation of Australia website has been archived at the Australian National Library Pandora website as a site of digital significance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325038", "title": "List of companies of the Dominican Republic", "text": "List of companies of the Dominican Republic\n\nThe Dominican Republic is a sovereign state occupying the eastern five-eighths of the island of Hispaniola, in the Greater Antilles archipelago in the Caribbean region. The country has the ninth-largest economy in Latin America and is the largest economy in the Caribbean and Central American region. Though long known for agriculture and mining, the economy is now dominated by services. Over the last two decades, the Dominican Republic have been standing out as one of the fastest-growing economies in the Americas - with an average real GDP growth rate of 5.4% between 1992 and 2014. GDP growth in 2014 and 2015 reached 7.3 and 7.0%, respectively, the highest in the Western Hemisphere. In the first half of 2016 the Dominican economy grew 7.4% continuing its trend of rapid economic growth.\n\nFor further information on the types of business entities in this country and their abbreviations, see \"Business entities in the Dominican Republic\".\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325040", "title": "Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification", "text": "Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification\n\nThe Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification (JDDJ) is a document created and agreed to by the Catholic Church's Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity (PCPCU) and the Lutheran World Federation in 1999 as a result of extensive ecumenical dialogue. It states that the churches now share \"a common understanding of our justification by God's grace through faith in Christ.\" To the parties involved, this essentially resolves the 500-year-old conflict over the nature of justification which was at the root of the Protestant Reformation. The World Methodist Council adopted the \"Declaration\" on 18 July 2006. The World Communion of Reformed Churches (representing the \"80 million members of Congregational, Presbyterian, Reformed, United, Uniting, and Waldensian churches\"), adopted the \"Declaration\" in 2017.\n\nIn substance, the PCPCU and the Lutheran World Federation acknowledge in the declaration that the excommunications relating to the doctrine of justification set forth by the Council of Trent do not apply to the teachings of the Lutheran churches set forth in the text; likewise, the churches acknowledged that the condemnations set forth in the Lutheran Confessions do not apply to the Catholic teachings on justification set forth in the document.\n\nSupport for the joint declaration was not universal among Lutherans. Of the 124 members of the Lutheran World Federation, 35 cast votes against JDDJ; these included many churches who are also members of the International Lutheran Council. Member churches of the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference even stated that \"JDDJ...should be repudiated by all Lutherans.\"\n\nSome Catholics have raised other objections. Some contend that the Lutheran signers do not have the required authority to represent their communities (since, from a Catholic perspective, they are not full churches) and, therefore, that no Lutheran can make the agreement binding on the constituents of the Lutheran World Federation. The final paragraph of the \"Annex to the Official Common Statement, \"however, settles this matter.\n\nOther Catholics object to the statement itself, arguing that it is out of line with the Council of Trent but the document is clear that it is not negating or contradicting any statements from Trent, rather it is arguing for the non-applicability of its canons to concrete Christian bodies in the modern world. The document was approved by the Vatican under the auspices of the PCPCU, which was established by Pope John XXIII at the Second Vatican Council and is headed by a Catholic bishop; thus, the declaration is (at least) an exercise of the ordinary magisterium of the episcopally consecrated individuals who authorized the statement. A clarification was issued jointly by the PCPCU and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which is also an exercise of the ordinary magisterium.\n\nOn 18 July 2006, the World Methodist Council, meeting in Seoul, South Korea, voted unanimously to adopt the document.\n\nThe leadership of the World Communion of Reformed Churches—representing 80 million members of Congregational, Presbyterian, Reformed, United, Uniting and Waldensian churches—also signed the document and formally associated with it at an ecumenical prayer service on 5 July 2017.\n\nIn 1986 the Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission (ARCIC) produced a statement called \"Salvation and the Church\", which observed that the two Communions are agreed on the essential aspects of the doctrine of salvation and on the Church’s role within it. Consequently, Anglican Consultative Council Resolution 16.17 \"welcomes and affirms the substance of the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification (JDDJ), signed by Lutherans and Roman Catholics in 1999.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2325043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325043", "title": "Chandrakant Mandare", "text": "Chandrakant Mandare\n\nChandrakant Mandhare (, (13 August 1913 – 27 February 2001) was a well-known Marathi Film actor and an artist. He played different roles in Marathi films and devoted his life to art. He was a master in paintings and powder shading.\n\nHe was the elder brother of Suryakant Mandhare.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325044", "title": "Impact (mechanics)", "text": "Impact (mechanics)\n\nIn mechanics, an impact is a high force or shock applied over a short time period when two or more bodies collide. Such a force or acceleration usually has a greater effect than a lower force applied over a proportionally longer period. The effect depends critically on the relative velocity of the bodies to one another.\n\nAt normal speeds, during a perfectly inelastic collision, an object struck by a projectile will deform, and this deformation will absorb most or all of the force of the collision. Viewed from a conservation of energy perspective, the kinetic energy of the projectile is changed into heat and sound energy, as a result of the deformations and vibrations induced in the struck object. However, these deformations and vibrations cannot occur instantaneously. A high-velocity collision (an impact) does not provide sufficient time for these deformations and vibrations to occur. Thus, the struck material behaves as if it were more brittle than it would otherwise be, and the majority of the applied force goes into fracturing the material. Or, another way to look at it is that materials actually are more brittle on short time scales than on long time scales: this is related to time-temperature superposition.\nImpact resistance decreases with an increase in the modulus of elasticity, which means that stiffer materials will have less impact resistance. Resilient materials will have better impact resistance.\n\nDifferent materials can behave in quite different ways in impact when compared with static loading conditions. Ductile materials like steel tend to become more brittle at high loading rates, and spalling may occur on the reverse side to the impact if penetration doesn't occur. The way in which the kinetic energy is distributed through the section is also important in determining its response. Projectiles apply a Hertzian contact stress at the point of impact to a solid body, with compression stresses under the point, but with bending loads a short distance away. Since most materials are weaker in tension than compression, this is the zone where cracks tend to form and grow.\n\nA nail is pounded with a series of impacts, each by a single hammer blow. These high velocity impacts overcome the static friction between the nail and the substrate. A pile driver achieves the same end, although on a much larger scale, the method being commonly used during civil construction projects to make building and bridge foundations. An impact wrench is a device designed to impart torque impacts to bolts to tighten or loosen them. At normal speeds, the forces applied to the bolt would be dispersed, via friction, to the mating threads. However, at impact speeds, the forces act on the bolt to move it before they can be dispersed. In ballistics, bullets utilize impact forces to puncture surfaces that could otherwise resist substantial forces. A rubber sheet, for example, behaves more like glass at typical bullet speeds. That is, it fractures, and does not stretch or vibrate. \n\nThe field of applications of impact theory ranges from the optimization of material processing, impact testing, dynamics of granular media to medical applications related to the biomechanics of the human body, especially the hip- and knee-joints. \n\nRoad traffic accidents usually involve impact loading, such as when a car hits a traffic bollard, water hydrant or tree, the damage being localized to the impact zone. When vehicles collide, the damage increases with the relative velocity of the vehicles, the damage increasing as the square of the velocity since it is the impact kinetic energy (1/2 mv) which is the variable of importance. Much design effort is made to improve the impact resistance of cars so as to minimize user injury. It can be achieved in several ways: by enclosing the driver and passengers in a safety cell for example. The cell is reinforced so it will survive in high speed crashes, and so protect the users. Parts of the body shell outside the cell are designed to crumple progressively, absorbing most of the kinetic energy which must be dissipated by the impact. \n\nVarious impact test are used to assess the effects of high loading, both on products and standard slabs of material. The Charpy test and Izod test are two examples of standardized methods which are used widely for testing materials. Ball or projectile drop tests are used for assessing product impacts.\n\nThe Columbia disaster was caused by impact damage when a chunk of polyurethane foam impacted the carbon fibre composite wing of the space shuttle. Although tests had been conducted before the disaster, the test chunks were much smaller than the chunk that fell away from the booster rocket and hit the exposed wing.\n\nWhen fragile items are shipped, impacts and drops can cause product damage. Protective packaging and cushioning help reduce the peak acceleration by extending the duration of the shock or impact.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325047", "title": "Daiso", "text": "Daiso\n\nDaiso has a range of over 100,000 products, of which over 40 percent are imported goods, many of them from China. Many of their products are house-hold items such as kitchenware and cleaning products. Daiso has locations in 25 countries and regions worldwide.\n\nDaiso was originally opened first as a street vending shop dealing with 100-yen products known as “Yano Shoten\" by Hirotake Yano in 1972. He later founded Daiso in 1977.\n\nDaiso often uses such locations as previous pachinko parlours for its retail outlets. They spend a lot of money on shelving and fixtures to help the stores compete with more high-end retailers. The stock of items retailed at each shop is varied frequently in order to increase repeat customers.\n\nDaiso categorizes all of its own branded items on sale using the morpheme \"za\" (ザ), the Japanese representation of the English word \"the\", plus a category. For example, \"za hanabi\" (ザ・花火) is the category for fireworks, and \"za purasuchikku\" (ザ・プラスチック) is the category for plastic items such as plastic buckets or trays.\n\nIn 2004, Daiso started selling items priced at multiples of 100 yen, such as 200, 300, 400 or 500 yen.\n\nDaiso has 2,800 stores in Japan, and 700 stores overseas in Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Kuwait, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, Myanmar, New Zealand, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, United States of America, and Vietnam.\n\nNumber of Daiso stores, as of 20 April 2017. \nThe first Daiso store opened up in Abbotsford, Victoria in 2010, selling thousands of items at a flat rate of $2.80. Since then it has expanded to twelve stores in New South Wales, eleven in Queensland, two in South Australia and ten in Victoria. The stores range from to (Central Park store), which is currently the largest in Australia. Almost every item is AUD $2.80, or US$, except for a small range of products (5% of total range) that is sold at varying prices from $3 to $15.\n\nDaiso's main store in Bahrain is located at Dasman Center, Manama, and spans 2 floors. It has been in operation since 2005.\nDaiso also runs a smaller outlet at Ramli Mall, A'ali. As of 2007, most products cost BHD 0.600, or US$.\n\nIn December 2003, Daiso opened a store in Aberdeen Centre, in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada. Most items sold in the store (Daiso products plus a small selection of Japanese foods and beverages) are CAD $2 each, or US$. \"This store is to be our springboard to launch Daiso's operations across North America,\" said Roy Fujita, director of the company's international division.\n\nOn August 16, 2019, Daiso Canada website announced it has ceased operating as Daiso and rebranded as OOMOMO. According to the announcement, OOMOMO is now a collaboration of Fairchild Group with SERIA, Cou Cou, and other Japanese brands. Although they will continue to sell Daiso products until stock is depleted.\n\nThere are three locations of Daiso Japan in Cambodia. All products are priced at about US$1.90. As of 2018, its new name in Cambodia is ”DAISO JAPAN Life Coordinates Store”.\n\nThere are 4 locations in Israel as of now:\nAll products are priced at 10 ILS, or US$, though some items are sold as 1+1 for 10 ILS.\n\nAll products are priced at RM 5.90, or US$ GST-inclusive. The price increase from RM 5.30 to the current price was effective from March 1, 2017. The price temporarily reduced to RM 5.57 since there is no longer GST implemented in Malaysia, but returned to RM 5.90 again because of SST (Sales and Services Tax) that was effective from September 1, 2018.\n\nThere are nineteen Daiso stores in Singapore. All products are priced at SGD $2, or US$.\n\nDaiso Korea owns 1,150 stores across the country, which was established in 1992 as the Daiso-Asung Corporation. Working in cooperation with Daiso Japan in 2001 (until 2011), the chain has proliferated over the last 10 years by using a low cost-high quality strategy. Each store stocks over 30,000 items and most are under 1,000 won, or . Daiso has an online shopping mall that allows people to purchase the same items at home.\n\nIn 2011 and 2014, Daiso Korea announced that they are no longer part of Daiso Japan; they claim that Daiso Japan was trying to promote Liancourt Rocks, as part of Japan. Daiso Korea confirmed that they were not selling the products Daiso Japan was selling and that they were acting as a different company.\n\nDaiso Korea has a unique logo compared to the rest of the Daiso Corporation. The modified logo is used inside the country to rebrand itself as a more modern company and to show its break-off from Daiso Japan.\n\nOn October 2, 2005, the first store in the United States opened for business in Alderwood Mall located in Lynnwood, Washington near Seattle, WA. This store is much smaller at only 442 square meters (approx. 4,750 square feet), and items were originally one of three prices, $1, $1.50, & $2 (all USD). The current inventory now includes packaged food and items are now priced up to $8, though most items are at the $1.50 price point.\n\nThere are 77 stores in the United States, with more being built: seven are in Washington, 8 are in Texas, and 59 in California. The largest U.S. Daiso is located in Union City, California, which has 17,760 square foot (1,650 square meters) of floor space and opened on August 8, 2007.\n\nOn December 12, 2018, Daiso Japan opened its first store in Hawaii, and opened another on March 14, 2019.\n\nOn March 8, 2019, Daiso Japan opened its first branch in the East Coast U.S. in Flushing, Queens, New York.\n\nIn June 2017 Daiso was forced by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to recall 165 products in Australia. These included toys which pose a choking hazard or could cause injury and beauty products with unknown ingredients.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325049", "title": "Jimmy Hannan", "text": "Jimmy Hannan\n\nJimmy Hannan (25 August 1934 – 7 January 2019) was an Australian radio and television personality, variety show host, singer, entertainer and game show host of the 1960s and 1970s. One of the pioneers of television, he appeared regularly on variety show \"In Melbourne Tonight\", and later hosted his own musical variety show \"Jimmy\", later called \"Tonight with Jimmy Hannan\". Hannan hosted music show \"Saturday Date\" from 1963 until 1967, which featured such performers as Billy Thorpe and Olivia Newton-John. He won the 1965 Gold Logie award for most popular personality on Australian television.\n\nHannan had his start musically performing in a big-band. As a teen idol, he often performed with people such as Johnny Devlin and Little Pattie. He released the single \"Beach Ball\", originally recorded by the City Surfers, in 1963. The song was written by Roger McGuinn who went on to become a member of the Byrds. The single reached number No. 2 on the local charts and featured the Bee Gees as backing vocalists. He worked on radio in Melbourne at 3UZ. He hosted game shows including \"Name That Tune\" and \"Celebrity Squares\".\n\nHannan was married to Joanne Goode and had four children, including actress and model Melissa Hannan who won the Miss Australia title in 1981 and was also in the Miss World competition held in London. He retired from show business at 50 in 1984, and died on 7 January 2019, aged 81, from cancer in Bellingen, New South Wales.\n"}
{"id": "2325051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325051", "title": "Sandwip", "text": "Sandwip\n\nSandwip () is an island along the south eastern coast of Bangladesh in the Chittagong District. Also spelled Sandvip, the transliteration of the name would in fact be Shondip. It is part of the sub-district of Sandwip Upazila.\n\nIt is at the estuary of the Meghna River on the Bay of Bengal and separated from the Chittagong coast by Sandwip Channel. It has a population of nearly 350,000. There are fifteen wards, 62 \"mahallas\" and 34 villages on Sandwip Island. The island is long and wide. It is at the north-east side of the Bay of Bengal, near the main port city of Chittagong. It is bounded by Companiganj on the north, Bay of Bengal on the south, Sitakunda and Mirsharai, and Sandwip Channel on the east, Noakhali Sadar, Hatiya and Meghna estuary on the west.\n\nThere are several theories to the origin of the name \"Sandwip\" (pronounced Shondip) among the locals. Some say that 12 \"awlia\" from Baghdad travelling to Chittagong discovered this island in the middle of the ocean and found no people, so they defined it as \"Shunno Dip\" and which eventually became \"Shondip\". And another group argues that \"Sandwip\" is named after Bakhorganj historian Mr. Beverage's \"Shom Dip\". some of old people says that \"sandwip\" was come from sand means (bali),heap(get together of bali)\nSome scholars have suggested that Portuguese people called it \"Sandheep\" (Hasan, 1999). Je the Baras marked it as \"Sundina\" in his map (1550). Candel Broke mentioned it as ‘Sundiva’ in his map (1660). Major Ranel mentioned it as ‘Sundeep’ in his map.\n\nSandwip Island in Bangladesh has a great historical legacy. The island itself is about 3000 years old and it has been ruled by many different people over the centuries, including Delwar Khan. It was a Portuguese and Arakanese pirate stronghold during the 17th century and even today some of the architecture on the island reflects this part of the island's history. At that time the Arakanese ruled part of Burma (Myanmar), Chittagong including Sandwip. Sandwip was under the control of Arakanese leader Delawar Khan at that time. Delawar Khan was attacked in by Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb in 1665. Delawar Khan was arrested and was taken prisoner in Dhaka. Delawar died while in prison. However, the governor of Bengal saw fit to put an end to this in 1665 as part of attempts to restore Mughal control over the island. Under British rule its location proved to be a bit of an administrative problem. Today it is part of Bangladesh. It is supposed that Sandwip was connected with Chittagong original land and disconnected by natural disasters.Tansi reported on \"Lower Gangas\" (150) in which he included Sandwip. Sandwip is mentioned at \"The Baros Map\" (1560). Cesar Fredarich visited in Sandwip in 1565 and noted it as old island. Parcuch described 300-year-old mosque in this area (1620). Sanchan the Abevel mentioned Sandwip in his drawing map and he also mentioned Vulua, Bengal, Chattagram and Dhaka with it. Sri Rajkumar Chakrabarty mentioned in his \"History of Sandwip\" about 400 or 500 years old plants (1923). It is also found in The Anvel Curt's drawing map (1752).\n\nAgriculture is the main occupation of many people on the island. They cultivate paddy, jute, potato, betel leaf, betel nut, sugarcane, radish, tomato, brinjal, cauliflower, sweet potato, carrot, etc. They cultivate fruit including water melon, mango, jackfruit, banana, papaya, guava, kul, and date.\n\nSandwip Island has been formed by silt deposits from the estuary of the Meghna river. This makes it an incredibly fertile island – something which the people of the island have been exploiting for years. Large crops of rice, dal, vegetables, coconuts, battle leave and wheat have all been grown on the island at some point in its history. Today the main crops are melons, mangos, pineapples, gaab, jam and coconut.\n\nIn the years 1825, 1876, 1985, 1991 Sandwip was affected by devastating cyclones & tornadoes. On 29 April 1991, the most damaging storm affected the island. The death toll was about 40,000, and 80% of the houses in Sandwip were destroyed. The velocity of the cyclone was .\n\nMuzaffar Ahmed (politician) - Bengali politician, journalist and communist activist, popularly known as \"Kakababu\".\n\nBelal Muhammad- One of the founders of the Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra.\n\nAbdul Hakim (poet)- A poet in medieval Bengal. He wrote several epics verses in Bengali and also translated some from Persian manuscript.\n\nMaster Anwar Hossain-Founder of Santoshpur High School and Uttar Santoshpur Primary School which is now a govt. School. He was a very active Social worker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325061", "title": "Link Crew", "text": "Link Crew\n\nLink Crew is a North American student leadership program. Its focus is on making select individuals from the Junior and Senior classes, known as \"Link Leaders,\" into mentors for freshmen.\n\nLink Crew operates in 3,705 schools in 47 U.S. states. The U.S. trained 11,424 Link Crew educators. Canada, has 1,712 trained educators spread across seven schools. Link Crew has benefited 1.8 million students.\n\nThe training process consists of team building, cooperative skill development, discussion skills, situation scenarios and other activities. After two to four days of training, leaders then get assigned six or seven freshmen. The experience exposes students to a variety of positive experiences.\n\nThe program teaches students that by working together they can be successful in a positive experience. It claims to increase academic success through the peer support. It welcomes freshmen and makes them feel comfortable throughout their first year.\n\nLink Leaders start the school year by helping at freshman orientation. This allows the Link Leaders to get the freshman class excited and develop relationships that will contribute to their success. After orientation, Link Crew continues, providing academic and social followup activities throughout the year. Through this program, students learn that people at school care about them and their success.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325078", "title": "Greg Thompson", "text": "Greg Thompson\n\nGregory Francis Thompson, (March 28, 1947 – September 10, 2019) was a Canadian politician who served six terms as a Member of Parliament (MP).\n\nThompson, a high school teacher, a businessman and financial planner was first elected to the House of Commons of Canada in the 1988 Canadian federal election as a member of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada. He was elected in the riding of Carleton—Charlotte. His bid for re-election in the 1993 Canadian federal election was unsuccessful and he was defeated by Harold Culbert of the Liberal Party of Canada by fewer than 1,000 votes.\n\nThompson however ran again in the next election and was re-elected in the riding of Charlotte, where he defeated Culbert. Thompson was re-elected in the 2000 Canadian federal election in the riding of New Brunswick Southwest and again the 2004 Canadian federal election in the riding of St. Croix—Belleisle. Shortly before the 2004 election, he joined the new Conservative Party of Canada. He was re-elected in the 2006 federal election. In the 2008 federal election he was elected for a sixth term in the riding of New Brunswick Southwest by garnering over 58% of the vote.\n\nDuring his time in parliament, he has served as the critic of Human Resources Development, the Treasury Board, Regional Development, Health, and Public Accounts, as well as critic of the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. On February 6, 2006, he was appointed Minister of Veterans Affairs in Stephen Harper's Cabinet. In April 2007, he and Harper told the press in Kitchener, Ontario that a Veterans' Bill of Rights would come into effect soon and there would be a new ombudsman for veterans along with it.\n\nHe was formerly a high school history teacher at Fundy High School from 1975-1980.\n\nHe resigned from his position in Cabinet on January 16, 2010, because years of travel had worn him down and he wasn't looking forward to making a trip to New Zealand due to the length and time he had to invest in the trip. He also announced he would not run in the 2011 federal election.\n\nIn 2018 he ran provincially under the Progressive Conservatives in the riding of Saint Croix and won. He served as Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs until his death in September of 2019.\n\nIn October 2010, Canada's Privacy Commissioner Jennifer Stoddart uncovered evidence that widespread privacy abuses had been occurring at Veterans Affairs Canada.\nAmong the cases where privacy issues were investigated is that in which highly personal information of an outspoken critic of Veterans Affairs, including confidential medical and financial information, was included in briefing notes prepared for then-minister Greg Thompson.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2325080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325080", "title": "Lithuania at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Lithuania at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nLithuania competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States.\n\n\nOne male pentathlete represented Lithuania in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325094", "title": "Romania at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Romania at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nRomania competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. 165 competitors, 98 men and 67 women, took part in 122 events in 18 sports.\n\nMen's 1,500 metres \n\nMen's 400m Hurdles\n\nMen's 3,000 metres Steeplechase\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\n\nMen's Discus Throw \n\nMen's 20 km Walk\n<br>\nWomen's 10.000 metres \n\nWomen's 400m Hurdles\n\nWomen's Javelin Throw\n\nWomen's Discus Throw \n\n\nWomen's Long Jump\n\nWomen's Triple Jump\n\nWomen's Heptathlon \n\nWomen's Marathon\n\nWomen's 10 km Walk\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (– 60 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Heavyweight (– 91 kg)\n\nWomen's 10m Platform\n\n\nNine fencers, six men and three women, represented Romania in 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMen's Individual Competition\n\nMen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 200 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Freestyle Relay\n\nWomen's 50 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 200 m Freestyle\n\n\nWomen's 400 m Freestyle\nWomen's 800 m Freestyle\nWomen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nWomen's 100 m Butterfly\n\nWomen's 200 m Butterfly\n\nWomen's 200 m Individual Medley\n\nWomen's 400 m Individual Medley\n\nWomen's 4 × 100 m Freestyle Relay\n\nWomen's 4 × 200 m Freestyle Relay\n\nWomen's 4 × 100 m Medley Relay\n\nWomen's Singles Competition\n\n\n\n\nMen's 108 kg\n"}
{"id": "2325100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325100", "title": "Danielle Mitterrand", "text": "Danielle Mitterrand\n\nDanielle Émilienne Isabelle Mitterrand (née Gouze; 29 October 1924 – 22 November 2011) was the wife of French President François Mitterrand, and president of the foundation .\n\nWhen she was seventeen years old, her family (her parents were teachers) aided the French Resistance and helped lodge men of the Maquis (French Resistance), and she became a liaison officer in the Resistance. She met François Mitterrand there, and married him three months after the Liberation, on 28 October 1944.\n\nShe created the France-Libertés Foundation in 1986, when she was First Lady, with the fusion of three smaller associations which had been established in 1981. In 1996 Mitterrand was one of the winners of the North–South Prize.\n\nMitterrand had three sons: Pascal (who died in childhood), Jean-Christophe and Gilbert Mitterrand.\n\nMitterrand was a longtime supporter of Cuba and its Marxist–Leninist government. However, during Fidel Castro's 1995 visit to France, she also helped secure the release of imprisoned Cuban dissident Yndamiro Restano Díaz, who was reportedly freed at her request. She was also a supporter of the ANC and the anti apartheid movement in South Africa.\n\nShe also supported the Sandinistas when her husband gave them military aid in their war against US-backed forces in Nicaragua. She was very critical of Turkey, opposing its accession to the European Union and supportive of the Kurdistan independence movement. She voiced her views in favour of Sahrawi separatists, Mexican insurgent Subcomandante Marcos, and the Tibetan people, among others.\n\nAs First Lady, she spoke out against human rights violations, including in countries with which the French government was seeking to maintain good relations; she earned the ire both of the Chinese government and of King Hassan II of Morocco, in particular. Her France-Libertés Foundation provided financial support to local human rights initiatives abroad, and also financed access to medicine and education in poor countries.\n\nShe supported a \"no\" vote in the 2005 French referendum on the European Constitution: \"I denounce the power of the economy over people, a system that turns individuals into elements in an economic equation, does not respect the poor and excludes everyone that does not live up to the principle of profitability\".\n\n\nThe \"French International School MLF Danielle Mitterrand\" in Iraqi Kurdistan is named after her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325108", "title": "Taylor Stubblefield", "text": "Taylor Stubblefield\n\nTaylor Evans Stubblefield (born January 21, 1982) is an American football coach and former player. He is currently the wide receiver coach for the Penn State Nittany Lions. He is a former wide receiver for the Carolina Panthers and St. Louis Rams of the National Football League (NFL). He left Purdue owning the most receptions in NCAA history. Stubblefield was most recently the wide receivers coach with the Toronto Argonauts. A three-sport athlete at A.C. Davis High School, Stubblefield committed to the Purdue University to play football for the Boilermakers. In his collegiate debut in 2001, he had five receptions for 65 yards. He led the team in receptions and was named to the All-Freshman Big Ten team by \"Sporting News\". During his sophomore season, he finished with 77 receptions for 789 yards, but didn't record a touchdown catch. As a junior in 2003, Stubblefield earned second-team All-Big Ten honors at the conclusion of the season. In the 2001 Sun Bowl, he had nine catches for a Sun Bowl-record 196 yards. During the 2004 season, Stubblefield was a Biletnikoff Award finalist, earned first-team All-Big Ten honors and was named a Consensus All-American. He finished his college career with an NCAA record of 325 receptions which he held for seven years, 3,629 yards, and 27 touchdowns. He was named to the Purdue Athletic Hall of fame in 2015 and was also named to the 75th Anniversary Sunbowl Team.\n\nDespite his college success, Stubblefield was not selected in 2005 NFL Draft. He signed as an undrafted free agent with the Carolina Panthers and then signed with the Hamilton Tiger-cats of the Canadian Football League. During the 2006 season he was signed by the St. Louis Rams and later was re-signed by the Tiger-cats.\n\nWhen the 2007 season came around, Stubblefield hung up his cleats and returned to his home state of Washington, where he was named the wide receivers coach for Central Washington University. The following season, he took the same position with Eastern Michigan, while also working towards his master's degree. For the 2009 and 2010 seasons, he was asked by former Purdue Defense Coordinator Brock Spack to take the wide receivers coaching position at Illinois State. For the Redbirds, Stubblefield coached Eyad Salem, who broke the school's single-season receptions record (92 catches) and twice tied the single-game receptions record with back-to-back 14-catch efforts. Salem was an All-MVFC first-team selection. The next year, he took a job with Central Michigan as their wide receivers coach. After stops at New Mexico and Wake Forest, Stubblefield was hired with a two-year contract at Utah. Utah recorded 9-4, and 10-3 seasons and attended the Las Vegas Bowl both years. Stubblefield's contract was not extended after his original deal and he moved on to coach with the Toronto Argonauts of the CFL for one season before joining Troy Calhoun's staff at the United States Air Force Academy in February 2017.\n\nStubblefield was born in Yakima, Washington. He graduated from A. C. Davis High School in Yakima, where he was a member of the football, basketball and track and field teams. For football, he set school records with 123 receptions, 1,900 receiving yards and 21 touchdowns. He also had the school record for receiving yards and receiving touchdowns in a single game, which was broken in 2011. He was named First Team All-State. He also led the basketball team to the state tournament three times, earning fifth and eighth-place trophies.\n\nStubblefield attended Purdue University, located in West Lafayette, Indiana, where he played under head coach Joe Tiller. He played alongside future NFL player Kyle Orton and consensus All-American kicker-punter Travis Dorsch. As a redshirt freshman he led the Boilermakers with 73 receptions. In the 2001 Sun Bowl against Washington State, he tied a Sun Bowl record of nine receptions, and set a record with 196 receiving yards. He also scored two touchdowns and recorded a bowl record with a 244 all-purpose yards. He helped lead the Boilermakers to a second straight Sun Bowl appearance in 2002. As a junior in 2003, Stubblefield led the Big Ten Conference with 86 receptions. He totaled 835 yards and three touchdowns. He was a Second Team All-Big Ten selection.\n\nStubblefield was named a First Team All-Big Ten selection his senior year (2004), in which he caught 89 passes with 1,095 yards receiving and scored 16 touchdowns, third-most in the nation. He became the first player to lead the conference in receptions two seasons in a row since Ohio State's David Boston in 1998. The All-American participated in the East-West Shrine All-Star Game, where he had seven receptions for 128 yards and scored two touchdowns, while throwing a pass that led to the first touchdown. He became the first consensus All-American receiver for Purdue since Bernie Flowers in 1952 and earned First Team-All Big Ten honors.\n\nWith career totals of 3,629 yards and 21 touchdowns, Stubblefield ranked as the all-time NCAA receptions leader with 325 in his college career (until it was broken by Ryan Broyles of the University of Oklahoma on October 15, 2011). His teammate, John Standeford, had set the Big Ten Conference record with 266 receptions in 2003. Stubblefield was named to the Sun Bowl's 75th anniversary team.\n\nSource:\n\n\nStubblefield went undrafted by the NFL after his successful college career. He was signed as a free agent by the Carolina Panthers on April 26, 2005.\n\nHe played during the 2005 season with the Hamilton Tiger-cats in the Canadian Football League.\n\nOn January 6, 2006, Stubblefield was signed to the St. Louis Rams.\n\nStubblefield returned to the Tiger-cats on March 6, 2007.\n\nAfter a brief stint playing at the professional level, Stubblefield returned to his home state of Washington, where he served as a wide receiver coach for the Wildcats at Central Washington University, an NCAA division II program.\n\nAfter just one season with Central Washington, Stubblefield joined the Eastern Michigan staff to become an assistant coach under head coach, Jeff Genyk.\n\nAfter Genyk was replaced by Ron English, Stubblefield moved on to Illinois State to be an assistant and wide receiver coach. He joined head coach Brock Spack, who was a former defensive coordinator at Purdue.\n\nOn February 18, 2011, Central Michigan announced the addition of Stubblefield as their wide receivers coach.\n\nStubblefield coached wide receivers for New Mexico in 2012.\n\nStubblefield moved on to Wake Forest in 2013.\n\nIn February 2014, Stubblefield was named the wide receivers coach at Utah.\n\nTaylor Stubblefield joined the University of Miami football program in January 2019, accepting the position of wide receivers coach.\nTaylor Stubblefield joined the Pennsylvania State University football program in January 2020, accepting the position of wide receivers coach.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325124", "title": "List of rivers of Kerala", "text": "List of rivers of Kerala\n\nThere are 44 rivers in Kerala, all but three originating in the Western Ghats.\n41 of them flow westward and 3 eastward. The rivers of Kerala are small, in terms of length, breadth and water discharge. The rivers flow faster, owing to the hilly terrain and as the short distance between the Western Ghats and the sea. All the rivers are entirely monsoon-fed and many of them shrink into rivulets or dry up completely during summer.\n\nThis is a list of the westward-flowing rivers of Kerala state in southern India, in order of length, and their tributaries. These rivers all originate in the Western Ghats range and flow westward into the Kerala Backwaters or into the Arabian Sea. Length in kilometers is in parentheses.\n\n\nThere are three rivers rise in Kerala and flow eastwards, Kabini into Karnataka and the other two into Tamil Nadu. All the three rivers ultimately join the Kaveri river.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325129", "title": "Lagos bat lyssavirus", "text": "Lagos bat lyssavirus\n\nLagos bat lyssavirus, formerly Lagos bat virus (LBV) is a \"Lyssavirus\" of southern and central Africa that causes a rabies-like illness in mammals. It was first isolated from a fruit bat (\"Eidolon helvum\") from Lagos Island, Nigeria in 1956. Brain samples from the bat showed poor cross-reactivity to rabies antibodies but the virus was found to be closely related to the rabies virus. This was the first discovery of a rabies-related virus. Until this time, rabies was thought to have a single causal agent.\n\n\"Lagos bat lyssavirus\" has been isolated from wild and domestic mammals in southern Africa including bats, cats and one dog. One isolate was detected in France in 1999 when a fruit bat (\"Rousettus egypticus\"), which had been displaying signs of aggression, died. The bat had been imported from Africa.\n\nNo human cases of \"Lagos bat lyssavirus\" infection have been documented.\n"}
{"id": "2325131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325131", "title": "Ted Menzies", "text": "Ted Menzies\n\nTed Menzies, (born February 18, 1952) is a Canadian former politician. He represented the electoral district of Macleod in the House of Commons of Canada and served as Minister of State for Finance before being replaced by Kevin Sorenson. He resigned from parliament on November 6, 2013 in order to accept a position as president and CEO of CropLife Canada, a lobby group representing the agricultural biotechnology industry.\n\nA farmer born in Claresholm, Alberta, Menzies was elected into the House of Commons of Canada as a Conservative in the 2004 federal election in the riding of Macleod. He was elected by over 27,000 votes more than the Liberal candidate, Chris Shade. During the 38th Canadian Parliament he served as the opposition critic for International Cooperation and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the opposition critic for International Trade and Internal Trade.\n\nAfter the Conservative victory in the 2006 federal election, he was appointed as parliamentary secretary to Josée Verner, who was serving as the Minister for International Cooperation, Minister responsible for Official Languages, and Minister responsible for La Francophonie.\n\nOn February 10, 2006, Menzies received some news coverage when it was revealed that despite being the parliamentary secretary responsible for La Francophonie, he did not speak French. His appointment was criticized by New Democrat Yvon Godin (an Acadian).\n\nIn his defence, Menzies replied that \"we have two official languages in this country. Not just French. Not just English. We have two official languages.\" He argued that the best means of representing both languages was with a Francophone minister with an Anglophone parliamentary secretary.\n\nOn October 10, 2007, Menzies was appointed Parliamentary Secretary to Jim Flaherty, Minister of Finance. On January 4, 2011, Menzies was promoted to Minister of State for Finance and was sworn into the Queen's Privy Council for Canada.\n\nOn July 2, 2013 he announced he would not run for re-election in the next federal election and left Cabinet. On November 6, 2013 he resigned, effective immediately, in order to accept a position in the private sector.\n\nSupported by the three opposition parties, Dan McTeague's private member bill passed through the Commons on March 5, 2008. The bill would give parents substantial tax breaks for saving education money. Under McTeague's bill, taxpayers who deposit $5,000 into a registered education savings plan (RESP) for their children's post-secondary education will earn a $5,000 tax deduction, similar to the deduction allowed for contributions to an RRSP. Under the Conservative savings plan, introduced in Finance Minister Jim Flaherty's February 26, 2008 budget, there is no deduction for annual contributions.\n\nMenzies lashed out at the proposal and suggested McTeague explain how the government will pay for it. \"I'm going to suggest to the senators that this is an uncosted $900-million proposal that the Liberals have put forward,\" Menzies said. The paradox of the Tories approaching the Senate wasn't lost on McTeague, who said he was \"disappointed but not surprised\" that the Conservatives were thinking of stalling the bill in the upper house. However other MP's such as Garth Turner strongly support McTeague's bill and call it “the greatest financial tool in a generation.”\n\n"}
{"id": "2325133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325133", "title": "Vengara (Kannur district)", "text": "Vengara (Kannur district)\n\nVengara is a Place in Kannur District, Kerala, India that is known for its landscapes and lush greenery. \nThe village is between the Arabian Sea and Ezhimala Hill. It is a part of Madayi Gramapanchayath\n\nThe word \"vengara\" comes from \"ven kara\" meaning \"white land\" created by moving sea. This village is surrounded by Kannur town, Taliparamba and Payyanur.\n\nProtected by Ezhimala and Madayippara, the Village Vengara has witnessed many historical events. Ezhimala was the Capital of ancient Ezhimala Kingdom and now this place the headquarters of the Indian Naval Academy (the largest of its kind in Asia). The history reveals that Tipu Sultan, the Barbaric Ruler of Mysore has passed through this place during his battle forward to Kerala. He attacked ‘Madayikkavu’ and ‘Vadukunda Temples’ located on nearby hill Madayippara, for the sole object of looting the enormous wealth kept in those places. During his journey of Islamic Conquest, he converted countless Hindus to Islam and those who resisted where brutally killed. This is the main reason the Malabar region has high Minority population. Still the remains of a fort belongs to Tipu lying on Madayippara. He made a canal between Payangadi River and Moolakkeel River, called ‘Sultan Thodu’ (Sultan Canal) for the easy movement of cargo. Now, this canal has an important role to do with the proposed ‘Malabar Tourism Promotion Program.’ Historians say that once this place was a part of Arabian Sea hundreds of years ago. When the sea withdrew at last, there remained sandy land which people called ‘Ven Kara’ (White land in local tongue). Later ‘Ven Kara’ became Vengara by use.\n\nVengara, a village near Pazhayangadi enters into the tourism map of Kerala as a result of the proposed Perumkaliyattam at Sree Muchilot Kavu in January 2009. describes how the Perumkaliyattams becomes a festival of the people irrespective of caste, class, creed or religion. The perumkaliyattam consistes of several customs and rituals like Varachuvekkal, kalnattu karmam, kalavara niraykkal, upadevadha theyyattams, vellattam and then the thirumudi nivaral of Muchilot Bagavathi. As prasadam feast is organised in a grand manner by giving food to more than a lakh devotees. It symbolises the marriage of Muchilottamma.\n\nThe national highway passes through Taliparamba town. Goa and Mumbai can be accessed on the northern side and Cochin and Thiruvananthapuram can be accessed on the southern side. The road to the east of Iritty connects to Mysore and Bangalore. The nearest railway station is Pazhayangadi on Mangalore-Palakkad line. \nTrains are available to almost all parts of India subject to advance booking over the internet. There are airports at Mangalore and Calicut. Both of them are international airports but direct flights are available only to Middle Eastern countries.\n"}
{"id": "2325137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325137", "title": "ArenaBowl XVIII", "text": "ArenaBowl XVIII\n\nArenaBowl XVIII saw the San Jose SaberCats and Arizona Rattlers competing for the 2004 Arena Football League championship. Until 2010, this game marked the last time the ArenaBowl was held at the home arena of the higher-seeded team, rather than a neutral site, and 17,391 fans packed the sold-out America West Arena as the visiting SaberCats defeated the homestanding Rattlers, 69-62 in a rematch of ArenaBowl XVI.\n\nArenaBowl XVIII featured the league's two top-seeded teams and one of its more storied and bitter rivalries. The Rattlers were looking for redemption, having been demolished by San Jose 52-14 in ArenaBowl XVI and again falling short, 43-29 to the Tampa Bay Storm in the previous year's contest. Meanwhile, the SaberCats were seeking revenge after the Rattlers had swept them during the regular season, winning the Western Division championship and the top seed in the playoffs in the process.\n\nThe game did not disappoint, as the two teams' offenses matched each other blow-for-blow virtually all game. Perhaps the most stereotypically \"arena football\" of all ArenaBowls to date, neither defense proved capable of slowing the opposing offense, and the game appeared as though it would be decided by which team had the final possession.\n\nThe final play of the first half, however, proved to be decisive. Rattlers legend Hunkie Cooper had scored a rushing touchdown with seven seconds remaining in the half to tie the game at 28. However, the SaberCats were able to get one final offensive play in before time expired, and James Roe made the most of it by catching a short pass from Mark Grieb and breaking multiple tackles en route to a spectacular 38-yard touchdown – his fourth of the game – to end the half with San Jose leading 35-28, thus preventing the Rattlers from gaining the lead with their first possession of the second half.\n\nThe second half played out largely the same as the first, with the two teams again exchanging touchdowns virtually at will. With San Jose leading 63-56, Arizona quarterback Sherdrick Bonner connected with receiver Siaha Burley for a nine-yard score. Rattlers coach Danny White elected to attempt to break the string of ties by attempting a two-point conversion, but San Jose defender Omarr Smith broke up a Bonner pass intended for Hunkie Cooper, leaving the SaberCats in front, 63-62. White elected to attempt an onside kick to regain possession, but San Jose's Chuck Reed recovered the ball and quickly returned it seven yards for a touchdown. Scoring so soon could have proven costly for San Jose, as the Rattlers regained possession with 30 seconds left and trailing just 69-62, thanks to a missed extra point by San Jose kicker Dan Frantz.\n\nBonner and the Rattlers mounted one final drive, however, advancing to the San Jose five-yard line with two seconds on the clock. However, Bonner's final pass was incomplete, and the SaberCats emerged victorious, 69-62.\n\nThe game was the highest-scoring game in ArenaBowl history, with a combined 131 points being scored, shattering the five-year-old ArenaBowl XIII mark of 107. Roe caught eight passes for 119 yards and an ArenaBowl-record-tying five touchdowns to earn Ironman of the Game honors, while San Jose quarterback Mark Grieb completed 27 of 36 passes for 328 yards and eight scores to be named Offensive Player of the Game. Bonner threw seven touchdown passes – four to Siaha Burley and three to Orshawante Bryant to lead the Rattler offense, while Arizona defensive specialist Ricky Parker was named Defensive Player of the Game.\n\nThe game marked Danny White's last as head coach of the Rattlers, and indeed the end of an era for the franchise itself. Legendary Hunkie Cooper would see limited playing time early in the 2005 season before retiring, while White, the only coach to date in the 13-year history of the Rattlers organization, would not be retained by new owner Robert Sarver. Additionally, defensive coordinator Doug Plank would depart to become the head coach of the Georgia Force, who he would lead to ArenaBowl XIX the following year. Meanwhile, it was the second title in three years for coach Darren Arbet and the SaberCats.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn the Arena Football League's 20 Greatest Highlights Countdown (shown on arenafootball.com during the league's 20th season), this is at #18.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325143", "title": "Sinorice Moss", "text": "Sinorice Moss\n\nSinorice Travonce Moss (born December 28, 1983) is a former American football wide receiver in the National Football League (NFL) and Canadian Football League (CFL). He was drafted by the New York Giants in the second round of the 2006 NFL Draft. He also played in the CFL for the Saskatchewan Roughriders. Moss played college football at the University of Miami.\n\nMoss's older brother, Santana, is a former wide receiver who played in the NFL for 14 seasons as a member of the New York Jets and, primarily, the Washington Redskins.\n\nMoss played college football for the University of Miami Hurricanes, where he was a standout wide receiver. Before being drafted in the 2nd round of the 2006 NFL Draft by the New York Giants, Moss was rewarded MVP of the 2006 Senior Bowl.\n\nMoss was also a track star at the University of Miami, where he recorded personal bests of 6.42 seconds in the 55 meters and 10.50 seconds in the 100 meters.\n\nMoss was selected by the New York Giants with the 44th overall pick in the second round of the 2006 NFL Draft out of the University of Miami.\n\nThe Giants expected to groom Moss to be their slot receiver in 2006 but his progress was marred by a recurring quadriceps injury, which caused him to miss training camp and limited him to five receptions during his rookie season in six games. In 2007, Moss played in 13 games, the year of Giants' Super Bowl XLII victory.\n\nAfter two seasons with the Giants that produced only 26 receptions for 230 yards and no touchdowns, Moss vowed to improve in the 2008 campaign. However, Mario Manningham and Hakeem Nicks, quickly surpassed Moss on the depth chart.\n\nPrior to the 2010 season, Domenik Hixon, who had taken the return job away from Moss during the 2009 season, tore his ACL and was placed on injured reserve. During the preseason, Moss competed for the return specialist job, but suffered from a sports hernia and on August 31, 2010 was placed on season-ending injured reserve. Moss was officially waived by the Giants on November 9, 2010 after reaching an injury settlement. Primarily because of injuries, he departed New York after a five-year career that included just three touchdowns.\n\nMoss was signed by the Philadelphia Eagles to a future contract on January 10, 2011. He was released on September 3 during final roster cuts.\n\nOn April 24, 2012, Moss was signed by the Saskatchewan Roughriders. After playing in only two regular season games, Moss was released during the following off-season on March 8, 2013.\n\nSince retiring from football, Moss has quietly begun pursuing a career as an actor. He has one son, Sinorice Moss Jr.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325153", "title": "Yale Child Study Center", "text": "Yale Child Study Center\n\nThe Yale Child Study Center is a department at the Yale University School of Medicine. The center conducts research and provides clinical services and medical training related to children and families. Topics of investigation include autism and related disorders, Tourette syndrome, other pediatric mental health concerns, parenting, and neurobiology.\n\nThe center conducts research and provides clinical services and medical training related to children and families. Topics of investigation include autism spectrum disorders, Tourette syndrome, other pediatric mental health concerns, parenting, and neurobiology.\n\nThe center was started in 1911 as the Yale Clinic of Child Development by Arnold Gesell. Dr. Gesell, who is considered the father of child development in the United States, led the center until 1948. Subsequent directors were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2325155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325155", "title": "Alexander Yakovlev (diplomat)", "text": "Alexander Yakovlev (diplomat)\n\nAlexander Yakovlev was a long-serving tenured member of the United Nations procurement department who was involved in the Oil-for-Food Programme scandal and had other allegations of impropriety.\n\nYakovlev has been working in the UN Secretariat since 1985. In 1993, Yakovlev signed a permanent contract with the UN as a private individual (without secondment by the Russian Federation).\n\nThe diplomat was accused by the investigators of taking nearly $1 million in bribes, which also includes alleged illicit dealings with Compass Group PLC's subsidiary Eurest Support Services (ESS) and its terminated CEO Peter R. Harris and senior executive Andy Seiwert.\n\nYakovlev is alleged to have conducted himself improperly in 1996 when he indirectly tried to get bribes from Société Générale de Surveillance S.A.\n\nYakovlev resigned June 23, 2005. On August 8, 2005, United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan waived the diplomatic immunity of Alexander Yakovlev upon a request from the U.S. Attorney's Office, and Yakovlev apparently had been taken into custody, said Mark Malloch Brown, Annan's chief of staff. Yakovlev's case (1:2005-cr-00819) was assigned to Southern District of New York.\n\nThe same day he pleaded guilty to wire fraud under the Oil-for-Food Programme, making him the first U.N. official to face criminal charges in connection with the scandal-tainted operation. He was released under bond of $400,000.\n\nAlexander Yakovlev also pleaded guilty in federal court to charges of wire fraud and money laundering for accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from U.N. contractors in his work outside oil-for-food. He could have faced up to 20 years in prison for each of the three counts. His Brooklyn-based criminal lawyer Arkady L. Bukh said it could take several years until Yakovlev was sentenced. On December 22, 2010 he was sentenced to time served, 2 years of supervised release and was ordered to forfeit $900,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325159", "title": "Ed Komarnicki", "text": "Ed Komarnicki\n\nEdward \"Ed\" Komarnicki (born November 18, 1949) is a Canadian politician and lawyer.\n\nBorn in Cudworth, Saskatchewan, Komarnicki was elected into the House of Commons of Canada in the 2004 Canadian federal election as the Conservative Party of Canada candidate in the riding of Souris—Moose Mountain. He was elected by nearly 3,000 votes over former premier Grant Devine who was running as an independent. Komarnicki was re-elected in each subsequent election, in 2006, 2008 and 2011, each time with a larger percentage of votes.\n\nDuring late February 2013, Komarnicki announced that he would not stand for re-election at the next federal election.\n\nIn October 2004, Komarnicki became a member of the Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills Development, Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities (HUMA). In 2006 he became the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, and a member of the Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration. In 2008 he returned to his previous file as the new Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Human Resources, Skills Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities. This change also meant returning to the HUMA committee. After winning re-election in the 2011 General Election, Komarnicki became chair of the HUMA committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325161", "title": "With or Without You", "text": "With or Without You\n\n\"With or Without You\" is a song by Irish rock band U2. It is the third track on their fifth studio album, \"The Joshua Tree\" (1987), and was released as the album's lead single on 16 March 1987. The song was the group's most successful single at the time, becoming their first number-one hit in both the United States and Canada by topping the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for three weeks and the \"RPM\" national singles chart for one week, with a further three weeks at number two.\n\n\"With or Without You\" features sustained guitar parts played by guitarist the Edge with a prototype of the Infinite Guitar, along with vocals by lead singer Bono and a bassline by bassist Adam Clayton. The song originated from a demo recorded in late 1985 that the group continued to work on throughout \"The Joshua Tree\" sessions. Ostensibly a troubled love song, the track's lyrics were inspired by Bono's conflicting feelings about the lives he led as a musician and domestic man.\n\nCritics praised the song upon its release. It is frequently performed on the band's tours, and it has appeared on many of their compilation albums and concert films. \"With or Without You\" is U2's second most frequently covered song. In 2010, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine placed the song at number 132 on their list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\".\n\nIn late 1985, U2 convened at a house that drummer Larry Mullen Jr. bought to review material the group had written during The Unforgettable Fire Tour. During this time, a rough demo of \"With or Without You\" was written, with lead vocalist Bono composing the song's chord sequence. The band continued to work on the song at STS Studios, creating many permutations of the track, but not making any progress. Guitarist the Edge considered the song at that point to be \"awful\". The track consisted of a Yamaha drum machine beat and a bass part played by bassist Adam Clayton using an Ibanez bass guitar with a short scale. According to Clayton, these early versions of the song sounded too sentimental and \"very traditional because the chords just went round and round and round\".\n\nThe sessions for \"The Joshua Tree\" started in earnest in 1986, and U2 were recording at the Georgian mansion Danesmoate House in Dublin. The group attempted to take the song in a different direction, although Bono was reluctant. Under the direction of co-producers Brian Eno and Daniel Lanois, the Edge pursued more ambient guitar playing, Clayton turned up the volume on his bass, and Mullen experimented with an electronically enhanced drum kit. Despite the work they continued to put into the track, the group considered abandoning the song, as they could not find an arrangement they liked.\n\nBono and his friend Gavin Friday continued to work on the song after Lanois and Eno declined to do so. Bono credits Friday with rescuing the song and rearranging it, believing it could be a hit. Eno added a keyboard arpeggio, similar to the one from \"Bad\". The song's fate was still in doubt when the Edge was sent a prototype of the Infinite Guitar by Canadian musician Michael Brook, with whom he had collaborated for the \"Captive\" soundtrack. The instrument allowed sustained notes to be played, producing \"a similar effect to the E-Bow\", but with the ability to provide all the \"mid-points between no sustain and infinite sustain\" that the E-Bow cannot provide. The prototype included elaborate assembly instructions and as the Edge recollects, \"one wrongly placed wire and you could get a nasty belt of electricity. This piece of gear would have failed even the most basic of safety regulations.\" On subsequent tours, his guitar technician occasionally received electric shocks from the instrument when preparing it for performances.\n\nListening to the backing track to \"With or Without You\" in the control room, Bono and Friday heard the sustained effect that the Edge was creating with the Infinite Guitar in the other room. The combination of the two playing simultaneously caught their attention. According to Lanois, \"I said, 'That sounded pretty cool,' so we listened back and I said, 'Jesus, it's better than I thought.'\" The Edge immediately recorded an Infinite Guitar part in two takes. The band considers the song's recording to be one of the album sessions' breakthrough moments, as it was recorded amidst concerns that they had run out of ideas.\n\nEno sequenced the song's electronic drum beat on the Yamaha DX7 synthesiser. Rather than connect it to the recording equipment via a DI unit and maintain the instrument's pristine sound, the producers plugged it into a Mesa Boogie guitar amplifier and then miked it to give the sound more personality. As a result, Lanois said it sounded \"more like people playing in a room\". The sequenced beat was chosen to give the song a feeling of discipline, so that when Mullen's acoustic drums enter the song, \"they mean something\", in Lanois' words.\n\nProducer Steve Lillywhite was hired by U2 in December 1986 to help mix some songs for \"The Joshua Tree\"; \"With or Without You\" was one of them. While Lillywhite and engineer Mark Wallis were mixing it, Eno entered the room and told them that he wanted to change the introduction. Wallis said: \"And it was kind of awe-inspiring because he said, 'Right, send this guitar through those ten effects over there and send that guitar through those ten effects over there and then feed them back to each other.' So what started as a traditional bit of rhythm guitar, bass, and drums suddenly became something quite otherworldly and spiritual, and the sound of the music you were hearing started to give you a feeling of where the song was going to go prior to the lyric. I thought that was really visionary.\" Ultimately, \"With or Without You\" was the most debated song of those on which Lillywhite worked, as Eno and Lanois each had ideas different from his. Lillywhite, who wanted a more mainstream approach to his mix, favoured \"a little more crash, bang\" sound to Mullen's drums that enter later in the song, while Eno preferred that the drums remain \"more mysterious and more supportive\".\n\nBono wrote the lyrics during his first night visiting Côte d’Azur in 1986, while struggling to reconcile his responsibilities as both a married man and a musician. His wanderlust in belonging to a musical act was often at odds with his domestic life. While writing the lyrics, he realized that neither facet of his life defined him, but rather the tension between the two did. He explained that the final lyric is about torment and how repressing desires only makes them stronger.\n\n\"With or Without You\" is written in a 4/4 time signature and is played at a tempo of 110 beats per minute. Although certain stanzas of lyrics are repeated, the song does not follow a traditional verse-chorus form. Lanois says of it, \"It has tension and builds like one of those great Roy Orbison songs, where every section is unique and never repeats. I like that kind of sophistication [...].\"\n\nThe song begins with a minimal drum beat of eighth notes played by Mullen, while a backing track—Eno's synthesiser—plays a \"rippling\" triplet arpeggio of the chord D major. A high sustained guitar part (played by The Edge's Infinite Guitar) enters, played \"dry\" in the left channel before reverberating on the right. At 0:09, Clayton's bass guitar begins to play eighth notes in time with the kick drum, and the song's four-bar sequence of the chord progression D–A–Bm–G, begins. This chord progression is never explicitly played but is \"implied\" by the root notes played by Clayton and the guitar parts of The Edge.\nBono's vocals enter at 0:28 in a low register, a stark contrast from Bono's typical singing style to that point in the group's career. He stays below the middle C for the first two and a half stanzas, centering his melody on the mediant F. At the end of each of the first two stanzas, his vocals drop an octave, from A to A. Author Susan Fast called Bono's vocals on \"With or Without You\" the first occasion on which he \"extended his vocal range downward in an appreciable way\". At 0:58, an additional sustained guitar part joins the mix. The drums increase in intensity at 1:45, before The Edge begins playing the song's signature guitar riff at 1:53. The riff, a perfect fifth opening to a sixth, features a prominent use of delay. When the riff is played, it is answered by Bono singing \"And you give yourself away\", a line on which backing vocals appear at 2:06 and 2:32.\n\nA stanza begins in which Bono sings the song's title in a high, passionate voice as the drums get heavier. At 3:03, the song bursts out in emotion as Bono begins open-throated \"Oh-oh-oh-ohh\" vocals, which are double-tracked, and the rhythm increases to play sixteenth notes on the guitar, cymbals, and tambourine. After another stanza of Bono repeating the song's title, the music dies down at 3:38 to a similar state as it was at the beginning of the song. Ten seconds later, Bono sings in a falsetto while a bass synthesiser doubles the bass guitar. After the vocals complete, The Edge begins a simple guitar figure. He explained that its understated nature was meant to resist the temptation to play an intricate guitar solo as an ending. The second time the figure is played, the signature guitar riff from earlier re-appears and the song regains some of its intensity. The song concludes with a fade-out.\n\nThe lyrics ostensibly describe a troubled relationship between two lovers, although the lyrics have been interpreted in religious contexts. The \"Washington Post\" interpreted the song as both an acerbic love song and a tune lamenting the moral contradictions one faces with their religious faith. Toby Creswell echoed these sentiments, saying it \"can be read as a song about either marital romance or spiritual need\". Bono explained that the lyrics had romantic intentions, saying, \"there's nothing more revolutionary than two people loving each other. One, 'cause it's so uncommon these days, and two, 'cause it's so difficult to do.\" In 1987, Bono explained that \"And you give yourself away\" lyric refers to how he sometimes feels exposed being in U2, and that his openness, both to the public and music press, can do damage to the group. Author Niall Stokes interpreted the line as encompassing the theme of \"surrendering the ego\" to one's love and spiritual faith.\n\nAccording to Bono, the song was heavily influenced by Scott Walker's album \"Climate of Hunter.\"\n\nThe band's manager Paul McGuinness was resistant to U2 releasing \"With or Without You\" as a single, as he thought it was too sonically unusual for release. Gavin Friday, having helped the band complete the track, disagreed and thought it would be a \"certain No. 1\". The song was selected as the lead single from \"The Joshua Tree\". United States radio stations were allowed to play the song at 11:30 a.m. on 4 March 1987, with strong warnings by Island Records against playing it earlier. The single was released on 16 March 1987, two weeks after the album was released. It was the group's first single to be widely issued on compact disc. Clayton referred to the song's nature as a challenge to radio, saying, \"You don't expect it there [on radio]. In church perhaps.\"\n\n\"With or Without You\" debuted at number 64 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, and on 16 May 1987, it topped the chart to become U2's first number-one single in the US, proving Friday's prediction true. The song spent three weeks atop the chart, and 18 weeks in total on the Hot 100. The song also topped \"Billboard\"s Album Rock Tracks chart, Canada's \"RPM\" Top 100, and the Irish Singles Chart. According to \"Billboard\", the song was the group's breakthrough with American audiences. The single peaked at number four on the UK Singles Chart, spending 11 weeks in the top 75 of the chart. The single also peaked at number two on the Dutch MegaCharts Top 40. In 2009, the song re-entered the UK Singles Chart at number 43 on the week ending 31 May, based on download sales due to Shaun Smith's performance of the song in the semi-final of \"Britain's Got Talent\".\n\nTwo videos were shot in Dublin in February 1987 and were co-directed by Meiert Avis and Matt Mahurin. The first includes abstracts shots of dancer (and Edge's future wife) Morleigh Steinberg edited in between shots of the band playing the song. A second alternative version can be found in the Super Deluxe version of the album.\n\n\"With or Without You\" was first played live at the second show on the Joshua Tree Tour on 4 April 1987, and was a regular for the rest of that tour. It was played at most shows on 1989's Lovetown Tour. During these tours, two extensions to the song not present on the studio version were played: an extra verse with lyrics that typically read \"We'll shine like stars in the summer night/We'll shine like stars in the winter light/One heart, one hope, one love\" or modifications thereof, which appears on the \"Rattle and Hum\" movie; and a snippet of Joy Division's \"Love Will Tear Us Apart\" (along with the \"shine like stars\" lyrics) which can be heard in the live album and concert film \"Live from Paris\". Since the PopMart Tour, it has been more common for Bono to repeat the \"Ohh\" at the climax of the song, with the \"shine like stars\" verse sung rarely.\n\n\"With or Without You\" was played at most Zoo TV Tour concerts and every concert on the PopMart Tour. It was dropped from the set list during the third leg of the Elevation Tour. It was initially a rare inclusion during the Vertigo Tour - over the two months of the tour's first leg, it was only played four times. It became a regular concert inclusion during stadium concerts on the second leg in Europe and remained in the set list for the third leg. It has been played on every night of the U2 360° Tour, occasionally with the \"shine like stars\" coda. The song regularly closed out the main set on the Innocence + Experience Tour, again occasionally with the \"shine like stars\" coda.\n\nLive performances of the song also appear in the group's concert films \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"U2 3D\", and \"U2 360° at the Rose Bowl\".\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" called it an \"inventively arranged tune... that builds from a soothing beginning to a resounding climax\". Bill Graham of \"Hot Press\" praised the song, suggesting it may be Bono's \"most controlled vocal, building from an almost conversational first verse over a bare rhythm section to a soul-baring confession\". Graham suggested the lyric \"And you give yourself away\" was essential to U2's message. The \"Sunday Independent\" suggested that the song was proof the band could be commercially accessible, yet not resort to rock clichés. \"NME\" called it \"some kind of love song\" and found musical and lyrical symmetry between the song and the group's 1981 album \"October\".\n\nMike DeGagne of AllMusic praised the song for Eno's and Lanois' \"gleaming\" production work, Bono's vocals and \"poetic deftness\", and for The Edge's \"astute but assertive\" guitar playing. DeGagne described Bono's singing as \"unleashing all his vocal power, moving from a soft, subtle intro and middle to an explosive burst of unyielding energy toward the end\". He made religious comparisons to the musical arrangement, saying the \"discerning air sounds almost church-like as it slowly unravels\". Readers of \"Rolling Stone\" voted \"With or Without You\" the \"Best Single\" in a 1987 end-of-year poll, while it finished in 15th place on the \"Best Singles\" list from \"The Village Voice\"s 1987 Pazz & Jop critics' poll.\n\n\"With or Without You\" has become one of U2's best-known songs, and it often appears in music critics' rankings of the best songs of all-time. In 2000, the song appeared at number eight on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of \"100 Greatest Pop Songs\", compiled by \"Rolling Stone\" and MTV music critics to rank songs released since The Beatles' breakthrough. In 2005, \"Blender\" ranked the song at number 268 on its list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs Since You Were Born\". The following year, readers of \"Q\" voted \"With or Without You\" the 17th-greatest song in history. In 2012, \"Slant Magazine\" listed \"With or Without You\" as the 40th best single of the 1980s. Music television network VH1 ranked the song number 13 on the \"100 Greatest Songs of the 80s\" countdown in its series \"The Greatest\". In 2010, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine placed the song at number 132 on its list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\". The song appeared as one of seven U2 songs in Toby Creswell's 2006 music reference book \"1001 Songs: The Great Songs of All Time and the Artists, Stories, and Secrets\". Creswell said the song struck a perfect balance between the \"vigour and spit and attitude\" of the group's teenage years and their new-found appreciation for the \"power of understatement\". U2 have included the song on two of their compilation albums, \"The Best of 1980–1990\" and \"U218 Singles\".\n\nU2\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n! scope=\"row\"|Brazil (ABPD)\n\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2325162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325162", "title": "Latvia at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Latvia at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nLatvia competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. 47 competitors, 34 men and 13 women, took part in 47 events in 12 sports.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325166", "title": "Manuel Wright", "text": "Manuel Wright\n\nManuel Wright (born April 13, 1984) is a former American football defensive tackle. He was drafted by the Miami Dolphins in the fifth round of the 2005 supplemental draft. He played college football at USC. Wright has also briefly been signed to the Buffalo Bills and played for the New York Giants. He earned a Super Bowl ring with the Giants in Super Bowl XLII.\n\nWright earned various team, local and national honors as a member of the football team at Long Beach Polytechnic High School in Long Beach, California. As a junior in 2000, Wright recorded 95 tackles (57 solo) and with 25 sacks. As a senior, Wright was the team's defensive MVP after recording 142 tackles (60 solo), 16 sacks, four fumble recoveries, three forced fumbles, 20 deflections and an interception.\n\nWright originally signed with USC in 2002 but did not qualify for admission, so he attended Long Beach City College that season as a part-time student. However, he did not play football there.\n\nIn 2003, Wright served as a backup for Defensive tackles Shaun Cody and Mike Patterson. While appearing in nine games during the season, Wright recorded eight tackles, including two for losses and three pass deflections. His first career sack came against Michigan in the Rose Bowl.\n\nOff the field, Wright was arrested on three misdemeanor charges, including assaulting one of his roommates, and assault with a deadly weapon. He later apologized to his teammates, coaches, friends and family for his actions and the charges were dropped.\n\nWright remained a backup to both Cody and Patterson as a sophomore in 2004. He appeared in 11 games including two starts when Cody was moved to Defensive end. On the year Wright had 23 tackles, including six for losses, two pass deflections and two fumble recoveries. For his efforts, he was an All-Pac-10 honorable mention.\n\nIn 2005 Wright was a projected starter for the first time in his career, however, he sat out spring practices in order to work on his academics and remain eligible. However, he was unsuccessful, and was left with the options of either staying in school and not playing football or declaring for the NFL's supplemental draft, which is held by the league to accommodate players who did not enter the regular draft. Wright chose the latter.\n\nLeading up to the supplemental draft, many NFL teams showed interest in Wright in the form of visits, workouts and interviews. The Miami Dolphins selected Wright in the fifth round of the draft, which essentially replaced their fifth-round pick in the 2006 draft. On July 22, Wright signed a four-year contract with the team. It included a signing bonus of $190,000.\n\nWright endured injuries and battled weight issues during his first training camp while his work ethic and maturity were questioned by some. In a much publicized incident on July 26, Wright broke down in tears during practice after being scolded by head coach Nick Saban.\n\nAs a rookie, Wright was for three games during the season. He made his NFL debut on December 4 against the Buffalo Bills, stepping in for injured Nose tackle Keith Traylor. Wright recorded two tackles and a sack. He finished the season with four tackles, one sack and one pass deflected.\n\nWright reportedly gained 28 pounds during the 2006 offseason, but lost most of the weight during training camp. On August 8, a reportedly depressed Wright took a leave of absence from the team. He was quoted as saying he \"did not believe he would ever play for the Dolphins again and that he needed a 'fresh start'\".\n\nDespite requests from his family and from Head coach Nick Saban, Wright remained away from football in 2006. The Dolphins attempted to trade him, unsuccessfully, but were unable to reach an agreement to release him. The team received a roster exemption for Wright in 2006 and he was placed on the non-football injury list.\n\nAlthough Wright had returned to the team during the 2007 offseason under new head coach Cam Cameron, he was released on May 1.\n\nOn May 3, the Buffalo Bills claimed Wright on waivers. Less than a week later, he was waived by the Bills. He told Chris Brown of the team's official website that he had 30 pounds to lose. Wright was subsequently cut by the Bills on May 10 after showing up at the team's first minicamp overweight.\n\nWright signed with the New York Giants on August 15, 2007. He appeared in six games during the regular season and recorded two tackles. He was also a member of the Giants' Super Bowl XLII championship team.\n\nOn April 10, 2008, the Giants waived Wright.\n\nIn 2008 Wright joined the af2 and on December 22 was assigned to the Stockton Lightning. However, on May 8, he was suspended by the team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325174", "title": "Reflections (Care Enough)", "text": "Reflections (Care Enough)\n\n\"Reflections (Care Enough)\" is a song recorded by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey for her first soundtrack and eighth studio album, \"Glitter\" (2001). It was written by herself and Philippe Pierre, while produced by the singer in collaboration with Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. \"Reflections (Care Enough)\" was released as a single on September 27, 2001, as the second single from \"Glitter\". The ballad has Carey, in character as Billie Frank in the film \"Glitter\", reflecting on how her mother did not \"care enough\" for her. The song is also featured on Carey's 2009 compilation album, \"The Ballads\".\n\n\"Reflections (Care Enough)\" was released as the album's second single on September 27, 2001 in Japan. Because of contractual obligations, Sony Music Entertainment, Carey's former record label and the international distributor of the \"Glitter\" soundtrack, released a CD single for the song in Japan only.\n\nA clip from the film \"Glitter\" in which Carey (as Billie Frank) performs the song in her apartment right after her character finishes writing it (the song is Billie's first attempt at songwriting) was used in Asia as a teaser for the film.\n\nIn an interview with Much Music, Carey talked about the song: \"Certain songs from this movie were written to enhance the scene like through Billie's point of view, like there's a song - I always call \"Care Enough\", but everyone's calling it \"Reflection\" because that's the first line I sing in the song. And she's sort of asking the question \"did you ever really care about me?\" to her mom cause she starts, like, thinking about it as we see her, you know, evolve in the movie. And so there are lines in the song like \"if I'm not quite good enough or somehow undeserving of a mother's love\". That would never have come out of my mouth 'cause my momma loves me! But, you know, there's a different approach in writing these songs\".\n\n\"Reflections (Care Enough)\" was written by Carey and Philippe Pierre, and produced by Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis in collaboration with Carey. It is a piano-driven song which lyrically, the song's protagonist \"laments the end of a relationship\", while confronting her mother regarding her early abandonment. Additionally, during its bridge, Carey \"eerily\" refers to abortion, \"You could have had the decency / To give me up / Before you gave me life\", as an option over abandoning the child. Larry Flick from \"Billboard\" commented that in the film, the song \"manages to illustrate a crucial plot point, while also providing insight into the emotional baggage that Carey's film alter ego carries\".\n\n\"Billboard\"s Larry Flick thought that the song was \"quite powerful\". \"Bowling Green Daily News\" editor Chuck Campbell wrote that Mariah dishes out the \"anonymous and unobjectionable ballad\". David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote a mixed review: \"She laments the end of a relationship several times, most believably on \"Reflections (Care Enough)\" -- typical Ma-riah schlock sung with crushed-flower loneliness\". Slant Magazine's Sal Cinquemani disagreed: \"Reflections (Care Enough)\" tells the tale of an estranged mother figure and its sparse arrangement recalls the simple beauty of Carey's early balladry. The song's bridge is bizarre, though\". In a review for the album in \"The Free Lance–Star\", a writer outed the song's first verse \"A displeased little girl / Wept years in silence / And whispers wishes you'd materialize / She pressed on night and day / To keep on living / And tried so many ways / To keep her soul alive\" as his favorite lyric from \"Glitter\", and described it as an \"emotional and heart-wrenching ballad\".\n\nOn November 16, 2001, Carey sang the song on a special titled \"A Home For The Holidays With Mariah Carey\", which aired on December 21 of that same year on Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS). The special featured additional performances by Destiny's Child, Josh Groban, Enrique Iglesias and Mandy Moore. In the live performance, Carey sang a different lyric in the bridge. While the track sings \"you could have had the decency to give me up before you gave me life\", Carey sings \"...give me up the day you gave me life\" in order to avoid referencing abortion. Mark Sachs from \"Los Angeles Times\" called the performance as a \"high point\" from the show.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325176", "title": "Korihor", "text": "Korihor\n\nKorihor () is an anti-christ described in in the Book of Mormon.\n\nKorihor is directly referred to in the Book of Mormon as an Anti-Christ, because he claimed there will be no Christ. Korihor was able to preach his views to the people because of the land's freedom of religion. These teachings alarmed the clerical government in Zarahemla, who felt that his views were dangerous to their society, as people had begun to ignore the laws of the land (which were based on the religious beliefs of their society). He attempted to preach to the people of Ammon, but the residents had kicked him out of Jershon. He also tried preaching in Gideon and he was arrested; before a high priest, during a hearing for his apparent blasphemy and for causing social discord, Korihor offered a speech in his own defense. Korihor was turned over to higher authority and later got into an argument with the chief judge and governor, Alma regarding the existence of God. Alma responded to Korihor's arguments, stating that all things testified that there is a God. Korihor finally demanded that Alma show him a sign from God or he, Korihor, would not believe in God. This culminated in Korihor being miraculously rendered deaf and mute, upon which Korihor confessed, in writing:\nKorihor begged for forgiveness, but Alma, sensing that Korihor would go back to his wicked ways, cast Korihor out. Korihor became a beggar and was later trampled to death by the Zoramites, a group who had separated themselves from the main Nephite society.\n\nKorihor's statements provide explicit arguments for atheism, which have been categorized as arguments for agnosticism, empiricism, secular humanism, and relativism. Perhaps because of the direct treatment that Korihor gives the topic of atheism, his words have been cited by skeptics as exemplary, while devotees cite his teachings in an attempt to inoculate their audiences against similar heresy. \n\nKorihor's argument was two-fold. First, that \"ye cannot know of things which ye do not see\", from which he extrapolated that there is no fairness or unfairness, no crime or sin, no cause for shame, and no eternal consequence of actions. In the absence of sin, the need for an atoning sacrifice and the ordinances and religious participation to connect people to that atoning sacrifice are obviated, and followers are instead encouraged to \"look up with boldness\", \"enjoy their rights and privileges\", and \"make use of that which is their own\". Second, Korihor hypothesizes that the only reason for perpetuation of orthodox beliefs is \"a foolish and vain hope\" on the part of believers, and, on the part of priests and teachers, a desire \"to usurp power and authority over [the people]\" and \"keep them down, even as it were in bondage, that ye may glut yourselves with the labors of their hands\".\n\nHugh Nibley relates the name to Egypt, and states:\n\nNibley relates Korihor's name to Kherihor, a high priest at Thebes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325182", "title": "Southern Delta Aquariids", "text": "Southern Delta Aquariids\n\nThe Southern Delta Aquariids are a meteor shower visible from mid July to mid August each year with peak activity on 28 or 29 July. The shower originated from the breakup of what are now the Marsden and Kracht Sungrazing comets.\n\nThe Delta Aquariids get their name because their radiant appears to lie in the constellation Aquarius, near one of the constellation's brightest stars, Delta Aquarii. The name derives from the Latin possessive form \"Aquarii\", whereby the declension \"-i\" is replaced by \"-ids\" (hence Aquariids with two i's). There are two branches of the Delta Aquariid meteor shower, Southern and Northern. The Southern Delta Aquariids are considered a strong shower, with an average meteor observation rate of 15–20 per hour, and a peak zenith hourly rate of 18. The average radiant is at RA=339°, DEC=−17°. The Northern Delta Aquariids are a weaker shower, peaking later in mid August, with an average peak rate of 10 meteors per hour and an average radiant of RA=340°, DEC=−2°.\n\nObservations of the (then unidentified) Delta Aquariids (δ Aquariids) were recorded by G. L. Tupman in 1870, who plotted 65 meteors observed between July 27 and August 6. He plotted the radiant's apparent beginning and ending points (RA=340°, DEC=−14°; RA=333°, DEC=−16°). This was corrected later. Ronald A. McIntosh re-plotted the path, based on a greater number of observations made from 1926 to 1933. He determined it to begin at RA=334.9°, DEC=−19.2° and end RA=352.4°, DEC=−11.8°. Cuno Hoffmeister and a team of German observers were the first to record the characteristics of a Northern Aquariid radiant within the stream around 1938. And Canadian D. W. R. McKinley observed both branches in 1949, but did not associate the two radiants. That was accomplished by astronomer Mary Almond, in 1952, who determined both accurate velocity and orbit of the δ Aquariids. She used a \"more selective beamed aerial\" (echo radio) to identify probable member meteors and plotted an accurate orbital plane. Her paper reported it as a broad \"system of orbits\" that are probably \"connected and produced by one extended stream.\" This was confirmed in the 1952–1954 Harvard Meteor Project, via photographic observation of orbits. The Project also produced the first evidence that the stream's evolution was influenced by Jupiter.\n\nThe Delta Aquariids are best viewed in the pre-dawn hours, away from the glow of city lights. Southern Hemisphere viewers usually get a better show because the radiant is higher in the sky during the peak season. Since the radiant is above the southern horizon for Northern Hemisphere viewers, meteors will primarily fan out in all compass points, east, north and west. Few meteors will be seen heading southward, unless they are fairly short and near the radiant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325185", "title": "Hamar people", "text": "Hamar people\n\nThe Hamar (also spelled Hamer) are an Omotic community inhabiting southwestern Ethiopia. They live in Hamer woreda (or district), a fertile part of the Omo River valley, in the Debub Omo Zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region (SNNPR). They are largely pastoralists, so their culture places a high value on cattle.\n\nThe 2003 national census reported 46,532 people in this ethnic group, of whom 10000 were urban inhabitants. The vast majority (99.13%) live in the SNNPR.\n\nAccording to the Ethiopian national census of 1994, there were 42,838 Hamer language speakers, and 42,448 self-identified Hamer people, representing approximately 0.1% of the total Ethiopian population.\n\nThe Hamar are known for their unique custom of \"bull jumping,\" which initiates a boy into manhood. First, female relatives dance and invite whipping from men who have recently been initiated; this shows their support of the initiate, and their scars give them a say on who they marry.\n\nThe boy must run back and forth twice across the backs of a row of bulls or castrated steers, and is ridiculed if he fails.\n\nThe Assistant Administrator of Hamer Bena, Ato Imnet Gashab, has commented that only seven tribal members have ever completed secondary education.\n\n\"Mingi\", in the religion of the Hamar and related tribes, is the state of being impure or \"ritually polluted\". A person, often a child, who was considered \"mingi\" is killed by forced permanent separation from the tribe by being left alone in the jungle or by drowning in the river.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325197", "title": "Toolbox Murders", "text": "Toolbox Murders\n\nToolbox Murders is a 2004 American slasher film directed by Tobe Hooper, and written by Jace Anderson and Adam Gierasch. It is a remake of the 1978 film \"The Toolbox Murders\" and was produced by the same people behind the original. The film centralizes on the occupants of an apartment who are stalked and murdered by a masked killer.\n\nDaisy Rain goes to her apartment in the Lusman Arms, a former luxury hotel undergoing renovations, and is beaten to death with a hammer by a man wearing a balaclava. In another room, new tenants Nell and Steven Barrows, a teacher, and a medical intern are introduced to the amenities and a few of the residents by Byron, the building manager. As Steven works long hours, Nell is left alone most of the time, and befriends Julia Cunningham, a neighbor down the hall, and Chas Rooker, an elderly man who reveals some of the history of the structure, mentioning it was made by Jack Lusman, who disappeared mysteriously, and that builders died while working on it.\n\nAs days pass, the Lusman Arms are plagued by mysterious circumstance; strange noises are heard throughout it and coming from the intercoms, Nell finds a trinket containing human teeth in a wall, and Julia and another tenant vanish, having been killed (with a drill and a nail gun, respectively) by the ski-masked murderer, who hides their bodies. While looking into Julia's disappearance, Nell speaks with Chas, who offers cryptic warnings about the nature of the building, and sneaks Nell a note reading \"Look for her in Room 504\". Nell takes the advice and discovers that there is no Room 504 and that all the other floors lack apartments whose numbering should end with 4.\n\nNell goes to the Los Angeles Preservation Society, where an employee tells her that Jack Lusman was an occultist who associated with a society that tried to mix science and magic and that the symbols (which Nell copies down on her arms) decorating the building are part of a spell. The blueprints for the Lusman Arms also reveal that there is a townhouse hidden within the structure, hence all the missing rooms. Nell returns home and finds a hatch on the roof of the building that allows entrance into the townhouse, where she uncovers a room dedicated to the Golden Age of Hollywood, torture chambers, and dozens of corpses. The killer, who had just butchered another tenant and the handyman, appears, and removes his mask to reveal that he is a monster, which the credits refer to as \"Coffin Baby.\"\n\nA teenage resident discovers that the webcam he had been using to spy on Julia had recorded her death, prompting him to go to Steven, who finds Nell's notes about the building, and goes looking for her along with the boy, Byron, and the doorman. The men send the teen to get the police after they find a passageway into Coffin Baby's lair, which they enter. Coffin Baby kills Byron and the doorman, and gives chase to Nell and Steven, the former of whom theorizes that Coffin Baby needs death and the Lusman Arms to continue existing. The Barrows are found by Chas, who tries to lead them to safety, and murmurs that Coffin Baby came into the world when he clawed his way out of his dead and buried mother's womb.\n\nCoffin Baby leaps out from under a pile of human remains, fatally throws Chas at a wall, and captures Nell, but she is saved by Steven, who bludgeons Coffin Baby, and knocks a shelf onto him. The authorities arrive and take Steven to a hospital, and as Nell returns to her apartment, the police lift up the debris that fell on Coffin Baby, who has disappeared. Coffin Baby crashes through Nell's window and tries to kill her, but is disoriented by the runes she had earlier drawn on her arms, distracting him long enough for a pair of police officers to barge in, and shoot him out a window, causing him to be hanged by a cord Nell had wrapped around his neck. The officers check on Nell, then go to the window, only to find that Coffin Baby has once again vanished.\n\n\nJacqueline Quella stated in one of the production interviews for the DVD release that she'd acquired the remake rights to \"The Toolbox Murders\", but was unable to finish watching the film, calling it a \"terrible, misogynistic\" film focused on showing little more than women being horrifically murdered, and so she wanted the remake to differ greatly from the original rather than adapt it.\n\nChristian Bale stated in an interview that he tried hard to contact Tobe Hooper for the role of Steven Barrows and even personally recorded and sent a screen test of himself, but was never called back. He instead focused on scoring the role of Batman in \"Batman Begins\" (2005).\n\nLucky McKee was originally set to play the part of the killer, but dropped out to work on his own horror film \"The Woods\" (2006).\n\nSheri Moon Zombie acted in the film as a personal favor to Hooper, who is friends with her husband, musician and filmmaker Rob Zombie.\n\nThe tools in the toolbox belong to Hooper himself.\n\nOne of the production companies financing the film dissolved during filming, forcing Tobe Hooper to shut down production with only 2/3 of the movie actually shot. Numerous continuity errors, plot holes, and narrative flaws are the result of Hooper hastily editing together what he had filmed into a complete movie in order to try and recoup financial losses and so that the actors' and crews' work wouldn't go to waste.\n\n\"Toolbox Murders\" first premiered at the Fest Fearless Tales Genre Fest at the Victoria Theatre on March 11–14, 2004. Later that year it was screened at Scotland's Dead By Dawn Horror Film Festival on April 22–25.\n\nThe film was released on DVD by Live/Artisan on March 15, 2005. It was later released on special edition was released by Anchor Bay Entertainment on April 15 and as a regular edition on May 16 both that same year.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 53% based on , with a weighted average rating of 6/10.\n\nEd Gonzolez from \"Slant Magazine\" gave the film a negative review, stating that \"Aesthetically and theoretically, \"Toolbox Murders\" may be Hooper’s most impressive film in years\", but criticized the film's characters, and \"ludicrous supernatural plot\". \"TV Guide\"s Maitland McDonagh graded the film 2 / 5 stars, calling it \"an excuse for a series of stalk-and-slash scenes\". Film critic Leonard Maltin awarded the film 1.5 out of 4 stars, stating that the \"Decent production values do little to elevate this predictable 1970s-style gorefest\". Film Threat gave the film a mixed review, writing, \"Left in the hands of a lesser director, \"Toolbox Murders\" could have been a downright stupid haunted house with gore movie. But Hooper’s keen eye for creeping shadows and great art direction by Steven R. Miller give it an atmospheric punch. The scenes of violence manage to be both graphic and chilling, lending weight to an otherwise silly sounding plot. Sadly, although entertaining, the film never quite lives up to expectations. The mix of black humour, supernatural mystery and straight up slasher horror never completely mesh and you can’t helping thinking that things would have been better if they’d just stuck to a subgenre.\"\n\n\"Variety\" wrote, \"\"Toolbox\" may not renew the splatter genre in any significant way, but the chills and kills prove Hooper, when armed with the right script, can still tighten the fright screws\". Felix Vasquez from \"Cinema Crazed\" wrote, \"I’ll admit \"The Toolbox Murders\" will never win any awards in the horror field, but as a piece of pure mindless horror with gore galore, I dug it a lot simply for its schlock value, and so-stupid-it’s-good fun.\"\nDavid Cornelius from \"eFilmCritic\" graded the film a score of 3/5 stars, stating that the film was \"a decent little B thriller, eager to please. It gives its audience exactly what it wants, providing enough blood to satisfy the splatter freaks, enough chills to satisfy more laid-back horror fans\". Cornelius also commended the film's atmosphere, and performances, while also criticizing the mystery of the killer's identity as feeling \"tossed off without much regard\".\n\nA sequel to \"Toolbox Murders\" started production in 2011; however production ceased when the film ran out of production funds and it was discovered that the one of the producers, Tony DiDio, did not have chain of title or rights to the \"Toolbox Murders\" franchise. The movie was completed by additional producers as \"Coffin Baby\" which is completely independent of the \"Toolbox Murders\" franchise and was released in 2013. The film was then re-released as \"Toolbox Murders 2\" in 2015. Despite the stalled release of \"Toolbox Murders 2\" and a no chain of title, the producers tried to develop a \"Toolbox Murders 3\" via crowdfunding in 2015 but were unsuccessful.\n\n"}
{"id": "2325201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325201", "title": "Aachenosaurus", "text": "Aachenosaurus\n\nAachenosaurus is a dubious genus of prehistoric plant. It was named based solely on fossilized fragments of material that were originally thought to be jaw fragments from a duck-billed dinosaur (a hadrosaur). However, the fossils turned out to be petrified wood, to the great embarrassment of the discoverer. The fossil's name means \"Aachen lizard\", named for the Aachenian deposits of Moresnet (which was a neutral territory between Belgium and Germany), where the fossils were found.\n\nA synonym of \"Aachenosaurus\" is \"Aachenoxylon\", which was coined by Dr Maurice Hovelacque in 1889/1890.\n\n\"Aachenosaurus\" was found and named by the scientist (and abbé) Gerard Smets, on October 31, 1888, who named the type species \"Aachenosaurus multidens\". Based on these fragments he determined that the specimen was a hadrosaur reaching an estimated 4 to 5 meters in length which might have had dermal spines. He defended this conclusion, citing that the fossils had been examined visually with the naked eye, magnifying lenses and with the microscope. However, his error was soon demonstrated by Louis Dollo. Smets at first tried to defend his original identification but was again proven wrong by a neutral commission and withdrew from science completely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2325205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325205", "title": "Switzerland at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Switzerland at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nSwitzerland competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. 114 competitors, 71 men and 43 women, took part in 83 events in 17 sports.\n\nMen's 1,500 metres \n\nMen's 4 × 400 m Relay\n\nMen's 400m Hurdles\n\nMen's Decathlon \n\nMen's 50 km Walk\n<br>\nWomen's 400 metres\n\nWomen's 10,000 metres\n\n\nWomen's 400m Hurdles\n\n\nWomen's High Jump\n\nWomen's Heptathlon \n\nWomen's Marathon\n\nMen's Individual Time Trial\n\n\nWomen's Individual Road Race\n\n\n\nWomen's Individual Time Trial\n\nMen's Points Race\n\nMen's Cross Country\n\n\nWomen's Cross Country\n\n\nFive fencers, two men and three women, represented Switzerland in 1996.\n\n\n\n\nMen's Competition\n\nWomen's 50m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 400m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 4 × 100 m Freestyle Relay\n\nWomen's 4 × 200 m Freestyle Relay\n\nMen's Singles Competition\n<br>\nWomen's Singles Competition\n"}
{"id": "2325214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2325214", "title": "Double Allergic", "text": "Double Allergic\n\nDouble Allergic is the second studio album by Australian alternative rock band Powderfinger. Released in Australia on 2 September 1996 Polydor, the album was produced by Tim Whitten and widely considered Powderfinger's mainstream breakthrough.\n\nFour singles were released from the album: \"Pick You Up\", \"D.A.F.\", \"Living Type\" and \"Take Me In\". \"Pick You Up\" was the most successful single from the album, and Powderfinger's first moderate success, reaching #23 on the ARIA charts. \"D.A.F.\" also charted as a moderate success; it reached #39 on the Australian music charts. Both \"Living Type\" and \"Take Me In\" did not chart officially, but \"Living Type\" was voted into the Triple J Hottest 100 in 1996.\n\nCritics were generally favorable in their reviews of \"Double Allergic\". It was praised by Allmusic reviewer Jonathan Lewis as \"a cohesive and mature effort\". It has also been certified platinum three times, with over 200,000 copies sold. \"Double Allergic\" was also nominated for five ARIA awards, with singles from the album nominated for an additional four, however, it won none of the awards it was nominated for.\n\n\"Double Allergic\" contained material that had been written by Powderfinger in 1995 and 1996. Prior to its release, guitarist Darren Middleton described it as \"by far the best thing we've done\", an analogy that would be often made when comparing the album to its predecessor, \"Parables for Wooden Ears\". Middleton praised the album because the band knew how they wanted the record to sound before they began to record; he also described it as \"the most concise continuation of who we are down on record\".\n\nLead singer Bernard Fanning noted that another important element of the album was that there \"was more space in the songs, it wasn't overcrowded\". However, Fanning commented that Powderfinger had not intended to greatly change their sound in creating \"Double Allergic\", instead, the change in sound came as a natural progression. the guitarist Ian Haug agreed, stating the music was \"more melodic and sort of simpler\", without \"so many different time signatures and things\". \"Rolling Stone\" author Tracey Grimson also commented on this, stating that \"Powderfinger have become practical advocates of space\" and lauding their acknowledgment that the \"absence of sound can be lush, evocative\". She noted that even in the \"rockers\" on the album songs—like \"Pick You Up\" and \"Skinny Jean\"—the band were still able to pull back and give the songs additional space.\n\nPowderfinger spent less money producing \"Double Allergic\" than on their previous works. Previously, the band had worked with Tony Cohen, whom Fanning stated was expensive due to his success in the industry. For \"Double Allergic\" the band chose Tim Whitten, a less well known producer, and because the band knew what they intended to do as they entered the studio they managed to spend less despite the improved sound. Middleton commented on Whitten's capabilities in the recording studio, saying \"He's what a band looks for in a producer/engineer, because he's got his own ideas\", but stating that Whitten would also listen to and appreciate the band's ideas.\n\n\"Double Allergic\" was released on 2 September 1996 in Australia on the Polydor record label. It entered the ARIA chart at #7, and spent ten weeks in the top ten. Over 200,000 copies were sold, and the album is currently certified 3x platinum, asserting at least 210,000 sales. The album finished 1996 at #44 on the ARIA end of year albums chart, and finished 1997 at #53.\n\n\"Pick You Up\", the first single, was released on 13 April 1996, and entered the ARIA singles chart at #34. By its fifth week, on 30 June, it had reached its peak at #23 – it spent a further seven weeks on the chart before dropping out. \"Pick You Up\" was described as having a \"very professional sound\". The song appeared at #6 on the Triple J Hottest 100, 1996. \"D.A.F.\", the second single, was released on 5 August 1996. It spent four weeks on the ARIA chart, peaking at #39. The title of the song was taken from its chord progression, in the words of the bass guitarist John Collins \"because we were stupid\". The song appeared at #18 on the Triple J Hottest 100, 1996.\n\n\"Living Type\" was the third single, released on 11 November 1996. The song peaked at #42 on the ARIA charts and stayed in the top 50 for three weeks. \"Living Type\" was written by Fanning about the Manson Family cult, and came with an \"X-Files\" style music video. The song appeared at #32 on the Triple J Hottest 100, 1996. The fourth single, \"Take Me In\", was released on 12 May 1997. It failed to chart, and was the least noted single from the album. Fanning wrote \"Take Me In\" as a response to hypocrisy by police, which he had read about in newspapers.\n\nThe album contains three secret tracks placed onto the twelfth track after silence that follows the track's primary song \"(The Return of) The Electric Horseman\". The first of these is called \"Vladimir\" which, according to Fanning is about a transvestite. The second song is called \"SS\" which refers to Australian cricket bat manufacturer Stuart Surridge, which is often known by those initials. The song refers in part to the bat itself, though mostly to cricket in general, with lyrics \"\"Then we'll race like jets for the fading moon; Then we all fall down\"\", which refers to running for the opposite crease following striking the ball, and then diving to the ground to secure the run. The third and final secret track is called \"Come Away\" which also appeared as a B-side for the single of \"Pick You Up\". In a first for the group, it had the guitarist Darren Middleton as lead vocalist, while a spoken sound sample at the end of the song is the bass guitarist John Collins' voice.\n\n\"Double Allergic\" was well received by \"Allmusic\", with reviewer Jonathan Lewis claiming that Powderfinger \"managed to successfully create an album of melodic pop songs coupled with noisy guitars\". The album was summarised as \"a cohesive and mature effort\".\n\n\"Sputnikmusic\" reviewer blueyxd, had mixed feelings about the album. The level of experimentation in the album was praised, with the reviewer stating that \"the instrument playing and some of the unusual styles used\" were beneficial. However, the main concern was that there wasn't enough experimentation, and that the album was rather \"solid\", thus earning it its score of 3.5.\n\n\"Juice\" magazine reviewed \"Double Allergic\" positively, calling it a much more mature album than its predecessor, \"Parables for Wooden Ears\". The \"band's mellowing tone\", compared to the \"aggression\" in past works, was also commended, with the review stating that \"the result is an album filled with potential and character\". The experimentation on \"JC\", \"Glimpse\" and \"Oipic\" was again praised, with comparisons to Motown drawn. The review summarised the album as \"proof of a band maturing, streets ahead of anything they've previously recorded\".\n\nAll music written and arranged by Powderfinger. All lyrics by Fanning, except \"Boing Boing\" lyrics by Fanning/Haug, \"JC\" & \"Come Away\" lyrics by Middleton, \"Take Me In\" & \"(Return Of) The Electric Horseman\" lyrics by Fanning/Middleton.\n"}
