{"id": "1959552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959552", "title": "Barbara Heinemann Landmann", "text": "Barbara Heinemann Landmann\n\nBarbara Heinemann Landmann (January 11, 1795 – May 21, 1883) was twice a \"Werkzeug\", or Instrument, for the Community of True Inspiration. A Werkzeug, under the influence of the gift of Inspiration, is thought by the Community to convey the word of the Lord to believers. Barbara was first a Werkzeug in Germany and in Alsace. She became a Werkzeug during the Christmas holidays of 1818 until she married George Landmann in 1823. She and her husband migrated with the Community from Germany to the Ebenezer Colonies in New York State, USA and from the Ebenezer Colonies to the Amana Colonies in Iowa. While she was in the Ebenezer Colonies, she became a Werkzeug again. In the Ebenezer Colonies and the Amana Colonies, she shared with Christian Metz the responsibilities of a Werkzeug. Christian Metz died in 1872, and Barbara became the sole Werkzeug until she died, at the age of 88. Her testimonies continue to be read aloud during the Community's religious services.\n\nIn 1874 Charles Nordhoff, gathering materials for \"The Communistic Societies of the United States\" (Nordhoff, 1875), visited the Amana Colonies in Iowa. He reports:\n\nThe religious head whom Nordhoff met was Barbara Heinemann Landmann, 80 at the time. Each of the seven towns mentioned by Nordhoff consisted of a single congregation of Inspirationists. The only non-Inspirationists in any of the towns were the hired hands, who were sometimes given a place to stay. The seven towns were within a few hours journey from each other, so it was not difficult for Barbara to visit them all.\n\nThe geographic arrangement of congregations had not always been so convenient for the Inspirationists. During their earlier years in Europe, some congregations might be several days' journey apart. Their separation might lead them to differences of opinion about the authority of those who claimed to be inspired. A congregation was usually a minority within a village, and an unpopular one. Because of dissension among the congregations and persecution by outsiders, Barbara's early years with the Inspirationists were tumultuous, unlike the harmonious situation in America.\n\nThe year before Nordhoff's visit, Barbara had dictated to Gottlieb Scheuner, a Community historian, the story of her early years, from her birth to the end of her first service as a Werkzeug, at the age of 28. Scheuner says that she declined to write the story herself because of her advanced age and her lack of writing skill.\n\nHer story begins with her birth.\n\nBach (1971) says that Barbara was the second daughter of Peter and Anna Heinemann. In her account to Scheuner, Barbara does not mention her older sister. Of her mother, she says only that her mother agreed with her father that Barbara should not go to school.\n\nBarbara says that she was born in Leiterswiller; but later in her account she says that her father's home was in Hermerswiller. The two villages are a mile apart.\n\nWhen she was 22, and working at the Gasthaus, Barbara experienced a sudden darkening of her mood.\n\nShe said she felt that she was too engrossed in fleeting joys and that she did not know God. After a time she left the Gasthaus and moved back to her father's house in Hermersweiler in order to be undisturbed while examining her \"inner promptings.\" She attended church services, but held back when it was time to take communion. She felt unworthy. It seemed to her that a mighty conversion must occur before a human being could take communion.\n\nHoping that old people, who were closer to eternity, could help her, she visited old grandmothers. Finally one of them told her, \"Your appear to be a Pietist.\" Barbara had never heard of Pietists. She became eager to know such people. The woman told her of a Pietist, a woman living nearby in Sulz. Barbara went to see the woman in Sulz. When Barbara asked if she could join the woman's prayer group, the woman said that Barbara had not yet been awakened, so the group could not take her in.\n\nBarbara returned home dejected. After a week or so, she had a vision as she slept.\n\nThis message stirred her powerfully, and she said \"I promise and surrender myself to God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. I will serve, love and honor Him. I will follow and cling to Him.\" Then in her vision the suns experienced great joy and satisfaction and made a movement signifying approval.\n\nShe awoke reluctantly.\n\nShe returned to the woman in Sulz, and spoke of her vision. The woman said that\nBarbara was now awakened, and could come with her to a prayer meeting of the\nCommunity of True Inspiration.\n\nSources for the history of the Community of True Inspiration include Noé (1904), Perkins (1891), and Shambaugh (1908).\n\nThe Community had been founded 103 years earlier, in 1714, by Eberhard Ludwig\nGruber, a Lutheran minister, and Johann Friedrich Rock, the son of a Lutheran minister.\nTogether they had studied the writings of the German mystics and Pietists from the 16th and 17th centuries. They were particularly drawn to a branch of Pietists which arose during the last quarter of the 17th century and whose followers are said to have \"prophesied like the prophets of old.\"\n\nGruber and Rock believed in present-day Inspiration. In the Community they founded, divine guidance is thought to come through individuals who are endowed by the Lord with the miraculous gift of Inspiration. These individuals are called \"Werkzeuge\" (Instruments). The testimony of a Werkzeug is often written down by a Scribe. Testimonies so recorded have the same authority and almost the same importance as the Bible.\n\nGruber and Rock, with other early members of the Community, traveled through Europe, preaching. Some villages welcomed them; there they established small congregations of Inspirationists. Other villages, including Zurich, turned them away.\n\nThe early Inspirationists delivered testimony delivered during a trance or shaking spell called \"Bewegung\".\n\nMackinet (1749), who traveled as a Scribe with Gruber and other early Werkzeuge,\nwrote that Bewegungen varied with the testimony. When Werkzeuge were proclaiming God's judgment and chastisement,\n\nMackinet goes into more detail about Bewegungen.\n\nMackinet and Gruber, after a night of preaching in a synagogue in Prague, went for a walk on the frozen Moldau. There they met two rabbis. They asked the rabbis if the prophets of old among the people of Israel also proclaimed the Lord's Word through such strange bodily movements. The rabbis answered:\n\nBewegungen, whether a trance or a shaking fit, continued to distinguish the utterances of the Werkzeuge until the time of Nordhoff's visit. Nordhoff\nsays that Christian Metz, a Werkzeug who died seven years before Nordhoff's visit, once shook for an hour before an utterance.\n\nThe Community considers that not everyone who claims to be a Werkzeug actually is. Gruber and Rock acknowledged the existence of false Inspiration.\n\nGruber (1715) reports that the first false spirit made its appearance, \"with false convulsions and false utterances,\" in a boy of 14 who thought he was moved by the Spirit. Johanna Melchior, an early member of the Community, denounced the false spirit \"with great certainty and convincing power.\"\n\nGruber describes his own encounter with a false spirit.\n\nWerkzeuge believed to be false continued to be a problem for as long as the Community had\nWerkzeuge. Many years after the Community had settled in Iowa, Christian Metz, one of their Werkzeuge, writes:\n\nShambaugh (1908) reports that from the very beginnings of the Community, it was\ncustomary to appoint a committee to examine those who spoke by Inspiration. In many instances the committee found an aspiring Werkzeug to be false, and denied them the privilege of prophesying.\n\nGruber died in 1728; Rock, in 1749. With their death, the gift of Inspiration ceased. Lacking a Werkzeug, the Community read the writings and the recorded testimonies of past Werkzeuge, especially Gruber and Rock. From the time of the Community's founding in 1714 to the death of Rock in 1749, 35 years, the Community recognized 18 Werkzeuge. During the Decline, the 67 years between the death of Rock in 1749 and the Reawakening in 1817, the Community recognized none, and lost strength.\n\nWith the Reawakening, however, during 1817 and 1818, Inspiration returned to the Community. Within two years, there arose three new Werkzeuge: Michael Krausert, Christian Metz, and Barbara Heinemann.\n\nThe first of the new Werkzeuge was Michael Krausert, a tailor from Strasbourg. Zuber (1981) gives us some background on Krausert.\n\nThe two sisters often accompanied Krausert on his journeys to various congregations of Inspirationists.\n\nMost of the congregations visited by the new Werkzeuge were located in west-central Germany, in either a southern district or a northern district. Journeys within a district took a day or two, either by foot or by horse-drawn vehicle. Journeys between districts took several days, sometimes by boat on the Rhine or Main rivers.\n\nBergzabern is at the center of the southern district. Hermersweiler, where Barbara came from, is a day's journey south of Bergzabern; Bischweiler, where Krausert came from, is another day's journey south of Hermersweiler. Ronneburg is at the center of the northern district. The owners of the Ronneburg castle provided a haven for Separatist groups like the Inspirationists.\n\nIt was at Ronneburg, on September 11, 1817, that Krausert gave his first testimony: a summons to a revival of faith.\n\nSome of the Inspirationists rejected Krausert, saying that they had enough of testimonies; but others welcomed him.\n\nScheuner (1873) is the primary source for the history of Barbara's first service as a Werkzeug.\n\nIt was during the Reawakening, shortly after Krausert became a Werkzeug, that Barbara Heinemann was received into the prayer meetings of the Community of True Inspiration. She became acquainted with other Sisters who attended the prayer meetings. They would often employ her in their homes for a day; there, they would talk about their faith.\n\nThe Sisters told her there was now a prophet in the Community: Michael Krausert. They promised to let her know when he would be in the vicinity. She finally met him in Sulz, in a room with many other people. She spoke with him about the thoughts which had been troubling her. His answers comforted her and convinced her that he was a man of God. After a time he sat down at a table to write. His writing was an \"Einsprache\", an inspired written testimony, wherein the Lord indicated that He would confer on Barbara the same gift that he had conferred on Krausert.\n\nKrausert then persuaded Barbara to accompany him and his party, including his wife and her sister, on a journey to Bergzabern. She had another vision.\n\nThey stayed briefly in Bergzabern, then proceeded to Anweiler, a half-day's journey north, where they took part in the Sunday service. At this service, Krausert uttered an \"Aussprache\", an inspired spoken testimony, which Barbara felt was directed to her; it seemed to be a dialog between her heart and the Savior.\n\nAfter this service, Krausert dismissed Barbara, and she returned to her father's house in Hermersweiler. Shortly after her return, she felt a spiritual urge to go to Sulz. She went to the home of a trusted Sister for whom she had done washing. The Sister was happy to see her; she had been praying that God would send Barbara to her, to discuss their faith, which they did, to their mutual edification.\n\nDuring this visit, Barbara felt distressed by a drive within her. The drive resolved itself into a single command: \"Write!\" She spoke of this command to another Sister, who had come to visit. Barbara said she did not know how to write. The visiting Sister told her to try; maybe she would be able to write down what was necessary. Barbara wrote down single letters and syllables, as best she could.\n\nUnfortunately, no one could decipher what Barbara had written. The visiting Sister then wrote out the words that Barbara remembered. Now they could make some sense of it. It was an Einsprache, about a tree with many branches and leaves, blossoms and fruit, which Barbara did not yet understand. Barbara felt that God's will had been served. The Sister said, \"I can believe that you were distressed, for now I know the cause.\"\n\nBarbara took the paper home. There she felt a spiritual urge to take the paper to Bergzabern. On her arrival in Bergzabern, she discovered that she had just missed Krausert, who had proceeded to Anweiler. The next day, she caught up with him, and showed him the paper. He sent her to a Brother's house, while he read the paper to the people who were assembled with him. These people did not want to consider anything she had written. They regarded Barbara as an inferior, an uneducated country maid. They ignored Krausert, who told them that the writing was the word of the Lord, against which he could do nothing. Because of this opposition, Krausert sent Barbara back to her father's house.\n\nUpon her return, her father sent her on an errand to Bischweiler. She was happy to go, and she stayed there for some time. On her return to Hermersweiler, a messenger came in the night and asked her to come quickly to Bergzabern. The messenger said that the people were suffering great distress because they had been so rude to her. She set out in the morning. When she arrived, the people who had rejected her now welcomed her joyously. They asked her to stay with them. During her stay, she was moved to deliver several Einsprache.\n\nBarbara had agreed to begin working as a maid for a Sister in Bischweiler after Christmas, 1818. As Christmas approached, she told Krausert that she had to leave. Krausert told her to stay. He said that another way would be found for her to earn a living. On the first day of Christmas, Krausert presented an Aussprache in a prayer meeting. As he spoke, Barbara was powerfully seized. She felt that she could have spoken the very words that Krausert was speaking; but she resisted her promptings and uttered nothing. Krausert realized what was happening to her.\n\nOn the second day of Christmas, Krausert declared that he would be unable to attend the prayer meeting because he was ill; he retired to the next room. Now Barbara felt a force so powerful that she could resist it no longer; she delivered her first Aussprache. When Krausert heard her speaking, he entered the meeting room, immediately became inspired, and confirmed her testimony. He further testified that Barbara was released from her worldly service as maid because the Lord was taking her into His service.\n\nNow a Werkzeug, Barbara undertook to learn how to read. The Bible was her textbook. She was happy when at last she could follow the Holy Scriptures. They made a profound impression on her; much of the language of her testimonies is that of the Bible, particularly the Old Testament.\n\nWhile still in Bergzabern with Kreutzer, Barbara suffered her first arrest. The town's pastor urged the authorities to take action against the Inspirationists. The authorities sent spies to a prayer meeting of the Inspirationists. Before the meeting, at supper with a family of Inspirationists, Barbara became inspired and testified that there would be spies at that night's prayer meeting. Barbara herself did not go to the meeting. After the meeting, several who had attended came and asked why she had not come. They said that there had been two aristocratic gentlemen there. Barbara explained that they were spies. She showed them the testimony she had delivered earlier that evening. They were astounded.\n\nBarbara sensed that the houses of the Inspirationists were about to be searched. She had the people put all their books and testimonies in a sack, which they hid under a tub in the basement. This was scarcely done when the house was surrounded by soldiers, policemen, and townspeople. They searched the house. Several times they turned over the tub, but they left the sack undisturbed.\n\nAlthough the search was fruitless, many of the Inspirationists, including Barbara, were arrested and taken to the town hall. All of Krausert's luggage was confiscated.\n\nChristian Metz came to visit them in the town hall. Metz was the third Werkzeug of the Reawakening. This was the first time that Barbara met him.\n\nUnlike Barbara, Metz was born within the Community of True Inspiration. One of his grandfathers, Jacob Metz, was a principal member of one of the congregations established by Gruber and Rock. Christian Metz was a carpenter in Ronneburg when he heard Krausert's first testimony, \"Oh, Ronneburg. . . .\" Upon hearing this summons, Christian Metz experienced a thorough revival; soon after, he received the gift of Inspiration.\n\nFrom Bergzabern, Barbara and the other arrestees were transported to Landau for\nimprisonment. The women were put into a special jail, for women only. To the women already in the prison, the Community members said that they were being imprisoned for good deeds, not for bad.\n\nAmong the arrestees were Krausert's wife and his wife's sister, who were extremely distressed. That night Barbara had a vision in which she saw that the two women would be released the next day. Sure enough, they were released the next day, as was Krausert himself. Krausert and his party returned to Ronneburg. Barbara, however, had to remain under arrest for eight more days. Fortunately, the town councilman sympathized with her, and had her serve the rest of her sentence as a guest in his own house.\n\nWhen the eight days were over, she demanded a hearing, to learn why she had been held captive. Several doctors came to the hearing, to examine her concerning her Bewegungen. In their presence, she experienced a strong bodily trembling and spoke out a testimony. Everyone was startled. Her testimony included a denunciation of the pastor at Bergzabern who had instigated the actions against the Community.\n\nShe returned to Bergzabern, to general rejoicing among the Inspirationists. All this occurred in January 1819, one month after Barbara's first Aussprache.\n\nBefore Krausert left Landau with his wife and her sister, while Barbara was still under arrest, he asked to see Barbara. While he was waiting for her to be brought to him, he got into a dispute with another man who was in the room with him. The man claimed that Inspiration was a sickness arising from nervous infirmity. As Barbara approached, Krausert pointed at her and asked whether she appeared to be a nervous sort. The man fell silent at the sight of her.\n\nFrom Bergzabern, Barbara journeyed to Bischweiler. There, during a Sunday morning service, she fell into a trance that lasted all day, from 9:00 in the morning until 10:00 at night. During this trance her entire testimony was in rhyme. Whoever came to her and gave her a hand in friendship was given a Word of encouragement and blessing. A doubter who came forward to give his hand was instantly made aware of the truth. He remained with the Community until his death from consumption.\n\nKrausert sent Christian Metz and another Brother to Bischweiler, to bring Barbara to Ronneburg. Part of their journey to Ronneburg was a river voyage. Their ship was filled with musicians and revelers who would not let them sleep. Barbara experienced a Bewegung. Her companions prepared to write down her testimony, but she wrote nothing. In the villages around Ronneburg Barbara and Krausert presented many testimonies, sometimes two or three a day.\n\nBarbara and Krausert sometimes met opposition, however.\n\nJacob Mörschel came to Ronneburg and spoke out against Krausert. When Barbara\nreturned to Ronneburg from a nearby village, Jacob questioned her closely concerning her awakening. He regretted his doubts that evening, however, when Barbara delivered an Aussprache, speaking rapidly and in rhyme, directed against Jacob.\n\nOne day he set out from Ronneburg to Liebloos, a nearby village, accompanying a visiting Brother back to his home. Barbara felt impelled to join them. Seeing that Jacob wanted to talk privately with the visiting Brother, Barbara walked a distance ahead of them. When Jacob whistled, signaling that it was time for the three of them to come together again, Barbara waited for them under a tree. When they joined her, she went into Inspiration and delivered an Aussprache. It was a reply to all that they had been discussing. They began to write down the testimony, but they had only a small supply of paper. When they were about to run out, another Brother came quickly across the field, bringing more paper. The Aussprache concluded with the promise of a blessed rain that would make everything fruitful. At once it started to rain, wetting the writing paper.\n\nOpposition did not end with the conversion of Jacob Mörschel; the Elders in Birstein, northeast of Ronneburg, refused to accept Krausert. Peter Hammerschmidt, who came from Birstein, suggested to Krausert that the new Werkzeuge could reach an alliance with the Elders of Birstein if they all became better acquainted. Hammerschmidt asked Krausert for permission to bring Barbara to Liebloos, between Ronneburg and Birstein, to meet with some of the Elders. Krausert agreed. In Liebloos, the Elders tried to convince Barbara to oppose Krausert. Because of her inexperience, she did not know what to do. Sensing the problem, the Brethren at Ronneburg sent her a message, telling her to return immediately, without Hammerschmidt. She, however, asked him to accompany her, since she needed him as a witness to what she had seen and heard.\n\nBack in Ronneburg, Christian Metz came to her room and told her to have nothing more to do with Hammerschmidt. Then Hammerschmidt came and urged her to oppose Metz. Metz returned. He took Barbara to where he was living and gave her some of his books to read. She read eagerly, and they discussed what she was reading. She became inspired and delivered a promise to Metz.\n\nShe was suddenly impelled to go to Krausert, who was just then speaking out a reprimand against Hammerschmidt. As soon as she entered the room, she too became inspired and spoke out, alternately, with Krausert. Hammerschmidt asked forgiveness.\n\nKrausert now journeyed to Birstein, accompanied by Barbara.\n\nThe Prince of Birstein was sick at the time. Barbara felt impelled to write a testimony for the Prince, promising him a return to good health and God's blessing if he were to support and freely acknowledge the truth. She asked Krausert to give the Prince this testimony. Krausert would have had an excellent opportunity to do so, because the Prince requested his presence at his bedside and talked with him for a long while. Krausert, however, failed to deliver Barbara's testimony. Barbara thought him timid.\n\nWhile at Birstein, Barbara had difficulties with three members of Krausert's party: his wife, her sister, and J. G. Ciriaci. These three were in charge of copying testimonies. They complained because Barbara was unable to help them. Barbara countered by saying that everyone must answer his own calling. The three became furious. Suddenly it seemed as if an invisible hand struck a mighty blow upon the table where they were sitting. Then Krausert entered the room. He paced up and down repeating: \"This is yet another of the enemy's powers!\" Then he took Barbara with him into the room where the Brethren were assembled. Krausert became inspired and spoke out concerning the activities of the enemy. Barbara then became inspired, and spoke out as well. While they spoke, alternately, Christian Metz became inspired and wrote a testimony on the same subject. The Brethren wondered at all this, whereupon the three members of Krausert's party acknowledged that the testimonies were directed at them, because they had treated Barbara wrongly.\n\nIn spite of their confessions, Krausert decided that Barbara should be separated from them. He sent her to a farm about 45 minutes from Birstein and told her to stay there until she was summoned.\n\nAfter a few days at the farm, Barbara saw Krausert and others from his party hurrying toward her. They said that a persecution movement was beginning in Birstein. Barbara was given to know that this was not true, and she frankly said as much. Krausert became uncertain and sent Hammerschmidt back to Birstein to investigate. Back in Birstein, Hammerschmidt found no sign of an impending persecution. The Prince had issued a command to his subjects, but it had nothing to do with the Inspirationists. Hammerschmidt returned to the farm and reported his findings.\n\nBarbara now had reason to suspect that Krausert was fallible.\n\nKrausert returned to Birstein the next day, Barbara now with him. When they arrived, they found that the congregation no longer wanted anything to do with Krausert, because of his timidity. Barbara suggested that they hold a prayer meeting; but the congregation was disinclined. However, the congregation held a formal worship service soon after, which Barbara attended but Krausert did not. At this service she delivered an Aussprache, telling the congregation of the fate that awaited those who persisted in error. She told them that they would now be given a preview of the torments of hell that awaited the unrepentant. Immediately Peter Hammerschmidt fell into a seizure. His face turned green and blue, and he began to foam at the mouth. He shook dreadfully for a time, and groaned while flailing about. When his seizure was over, Barbara continued her Aussprache. The congregation was moved, and the worship service continued in a pleasant manner. In the months to come, however, the congregation regressed, and they met the fate that had been foretold in Barbara's Aussprache.\n\nJacob Mörschel remained convinced of the godliness of the Reawakening, but he now wanted to return home to Neuwied, about west of Ronneburg. He asked Barbara to join his party. She agreed. The last part of the journey was by sailboat on the Rhine. Jacob estimated that they would arrive in Neuwied at nightfall. Barbara thought that an arrival at nightfall would please Jacob, because he did not want to be seen in the company of Barbara and other believers in the Reawakening. Barbara experienced a spiritual disclosure: they would not arrive that evening, but rather at noon the next day. A strong unfavorable wind then arose and drove the ship aground, where it remained overnight. The next day they arrived at Neuwied at noon, the time that had been revealed to her. Jacob acknowledged that the delay had occurred because of his intellectual pride.\n\nJacob Mörschel had reason to fear arrival in broad daylight; the Neuwied Inspirationists were skeptical about the Reawakening.\n\nSoon after the arrival of Barbara and the others, the Neuwied Elders met privately to discuss whether they should admit Barbara to their worship service. During their meeting, Barbara, in another house, fell into a trance and had a vision. In this vision, she saw the Elders reaching a decision to reject her. When she came out of her trance, she told Jacob Mörschel and the others in the room what she had seen. Early the next day a messenger brought Jacob a letter from the Elders. The man started to prepare Jacob with a long explanation, but Jacob cut him off, saying he already knew what was in the letter. The messenger was amazed when Jacob told him how he knew. The messenger felt kindly toward the visitors and warned them to leave before the Elders asked the local government to take action against them. They left two days later.\n\nJacob Mörschel accompanied them for a while. When he was about to leave them,\nBarbara delivered a testimony of encouragement.\n\nWith her remaining companions, Barbara journeyed to other congregations, which\nwelcomed them. There Barbara delivered further testimonies. They made their way back to Bergzabern, where Barbara had delivered her first Aussprache. From Bergzabern, Barbara went to Anweiler in order to rest.\n\nBut rest was to elude her. She received a spiritual command to journey directly to Bischweiler. There she found Christian Metz very happy to see her. Immediately he informed her that there was a problem with Krausert, and that he, Metz, had delivered a testimony against him. Barbara told Metz to say no more, until she could speak to Krausert herself. Later that day she delivered a testimony saying that she and Metz should listen to Krausert, as long as his instructions did not go against their beliefs; since they had been placed in his service.\n\nKrausert arrived in Bischweiler that same evening. He told Barbara that he and Metz had had a misunderstanding during their recent journey. The next morning he sent her and Metz off to separate rooms. When they were gone, Krausert told those remaining that Inspiration had now ceased. There would be no more testimonies.\n\nWord of this reached Metz. He came to Barbara's room and told her what had happened. He said that he would obey Krausert's command, and he advised Barbara to do the same. She, however, was not ready to do so. She felt that the Lord was still working mightily in her.\n\nThrough Metz, Barbara asked Krausert if she might have a drink of water. Krausert was shocked when he learned that she was still in her room. He immediately summoned her. When she came to him, he tried to persuade her to give up her Inspiration, but she would not.\n\nThe next day Krausert and his party made ready to return to Ronneburg. He said that Barbara could accompany them if she yielded, but she did not. They left without her.\n\nNot long after, a member of Krausert's party returned with a message from Krausert. Krausert had received a disclosure informing him that Barbara was pregnant. She was to be banished from the Community and was to return to her father's house.\n\nSo it was that she returned once again to Hermersweiler. Her banishment took place in the summer of 1819, less than a year after her first Aussprache, in Bergzabern.\n\nHer banishment did not last long. She found supporters. One day, as she was preparing the noon meal in her father's house, she was made aware that guests would be coming, and that she should prepare more food. Soon two Brothers arrived at her father's house. They had heard what Krausert said about her, but they did not believe it; they wanted to find out the truth. When they finished eating, they all went outside. Barbara left everything as it was in order to walk a short way with them. She expected to be back in half an hour, but she did not return for another year.\n\nWhile she was walking with them, she received a spiritual command to go to Bergzabern with them. While she was in Bergzabern., a letter for the congregation arrived from Krausert. He said that they should decide whether to believe him or Barbara. Enclosed with his letter was a testimony containing harsh words about Barbara.\n\nWhile still in Bergzabern, she received a spiritual summons to go to Anweiler. The Bergzabern congregation did not want her to go, because the Anweiler congregation had rejected her. She went nonetheless. In Anweiler, the Elder Abraham Noé asked why she had come. She said she wanted to read the letter that he had received from Krausert that day. Noé said he had received no such letter. Then Barbara told him what the letter contained. Amazed, he brought her the letter. He was now convinced of Krausert's deceitfulness, and he came over to Barbara's side.\n\nThe next day, through a testimony, Barbara received instructions to proceed to Ronneburg. Noé accompanied her. As they approached Ronneburg, they met a man who advised them not to come, since everyone there was on Krausert's side. When they arrived at Ronneburg, everyone was afraid to greet them. Still, Barbara found refuge in the home of one of the Elders.\n\nNow the struggle began. Krausert entered the home, \"as friendly as an angel,\" and said that it was right that she had come. He said he had wanted to write to her, in order to invite her to come. He tried for a reconciliation, but she asked him why he wanted to become reconciled with the type of woman that he had described in his letters.\n\nSeveral more Brethren assembled. They began to recognize Krausert's unrighteousness. They asked Barbara for a testimony regarding him. She said she would not pass judgment upon him. She said that they should instead read what Gruber had written, in order to learn how to deal with such a matter.\n\nGruber (1720) had admitted the possibility that a Werkzeug could lose the gift of Inspiration. The gift was \"a precious attribute\" that could be retained only through \"careful guarding, praying, obedience and endurance.\" If the Werkzeug should try to be himself the mover and doer in this work of Inspiration, his utterances would be confused and incorrect. Such utterances \"can be tested only by those who possess the eye of simplicity and the spirit of discrimination.\"\n\nThe people in the room reached a decision. Krausert was to leave the Community for a time and go to a place of his own choosing. After a time of quiet exile, through soul-searching and compliance, he could be re-admitted to the Community. His wife and her sister could remain in Ronneburg. The women rejected this offer, however, and left with Krausert. Together they went to Bischweiler, where they were accepted and remained for a time. Then they moved south to a home near Strasbourg. There Krausert's wife and her sister soon died.\n\nBarbara regretted the departure of Krausert. He had been her guide. During their visits to various communities, the Lord had granted many blessings through the two of them. Now their bond had been \"severed by the tempter's might.\"\n\nAfter Krausert became discredited, many Inspirationists became confused and fell away. Nevertheless, The Lord found others to do His work. A testimony presented through Barbara stated that Philip Mörschel was to watch over congregations in the northern district, around Ronneburg, and Abraham Noé was to watch over congregations in the southern district, around Bergzabern.\n\nPhilip Mörschel and Barbara journeyed from Ronneburg to meet with Noé in Anweiler. Noé protested that he no longer wanted to pay for such visits. He offered Barbara a job as a maid in his house. He said that when she felt moved by Inspiration, she could come to his room and tell him about it. Philip and Barbara left Anweiler and returned to Ronneburg. Later, Noé withdrew from the Community altogether.\n\nPhilip Mörschel and Barbara made one more journey, to Schwarzenau, about southeast of Ronneburg. This visit was difficult and distasteful for both of them. After this, Philip made no further journeys; he stayed in Ronneburg.\n\nBack in Ronneburg, resting from their journeys, Philip Mörschel and Barbara often sat quietly together. In the room where they met, there was a large chest full of books. Mörschel himself had not read most of these books; many of them had been put there by his forefathers. On examining the books, Mörschel and Barbara found many volumes of Petersen's writings, which had been written both before and after his enlightenment. In the books written before his enlightenment, there were errors. For example, when Barbara opened one such book, she saw: \"Whoever does not receive a baptism by water, cannot attain salvation.\" Some of the other books in the chest had been written against the Community of True Inspiration back in Rock's time.\n\nPhilip Mörschel and Barbara did not know what to do with the books. One night Barbara had a dream: Petersen's ghost said that the books should be burned. The ghost said that gold and silver would not burn. In her dream, Barbara saw Petersen's books laid upon the fire, and a quantity of gold and silver flowed forth from them. As she awakened from her dream, Mörschel came to her room and told her to get up; he had received instructions to burn all the books in the chest, which they did.\n\nThen Mörschel went even further. He said that Krausert's testimonies had been tainted by Krausert's own ideas; therefore Mörschel thought it best to burn all of Krausert's testimonies, including the testimonies that had been presented through Krausert and Barbara. Barbara protested; but Mörschel said that he who had granted these testimonies could also grant new testimonies, so it would do no harm to burn the old testimonies. This they did.\n\nNow Barbara tried to suppress any urge to write or speak a testimony. However, after suppressing this urge for half a day, she decided to write a testimony but keep it to herself. Mörschel, however, noticed what she had done, and told her to give him the testimony. She asked if it too would be burned, but he replied: \"No, this will be Number One. From this moment on, a new era has begun.\"\n\nAs Abraham Noé began to withdraw from the Community, Peter Mook took\nresponsibility for the congregations of Bergzabern and Edenkoben. Edenkoben is about northeast of Bergzabern. Barbara now spent her time with these two congregations.\n\nUnfortunately, the local government of Edenkoben began persecuting the Inspirationists. Ordinary citizens started to insult and mistreat them. Barbara was taken into custody at various times and finally banished from the area. She returned to Ronneburg.\n\nOn Barbara's return to Ronneburg, she found that Philip Mörschel did not welcome her. Without telling her, he left Ronneburg and went to Liebloos. From there he sent her a message telling her to go to Bischweiler. Without knowing the reason, she went. At the same time, he asked other Elders in the Community to come to Ronneburg for a conference. At this conference he said that Barbara had been exiled to Bischweiler because of unspecified sins. He said that she would stay there.\n\nBarbara was in Bischweiler for some time before she learned what Philip had done.\nWhen she found out, she felt impelled to return to Ronneburg. In Ronneburg, however, she discovered that she was no longer accepted. Considered an evildoer, she was forced to leave immediately, alone and on foot. She set out on a journey back to Bischweiler.\n\nNear the end of the first day of her journey, she arrived at a town she had visited before. She was hoping to spend the night there with people she knew. Walking down the street toward their house, she saw a man who seemed to be waiting for her. He asked her what her eventual destination was. She said Worms, which she hope to reach the next day. He said she could get there that night if she rode with him in one of his wagons. He was traveling with two wagons: a cargo wagon loaded with wine; and a passenger wagon loaded with people. She said she was unfamiliar with Worms and did not want to arrive there late at night. He said that he would see to it that she found good lodging and food. Thus she was persuaded and went with him.\n\nOn the way to Worms, he told her that he wanted to marry her. He said he was a\nwidower, looking for a good woman to be his wife. She asked him how he could make such a proposal to someone he didn't know. He said that as soon as he saw her, he knew that she was the right person for him. He told her she could ask anyone in the passenger wagon about his reputation.\n\nThey arrived in Worms late at night. The man stopped at a very reputable inn, called to the innkeeper, introduced Barbara, and told the innkeeper to give her the best accommodations and to provide her with everything she requested. He said he would pay for it all in the morning. The innkeeper now regarded Barbara with extreme kindness. When Barbara was left alone with the innkeeper, she told him that she wanted nothing but a drink of water and a room in which to spend the night. She asked him to give her the bill at once, so she could continue her journey the first thing in the morning.\n\nAt dawn she arose and left the city. Afraid of being overtaken, she hurried along the road to Bergzabern.\n\nAfter walking for 15 hours, she arrived in Bergzabern, at the home of Peter Mook's sisters. They gave her water to cool her feet and a cup of broth to restore her strength. They put her to bed. Then they went next door to Peter Mook's house and told him of Barbara's arrival. He, however, had received strict orders from Philip Mörschel not to welcome Barbara. Greatly disconcerted, the sisters came to Barbara's bedroom and told her that they were not permitted to keep her. They suggested that she inquire about a room at an inn. Barbara was on the streets once again. Since it was now midnight, all the inns were closed. She walked out of the town and spent the night in a meadow, sitting under a willow tree.\n\nShe finally reached Bischweiler, riding in the wagon of a man she had recognized. He took her to his house, where his wife greeted her joyously. Barbara warned them that she had been banished, and that she could only serve as a maid to one of the Sisters. The wife took Barbara by the hand and said she did not want Barbara to serve as a maid. The wife then showed Barbara to a room in their house. Barbara stayed with them for a time.\n\nIn the fall of 1820, some of the Inspirationists began to turn against Philip Mörschel. Peter Mook, who was responsible for the congregations at Bergzabern and Edenkoben, received from Philip Mörschel a letter instructing him to accept Philip's authority over all the congregations. This Mook declined to do. He now told his sisters to welcome Barbara if she should come their way again.\n\nIn early 1821, Barbara felt impelled to go with Peter Mook to Ronneburg. Philip\nMörschel responded by declaring that no one who accepted Barbara's testimonies could enter Ronneburg. She stayed instead with allies in a nearby village. Philip sent her a message saying that she should not dare to set foot in his house.\n\nIn July 1821, Barbara produced a testimony that referred to Mörschel as the \"black stone of Ronneburg.\" A few days later, she was directed to deliver this testimony to Philip herself. With several Brethren, she went to see Philip in Liebloos. On the way, they encountered Philip coming out of the forest and onto the road. She and the Brethren recognized this meeting as an indication of God's guidance. One of the Brethren handed the testimony to Philip. He read it at once and said he knew this was God's Word to him; but he wanted to have nothing more to do with it.\n\nSome time later Barbara felt impelled to write another testimony directed to Philip, which she was to deliver herself. She found him in his garden. When he saw her, he began to tremble. She gave him the testimony. He said it was God's Word as surely as there was a God; but he would not accept it.\n\nThis was the last time that she spoke to him. He retired to Liebloos. He never returned to Ronneburg.\n\nAfter Mörschel's fall from grace, Peter Mook became the First Elder, assuming\nresponsibility for all the congregations. Barabara continued to journey to various congregations, sometimes accompanied by Peter Mook and sometimes by other Brethren, including Christian Metz. Peter Mook offered her a room in his house, where she could stay when she was not on a journey. She accepted gratefully. She soon found, however, that the offer was for his own benefit. This brought her into temptation, so that later, after she had returned from yet another journey, she rented a room in Bischweiler.\n\nBefore long Peter Mook came to Bischweiler and told her that it was God's will that she return to him. He promised that everything would be better. She returned with him; but she found that everything was the same.\n\nBarbara tells Scheuner:\n\nMarriage did not always result in banishment. Kreutzer, we have seen, was married. Nordhoff (1879) says that Metz, at his death in 1867, left a daughter in the Amana community. Shambaugh (1908) says that E. L. Gruber himself had a son who accompanied him on his journeys and who specialized in the detection of false Werkzeuge.\n\nMarriage could result in banishment, however, if it was opposed by the Elders. Christian Metz (1822) says that the enemy tempted Barbara with a desire to marry George Landmann, but the Lord showed both her and the Brethren that this step was against His holy will. In spite of what the Lord showed them, Barbara and George married a year later. The result was banishment.\n\nBarbara's first service as a Werkzeug thus lasted less than five years, from her first Aussprache at Bergzabern late in 1818 to her marriage to George Landmann in 1823.\n\nThough banished, Barbara and George held fast to the beliefs of the Inspirationists. Barbara tells Scheuner that she and George went to Strasbourg to appear before a court that was hearing a complaint against the Bischweiler congregation. Witnesses were asked to swear that they would tell the truth. Barbara and George refused, holding to the Inspirationists' prohibition against oath-taking. When challenged, Heinemann cited the teachings of Jesus.\n\nStrasbourg had a statute saying that anyone who refused to take the oath would be fined heavily and imprisoned for three months. After Barbara cited Scripture, the judges retired. When they returned, they read from a paper on which they had written that the punishment would not apply to those witnesses who refused to swear an oath because of the teachings of Jesus. Rather, their affirmative word would be accepted in place of an oath.\n\nBarbara rejoiced in this victory. She told Scheuner that the Lord struck down a\nCommunity member who had urged her to take the oath.\n\nFollowing such demonstrations of faith, Barbara and George were re-admitted to the Community of True Inspiration.\n\nHere ends the \"Short Narration\", the story that Barbara told Scheuner about her early years.\n\nBarbara lost the gift of Inspiration when she was 28. She did not receive it again until she was 54. During the 26 years between gifts, she lived in relative obscurity. Since she was no longer a Werkzeug, Scribes longer recorded what she said and did..\n\nAt the time that Barbara dictated her \"Short Narration\" to Scheuner, she seems to have had misgivings about her marriage, since she refers to it as the result of falling \"ever deeper into temptation.\" The marriage was probably childless; neither Nordhoff (1875) nor Shambaugh (1908) mentions any progeny. We do not know how George made a living. Before the marriage, he was a schoolmaster; but Shambaugh (1908) says that the Inspirationists often expelled a schoolmaster from his post if he married.\n\nBarbara and George stayed together for the rest of their lives. Though Inspirationists deplored marriage, they regarded the step, once taken, as irrevocable. Bach (1971) says that Barbara and George journeyed together to the Ebenezer Colonies in New York and then to the Amana Colonies in Iowa, where they remained until their deaths in their 80s.\n\nShambaugh (1908) is the primary source for the history of the Community following Barbara's loss of the gift of Inspiration.\n\nAfter both Michael Krausert and Barbara Heinemann Landmann lost the gift of\nInspiration, Christian Metz was left as the sole Werkzeug for the Community.\nHe led the Inspirationists, in both spiritual and secular matters, for the next 44 years, from Barbara's marriage and banishment in 1823 to his own death in 1867.\n\nThe main task facing Christian Metz at the beginning of his leadership was to move the Inspirationists from persecution to safety.\n\nPersecution came about because the Inspirationists refused to report for military duty, they refused to take oaths, and they refused to send their children to the schools established by the state. The authorities arrested and fined them. Mobs threw stones through the windows of their meeting houses. People on the street assaulted them verbally and physically.\n\nIn Schwarzenau, in 1825, the court handed down an order. The Inspirationists there had to pay taxes for the support of the established churches and schools. They could not keep their own teachers. Their children had to attend the state schools and participate in the religious instruction given by the pastor. Their children would be baptized by force, if necessary.\n\nIn the following year the court handed down another order. Since the orthodox church offered and taught everything that was necessary for salvation, the Inspirationists had to choose: return to the fold of the orthodox church, or leave town within six months. The Inspirationists looked toward Hesse, a more tolerant state.\n\nIn Hesse, Christian Metz sought a large estate where the Inspirationists could live in common and work at their customary trades. The Inspirationists leased part of the cloister at Marienborn, near Ronneburg. The congregation from Schwarzenau moved to Marienborn.\n\nNow began fulfillment of the prophecy delivered by Christian Metz: \"The Lord would soon collect and gather in His faithful servants.\" (\"Bezeugungen\")\n\nThe next group of faithful servants to be collected was the long oppressed congregation at Edenkoben. For them, the Inspirationists leased a nearby estate called Herrnhaag.\n\nNext, the congregation at Ronneburg had to move; the government there had turned\nagainst them. Through the efforts of Christian Metz, the Inspirationists leased the cloister at Arnsburg. Now they were afraid that they had leased more land than they needed; but soon the cloister at Arnsburg was filled up with Inspirationists arriving from other countries, especially Switzerland. The Inspirationists needed still more land, so they leased the convent and estate of Engelthal.\n\nThe four estates—Marienborn, Herrnhaag, Arnsburg, and Engelthal—were within a few miles of each other. Though physically separate, they had one common management. The Inspirationists began to adopt a communistic life style. Housed together in the four estates were rich and poor, educated and uneducated, professionals, merchants, manufacturers, artisans, farmers, and laborers. The rich gave of their means, the merchants of their business ability, and the artisans and farmers of their labor. Within a few years, the Community attained a degree of prosperity which promised the peaceful life foretold in the early prophecies, the life for which its members had been striving so many years.\n\nUnfortunately, peace eluded them. Revolution was abroad in Europe, and the ruling classes felt threatened by nonconformists. The rulers began to take away, one by one, the Inspirationists' cherished liberties. Parents had to pay fines for keeping their children out of public schools; and the fines, especially for families with several children, became unbearable. Rents kept rising, and land became too expensive to buy. The very elements turned against the Inspirationists, since excessive heat and drought left them with nothing to gather at harvest time.\n\nChristian Metz and the Elders became convinced of the need for another move. At length Christian Metz delivered a testimony from the Lord:\n\nThe Elders appointed a committee of four, including Christian Metz, to make the voyage to America. The committee was given full power to act for all the members and to purchase land where they deemed best.\n\nThey endured many hardships during their voyage, which lasted almost forty days. They reached the harbor of New York in late October, 1842. Their hardships did not cease once they reached land; for three months they suffered winter cold while examining tracts of land in New York State. Finally they purchased a former Seneca Indian Reservation, a tract of near Buffalo, New York.\n\nDuring the following year, the Inspirationists began their migration from Germany. Within the first four months of 1843, they laid out and settled the first village. They called it Eben-ezer--\"Hitherto has the Lord helped us\"—based on a testimony delivered by Christian Metz.\n\nIn less than a year, two more villages were laid out, Upper Ebenezer and Lower Ebenezer; the first village became Middle Ebenezer. Later another village, New Ebenezer, was laid out. When a group of Pennsylvania Dutch in Canada joined the Community, two villages were added in Canada: Canada Ebenezer and Kenneberg,\n\nEach village had its own store, school, and church. In various villages there were sawmills, woolen mills, flour mills, and other branches of industry, giving employment to all according to their talents and inclinations.\n\nThe profits from all these enterprises went to the Community as a whole. In a provisional constitution and later in a permanent constitution, the Inspirationists agreed that all land and all improvements, everything with the exception of clothing and household goods, should be held in common. Their decision was supported by Scripture:\n\nTheir decision was also supported by testimonies delivered by Christian Metz.\n\nThus it was that the Inspirationists were able to pay for the voyages of members who could not otherwise afford to come to America.\n\nThe original became as the Community kept growing; but then land became hard to get. The rapid growth of the city of Buffalo, which was but five miles (8 km) away, caused real estate to become so costly that the purchase of additional land in any appreciable quantity was out of the question.\n\nIn addition to the lack of available land, another more serious problem confronted the Community. The thriving city of Buffalo with its worldly influences was too easily accessible to the young people; the Elders were concerned.\n\nIn 1854 Christian Metz delivered a testimony: the Inspirationists should direct their eyes to the West in order to find a new home. The Elders hesitated. Christian Metz delivered further testimonies: many opportunities had already been lost; and four representatives should now be appointed to search for a new home in the West.\n\nThe Elders appointed a committee of four, including Christian Metz, to make the search. The committee journeyed to the Territory of Kansas, which had recently been opened up for settlement. They spent a month there, inspecting tracts of land recommended by land agents; but they were unable to come to a decision. They returned to Ebenezer, much discouraged.\n\nAfter more discussions, the Elders appointed a committee of two to go to the new State of Iowa and there inspect the large tracts of land that belonged to the government. Upon reaching the present location of the Community in Iowa, the committee sent back such glowing descriptions that the Elders dispatched a third committee of four who were authorized to purchase land. This committee secured a tract of nearly . Where necessary, they bought scattered farms—even at a high figure—in order to secure a contiguous tract.\n\nThe first village in the Iowa tract was laid out during the summer of 1855, on a hillside north of the Iowa River. The Inspirationists called it \"Amana,\" which means \"believe faithfully.\" In that same year, the Lord gave His approval of this name in a song that was poured forth through Christian Metz. Within another seven years, five more villages were laid out, within a radius of six miles (10 km) from what came to be known as Main Amana: West Amana, South Amana, High Amana, East Amana, and Middle Amana.\n\nThe Inspirationists sold their land in the Ebenezer Colonies piece by piece, a task which required much time and patience. To their business credit, it is recorded that they were able to dispose of their land and all its improvements without the loss of a single dollar. They completed their migration to Iowa in 1864, nine years after they founded their first village there.\n\nWhile the Inspirationists were still living in the Ebenezer Colonies, Barbara Heinemann received once again the gift of Inspiration.\n\nBach (1971) says that, during a footwashing ceremony in 1849, six years after the founding of the Ebenezer Colonies, Barbara Heinemann uttered prophecies that\nconvinced Christian Metz that God was working through her. He testified that she was once again a Werkzeug.\n\nDuring the migration to Iowa, Christian Metz hoped that Barbara would serve as the Werkzeug for the Ebenezer Colonies while he served as the Werkzeug for the Amana Colonies. This arrangement did not work out. Shambaugh (1908) reports that great worry was brought to the Ebenezer Community because of trouble between Barbara and the Head Elder. Christian Metz offered to transfer to her to the Amana Colonies.\n\nBarbara accepted the transfer. She and George moved to Iowa.\n\nBarbara became involved with the purchase of Homestead, Iowa, the final village in the Amana Colonies. During the early years of the Colonies, the nearest railroad station was in Iowa City, southeast of Main Amana; but in 1861, the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad was completed as far as the village of Homestead, only two miles south of Main Amana. Homestead would now be the place where Community received the goods that it needed, and the place from which it shipped the goods that it produced. The Elders felt the need to add Homestead to the Amana Colonies. They were afraid to do so, however, because of the influence of the outsiders living in the village. During their discussions, they asked Barbara for her opinion. She fell into Inspiration and said:\n\nThe Elders bought the whole village. They bought out the outsiders and removed them.\n\nNow that the two Werkzeuge were living in the Amana Colonies, they shared the duties of administering to the six congregations. Both Werkzeuge were involved with spiritual matters, but Christian Metz remained involved with day-to-day business matters as well.\n\nLife for the Werkzeuge was no longer as stressful as it had been in Europe. No longer did they have to make long journeys between congregations; the villages in the Amana Colonies were only a few hours apart. No longer did they have to endure rejection by some of the congregations; everyone in the Amana Colonies accepted them and looked to them for guidance. No longer did Inspirationists have to endure persecution by outsiders. They were now permitted to teach their children in their own schools. They were now allowed to purchase exemptions from military service. Since they were not now dragged into court over schooling and military service, their refusal to take oaths became less of an issue.\n\nThe duties of the Werkzeuge, though now relatively peaceful, remained numerous,\nhowever, and important to the Inspirationists.\n\nA Werkzeug conveyed the Lord's judgment on secular matters of great import, such as the purchase of the village of Homestead.\n\nA Werkzeug conveyed the Lord's judgment on applications for membership. The\nCommunity had grown prosperous, and membership guaranteed cradle-to-grave security. Some applicants simply wished to trade the right to their earnings for the protection provided to themselves and their families. Applicants who were still in Europe sometimes needed funds to bring themselves and their families to America. Their expenses would be paid if the Lord deemed them worthy. Applicants who were accepted were put on probation, which was sometimes shortened or dispensed with by the direct word of the Lord.\n\nA Werkzeug sometimes conveyed the word of the Lord at the Community's religious\nservices. Nordhoff (1875) says that these services occurred at least once a day. Every evening, neighborhood groups met for prayer services in rooms set aside for this purpose. On Wednesday and Sunday mornings, everyone in a village met in assembly rooms, where they conducted a separate service for each of the three orders. The Elders were members of the highest order; children and newlyweds were members of the lowest order. The Lord determined promotion or demotion between orders. On Saturday mornings, all the members in a village met in the church for a single service. At any of these services, a Werkzeug might fall into a trance and deliver the word of the Lord. The word thus delivered might be an admonition delivered to a particular individual, or it might be a message delivered to the entire congregation. A Werkzeug might suspend meetings because of such things as indifference in the young women or lethargy in the old women or insincerity in the hymn-singers. Meetings would not be resumed until the congregation demonstrated a spirit of repentance.\n\nA Werkzeug participated in the \"Untersuchung\", the yearly examination of every member in the Community. Nordhoff (1874) says that the examination was performed within each of the three orders within each of the six congregations. Members were expected to confess their shortcomings. Members believed that if anything was hidden, it would be brought to light by the Werkzeug. A member who did not mend his ways was expelled. The examination might be adjourned from day to day if members seemed unimpressed. The young people, in particular, were likely to seem unimpressed.\n\nA Werkzeug conveyed the Lord's judgment on couples who wished to marry.\nInspirationists heeded the Scriptural admonition against marriage.\n\nThough the Inspirationists tolerated marriage, they regarded it as a fall. Upon marriage, the newlyweds, regardless of their spirituality, were reduced to the lowest of the three orders and were compelled to work their back up through deepening piety. With the birth of each child, the parents suffered the same spiritual demotion. A marriage entered into without the approval of the Lord was regarded as a \"godless marriage\"; it was sufficient cause for banishment, as we have seen in the case of Barbara herself.\n\nBarbara's testimonies sometimes seemed harsher than those of Christian Metz.\n\nChristian Metz died in 1867, at the age of 72. Barbara, the same age, was now the Community's sole Werkzeug. She continued in this role for another 16 years, until her own death in 1883, at the age of 88.\n\nHer testimonies were no longer tempered by Christian Metz. Shambaugh (1908) reports on some of her denunciations.\n\nBarbara freely denounced \"godless marriages\"—marriages made without the approval of the Werkzeug. Shambaugh (1908) reports that \"on this very account she was the cause of a good many withdrawals from the Society during her later years.\"\n\nBarbara condemned photographs, basing her condemnation on a commandment given to\nMoses:\n\nThe Elders approved of this denunciation. In November 1873, after the annual\nUntersuchung, they ordered the annihilation or surrender of all photographs.\nFurthermore, they ordered a General Assembly in each village in order to read aloud to the people a testimony in which the Lord condemned idolatry.\n\nBarbara denounced Christmas presents. The Elders concurred. In December 1873, at a Sunday meeting in each village, the Elders read aloud the testimony of 1849 dealing with the \"desecration of the Christmas feast through too many vain and sensual gifts.\"\n\nBarbara viewed general reading with disfavor. She held that the reading of newspapers was the chief cause of the \"retrograding of the young people.\" She condemned reading for entertainment as \"soul dissipation\" and as \"diverting the mind from heaven and the things which are of the Lord.\" She denounced reading for knowledge with equal severity, since it is written in the Bible that \"knowledge puffeth up\" (1 Corinthians, 8:1) and that \"in much wisdom is much grief; and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.\" (Ecclesiastes, 1:18).\n\nHer denunciation of reading was in keeping with her disdain for intellectual achievements. She believed that the Lord would reveal all that a person needed to know. In 1878, under the influence of Inspiration, she told an Elder who was of a scientific turn of mind: \"It is\nnot necessary that you should possess so great knowledge gained through pondering over the wonders and secrets of God.\"\n\nIn 1880, she denounced the planting of ornamental trees.\n\nBarbara died on May 21, 1883, nine years after Nordhoff's visit. She was 88 years old. Scheuner, in a postscript to the Brief Narrative, says: \"She passed away peacefully and quietly in the Lord.\" She was buried in the cemetery at Main Amana.\n\nAfter Barbara's death, many of the restrictions imposed by her ordinances were eased.\n\nMembers were now allowed to keep photographs. There was scarcely a sitting-room in the seven villages that did not have a photograph album. The subjects were not only friends and relatives in the world, but also many members of the Community, who had the photographs taken (almost invariably in \"world clothes\" worn for the occasion) on some holiday trip to the city.\n\nMembers were now allowed to exchange simple Christmas gifts. The little Inspirationist now enjoyed a reasonable sampling of the toys displayed in shop windows during the holidays.\n\nMembers were now allowed to purchase books, newspapers, and magazines according to their own inclination. Occasionally undesirable books and papers might find their way into the hands of the young people; but if the Elders discovered this fact, such books and papers were mentioned by name in an open meeting and their further reading prohibited. In connection with each village school, there was a carefully selected library of \"good literature,\" from which the children were allowed to draw books at the end of the week. These were as a rule read by all the members of the family. In addition there was a township circulating library, and as the whole of Amana Township was owned by the Community, this library, too, was selected and supervised by the proper authorities and was not destined to lead the young reader astray. The Community continued to subscribe to technical and trade journals appropriate for the use of members engaged in the various businesses of the Community.\n\nAlthough some of Barbara's ordinances were tempered by time, she continued to be honored: her testimonies, along with those of Christian Metz, were read aloud during the Sunday morning services.\n\nNo Werkzeug has arisen since Barbara's death. Nordhoff, during his 1874 visit, asked about a successor for Barbara.\n\nWhen Shambaugh wrote (1908), God had not called anyone to the necessary office. All leadership duties, both secular and spiritual, had fallen on the Elders.\n\nReferences marked with (s) are contained in Shambaugh (1908). References marked with (z) are contained in Zuber (1981). The references so marked represent translations to English from the original German.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959565", "title": "Stan Van Gundy", "text": "Stan Van Gundy\n\nStanley Alan Van Gundy (born August 26, 1959) is an American former basketball coach and current NBA analyst who most recently served as the head coach and president of basketball operations for the Detroit Pistons of the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 2014 to 2018. From 2003 to 2005, he was the head coach of the Miami Heat but resigned in 2005 mid-season, turning the job over to Pat Riley. Van Gundy then coached the Orlando Magic for five seasons from 2007 to 2012, leading them to the 2009 NBA Finals. He is the brother of former New York Knicks and Houston Rockets coach Jeff Van Gundy.\n\nVan Gundy was a starting guard at Alhambra High School in Martinez, California in the San Francisco Bay Area. He played basketball for his father, Bill Van Gundy, at SUNY-Brockport, a Division III school, until he graduated in 1981 with a B.A. in English and a B.S. in Physical Education.\n\nVan Gundy began his coaching career as an assistant coach at the University of Vermont, 1981–83, and was head coach at Castleton State College in Vermont for three seasons from 1983 to 1986. After his first season as Castleton head coach, the NAIA named Van Gundy the District 5 Coach of the Year. Castleton finished 1984–85 the top team in the NAIA's Mayflower Conference and won the NAIA District 5 tournament. After serving as an assistant coach at Canisius College in 1987 and Fordham University in 1988, Van Gundy was named head coach at the University of Lowell. During his four-season tenure at the school, which saw the institution become the University of Massachusetts Lowell, he compiled a record of 54–60 and coached Leo Parent, whom Van Gundy called \"the best Division 2 player in the nation.\"\n\nVan Gundy then became an assistant at the University of Wisconsin under Stu Jackson. When Jackson left after 2 years to become general manager of the expansion NBA Vancouver franchise, Van Gundy was promoted to replace him as head coach and given a 5-year contract. Coming off an 18–11 season with future NBA star Michael Finley back for his senior year and highly touted recruits coming in, the team went into the season with high expectations, but ended with a disappointing 13–14 record (7–11 and ninth place in the Big 10). Van Gundy was fired at the end of the season and given a buyout for the 4 years remaining on his contract. Van Gundy blamed financial concerns at the school for his firing. The team would go on to hire Dick Bennett from the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay and he finished his first year with a 17–15 record and NIT appearance despite losing Finley and other key players.\n\nOverall, Van Gundy compiled a record of 135–92 () in eight years as a college head coach.\n\nWhen Pat Riley left the New York Knicks to coach the Miami Heat, the Knicks refused to let him hire Jeff Van Gundy, perhaps his most valuable assistant. Riley hired Stan, his brother, saying \"I wanted at least one Van Gundy with me\". Stan Van Gundy spent 12 years with the Heat. After working as an assistant under Riley, Van Gundy was named head coach when Riley abruptly resigned as coach prior to the 2003–04 season. However, Riley remained as President of the team. Van Gundy took over a team that had won 25 games the previous season. He led them to a 42-win season, in which they won a very high percentage of their late season games and surprised many by advancing to the second round of the 2004 NBA Playoffs, nearly defeating the team with the league's best record, the Indiana Pacers, due to the strong play of rookie Dwyane Wade.\n\nDuring the off-season, Shaquille O'Neal demanded a trade and made Miami the only viable option for the Lakers to make a transaction with. Riley gave up Caron Butler, Lamar Odom, Brian Grant and a future first-round draft choice, replacing three of the team's starters, including an Olympian and a future all star, with O'Neal. Van Gundy led the Heat to the best record in the Eastern Conference in the first half of the season, becoming the first Heat coach to coach in the All-Star Game, where he led the East to a victory. The Heat finished the season with 59 wins, earning the best record in the conference. The Heat went on to advance to Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Finals, where they lost to the Detroit Pistons. Injuries played a factor in their defeat, particularly a rib injury to leading scorer Wade during Game 5, which prevented him from playing Game 6 and severely hindered him in Game 7, both Piston wins.\n\nDuring the 2005 off-season, it was widely speculated that Pat Riley was attempting to run Van Gundy out of his coaching job and take over the job himself, now that the team was in a position to contend for the championship. Van Gundy would resign from his position as head coach on December 12, 2005, just 21 games into the season, citing a need to spend more time with his family. Riley replaced him as head coach, and led Miami to their first championship that same season.\n\nIn Shaquille O'Neal's book, \"Shaq Uncut: My Story\", O'Neal responded to allegations of being a \"coach killer\" and that he forced Van Gundy out of Miami by stating: \"Stan got fired because Pat (Riley) wanted to take over, not because I wanted him out. I had no control over it — not a smidgen of control. We all kind of knew it was coming because Pat and Stan were always arguing. Pat would come down and tell Stan how to do something and Stan would want to do it his own way, and that was a fine game plan if you wanted to get yourself fired.\"\n\nThough at the time of his resignation Van Gundy asserted he was not being forced out by Riley, he has more recently declined comment on the situation after he accepted a coaching job with the Orlando Magic less than two years later. Riley himself would resign from his coaching duties two years later, following a 15–67 season from the Heat.\n\nIn May 2007, Van Gundy received an offer to replace the fired Rick Carlisle as head coach of the Indiana Pacers. Van Gundy turned down the offer, but began interviewing for other head coaching jobs. He was considered a lead candidate to become head coach of the Orlando Magic and also the Sacramento Kings. However, the Magic hired Billy Donovan. Shortly thereafter, Donovan decided he wanted to back out of the deal and return to the University of Florida. Finally on June 5, 2007, the Magic released Donovan and offered another contract to Van Gundy. ESPN SportsCenter reported that the Miami Heat allowed Van Gundy to coach the Magic in exchange for a second-round draft pick in 2007 and the right to swap first-round picks in 2008 or another 2008 second-round draft pick and cash.\nIn Van Gundy's first season with the Magic, he guided them to a 52-win season, earning the team's first division championship since the 1995–96 season, and the third-best record in the Eastern Conference. Orlando defeated the Toronto Raptors 4–1 in the first round of the playoffs, advancing to the Eastern Semifinals for the first time in twelve seasons. They were later defeated in the Eastern Semifinals by the Detroit Pistons 4–1.\n\nVan Gundy and the Magic won 59 games in 2008–09, the second most in franchise history, along with a second consecutive division championship finished at third place behind Boston Celtics and Cleveland Cavaliers. During playoffs, they defeated the Philadelphia 76ers from a deficit of 2-1, before squalling with Boston Celtics in seven games. Later, they defeated 66–16 Cleveland Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference Finals in six games to advancing to the NBA Finals, Orlando's first Finals appearance since 1995. After suffering a blowout loss in game 1 against the Los Angeles Lakers, the Magic put up a better effort in game 2, but were defeated in overtime. In game 3, the Magic shot 63% for the game, a Finals record, en route to their first win in a Finals game in franchise history. They went on to lose the next two games, a controversy decision for allowing the four month injury absence all-star, Jameer Nelson to play in heavy minutes and decided not fouling the opposite team in less than 30 second on game 4, that ultimately costed them the title as the Lakers won the series in five.\n\nAlso during the 2008–09 season, a feud developed between Van Gundy and the then Phoenix Suns' center, and former Magic/Heat player, Shaquille O'Neal (the two were together when O'Neal played for the Heat and Van Gundy was his coach). After a game between the Suns and Magic, Van Gundy said O'Neal was flopping throughout the night. O'Neal fired back by calling Van Gundy \"a master of panic,\" because Van Gundy was not successful in the playoffs per O'Neal.\n\nOn January 31, 2010, Van Gundy was named the coach of the Eastern Conference All-Star team for the 2010 NBA All-Star Game, making it the second time he had been given the honor to coach an all-star team. He led the Eastern Conference to victory for the second time.\n\nOn May 21, 2012, Van Gundy was relieved of his duties as head coach. Prior to the firing, Van Gundy had stated that he had knowledge that Dwight Howard wanted him fired. Van Gundy stated that a person within management had told him this, and that the team did not want to risk angering Howard (Howard had an opt-out clause in his contract). Howard still requested a trade after the season, and was traded to the Los Angeles Lakers in August 2012.\n\nOn May 14, 2014, Van Gundy was hired as the new head coach and president of basketball operations of the Detroit Pistons, replacing interim head coach John Loyer. On February 9, 2015, Van Gundy became the 43rd coach in NBA history to win 400 games when the Pistons defeated the Atlanta Hawks 105–95. He clinched a berth in the 2016 playoffs. On May 7, 2018, the Pistons announced that Van Gundy was released from his duties as head coach and president of basketball operations.\n\nVan Gundy was born in Indio, California. He grew up as a son of a basketball coach, Bill Van Gundy, the former head coach at Brockport State University in Western New York. His younger brother Jeff Van Gundy has coached two teams in the NBA as well. After Jeff became a member of the \"NBA on ABC's\" broadcast team, he was an analyst during the 2009 NBA Finals while Stan coached the Orlando Magic. He returned to being an analyst in September 2018, now working with ESPN (SVG Wednesday on \"The Dan Le Batard Show with Stugotz\") He is also teaching a sports business course at Stetson University. Van Gundy left ESPN in 2019 to work for Turner/CBS Sports.\n\n! colspan=\"2\" style=\"text-align:center;\"|Career\n! 907||523||384|||| ||91||48||43||||\n"}
{"id": "1959568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959568", "title": "Mantua (clothing)", "text": "Mantua (clothing)\n\nA mantua (from the French \"manteuil\" or \"mantle\") is an article of women's clothing worn in the late 17th century and 18th century. Originally a loose gown, the later mantua was an overgown or robe typically worn over stays, stomacher and a co-ordinating petticoat.\n\nThe mantua or \"manteau\" was a new fashion that arose in the 1680s. Instead of a bodice and skirt cut separately, the mantua hung from the shoulders to the floor (in the manner of dresses of earlier periods) started off as the female version of the men's banyan, worn for 'undress' wear. Gradually it developed into a draped and pleated dress and eventually evolved into a dress worn looped and draped up over a contrasting petticoat and a stomacher. The mantua-and-stomacher resulted in a high, square neckline in contrast to the broad, off-the-shoulder neckline previously in fashion. The new look was both more modest and covered-up than previous fashions and decidedly fussy, with bows, frills, ribbons, and other trim, but the short string of pearls and pearl earrings or \"eardrops\" worn since the 1630s remained popular.\n\nThe mantua, made from a single length of fabric pleated to fit with a long train, was ideal for showing the designs of the new elaborately patterned silks that replaced the solid-colored satins popular in mid-century.\n\nThe origins of the term \"mantua\" to mean a robe are unclear. The garment may have been named after Mantua, in Italy, a centre of production for some of the expensive silks that would have been used to make up such garments. The term may also derive from \"manteau\", the French term for a coat.\n\nFrom this garment arose the term \"mantua-maker\", an early term for a women's dressmaker.\n\nThe earliest mantuas emerged in the late 17th century as a comfortable alternative to the boned bodices and separate skirts then widely worn.\n\nThe mantua featured elbow-length, cuffed sleeves, and the overskirt was typically drawn back over the hips to expose the petticoat beneath. In the earliest mantuas, the long trained skirt was allowed to trail. From about 1710, it became customary to pin up the train. The construction of the mantua was altered so that once the train was pinned up, the exposed reverse of the train showed the proper face of the fabric or embroidery. One of the earliest extant examples of this, dated to 1710–1720, is in the Victoria and Albert Museum's collections.\n\nBy the mid-18th century, the mantua had evolved into a formal version principally worn for court dress. The draping of the overskirt became increasingly stylized, with the back panel of the train almost entirely concealed.\n\nThe final version of the mantua, circa 1780, bore little resemblance to the original mantuas of nearly a century earlier. Instead of earlier elaborate draperies and folds, the train had evolved into a length of fabric attached to the back of the bodice, as illustrated in an example in the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nExtant examples of the 17th century mantua are extremely scarce. Perhaps the only known extant adult-size example is an embroidered wool mantua and petticoat in the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute. A pattern taken from this mantua has been published by Norah Waugh. The Victoria and Albert Museum owns an extremely rare late 17th century fashion doll dressed in a pink silk mantua and petticoat.\n\nAlso in the Costume Institute is a mantua and petticoat in salmon pink bizarre silk dated to 1708. Another early mantua, the silk dated to c. 1708–09 belongs to the Clive House Museum, Shrewsbury; a pattern for this mantua has been taken by Janet Arnold.\n\nMost mantuas preserved in museum collections are formal versions from the mid-18th century, intended for court dress.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959573", "title": "JILA", "text": "JILA\n\nJILA, formerly known as the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, is a physical science research institute in the United States. JILA is located on the University of Colorado Boulder campus. JILA was founded in 1962 as a joint institute of The University of Colorado Boulder and the National Institute of Standards & Technology\n\nJILA is one of the nation’s leading research institutes in the physical sciences. The world's first Bose-Einstein Condensate was created at JILA by Eric Cornell and Carl Wieman in 1995. The first frequency comb demonstration was led by John L. Hall at JILA. The first demonstrations of a Fermionic condensate and BEC-BCS crossover physics were done by Deborah S. Jin.\n\nJILA's members hold faculty appointments in the Departments of Physics; Astrophysical and Planetary Science; Chemistry and Biochemistry; and Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology as well as Engineering. JILA’s Quantum Physics Division of NIST members hold joint faculty appointments at CU in the same departments.\n\nResearch at JILA addresses fundamental scientific questions about the limits of quantum measurements and technologies, the design of precision optical and X-ray lasers, the fundamental principles underlying the interaction of light and matter, the role of quantum physics in chemistry and biology, and the processes that have governed the evolution of the Universe for nearly 14 billion years.\n\nJILA's current faculty includes two Nobel laureates—Eric Cornell and John L. Hall—and two John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Fellows— Margaret Murnane and Ana Maria Rey. David J. Wineland and Carl Wieman, both previous affiliated with NIST and JILA respectively, were also awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics, while Deborah Jin was previously awarded a MacArthur Fellowship. Each year, JILA scientists publish more than 200 original research papers in national and international scientific journals and conference proceedings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959577", "title": "Van Gundy", "text": "Van Gundy\n\nVan Gundy is a Dutch surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959590", "title": "Pandora's Box (album)", "text": "Pandora's Box (album)\n\nPandora's Box is a compilation album, released on November 19, 1991 by Aerosmith. Issued by Columbia Records to capitalise on the band's newfound success with Geffen, the box set consists of three discs that cover Aerosmith's output from the 1970s and early 1980s. Alongside alternate versions, previously unreleased songs, live renditions and remixes, \"Pandora's Box\" features previously released studio material.\n\nThe original issue was as a long cardboard-box, containing three CDs (each in its own jewel-case, with inserts) and booklet that detailed the tracks and had comments from the band members. Later issues did away with the outer box, utilising a cardboard slipcase, but reproduced the booklet in 'CD-size'.\n\nThe cover version of \"Helter Skelter\" is Aerosmith's third commercially released Beatles cover (after \"Come Together\" from the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" soundtrack and \"I'm Down\" from \"Permanent Vacation\"), despite being the first they recorded.\n\n\n\"\"Pandora's Box\" has 31 previously released songs and 21 live cuts, alternate takes and rarities,\" noted Mat Snow in \"Q\". \"Will this latter stuff be made separately available for the fan doesn't fancy shelling out for tracks already owned? Probably not… Despite high times aplenty, \"Pandora's Box\" is a career overview which offers a patchy, expensive introduction to the newcomer, and falls irritatingly between the stools of rarities collection and definitive compilation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959596", "title": "Aqua Aqua", "text": "Aqua Aqua\n\nAqua Aqua, known in Japan as , and in Europe as Aqua Aqua: Wetrix 2, is a puzzle video game for the PlayStation 2 and is the sequel to game \"Wetrix\", developed by British studio Zed Two. It offers fewer features than \"Wetrix\", but it features improved graphics and a new story mode. The aim of the story mode is to travel through four eras and survive attacks from monsters from each one. To survive the attacks simply get enough points to power up the shield. There is also an unlockable world if the player gets enough points. The game also offers a two player vs mode and a single player puzzle mode.\n\nThe title was a launch game for the PlayStation 2 release in Europe.\n\n\nThe game supports up to 2 players and does not feature online support.\nGameplay in \"Aqua Aqua\" is similar to that of its predecessor \"Wetrix\", with some differences.\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable reviews\" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 26 out of 40. Kevin Toyama of \"Next Generation\" said, \"You'll like this game if you have a lot of patience and a memory card.\"\n"}
{"id": "1959599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959599", "title": "Jack Ford (politician)", "text": "Jack Ford (politician)\n\nJohn Marshall \"Jack\" Ford (May 18, 1947 – March 21, 2015) was an American Democratic politician who served as the mayor of Toledo, Ohio, from January 2002 to January 2006.\n\nA graduate of Ohio State University, Jack Ford received his Master's degree in Public Administration and his law degree from the University of Toledo. He spent most of his working life as an educator, teaching primarily at the University of Toledo for 22 years, but also at Bowling Green State University and Owens Community College.\n\nFord served in the Ohio House of Representatives for seven years, and was Democratic leader of the Ohio House for the final three. He was a speaker at the 2000 Democratic National Convention. Ford served on the Toledo City Council. In November 2001, he was elected Toledo mayor, replacing another Democrat, Carty Finkbeiner who, four years later, on November 8, 2005 was returned to office, defeating Ford in his re-election bid. Ford was Toledo's first African-American mayor.\n\nOn March 7, 2006, media reports revealed that Ford would be returning to Bowling Green State University as a practitioner-in-residence in the College of Arts and Sciences effective March 13, 2006. According to reports, Ford will mostly teach in the department of political science.\n\nIn June 2007, Ford was selected to fill a vacancy on the Toledo Board of Education.\n\nIn his public career as a legislator and city executive, Jack Ford was responsible for the creation of the Toledo Youth Commission, the lead abatement program, the medication education for the elderly program, the Toledo curfew law, and the drug paraphernalia law.\n\nHe founded two organizations dealing with drug and alcohol addiction.\n\nHe was also a member of Omega Psi Phi fraternity.\n\nFord died the morning of March 21, 2015 at the age of 67.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959608", "title": "Brynäs IF", "text": "Brynäs IF\n\nBrynäs IF is a professional Swedish ice hockey team from Gävle. The club currently plays in the Swedish Hockey League (SHL), the top tier of ice hockey in Sweden. The club has played in the top-tier league since 1960.\n\nBrynäs IF was formed by Nils Norin, Ferdinand Blomkvist, and Thure Ternström on 12 May 1912 and began to play ice hockey in 1939. The club has also competed in association football, athletics, bandy, swimming, and water polo. The team has played in the hockey league's top flight since 1960 and has won the Swedish championship 13 times, most recently in 2012.\n\nBrynäs IF became the world's first ice hockey club to collaborate with the United Nations Program UNICEF, after signing a five-year contract with the organisation on 20 November 2013 (expiring in 2018). On 3 June 2014, the club also signed a five-year contract with Gävle Municipality (expiring after the 2018–19 season). The municipality acquired the naming rights for the club's home arena and renamed it \"Gavlerinken Arena\". The latter collaboration also meant the municipality would pay the club to play with ad-free jerseys, starting in the 2014–15 season, as the only SHL team. The arena is since September 2019 named Monitor ERP Arena.\n\n\"This is a partial list, featuring the five most recent completed seasons. For a more complete list, see List of Brynäs IF seasons.\"\n\n\n\n\nThese are the top-ten point-scorers in SHL history. Figures are updated after each completed SHL regular season.\n\n\"Note: Pos = Position; GP = Games Played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; P/G = Points per game; = current Brynäs IF player\"\n"}
{"id": "1959613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959613", "title": "UFO Tofu", "text": "UFO Tofu\n\nUFO Tofu is the third album released by Béla Fleck and the Flecktones, released in 1992. The title is a palindrome, which is also a musical theme in the title track, according to the album's liner notes.\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Thom Owens wrote of the album \"Though the Flecktones didn't change their formula with their third album, UFO Tofu, they did manage to craft one of their more consistent and impressive efforts... Occasionally, the material is lightweight, functioning only as vehicle for the group's solos. Then again, the whole point of Fleck's music is the solos, so that shouldn't upset his fans too much. Of course, it doesn't help him win new ones, either.\"\n\nAll songs by Béla Fleck unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959622", "title": "JASON (advisory group)", "text": "JASON (advisory group)\n\nJASON is an independent group of elite scientists which advises the United States government on matters of science and technology, mostly of a sensitive nature. The group was first created as a way to get a younger generation of scientists—that is, not the older Los Alamos and MIT Radiation Laboratory alumni—involved in advising the government. It was established in 1960 and has somewhere between 30 and 60 members. Its work first gained public notoriety as the source of the Vietnam War's McNamara Line electronic barrier. Although most of its research is military-focused, JASON also produced early work on the science of global warming and acid rain. Current unclassified research interests include health informatics, cyberwarfare, and renewable energy.\n\nFor administrative purposes, JASON's activities are run through the MITRE Corporation, a not-for-profit corporation in McLean, Virginia, which operates seven Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) for the Federal Government of the United States.\n\nJASON typically performs most of its work during an annual summer study. Its sponsors include the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, and the U.S. Intelligence Community. Most of the resulting JASON reports are classified.\n\nThe name \"JASON\" is sometimes explained as an acronym, standing either for \"July August September October November\", the months in which the group would typically meet; or, tongue in cheek, for \"Junior Achiever, Somewhat Older Now\". However, neither explanation is correct; in fact, the name is not an acronym at all. It is a reference to Jason, a character from Greek mythology. The wife of one of the founders (Mildred Goldberger) thought the name given by the defense department, Project Sunrise, was unimaginative and suggested the group be named for a hero and his search.\n\nJASON studies have included a now-mothballed system for communicating with submarines using extremely long radio waves (Project Seafarer, Project Sanguine), an astronomical technique for overcoming the atmosphere's distortion (adaptive optics), the many problems of missile defense, technologies for verifying compliance with treaties banning nuclear tests, a 1979 report describing CO-driven global warming, and the McNamara Line's electronic barrier, a system of computer-linked sensors developed during the Vietnam War which became the precursor to the modern electronic battlefield.\n\nJASON members, known informally as \"Jasons,\" include physicists, biologists, chemists, oceanographers, mathematicians, and computer scientists, predominated by theoretical physicists. They are selected by current members, and, over the years, have included eleven Nobel Prize laureates and several dozen members of the United States National Academy of Sciences. All members have a wide-range of security clearances that allow them to do their work.\n\nThe founders of JASON include John Wheeler and Charles H. Townes. Other early members included Murray Gell-Mann, S. Courtenay Wright, Robert Gomer, Walter Munk, Murph Goldberger, Hans Bethe, Nick Christofilos, Fred Zachariasen, Marshall Rosenbluth, Ed Frieman, Hal Lewis, Sam Treiman, Conrad Longmire, Steven Weinberg, Roger Dashen, and Freeman Dyson.\n\nSome additional Nobel Prize-winning members of JASON include Donald Glaser, Val Fitch, Murray Gell-Mann, Luis Walter Alvarez, Henry Way Kendall, and Steven Weinberg.\n\nIn chronological order:\n\nIn 1958, a military-issues physics summer study program named Project 137 was launched by physicists John Archibald Wheeler, Eugene Wigner, and Oskar Morgenstern. Participants included Murph Goldberger, Kenneth Watson, Nick Christofilos, and Keith Brueckner.\n\nOut of that program came the idea of a permanent institution for advanced scientific research, a proposed National Defense Institute, on behalf of the Department of Defense. Wheeler was offered such a position by DARPA's Herb York but turned it down, having put in the effort to establish Project 137. Murph Goldberger also turned down the request.\n\nHowever, in December 1959 Marvin Stern, Charles H. Townes, Keith Brueckner, Kenneth Watson, and Marvin Leonard Goldberger met in Los Alamos where several of them had been working on nuclear-rocket research and launched JASON as an ongoing summer study program, with financial and administrative support supplied by the Institute for Defense Analyses. In the early 1960s, JASON had about 20 members. By the end of the decade it had grown to over 40 members, with close ties to the President's Science Advisory Committee. In the early 1970s the backing institution for JASON was changed from IDA to SRI.\n\nThe Vietnam War had a significant effect on JASON's membership and research focus. A major initiative of JASON became the McNamara Line electronic barrier, promoted by the hawks. (According to Freeman Dyson, a member of JASON, this research was actually not carried out by JASON, but by a group called JASON EAST). By around 1966, the team had become strongly divided along political and ethical lines. In March 1967, Freeman Dyson, Robert Gomer, Steven Weinberg, and S. Courtenay Wright produced a report, approved by Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara and titled \"Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Southeast Asia.\" Declassified in 2002 through a Freedom of Information Act action brought by the Nautilus Institute, the paper predicted catastrophic consequences for U.S. global interests as well as for the people and environment of Southeast Asia of a tactical nuclear weapons strike in the area. Going into great detail, the paper strongly contradicted game-scenario research from the RAND Corporation and other groups that was optimistic about a nuclear option. Co-author Wright later stated that the report's main finding was that \"employment of nuclear weapons by the US would be of little use against a widely distributed opponent but disaster if copied by the opponent.\" In a nuclear counterstrike against U.S. troops, the report concluded that, in the worst-case, \"the U.S. fighting capability in Vietnam would be essentially annihilated.\" Co-author Weinberg showed the political point of view of the writers and the increasing political division:\n\nI have to admit that its conclusions were pretty much what we expected from the beginning, and if I had not expected to reach these conclusions then, for the ethical reasons that we left out of the report I would not have helped to write it.\n\nSeymour Deitchman, a national security consultant who served with the IDA for over 28 years, said, \"To the extent of my personal knowledge, the talk of using nuclear weapons in that war stopped after the JASON report on the subject.\" Gordon J. F. MacDonald, executive vice president of IDA at the time, reflected on the JASON report in 1998. MacDonald said that the \"grim picture\" painted in the report had a major effect on both Johnson and McNamara. It was central to McNamara's differences with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who were sanguine about the nuclear option; this ultimately led to McNamara's resignation. RAND experts also conceded the report's credibility.\n\nThere arose internal conflict between hawkish JASON members such as William Happer, Edward Teller, and William Nierenberg and others such as MacDonald, Sid Drell, and Richard Garwin. Public attention to JASON's involvement in the Vietnam War led to public criticism and attacks, even against JASON members who were not hawks; for example, MacDonald's garage was burned down and Richard Garwin was called a \"baby killer.\"\n\nAround this time, some members critical of the war like Freeman Dyson left, and others directed JASON research into unclassified, non-military work on behalf of the U.S. Department of Energy on problems like global warming and acid rain.\n\nIn 2002, DARPA decided to cut its ties with JASON. DARPA had not only been one of JASON's primary sponsors, it was also the channel through which JASON received funding from other sponsors. DARPA's decision came after JASON's refusal to allow DARPA to select three new JASON members. Since JASON's inception, new members have always been selected by its existing members. After much negotiation and letter-writing—including a letter by Congressman Rush Holt of New Jersey—funding was subsequently secured from an office higher in the defense hierarchy, the office of the Director, Defense Research & Engineering, name changed to Assistant Secretary of Defense (Research & Engineering) (ASD (R&E)) in 2011.\n\nIn 2009, JASON issued its classified recommendations on the future of the United States nuclear arsenal, finding that a new generation of nuclear weapons was unnecessary. In 2010, JASON issued recommendations for the Department of Defense to support cyber-security research. In 2011, the panel published a public analysis of and recommendations for international greenhouse gas monitoring by the United States government. In 2014, the panel published results of its 2013 summer-study focus on health information exchange.\n\nIn April 2019, Jason lost its contract with the Department of Defense. On 28 March, Representative Jim Cooper (D–TN), who chairs the strategic forces subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, revealed that the MITRE Corporation, a nonprofit based in Mclean, Virginia, that manages the Jason contract, received a letter from the Department of Defense ordering it to close up shop by 30 April. However, on 25 April 2019 the National Nuclear Security Administration in the Department of Energy offered the group an 8 month contract that would continue to employ JASON.\n\nAbout half of JASON's work is classified, ranging from recommendations on the United States nuclear arsenal and missile defense, to electronic surveillance and cyber-security.\n\nMuch of JASON's public work has involved energy and the environment, including Gordon MacDonald's project to model climate change that soon convinced him that fossil-fuel burning would lead to dangerous global warming that would outstrip any industrial cooling effects. For decades, MacDonald was a prominent scientific advocate for action on climate change. Current JASON energy research has included reports on advanced biofuel production and how to reduce the Department of Defense's carbon footprint for strategic and environmental reasons. However, several other members of JASON, including past chairs Nierenberg, Happer, and Koonin, have cast doubt on climate science and policies that would limit the use of fossil fuels.\n\nJASON studies include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959630", "title": "Anglo-Saxon model", "text": "Anglo-Saxon model\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon model or Anglo-Saxon capitalism (so called because it is practiced in English-speaking countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Ireland) is a capitalist model that emerged in the 1970s based on the Chicago school of economics. However, its origins date to the 18th century in the United Kingdom under the ideas of the classical economist Adam Smith.\n\nCharacteristics of this model include low levels of regulation and taxes and the public sector providing very few services. It can also mean strong private property rights, contract enforcement, and overall ease of doing business as well as low barriers to free trade.\n\nProponents of the term \"Anglo-Saxon economy\" argue that the economies of these countries currently are so closely related in their liberalist and free market orientation that they can be regarded as sharing a specific macroeconomic model. However, those who disagree with the use of the term claim that the economies of these countries differ as much from each other as they do from the so-called \"welfare capitalist\" economies of northern and continental Europe.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon model of capitalism is usually contrasted with the Continental model of capitalism, known as Rhine capitalism, the social market economy or the German model, but it is also contrasted with Northern-European models of capitalism found in the Nordic countries, called the Nordic model. The major difference between these economies from Anglo-Saxon economies is the scope of collective bargaining rights and corporatist policies. Differences between Anglo-Saxon economies are illustrated by taxation and the welfare state. The United Kingdom has a significantly higher level of taxation than the United States. Moreover, the United Kingdom spends far more than the United States on the welfare state as a percentage of GDP and also spends more than Spain, Portugal, or the Netherlands. This spending figure is still considerably lower than that of France or Germany.\n\nIn northern continental Europe, most countries use mixed economy models, called Rhine capitalism (a current term used especially for the macroeconomics of Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands), or its close relative the Nordic model (which refers to the macroeconomics of Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Finland).\n\nThe debate amongst economists as to which economic model is better, circles around perspectives involving poverty, job insecurity, social services and inequality. Generally speaking, advocates of Anglo-Saxon capitalism argue that more liberalised economies produce greater overall prosperity while defenders of continental models counter that they produce lesser inequality and lesser poverty at the lowest margins.\n\nThe rise of China has brought into focus the relevance of an alternate economic model which has helped propel the economy of China for thirty years since its opening up in 1978. The socialist market economy or a system based on what is called \"socialism with Chinese characteristics\". A confident China is increasingly offering it as an alternate development model to the Anglo-Saxon model to emerging economies in Africa and Asia.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon capitalism originates from growth and development of Anglo-Saxon economy in eleventh century. The growth can be partially explained by England's fertile and accessible land, rich fisheries and mineral deposits. However, people would not have been able to exploit these resources so successfully if there had not have been fundamental changes in English institutions between the eighth and eleventh centuries. The older system of bartering was replaced by the newer system where commodities were exchanged for money. In addition, the price of these commodities was decided by supply and demand, and as such it can be considered that 'Anglo-Saxon' model of development started well before the 1970s as market could already influence some elements of the model. One of the reasons why market economics became popular at that time is 'emergency conversion(s)', which is, disastrous events that made changes to the society that force them trade in the marketplace. These are the changes that members of the society make in order to survive. Viking invasion and additional taxation compelled the English to develop market economy. Alfred's provision of sound money and a system of justice reduced transaction costs and, as the result, stimulated the market-based trade Overall, the fundamental transformation of the allocative system of the Anglo-Saxon England forced individuals to adapt to changes or to be left behind.\n\nAnglo-Saxon model came out in the 1970s from the Chicago School of Economics. The return to economic liberalism in the Anglo-Saxon countries is explained by the failure of Keynesian economic management to control the stagflation in the 1970s and early 1980s The Anglo-Saxon model was made from the ideas of Friedman and the Chicago School economists and the conventional wisdom of pre-Keynesian, liberal economic ideas which stated that success in fighting inflation is dependent on managing the money supply whilst efficiency in the utilization of resources and that unrestricted markets are the most efficient for this goal of combating inflation.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s the British post-war economic model was in trouble. After Labour failed to solve the problems it was left to Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives to reverse Britain's economic decline. During Thatcher's second term in office the nature of the British economy and its society started to change. Marketization, privatization and the deliberate diminishing of the remnants of the post-war social-democratic model were all affected by the American ideas. The Thatcher era revived British social and economic thinking, it did not wholesale import of American ideas and practices. Therefore, the British shift to the right did not cause the any real convergence toward American socio-economic norms. However, with time British approach, that European economies should be inspired by the success of the United States, built an ideological proximity with the United States. After a process of transferring policy from the United States it became apparent that a distinctive Anglo-Saxon economic model was forming.\n\nAccording to some researchers, not all liberal economics models are created equally. There are different sub-types and variations among countries that practice Anglo-Saxon capitalism. One of these variations is neo-classical economic liberalism exhibited in American and British economies. The underlying assumption of this variation is that the inherent selfishness of individuals is transferred by the self-regulating market into general economic well-being. In neo-classical economic liberalism, competitive market should function as equilibrating mechanisms, which deliver both economic welfare and distributive justice. One of the main aims of the economic liberalism in the United States and United Kingdom, which was significantly influenced by Friedrich Hayek's ideas, is that government should regulate economic activity; but the state should not get involved as economic actor.\n\nThe other variation of economic liberalism is \"balanced model\" or ‘ordoliberalism’( the concept is from the concept of ‘ordo,’ the Latin word for ‘order,’). Ordoliberalism means an ideal economic system which would be more well ordered than the laissez-faire economy supported by classical liberals. After the 1929 Stock Market Crash and Great Depression, the German Freiburg School's intellectuals argued that to ensure that market functions effectively, government should undertake an active role, backed by a strong legal system and suitable regulatory framework. They claimed that without strong government private interests would undercut competition in the system which is characterized by differences in relative power. Ordoliberals thought that liberalism (the freedom of individuals to compete in markets) and laissez-faire (the freedom of markets from government intervention) should be separated. Walter Eucken, the founding father and one of the most influential representatives of the Freiburg School, condemned classical laissez-faire liberalism for its ‘naturalistic naivety.’ Eucken states that the market and competition can only exist if economic order is created by a strong state. The power of government should be clearly determined, but in its area in which the state plays a role, the state has to be active and powerful. For ordoliberals, the right kind of government is the solution of the problem. Alexander Rüstow claimed that government should refrain from getting too engaged in markets. He was against protectionism, subsidies or cartels. However, he suggested limited interventionism should be allowed as long as it went \"in the direction of the market’s laws.\" Another difference between two variations is that ordoliberals saw the main enemy of free society in monopolies instead of the state. It is hard to empirically show a direct influence of the history of ordoliberalism on Australia or Canada. However, economic liberalism in Australia and Canada resembles German ordoliberalism much more than neo-classical liberalism of the US and UK. Differing interpretations of the Anglo-Saxon economic school of thought and, especially different justifications and perceptions of state intervention in the economy, led to policy differences within these countries. Then these policies continued and influenced the relationship between the public and private sectors. For example, in the United States, the state enforces notably lower tax rates than in the United Kingdom. In addition, the government of the United Kingdom invests more money on welfare programs and social services that the government of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959649", "title": "Bat (goddess)", "text": "Bat (goddess)\n\nBat was a cow goddess in Egyptian mythology depicted as a human face with cow ears and horns. By the time of the Middle Kingdom, her identity and attributes were subsumed within the goddess Hathor.\n\nThe worship of Bat dates to earliest times and may have its origins in Late Paleolithic cattle herding. Bat was the chief goddess of Seshesh, otherwise known as Hu or Diospolis Parva, the 7th nome of Upper Egypt. \nThe epithet Bat may be linked to the word \"ba\" with the feminine suffix 't'. A person's ba roughly equates to his or her personality or emanation and is often translated as 'soul'.\n\nAlthough it was rare for Bat to be clearly depicted in painting or sculpture, some notable artifacts (like the upper portions of the Narmer Palette) include depictions of the goddess in bovine form. In other instances she was pictured as a celestial bovine creature surrounded by stars or as a human woman. More commonly, Bat was depicted on amulets, with a human face, but with bovine features, such as the ears of a cow and the inward-curving horns of the type of cattle first herded by the Egyptians. \n\nBat became strongly associated with the sistrum, and the center of her cult was known as the \"Mansion of the Sistrum\". The sistrum is a musical instrument, shaped like an ankh, that was one of the most frequently used sacred instruments in ancient Egyptian temples. Some instruments would include depictions of Bat, with her head and neck as the handle and base and rattles placed between her horns. The imagery is repeated on each side, having two faces, as mentioned in the Pyramid Texts:.\n\nThe imagery of Bat as a divine cow was remarkably similar to that of Hathor, a parallel goddess from Lower Egypt. In two dimensional images, both goddesses often are depicted straight on, facing the onlooker and not in profile in accordance with the usual Egyptian convention. The significant difference in their depictions is that Bat's horns curve inward and Hathor's curve outward slightly. It is possible that this could be based in the different breeds of cattle herded at different times.\n\nHathor's cult center was in the 6th Nome of Upper Egypt, adjacent to the 7th where Bat was the cow goddess, which may indicate that they were once the same goddess in Predynastic Egypt. By the Middle Kingdom, the cult of Hathor had again absorbed that of Bat in a manner similar to other mergers in the Egyptian pantheon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959650", "title": "Markus Rosenberg", "text": "Markus Rosenberg\n\nNils Markus Rosenberg (; born 27 September 1982) is a Swedish former footballer who played as a forward. He spent the majority of his career in Allsvenskan club Malmö FF, where he also served as club captain from 2015 to 2019. Rosenberg won 33 caps for the Sweden national team scoring 6 goals and represented them at the 2006 World Cup, Euro 2008, and Euro 2012.\n\nRosenberg began his career at hometown club Malmö FF before moving on to other European leagues. He also became top scorer in the Allsvenskan while on loan at Halmstads BK during the 2004 season. Rosenberg played for football clubs across Europe, including Werder Bremen in the German Bundesliga, Ajax in the Eredivisie and Racing de Santander in La Liga. After returning to Malmö FF in 2014, Rosenberg scored several key goals in the club's UEFA Champions League run and helped the team win the league title. The following year, Rosenberg once again played a pivotal role in securing consecutive group stage qualifications for Malmö FF in the Champions League. He was also involved in winning two more consecutive league titles in 2016 and 2017, as well as advancing past the 2018–19 and 2019–20 UEFA Europa League group stage levels with Malmö.\n\nBorn in Malmö, Rosenberg began his playing career at Malmö FF at age five. He was successful in the youth team, where he started playing as a right-back before becoming a striker at age 16. He made his debut in 2001 against AIK, but struggled to become a first-team regular with strong competition from Niklas Skoog and Peter Ijeh. When the club purchased strikers Afonso Alves and Igor Sypniewski ahead of the season, Rosenberg opted to go to Halmstads BK on loan in 2004. Playing at Halmstad, he became the top goalscorer of the 2004 season and just missed out on becoming the league champion after Halmstad finished two points behind Malmö. In his last match back in Malmö, he also topped the Royal League 2004–05 scoring list as well as leading Allsvenskan in assists before joining Dutch club Ajax.\n\nRosenberg joined Ajax at the start of the 2005–06 season for a €5.3 million transfer fee. Manager Danny Blind showed his faith in Rosenberg by immediately inserting him into the starting 11. Rosenberg started well, scoring at his debut against Brøndby in the UEFA Champions League qualifiers and scoring in his Eredivisie debut, against RBC Roosendaal. On 27 September 2005 (his 23rd birthday), Rosenberg scored against Arsenal in a 2–1 loss in the UEFA Champions League. During the season, his performances dropped until Blind decided to play in a 4–4–2 system ,with Rosenberg and Angelos Charisteas as their strikers instead of the 4–3–3 system, with Rosenberg as the only central striker, as was played before.\n\nUnder the new system, Ajax were still underachieving in that period, and during the winter break, Klaas-Jan Huntelaar joined them for a €9 million transfer fee. Consequently, Rosenberg was moved from central forward to the left wing in a 4–3–3 the club reverted to. Playing in this line-up for the second half of the season, Ajax performed better and were able to reach the newly born Eredivisie play-offs after finishing in the fifth position in the regular competition. In the play-offs, they defeated Feyenoord and Groningen to claim a spot in the Champions League preliminaries for the following season. Ajax also won the KNVB Cup that season.\n\nWhen the 2006–07 season began, Rosenberg was no longer a regular first team player, mostly backing-up Klaas-Jan Huntelaar. He scored three goals in two UEFA Cup appearances against Start, but could not take Huntelaar's place as the main striker under new coach Henk ten Cate.\n\nOn 26 January 2007, Rosenberg moved to Bundesliga club Werder Bremen, playing his first match two days later against Hannover 96. He scored his first goal for Bremen against Bayern Munich in a 1–1 draw on 11 March, with the back of the head. On 8 April, Rosenberg scored a winning goal (also the only goal and second goal for the club) in a 1–0 win over 1. FC Nürnberg in Bremen's fight for the Bundesliga title. On 6 May 2007, Rosenberg scored his first hat-trick for the club in a 4–1 win over Hertha BSC. In the last match of the season, and with Bremen out of the title race after losing to Eintracht Frankfurt 2–1 the previous week, Rosenberg scored twice in a 2–0 win over VfL Wolfsburg on 19 May. Overall, Rosenberg scored 8 goals in 14 starts in his first Bundesliga season, five of them as a substitute, making him the most effective substitute in the league.\n\nBecause of his aerial ability and his strength, Rosenberg is considered a dangerous header of the ball, but he is also dangerous when having the ball at his feet. Rosenberg soon became fan favourite and earned a nickname \"Rosi\". Rosenberg struggled to perform in the league, but proved to be a very efficient goal scorer in both the European and domestic cups. He established himself in the starting and formed a partnership with strikers such as Hugo Almeida and Boubacar Sanogo.\n\nIn his second season at Bremen, 2007–08, Rosenberg made 30 appearances and scored 14 goals, making him Bremen's top goalscorer, ahead of Diego with 13 goals. Rosenberg made his debut of the season in a 2–2 draw against VfL Bochum. On 29 September 2007, he scored his first goal of the season in an 8–1 thriller against Arminia Bielefeld, also setting up a goal for Hugo Almeida. In a UEFA Champions League group stage match on 28 November, Rosenberg scored his first Champions League goal for the club in a 3–2 win over Real Madrid, also setting up a goal for Boubacar Sanogo.\n\nIn his third season, 2008–09, Rosenberg made 29 appearance and scored 7 goals, finishing as the club's second-highest goalscorer, behind Claudio Pizarro. That season, the club won the DFB-Pokal and reached the UEFA Cup final against Shakhtar Donetsk, but lost 2–1. On 9 August 2008, in the DFB-Pokal, Rosenberg scored four goals and set up Hugo Almeida twice in a 9–3 win over Eintracht Nordhorn. On 16 August, Rosenberg scored a brace on his debut of the season in a 2–2 against Arminia Bielefeld. On 20 September, he scored twice in a 5–2 win over Bayern Munich, marking the first time Bremen defeated Bayern at the Allianz Arena in Munich. In the Champions League group stage on 26 November, Rosenberg set up Almeida to score the second goal in a 2–2 draw against Anorthosis Famagusta. In the last Champions League group stage match, on 9 December, Rosenberg scored the winning goal in a 2–1 victory over Internazionale. However, Werder were eliminated from the group stage and demoted to the UEFA Cup. On 15 March 2009, Rosenberg scored twice in a 4–0 win over VfB Stuttgart.\n\nIn his fourth season, 2009–10, Rosenberg made 17 appearance and score 1 goal. He made his season debut in the 0–0 draw against Bayer Leverkusen on 20 September 2009 after being out of action with a knee problems for three months. He was placed on the substitutes' bench for large parts of the season. On 21 November, he scored his first and only goal of the season in a 6–0 win over SC Freiburg. Unable to produce goalscoring form, Rosenberg managed to score in the UEFA Europa League with a scoring a brace in a 4–1 win over Nacional and a 3–1 win over Athletic Bilbao. In March 2010, following a poor performance in the Bundesliga against VfL Bochum, Rosenberg was not included in the squad for the subsequent semi-final match of the DFB-Pokal, against FC Augsburg. He subsequently said to German tabloid \"Bild\", \"I wasn't the only one to play badly against Bochum. It is not good that I was immediately removed from the squad. I'm frustrated. Obviously, I'm thinking about what happens in the summer. I'm not here to sit in the stands. I want to play football.\"\n\nJust prior to the 2010–11 season, Rosenberg stated that he wanted to stay with Bremen after being reportedly unhappy over the contract stall. In the second leg of their play-off round of the UEFA Champions League against Sampdoria on 24 August 2010, with Bremen trailing 0–3 behind, Rosenberg scored in injury time helping Bremen to make it into extra time before Claudio Pizarro scored the decisive goal to reach the group stage of the Champions League.\n\nAfter returning from loan at Racing de Santander, Rosenberg scored a brace in a 2–0 win over 1. FC Kaiserslautern on the opening day of the 2011–12 Bundesliga season. On 28 April 2012, he scored his last goal for the club in a 3–1 loss against VfL Wolfsburg. On 5 May 2012, he made his last appearance for the club in a 3–2 loss against Schalke 04. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Werder Bremen opted not to extend Rosenberg's contract.\n\nOn 31 August 2010, Rosenberg signed a contract extension which would see him at Bremen until 2012, and he was loaned to Spanish La Liga club Racing de Santander until June 2011. Rosenberg made his debut for Santander in a 1–0 defeat against Valencia on 11 September 2010. On 26 September, he received a red card after a second bookable offence resulting in a one-match ban. On 23 October, he scored his first goal for Santander in a 6–1 defeat to Real Madrid. At the end of season, Rosenberg lead the club's scoring chart at nine goals in the beginning of May. On 23 June 2011, he expressed his wishes to continue to be playing in Europe for a couple of years and then to finish his career at his hometown club, Malmö FF.\n\nOn 7 August 2012, Premier League club West Bromwich Albion announced they had secured Rosenberg on a three-year contract. He wore the number 8 for the 2012–13 season. Rosenberg played 24 Premier League matches for the club during his first season at the club, but failed to score any goals. Having only appeared in four league matches for the 2013–14 season, Rosenberg and the club reached a mutual agreement to terminate his contract on 1 February 2014. When he left West Brom, Rosenberg donated all contents in his house to charity.\n\nOn 1 February 2014, Malmö FF confirmed they had agreed on a three-year contract with Rosenberg. On 3 February 2014, the transfer was confirmed after the medical examination had been performed, and Rosenberg subsequently travelled to Bradenton, Florida, where the club was engaged in a pre-season training camp. Rosenberg scored his first league goal after returning to the club on 7 April 2014 in a 3–0 away win against rivals IFK Göteborg. In August 2014, Rosenberg announced his retirement from the Sweden national team in order to fully concentrate on Malmö FF. The following day, he scored a brace as Malmö FF defeated Red Bull Salzburg in a 3–0 win to qualify for the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League. On 1 October 2014, Rosenberg scored both goals in a 2–0 win against Olympiacos, securing Malmö's first win in the 2014–15 UEFA Champions League.\n\nOverall, Rosenberg scored 15 goals and made 14 assists in the league, proving to be a vital part of the team as they defended their league title. This was also the first time in Rosenberg's career he won a league title. With 15 league goals and 24 goals in all competitions, 2014 became Rosenberg's most successful season to date in terms of goals. After the successful season, Rosenberg was named Allsvenskan Forward of the Year and Allsvenskan Most Valuable Player of the Year. He was also nominated for Swedish Forward of the Year at Fotbollsgalan.\n\nOn 5 August 2015, Rosenberg scored a goal in Malmö's 3–0 return leg win over Red Bull Salzburg in the third qualifying round for the 2015–16 UEFA Champions League. Thanks to an aggregate score of 3–2, Malmö eliminated Salzburg for the second successive season, contributing to Salzburg's run of eight unsuccessful attempts to qualify for the Champions League since being purchased by the Red Bull company in 2005. In their home match on 25 August 2015, Rosenberg scored the first goal as Malmö defeated Celtic 2–0, winning 4–3 on aggregate and thereby qualifying for the Champions League group stage for the second consecutive year.\n\nMalmö FF were unable to follow up their success in European qualifying with a league title in 2015, disappointingly finishing in fifth place. In 2016, the team was able to bounce back and Rosenberg won his second league title with Malmö FF after scoring 8 goals in 22 appearances.\n\nIn October 2017, Rosenberg won the league title with Malmö FF three matchdays before the end of the season.\n\nHe helped Malmö FF advance past the 2018–19 and 2019–20 UEFA Europa League group stages. In his last ever home game for Malmö FF, Rosenberg scored two goals in a 4–3 Europa League win against Dynamo Kyiv including the game-winning 4–3 goal in the 96th minute.\n\nRosenberg made his debut for Sweden in a match against South Korea on 22 January 2005. He was chosen for the 2006 FIFA World Cup as well as the UEFA Euro 2008 and the Euro 2012 squad. In total, he made 33 appearances and scored six goals for Sweden before retiring from international duty in August 2014.\n\nIn the Euro 2008 qualifier fan attack, Rosenberg was punched in the stomach by Christian Poulsen. Sweden was given a penalty kick as a result of Poulsen's punch, which resulted in a Danish supporter attacking the referee and the match being abandoned, with Sweden being awarded a default victory by UEFA.\n\nFollowing the Euro 2012, Rosenberg lost his place with the national team. After a successful season in 2014, he was once again eyed by Sweden head coach Erik Hamrén, but chose to declare his retirement from international football to focus on his club career at Malmö FF.\n\nAjax\n\nWerder Bremen\n\nMalmö FF\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959685", "title": "Upward looking sonar", "text": "Upward looking sonar\n\nAn upward looking sonar (ULS) is a sonar device pointed upwards looking towards the surface of the sea. It is used for similar purposes as downward looking sonar, but has some unique applications such as measuring sea ice depth and concentration or measuring air entrainment from bubble plumes during rough seas.\n\nOften it is moored on the bottom of the ocean or floats on a taut line mooring at a constant depth of perhaps 100 m. They may also be used by submarines, AUVs, and floats such as the Argo float.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959692", "title": "Noel Field", "text": "Noel Field\n\nNoel Field (January 23, 1904 – September 12, 1970) was an American spy for the NKVD, whose activities before and after World War II allowed the Eastern Bloc to use his name as a prosecuting rationale during the 1949 Rajk show trial in Hungary, as well as the 1952 Slánský show trial in Czechoslovakia.\n\nWhile employed at the U.S. Department of State in the 1930s, Field acted as a Soviet spy. During World War II, he worked in France and Switzerland to support Jewish communist and anti-fascist refugees. During this time, he also had contacts with the U.S. intelligence service OSS. Arrested in Prague in 1949 by the Czechoslovak secret police and handed over to the Hungarian secret police and subsequently imprisoned in Hungary, he served as the pretext for show trials of communist functionaries in Czechoslovakia, East Germany, and Hungary, where it was claimed that he had served as their American spymaster. The purpose of the show trials was to replace indigenous communist party members with others more aligned with Moscow. After his release in 1954, he stayed in Budapest and remained a convinced communist.\n\nField was born in south London in 1904, the first son of Brooklyn-born zoologist Herbert Haviland Field, who directed an international scientific bibliographical institute in Zürich, and his English wife. After Herbert Field's death, his wife took Noel Field, his brother Hermann, and two sisters to the U.S., where the boys attended Harvard University. Upon completion of his studies, Noel married his childhood sweetheart from Switzerland, Herta Katharina Vieser.\n\nNoel Field began his career at the State Department in the late 1920s. In the 1930s, he was an antifascist and sympathised with Soviet peace initiatives, as did many Western progressives at the time. In 1933 (1934 per Hede Massing's later testimony), Field met the German anti-Nazis Paul and Hede Massing, who had come to the U.S. from Moscow in order to build a network of Soviet agents among influential left-wing circles. Marguerite Young recommended Field to Massing.\n\nPeter Gutzeit, the Soviet Consul in New York City, was also an officer in the Soviet NKVD which was tasked with espionage. In 1934 he identified Noel Field and his friend, Laurence Duggan, as future Soviet spies. Gutzeit wrote on 3 October 1934, that Duggan \"is interesting to us because through him one will be able to find a way toward Noel Field... of the State Department's European Department with whom Duggan is friendly.\" Iskhak Akhmerov decided that Boris Bazarov should be the one to work with Hede Massing on this project.\n\nIn 1935, Hede Massing, who was an NKVD operative, tried to sign Field up for the NKVD. Field agreed to work for the NKVD. However, in 1936, Field accepted a post in Geneva with the League of Nations. Massing arranged for Field to make contact with Ignatz Reiss and Walter Krivitsky, who were in charge of Soviet intelligence in Switzerland. Based on this account, recent biographer Tony Sharp has determined that Field engaged in espionage for about a year in 1935.\n\nField was deeply moved by the Spanish Civil War and became involved in efforts to aid victims and opponents of fascism. As a League of Nations representative in Spain from 1938–1939, Field helped to repatriate foreign participants from the Republican side. During the Civil War, Noel Field and his wife Herta became friendly with a German medical doctor named Glaser who worked in a hospital attached to the International Brigade. When the Brigade retreated during the final collapse of the Loyalist forces, Glaser's daughter, Erica, became ill and was separated from her parents. The Fields found her in a receiving camp on the French-Spanish border and brought her with them to Switzerland, where they treated her as their own child. They intended to reunite her with her parents who had fled to England, but the outbreak of World War II in September 1939 made that difficult, and Erica became a permanent member of the Field home, in effect their foster child.\n\nIn October 1940, Field resigned his post in Geneva and in 1941 became director of the American Unitarian Universalist Service Committee's relief mission in Marseilles, providing relief for endangered Jewish refugees including antifascists and leftists, and helping many to flee to Switzerland. Field began a major collaboration with the Organization to Save the Children (OSE), a French Jewish humanitarian organization, and its Marseilles director, Joseph Weill. The two organizations later shared the same offices in Marseilles and Noel Field, with help from his wife, set up kindergartens in the Camp de Rivesaltes. The Fields worked with a number of French Jewish women and collaborated with OSE to liberate Jewish children from French internment camps both openly if possible and covertly if the camp director would not cooperate. Also beginning in early 1941, Noel Field established an extensive medical program to provide aid to Jewish refugees in hiding, those waiting to emigrate, or those held in internment camps. Drawing on the medical expertise of some of the Jewish refugees, Field developed a team of about 20 medical doctors, dentists, and nurses, some with international reputations. From his contacts in Switzerland, he acquired medicines and nutritional supplements that were extraordinarily hard to obtain. With the American Friends Service Committee, and his lead doctor, Rene Zimmer, Field implemented a nutritional survey of many thousands of the refugees interned in French camps and provided additional food for those in greatest need.\n\nDuring this period, Field worked with the Nîmes Committee, a network of about 30 relief organizations in Vichy France and maintained congenial ties with Varian Fry and other relief workers who viewed him as a dedicated humanitarian who seemed to be working himself into exhaustion and nervous collapse. Field developed a roster of several hundred refugees whom he attempted to help emigrate. Unlike some members of the Unitarian Service Committee and Fry, Field did not face hostility from staff at the U.S. Embassy in Marseilles for his activities, possibly because he sent many of his refugee clients to Switzerland, rather than to the U.S. In 1942, Robert Dexter, director of the Unitarian Service Committee, recruited Field to pass information to the U.S. intelligence service Office of Strategic Services (OSS). When the Germans occupied the rest of France in November 1942, the Fields escaped from Marseilles and re-established a refugee program in Geneva. In 1944, Field returned to southern France, traveling with the French guerrilla, the Maquis, and with the approval of Allen Dulles before the area was fully liberated. He arranged for a colleague, Herta Tempi, to establish a small office in Paris as a relief project for the Unitarian Service Committee.\n\nIn his relief activities, Field came into contact with a number of communist and antifascist refugees and exiles from Germany and elsewhere and used his position to relay information among various groups. During the war years, Field, based in Switzerland, continued to work on behalf of refugees, including antifascists and communists who, after the war, would assume positions of power in Eastern Europe. Field served Allen Dulles, then head of the OSS and later of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), as liaison to Communist resistance fighters when they were needed for OSS operations. Dulles had first met Field in Zürich in 1918 at the home of Field's father. The two had often seen each other in Washington D.C., when both worked at the State Department. Dulles hoped Field could use his Communist connections in Switzerland and Germany to shed light on Stalin's postwar objectives in Europe.\n\nOn August 3, 1948, Whittaker Chambers appeared under subpoena before HUAC. Among the former Federal official he named in his underground apparatus in Washington, DC, was Alger Hiss. Hiss warned Field in letters of events and hinted that he should not return to the States. Two months later, as this affair distilled down to the Hiss(-Chambers) Case, Chambers named Field, whose name appeared in newspapers on October 15, 1948. Field's double-life ended effectively that day.\n\nBetween March and May 1949, Field moved from Switzerland to Prague and Franz Dahlem helped him obtain a residence permit in Czechoslovakia.\n\nOn May 11, 1949, Field walked out of his hotel accompanied by two unidentified men. He left his papers, luggage, and traveller's cheques in his room as if he expected to return.\n\nField's wife Herta became increasingly worried about the lack of word from Field. She believed her husband had been kidnapped by the CIA in connection with the Massing and Hiss cases. In the hope of getting information from Czechoslovak authorities, she traveled to Prague and met with members of the StB, the country's secret police. She described her husband's involvement with Soviet intelligence to them. Her account matched Field's confession to the Hungarian secret police (ÁVH), which had been made available to the Czechoslovaks. On August 28, 1949, in Bratislava, she was handed over to the Hungarians, who arrested her and took her to Budapest.\n\nMeanwhile, Field's brother Hermann wrote to two Polish friends, Mela Granowska and Helena Syrkus, and asked for help getting a visa to visit Warsaw. The two women passed the letter on to the Polish secret police, the Bezpieka, whence they were ordered to ensure that Hermann traveled to Warsaw, where he was arrested while on his way to the airport to leave the country. Like his brother, Noel, Hermann had for a time worked to help endangered refugees and had shown a preference for communists and antifascists. In 1939, Hermann had served in the Kraków office of the Czechoslovak Refugee Trust Fund to help persecuted refugees, who were preponderantly Jewish, to emigrate to Great Britain.\n\nAfter the war, the Fields' adopted daughter Erica moved to the American Zone of occupied Germany and got a job with the OSS. She left to join the postwar German Communist Party and worked as secretary to the communist representatives in the Hesse state legislature. She met and fell in love with U.S. Army Captain Robert Wallach. When her party superiors objected to the relationship, Erica broke her connections with the party and the couple moved to Paris. In 1947, she was refused admission to the U.S. because of her communist past. In June 1950, Erica decided to search for the Fields, her foster parents. From Paris, she called on Leo Bauer, an old friend from the Swiss exile group, then editor-in-chief of East German radio. The call was monitored by the Soviet Ministry for Internal Affairs, and Bauer's Soviet superior ordered him to invite Erica to East Berlin, where she was arrested. Erich Mielke at one point offered her immediate release if she revealed the members of her spy network. She was condemned to death by a Soviet military court in Berlin and shipped to Moscow's Lubianka prison for execution. After Joseph Stalin's death in 1953, her sentence was reduced to hard labor in Vorkuta, north of the Arctic Circle.She was released in October 1955 by Khrushchev and later wrote a memoir entitled \"Light at Midnight\" in 1967.\n\nNoel Field had in fact been arrested - reportedly on the personal order of Lavrenti Beria - and had been handed over to the Hungarian authorities, who began to prepare the trial of László Rajk, the first of the postwar Eastern European show trials. The trial was held in September 1949, its premise being that Field and his agents had worked to undermine the development of indigenous resistance, especially in Germany, in order to strengthen Western influence and create a divided postwar Germany. \"Noel Field,\" stated the prosecutor, was \"one of the leaders of American espionage,\" who \"specialized in recruiting spies from among left-wing elements.\" Field was tortured and held in solitary confinement for five years, often at the edge of death. A matter of interest to students of the Cold War came to light years later when records from Field's interrogations were found in the Hungarian Interior Ministry archives. In those records Field named U.S. government official Alger Hiss as a fellow Communist spy: Interrogator: What was the essential point of the Alger Hiss case?Field: In the Fall of 1935, Hiss requested that I undertake intelligence work for the Soviet Union... I informed him that I was already conducting such work.Interrogator: So you revealed to Alger Hiss that you did intelligence work for the Soviet Union? Field: Yes.\n\nIn East Germany, in August 1950, six Communist functionaries, including Willi Kreikemeyer, the director of East zone railroads, and the boss of Radio Berlin, were accused of \"special connections with Noel Field, the American spy.\" All were either imprisoned or executed.\n\nIn Czechoslovakia, in November 1952, Rudolf Slánský, the Secretary General of the Communist Party, and 13 highly placed co-defendants confessed to high treason, conspiracy, murder, espionage, Titoism, and Zionism on behalf of \"foreign imperialist agents.\" \"The well-known agent Field\" was named as their spymaster.\n\nNo trial of the Fields themselves was ever held. Noel, Herta, and Hermann Field were released in October 1954. Hermann returned to America, later publishing an account of the case, \"Trapped in the Cold War: The Ordeal of an American Family\". Noel and Herta Field, however, opted to settle in Budapest, where, despite the torture inflicted on them, they did not condemn the Communist regime, leading some to dub them apologists.\nIn Field's own words, written while he was imprisoned: Historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., who had blocked Field's bid for OSS funds for a German communist front group during World War II, later commented, \"Field's simple-mindedness was indestructible\".\n\nIn October 1955, Erica Glaser Wallach was released from Vorkuta, the Soviet labour camp, under an amnesty declared by Nikita Khrushchev that year but was unable to join her husband and daughters in the U.S. because of the State Department's concern over her earlier Communist Party membership. It took the personal intervention of Allen Dulles to reunite her with her family in 1957. Her account of her experiences, \"Light at Midnight\", was published in 1967.\n\nField was ideally suited to the Communists' show trials; he had known and assisted many highly placed officials, including resistance fighters and members of the Spanish International Brigades with whom he had maintained contact after the war. In addition, he had had contact with Allen Dulles which allowed the Communists to construct a scenario of cooperation with the U.S. directed against the Soviet bloc. It could even be argued that Field had turned his friends into a spy network penetrating Central Europe. Moscow could thus counteract the ongoing uncovering of its own network in the U.S. with the bogus uncovering of an extensive network of American spies headed by the same Field whom the U.S. had charged with being a Soviet agent.\n\nThe journalist Drew Pearson maintained that the Soviets, encountering resistance to demands for grain and for military support from nationalist Communist leaders in Eastern Europe who had spent the war outside the USSR, used the myth of a Field-led spy network to purge them all. Pearson speculated that Field was arrested and incarcerated to prevent him from discrediting the trumped-up charges of disloyalty.\n\nIt has been suggested that Allen Dulles, informed that Noel Field was on his way to Prague, saw an irresistible opportunity to create havoc among his Cold War adversaries and lit the fuse by instructing Józef Światło, his Polish agent within East European counterintelligence, to alert his colleagues to the impending arrival of Dulles's master spy, coming now to activate the network of traitors he had put in place during the war years. However, it is more likely that CIA officials saw a chance to sow discord once the Fields had been arrested and fanned the blaze of paranoia and Stalinist terror. It is undisputed that Allen Dulles was delighted by the chaos caused by the Field case and did not express any sympathy for the plight of the Fields or the harsh treatment they received. He even refused all efforts by Field's sister Elsie to help rescue Noel and Herta.\n\nNoel Field remained a staunch communist; his final testament, written in Budapest and published in an American political journal, was entitled \"Hitching Our Wagon to a Star.\"\n\nNoel Field died in 1970, his wife Herta in 1980.\n\nHis story became the subject of a 1997 documentary by the Swiss film producer Werner Schweizer, \"Noel Field - Der erfundene Spion\" (\"Noel Field, the Fictitious Spy\").\n\nBy Noel Field:\n\nBy Hermann Field:\n\nBiographies:\n\nOther:\n"}
{"id": "1959693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959693", "title": "Spanner Films", "text": "Spanner Films\n\nSpanner Films is a small London-based documentary company founded by film director Franny Armstrong in 1997.\n\nThe company's earliest production was \"McLibel\" (1997/2005), a documentary film about David Morris and Helen Steel, a postman and a gardener, who took on McDonald's and won the case, with courtroom reconstructions by Ken Loach. \"Drowned Out\" (2002) follows an Indian family who decide to stay at home and drown rather than make way for the Narmada Dam.\n\n\"The Age of Stupid\", a drama-documentary-animation hybrid film about anthropogenic climate change, was released in 2009. The film was crowd funded via a bespoke website which raised £1.5m.\n\n\"Pie Net Zero\", a comedic short film about climate change and biosequestration efforts in South West England written by Armstrong and comedian Tom Walker and featuring Walker’s character Jonathan Pie, was released in 2020.\n\nIn March 2014 Spanner Films announced their new project \"Undercovers\", a television drama series about the undercover police officers who infiltrated the British activist scene for 50 years, and the women who unknowingly had long term relationships and children with the spies. The series is being written by Simon Beaufoy, Alice Nutter, and Franny Armstrong, and executive produced by Tony Garnett.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959716", "title": "Super Dragon", "text": "Super Dragon\n\nDaniel Caine Lyon (born June 8, 1980), better known by his ring name Super Dragon, is an American professional wrestler. Beginning his career in 1997, he has worked for companies such as All Pro Wrestling (APW), Chikara, Combat Zone Wrestling (CZW), Ring of Honor (ROH), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Pro Wrestling Guerilla (PWG) and Xtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW).\n\nSuper Dragon is one of six founders of the Southern California-based promotion Pro Wrestling Guerrilla (PWG). He is a former PWG World Champion and a record six-time PWG World Tag Team Champion, having held the title twice with B-Boy and Davey Richards, and once with Excalibur and Kevin Steen.\n\nSuper Dragon started training in 1996 in World Power Wrestling's wrestling school, where he was trained under owner Martin Marin. He had his first match in 1997 against Tiger Joe. Super Dragon became friends with Blitzkrieg, who during a tour of Mexico caught the eye of local wrestlers, such as Psicosis and Juventud Guerrera, who were also performing for World Championship Wrestling (WCW). Afterwards Blitzkrieg and Super Dragon were granted a dark match for WCW with the help of American Wild Child, who was friends with Konnan.\n\nSuper Dragon joined Revolution Pro Wrestling in 1999 and was part of the New Generation that hit Rev-Pro along with Disco Machine, TARO, Excalibur and Shogun. However, it was not long after that when Dragon tore his ACL and was forced to go for a reconstructive surgery in July 2000. Dragon made his return in January 2001 and reached his first real peak on September 28, 2001, when he defeated B-Boy in the finals of a sixteen-man tournament to win the Revolution J Tournament. During this time Dragon, along with other Rev-Pro stars were featured on a few Xtreme Pro Wrestling (XPW) shows. On October 25, 2002, at \"Pride of the Mask II\", Super Dragon and Shogun defeated TARO and El Gallinero Tres in a tag team match, with the stipulation being that the two winners would later face each other in a Mask vs. Mask match. Super Dragon beat Shogun and claimed his mask. Throughout his Rev-Pro run, Dragon changed his wrestling style from high flying to brawling and his attire from various bright colors to darker colors. His feud with TARO was especially a heated one. After nearly a five-year battle in both Revolution Pro Wrestling and All Pro Wrestling the feud culminated in a Mask vs. Mask match at Rev-Pro's fourth anniversary show on November 11, 2003. Dragon defeated TARO, who after the match unmasked, announced his retirement and embraced Super Dragon. On May 12, 2004, at Revolution Pro's final show, Super Dragon was defeated by Mr. Excitement.\n\nSuper Dragon started wrestling for Combat Zone Wrestling (CZW) in 2002 at \"Best of the Best 2\" against longtime rival B-Boy. When he returned in 2004, he wrestled many tag team matches with partner Excalibur, and challenged Chris Hero for the Iron Man championship. In 2005, he was involved in a feud against BLKOUT. At \"Cage of Death 7\", Dragon beat Ruckus for the CZW World Heavyweight Championship. This win made Super Dragon the first masked wrestler to hold the title. During the match, he gave BLKOUT manager Robbie Merino, who had already been injured previously by Super Dragon, a Curb Stomp onto the stage. At the next show, \"An Afternoon of Main Events\", Dragon teamed with the Kings of Wrestling (who were also feuding with BLKOUT) in a six-man tag team match against BLKOUT, which they lost. Super Dragon lost the title back to Ruckus in February 2006 in a match also involving Kevin Steen.\n\nIn May 2003 Super Dragon along with Disco Machine, Excalibur, Joey Ryan, Scott Lost and Top Gun Talwar, collectively known as the \"PWG Six\", founded Pro Wrestling Guerrilla, SoCal's largest wrestling promotion. At PWG's debut show on July 26, 2003, he defeated M-Dogg 20. The next two PWG shows featured the Badass Mother 3000 tournament to determine the first PWG Champion. Super Dragon got to the semifinals, but was then eliminated by Joey Ryan.\n\nIn PWG Super Dragon re-formed the faction known in Revolution Pro as Team Chismo with Excalibur and Disco Machine, under the new name S.B.S. At \"PWG...The Musical\", held on April 17, 2004, Dragon and Excalibur won the PWG tag team titles from Chris Bosh and Quicksilver. They became the first team to successfully defend the titles, but later lost them to the X Foundation of Joey Ryan and Scott Lost. On November 13, 2004, at \"Free Admission (Just Kidding)\", Super Dragon beat Frankie Kazarian to win the PWG Championship. He defended the title against Homicide, Samoa Joe, Kevin Steen and others, before finally losing it to A.J. Styles on April 2, 2005, at \"All Star Weekend - Night Two\".\n\nOn December 18, 2004, at \"Uncanny X-Mas\" after Dragon's match with Jonny Storm, a second Super Dragon came to the ring and attacked the real Super Dragon by delivering him some of his signature moves. This man attacked again on February 12, 2005, at \"All Nude Review\", and on May 13, 2005, at \"Jason Takes PWG\" Excalibur turned on Dragon, revealed himself as the mastermind of the attacks and then defeated him in a Guerrilla Warfare match with help from Kevin Steen, who revealed himself as the second Super Dragon. This began a feud between Steen and Dragon. On June 11, 2005, at \"Guitarmageddon\" Super Dragon teamed up with his S.B.S. partner Disco Machine to take on the team of Kevin Steen and Excalibur. However, in the end Disco Machine also turned on Dragon and aligned himself with Steen and Excalibur as the new S.B.S. During his feud with the S.B.S. on October 1, 2005, Super Dragon was forced to team with Davey Richards to challenge for the tag team titles against El Generico and Human Tornado, known as the \"2 Skinny Black Guys\", at \"After School Special\". Working well together as a team, Dragon and Richards managed to win the titles. On December 3, 2005, at \"Chanukah Chaos (The C's Are Silent)\", after Dragon had gotten a small measure of revenge on Excalibur and Disco Machine by defeating them in a tag team title match, he attacked the PWG Champion Kevin Steen during his title match with Joey Ryan and gave him two Psycho Drivers, causing him to lose the title. The feud ended on December 16, 2005, at \"Astonishing X-Mas\" in a Guerrilla Warfare match, in which Super Dragon came out victorious.\n\nSuper Dragon and Davey Richards continued their tag title reign defeating teams such as Cape Fear (El Generico and Quicksilver), Los Luchas (Zokre and Phoenix Star), The Kings of Wrestling (Chris Hero and Claudio Castagnoli), Roderick Strong and Jack Evans, and A.J. Styles and Christopher Daniels. During their reign, Dragon and Richards also turned the titles into World Tag Team Titles, by defending them in Germany and England. On May 20, 2006, however, Arrogance, the team of Scott Lost and Chris Bosh, defeated them for the titles at \"Enchantment Under The Sea\".\n\nSuper Dragon returned to PWG on September 2 as a participant in the 2006 Battle of Los Angeles tournament. On the second night, he defeated Necro Butcher, and on the third, he defeated Frankie Kazarian and Jack Evans to advance to the finals, but was unable to compete due to injuries he sustained the previous night. Davey Richards would go on to win the tournament, but instead of wanting a World title shot, he wanted a rematch for the tag titles. The match was set to take place on October 6 at \"Self-Titled\", but a conflict prevented Richards from being at the show. Instead of waiting for Richards to return, Super Dragon chose B-Boy as his partner and they went on to defeat Chris Bosh and Scott Lost for the championship. On November 17, 2006, Richards won the PWG World Tag Team Championship for a second time, teaming up with Roderick Strong to defeat the champions, B-Boy and Super Dragon. The next night, in the main event of the show, the duo lost the belts back to the men they'd won them from in a 4-way match which also included the Kings of Wrestling, as well as the team of Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin. Dragon won the match for his team by pinning Richards after a Psycho Driver. Less than a month later on December 2, 2006, at \"Passive Hostility\" Dragon and B-Boy lost the tag team titles to Cape Fear, and split afterwards as a tag team.\n\nSince then, Dragon suffered defeats at the hands of newcomer Ronin in a singles match, and a pinfall by Los Luchas in a tag team match. Soon after that Dragon broke his ankle and eventually made his return on April 8, 2007, at \"All Star Weekend V - Night Two\" during a match between Arrogance and Roderick Strong and Jack Evans when he and Davey Richards came out and attacked everyone and announced that Super Dragon would be Richards' partner for the upcoming \"Dynamite Duumvirate Tag Team Title Tournament\". On May 20, 2007, however, the first night of the tournament, the reuniting Super Dragon and Davey Richards lost in the first round to the makeshift team of Roderick Strong and PAC, who would go on to win the whole tournament.\n\nOn October 27, 2007, Night 2 of PWG's \"European Vacation II\" Dragon and Davey Richards were able to defeat Kevin Steen and El Generico for the PWG World Tag Team Championships giving Richards his third and Dragon his fifth reign, with this being their second reign as a team. On the first weekend of January 2008 PWG held its sixth \"All Star Weekend\", during which Dragon was scheduled to take on Susumu Yokosuka on the first night and TARO on the second night in a special \"Return Grudge Match\". Dragon, who had gained massive amounts of weight, took himself out of the Yokosuka match and replaced himself with CIMA and the next night defeated TARO in a lackluster match. On January 27, 2008, at \"Pearl Habra\" Dragon and Richards were stripped of their tag team titles after Richards no-showed the event.\n\nAfter taking two months off Super Dragon returned to PWG on March 21, 2008, at \"1.21 Gigawatts\" by attacking Jade Chung and giving her a Psycho Driver during a tag team match between the Dynasty (Joey Ryan and Scott Lost) and Kevin Steen and El Generico. On April 5, 2008, at \"It's a Gift...and a Curse\" Super Dragon continued his feud with the Dynasty by first attacking Scott Lost after his match with Claudio Castagnoli and then by brawling with Joey Ryan all over the building culminating in him giving Ryan a Psycho Driver off the stage through a table.\n\nOn May 17, 2008, Dragon and Richards teamed up once more for 2008's \"DDT4\" tournament, where they were defeated by the team of Kevin Steen and El Generico in the first round in a tag team title match. During the match, Dragon received yet another concussion, which led to him taking a hiatus from in-ring competition, still maintaining his backstage role with the company.\n\nSuper Dragon made his return on October 22, 2011, by saving former rival Kevin Steen from The Young Bucks after the two had cost him the PWG World Championship and challenged him to a handicap Guerrilla Warfare match. Steen then named Dragon his partner for the match on December 10. On December 10, Dragon and Steen, known collectively as \"Appetite for Destruction\", defeated The Young Bucks in a Guerrilla Warfare match to win the PWG World Tag Team Championship, Dragon's record-breaking sixth reign with the title. After being sidelined in early 2012 with a heel fracture, Dragon and Steen vacated the PWG World Tag Team Championship on May 25.\n\nOn June 26, 2015, Super Dragon made a surprise return to PWG, turning heel and forming a new version of the Mount Rushmore stable with PWG World Champion Roderick Strong and PWG World Tag Team Champions The Young Bucks. Dragon wrestled his first match in three and a half years on August 29, when he and The Young Bucks defeated Andrew Everett, Biff Busick and Trevor Lee in a Guerrilla Warfare main event.\n\nThe first time Super Dragon appeared in Ring of Honor (ROH) was at \"Do or Die II\" on March 13, 2004, when he defeated Excalibur in a try-out match. He would reappear two years later in 2006 as a part of CZW, during the ROH/CZW feud. Dragon made his return to the company on March 11, 2006, at \"Arena Warfare\" by attacking B.J. Whitmer during his match with Necro Butcher. The show ended with the CZW wrestlers taking over the ring and attacking Whitmer and other ROH wrestlers. On April 22, 2006, at \"The 100th Show\", Dragon was a part of Team CZW along with Chris Hero and Necro Butcher as they defeated Team ROH of Samoa Joe, Whitmer, and Adam Pearce, when Claudio Castagnoli turned on his ROH teammates. This match saw Dragon hit a Psycho Driver on Whitmer from the apron to the floor through a table. On April 29, 2006, at \"Weekend of Champions: Night Two\" Whitmer gained revenge on Dragon and defeated him after giving him an exploder superplex through a table on the floor, to win their feud. After the match Adam Pearce and Ace Steel carried Dragon out of the arena and he has not returned to the company since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959717", "title": "Three Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", "text": "Three Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\n\nThree Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is the fourth album released by Béla Fleck and the Flecktones, released in 1993. It is the band's only release as a trio, after the departure of Howard Levy but before the arrival of Jeff Coffin.\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Dan Cross wrote of the album \"The Flecktones have stuck with the formula that made their previous records successful: complex, tight grooves wrapped in a very musical, user-friendly package. The Flecktones still suffer from the departure of keyboardist/harmonica player Howard Levy, who provided the band with needed additional musical colors and textures.\"\n\n\n\nGuest musicians\n"}
{"id": "1959732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959732", "title": "Scanning tunneling spectroscopy", "text": "Scanning tunneling spectroscopy\n\nScanning tunneling spectroscopy (STS), an extension of scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), is used to provide information about the density of electrons in a sample as a function of their energy.\n\nIn scanning tunneling microscopy, a metal tip is moved over a conducting sample without making physical contact. A bias voltage applied between the sample and tip allows a current to flow between the two. This is as a result of quantum tunneling across a barrier; in this instance, the physical distance between the tip and the sample\n\nThe scanning tunneling microscope is used to obtain \"topographs\" - topographic maps - of surfaces. The tip is rastered across a surface and (in constant current mode), a constant current is maintained between the tip and the sample by adjusting the height of the tip. A plot of the tip height at all measurement positions provides the topograph. These topographic images can obtain atomically resolved information on metallic and semi-conducting surfaces\n\nHowever, the scanning tunneling microscope does not measure the physical height of surface features. One such example of this limitation is an atom adsorbed onto a surface. The image will result in some perturbation of the height at this point. A detailed analysis of the way in which an image is formed shows that the transmission of the electric current between the tip and the sample depends on two factors: (1) the geometry of the sample and (2) the arrangement of the electrons in the sample. The arrangement of the electrons in the sample is described quantum mechanically by an \"electron density\". The electron density is a function of both position and energy, and is formally described as the local density of electron states, abbreviated as local density of states (LDOS), which is a function of energy.\n\nSpectroscopy, in its most general sense, refers to a measurement of the number of something as a function of energy. For scanning tunneling spectroscopy the scanning tunneling microscope is used to measure the number of electrons (the LDOS) as a function of the electron energy. The electron energy is set by the electrical potential difference (voltage) between the sample and the tip. The location is set by the position of the tip.\n\nAt its simplest, a \"scanning tunneling spectrum\" is obtained by placing a scanning tunneling microscope tip above a particular place on the sample. With the height of the tip fixed, the electron tunneling current is then measured as a function of electron energy by varying the voltage between the tip and the sample (the tip to sample voltage sets the electron energy). The change of the current with the energy of the electrons is the simplest spectrum that can be obtained, it is often referred to as an I-V curve. As is shown below, it is the slope of the I-V curve at each voltage (often called the dI/dV-curve) which is more fundamental because dI/dV corresponds to the electron density of states at the local position of the tip, the LDOS.\n\nScanning tunneling spectroscopy is an experimental technique which uses a scanning tunneling microscope (STM) to probe the local density of electronic states (LDOS) and the band gap of surfaces and materials on surfaces at the atomic scale. Generally, STS involves observation of changes in constant-current topographs with tip-sample bias, local measurement of the tunneling current versus tip-sample bias (I-V) curve, measurement of the tunneling conductance, formula_1, or more than one of these. Since the tunneling current in a scanning tunneling microscope only flows in a region with diameter ~5 Å, STS is unusual in comparison with other surface spectroscopy techniques, which average over a larger surface region. The origins of STS are found in some of the earliest STM work of Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer, in which they observed changes in the appearance of some atoms in the (7 x 7) unit cell of the Si(111) – (7 x 7) surface with tip-sample bias. STS provides the possibility for probing the local electronic structure of metals, semiconductors, and thin insulators on a scale unobtainable with other spectroscopic methods. Additionally, topographic and spectroscopic data can be recorded simultaneously.\n\nSince STS relies on tunneling phenomena and measurement of the tunneling current or its derivative, understanding the expressions for the tunneling current is very important. Using the modified Bardeen transfer Hamiltonian method, which treats tunneling as a perturbation, the tunneling current (I) is found to be\n\nwhere formula_3 is the Fermi distribution function, formula_4 and formula_5 are the density of states (DOS) in the sample and tip, respectively, and formula_6 is the tunneling matrix element between the modified wavefunctions of the tip and the sample surface. The tunneling matrix element,\n\ndescribes the energy lowering due to the interaction between the two states. Here formula_8 and formula_9 are the sample wavefunction modified by the tip potential, and the tip wavefunction modified by sample potential, respectively.\n\nFor low temperatures and a constant tunneling matrix element, the tunneling current reduces to\n\nwhich is a convolution of the DOS of the tip and the sample. Generally, STS experiments attempt to probe the sample DOS, but equation (3) shows that the tip DOS must be known for the measurement to have meaning. Equation (3) implies that\n\nunder the gross assumption that the tip DOS is constant. For these ideal assumptions, the tunneling conductance is directly proportional to the sample DOS.\n\nFor higher bias voltages, the predictions of simple planar tunneling models using the Wentzel-Kramers Brillouin (WKB) approximation are useful. In the WKB theory, the tunneling current is predicted to be\n\nwhere formula_4 and formula_14 are the density of states (DOS) in the sample and tip, respectively. The energy- and bias-dependent electron tunneling transition probability, T, is given by\n\nwhere formula_16 and formula_17 are the respective work functions of the sample and tip and formula_18 is the distance from the sample to the tip.\n\nAcquiring standard STM topographs at many different tip-sample biases and comparing to experimental topographic information is perhaps the most straightforward spectroscopic method. The tip-sample bias can also be changed on a line-by-line basis during a single scan. This method creates two interleaved images at different biases. Since only the states between the Fermi levels of the sample and the tip contribute to formula_19, this method is a quick way to determine whether there are any interesting bias-dependent features on the surface. However, only limited information about the electronic structure can be extracted by this method, since the constant formula_19 topographs depend on the tip and sample DOS's and the tunneling transmission probability, which depends on the tip-sample spacing, as described in equation (5).\n\nBy using modulation techniques, a constant current topograph and the spatially resolved formula_1 can be acquired simultaneously. A small, high frequency sinusoidal modulation voltage is superimposed on the D.C. tip-sample bias. The A.C. component of the tunneling current is recorded using a lock-in amplifier, and the component in-phase with the tip-sample bias modulation gives formula_1 directly. The amplitude of the modulation V has to be kept smaller than the spacing of the characteristic spectral features. The broadening caused by the modulation amplitude is 2 eVm and it has to be added to the thermal broadening of 3.2 kT. In practice, the modulation frequency is chosen slightly higher than the bandwidth of the STM feedback system. This choice prevents the feedback control from compensating for the modulation by changing the tip-sample spacing and minimizes the displacement current 90° out-of-phase with the applied bias modulation. Such effects arise from the capacitance between the tip and the sample, which grows as the modulation frequency increases.\n\nIn order to obtain I-V curves simultaneously with a topograph, a sample-and-hold circuit is used in the feedback loop for the z piezo signal. The sample-and-hold circuit freezes the voltage applied to the z piezo, which freezes the tip-sample distance, at the desired location allowing I-V measurements without the feedback system responding. The tip-sample bias is swept between the specified values, and the tunneling current is recorded. After the spectra acquisition, the tip-sample bias is returned to the scanning value, and the scan resumes. Using this method, the local electronic structure of semiconductors in the band gap can be probed.\n\nThere are two ways to record I-V curves in the manner described above. In constant-spacing scanning tunneling spectroscopy (CS-STS), the tip stops scanning at the desired location to obtain an I-V curve. The tip-sample spacing is adjusted to reach the desired initial current, which may be different from the initial current setpoint, at a specified tip-sample bias. A sample-and-hold amplifier freezes the z piezo feedback signal, which holds the tip-sample spacing constant by preventing the feedback system from changing the bias applied to the z piezo. The tip-sample bias is swept through the specified values, and the tunneling current is recorded. Either numerical differentiation of I(V) or lock-in detection as described above for modulation techniques can be used to find formula_1. If lock-in detection is used, then an A.C. modulation voltage is applied to the D.C. tip-sample bias during the bias sweep and the A.C. component of the current in-phase with the modulation voltage is recorded.\n\nIn variable-spacing scanning tunneling spectroscopy (VS-STS), the same steps occur as in CS-STS through turning off the feedback. As the tip-sample bias is swept through the specified values, the tip-sample spacing is decreased continuously as the magnitude of the bias is reduced. Generally, a minimum tip-sample spacing is specified to prevent the tip from crashing into the sample surface at the 0 V tip-sample bias. Lock-in detection and modulation techniques are used to find the conductivity, because the tunneling current is a function also of the varying tip-sample spacing. Numerical differentiation of I(V) with respect to V would include the contributions from the varying tip-sample spacing. Introduced by Mårtensson and Feenstra to allow conductivity measurements over several orders of magnitude, VS-STS is useful for conductivity measurements on systems with large band gaps. Such measurements are necessary to properly define the band edges and examine the gap for states.\n\nCurrent-imaging-tunneling spectroscopy (CITS) is an STS technique where an I-V curve is recorded at each pixel in the STM topograph. Either variable-spacing or constant-spacing spectroscopy may be used to record the I-V curves. The conductance, formula_1, can be obtained by numerical differentiation of I with respect to V or acquired using lock-in detection as described above. Because the topographic image and the tunneling spectroscopy data are obtained nearly simultaneously, there is nearly perfect registry of topographic and spectroscopic data. As a practical concern, the number of pixels in the scan or the scan area may be reduced to prevent piezo creep or thermal drift from moving the feature of study or the scan area during the duration of the scan. While most CITS data obtained on the times scale of several minutes, some experiments may require stability over longer periods of time. One approach to improving the experimental design is by applying feature-oriented scanning (FOS) methodology.\n\nFrom the obtained I-V curves, the band gap of the sample at the location of the I-V measurement can be determined. By plotting the magnitude of I on a log scale versus the tip-sample bias, the band gap can clearly be determined. Although determination of the band gap is possible from a linear plot of the I-V curve, the log scale increases the sensitivity. Alternatively, a plot of the conductance, formula_1, versus the tip-sample bias, V, allows one to locate the band edges that determine the band gap.\n\nThe structure in the formula_1, as a function of the tip-sample bias, is associated with the density of states of the surface when the tip-sample bias is less than the work functions of the tip and the sample. Usually, the WKB approximation for the tunneling current is used to interpret these measurements at low tip-sample bias relative to the tip and sample work functions. The derivative of equation (5), I in the WKB approximation, is\n\nwhere formula_4 is the sample density of states, formula_14 is the tip density of states, and T is the tunneling transmission probability. Although the tunneling transmission probability T is generally unknown, at a fixed location T increases smoothly and monotonically with the tip-sample bias in the WKB approximation. Hence, structure in the formula_1 is usually assigned to features in the density of states in the first term of equation (7).\n\nInterpretation of formula_1 as a function of position is more complicated. Spatial variations in T show up in measurements of formula_1 as an inverted topographic background. When obtained in constant current mode, images of the spatial variation of formula_1 contain a convolution of topographic and electronic structure. An additional complication arises since formula_34 in the low-bias limit. Thus, formula_1 diverges as V approaches 0, preventing investigation of the local electronic structure near the Fermi level.\n\nSince both the tunneling current, equation (5), and the conductance, equation (7), depend on the tip DOS and the tunneling transition probability, T, quantitative information about the sample DOS is very difficult to obtain. Additionally, the voltage dependence of T, which is usually unknown, can vary with position due to local fluctuations in the electronic structure of the surface. For some cases, normalizing formula_1 by dividing by formula_37 can minimize the effect of the voltage dependence of T and the influence of the tip-sample spacing. Using the WKB approximation, equations (5) and (7), we obtain:\n\nFeenstra et al. argued that the dependencies of formula_39 and formula_40 on tip-sample spacing and tip-sample bias tend to cancel, since they appear as ratios. This cancellation reduces the normalized conductance to the following form:\n\nwhere formula_42 normalizes T to the DOS and formula_43 describes the influence of the electric field in the tunneling gap on the decay length. Under the assumption that formula_43 and formula_42 vary slowly with tip-sample bias, the features in formula_46 reflect the sample DOS, formula_4.\n\nWhile STS can provide spectroscopic information with amazing spatial resolution, there are some limitations. The STM and STS lack chemical sensitivity. Since the tip-sample bias range in tunneling experiments is limited to formula_48, where formula_49 is the apparent barrier height, STM and STS only sample valence electron states. Element-specific information is generally impossible to extract from STM and STS experiments, since the chemical bond formation greatly perturbs the valence states.\n\nAt finite temperatures, the thermal broadening of the electron energy distribution due to the Fermi-distribution limits spectroscopic resolution. At formula_50, formula_51, and the sample and tip energy distribution spread are both formula_52. Hence, the total energy deviation is formula_53. Assuming the dispersion relation for simple metals, it follows from the uncertainty relation formula_54 that\n\nwhere formula_56 is the Fermi energy, formula_57 is the bottom of the valence band, formula_58 is the Fermi wave vector, and formula_59 is the lateral resolution. Since spatial resolution depends on the tip-sample spacing, smaller tip-sample spacings and higher topographic resolution blur the features in tunneling spectra.\n\nDespite these limitations, STS and STM provide the possibility for probing the local electronic structure of metals, semiconductors, and thin insulators on a scale unobtainable with other spectroscopic methods. Additionally, topographic and spectroscopic data can be recorded simultaneously.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959747", "title": "Royal Victoria Country Park", "text": "Royal Victoria Country Park\n\nThe Royal Victoria Country Park is a country park in Netley, Hampshire, England, by the shores of Southampton Water. It comprises of mature woodland and grassy parkland, as well as a small shingle beach.\n\nFrom 1863 until 1966, the site was home to the Royal Victoria Hospital. The site was acquired by Hampshire County Council in 1969, who opened the park to the public in 1970.\n\nAll that remains of the hospital is the chapel, which acts as a heritage centre providing history of the hospital. It also has a viewing tower, providing views over the park, and across Southampton Water to Hythe, and on a clear day, as far as Southampton itself.\n\nThe site also has a park office and tearooms. The building housing this was built using 100 different timbers from around the UK and British Empire. It was originally built in 1940 by the YMCA for entertainment, recreation and relaxation for staff and patients at the hospital.\n\nThere is also a miniature narrow-gauge railway the Royal Victoria Railway on the site which runs for around .\n\nThe park is home to a large variety of fauna and flora.\n\nThe park can be reached on foot via a footpath from Netley Station, or there is ample car parking on site.\n\nThe Netley Military Cemetery to the rear of the hospital site, primarily for patients, is accessible to the public by a private footpath and with a lockable security fence, a key to which can be obtained from the shop next to the tearooms. Among those buried here are 636 Commonwealth service personnel who died in the First World War and 35 in the Second World War whose graves are maintained and registered by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, who also care for the war graves of 69 Germans and 12 Belgians from the First and of one Polish soldier from the Second war.\n\nSouthampton Water is an extremely busy shipping lane, with container ships and cruise liners, including the \"Queen Mary 2\" using the port at Southampton as a base.\n\nIn January 2014 it was announced that a Heritage Lottery Fund grant of £102,000 would be used for restoring the chapel and revealing more detail of the former hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959749", "title": "Ecgric of East Anglia", "text": "Ecgric of East Anglia\n\nEcgric (killed \"circa\" 636) was a king of East Anglia, the independent Anglo-Saxon kingdom that today includes the English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. He was a member of the ruling Wuffingas dynasty, but his relationship with other known members of the dynasty is not known with any certainty. Anna of East Anglia may have been his brother, or his cousin. It has also been suggested that he was identical with Æthelric, who married Hereswith and was the father of Ealdwulf of East Anglia. The primary source for the little that is known about Ecgric's life is Bede's \"Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum\".\n\nIn the years that followed the reign of Rædwald and the murder of Rædwald's son (and successor) Eorpwald in around 627, East Anglia lost its dominance over other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. Three years after Eorpwald's murder at the hands of a pagan, Ecgric's kinsman Sigeberht returned from exile and they ruled the East Anglians together, with Ecgric perhaps ruling the northern part of the kingdom. Sigeberht succeeded in re-establishing Christianity throughout East Anglia, but Ecgric may have remained a pagan, as Bede praises only Sigeberht for his accomplishments, and his lack of praise for his co-ruler is significant. Ecgric ruled alone after Sigeberht retired to his monastery at Beodricesworth in around 634: it has also been suggested that he was a sub-king who only became king after Sigeberht's abdication. Both Ecgric and Sigeberht were killed in battle in around 636, at an unknown location, when the East Anglians were forced to defend themselves from a Mercian military assault led by their king, Penda. Ecgric, whose grave may have been the ship burial under Mound 1 at Sutton Hoo, was succeeded by Anna.\n\nAfter 616, Rædwald, who ruled East Anglia during the first quarter of the seventh century, was the most powerful of the southern Anglo-Saxon kings. In the following decades, from the reign of Sigeberht onwards, East Anglia became increasingly dominated by Mercia. Raedwald's son Eorpwald was murdered by a pagan noble soon after he was baptised in around 627, after which East Anglia reverted into paganism for three years. In the void left by the death of Rædwald, the first overlord who originated north of the Thames, the pagan Penda of Mercia emerged to challenge the pre-eminence of the new overlord (or bretwalda), Edwin of Northumbria. The reversion of East Anglia to rule by Eorpwald's successor, the pagan Ricberht, possibly due to Mercian influence, temporarily overthrew an important pillar of Edwin's authority.\n\nIn contrast, two sons of Rædwald's brother Eni, who were both eager to renew their Christian alliances, made diplomatic marriages during this period: Anna, who was to become a devout Christian ruler, married a woman of East Saxon connection and his brother Æthelric married a Northumbrian princess, Hereswitha, who was Edwin of Northumbria's grand-niece. This marriage was probably intended to reinforce the conversion of East Anglia to Christianity.\n\nEcgric was a member of the Wuffingas royal family, but his exact descent is not known, as the only information historians have is from Bede, who named him as Sigeberht's \"cognatus\" or 'kinsman'. The 12th century English historian William of Malmesbury contradicts Bede, stating that Sigeberht was Rædwald's stepson. The name \"Sigeberht\" is not of East Anglian, but of Frankish origin. Rædwald may have exiled his step-son so as to protect the inheritance of his son Ecgric, who was of his own blood-line.\n\nIt has been suggested by Sam Newton that Ecgric may in fact be identical to Eni's son Æthelric, whose descendants became kings of East Anglia. Æthelric's son Ealdwulf ruled from about 664 to 713. After Ecgric's death, three other sons of Eni ruled in succession before Ealdwulf, an indication that Raedwald's line was extinct. Æthelric's marriage to Hereswith suggests that it was expected that he would rule East Anglia and he may have been promoted by Edwin before 632. Æthelric was apparently dead by 647, at which time Anna was already ruling and Hereswith had gone to Gaul to lead a religious life. It has therefore been argued that Æthelric and Ecgric were in fact the same person, a suggestion that is disputed by the historian Barbara Yorke, who notes that the two names are too distinct to be compatible.\n\nRædwald's son (or stepson) Sigeberht renewed Christian rule in East Anglia after returning as a Christian from exile in Gaul (into which Rædwald had driven him). His assumption of power may have involved a military conquest. His reign was devoted to the conversion of his people, the establishment of the see of Dommoc as the bishopric of Felix of Burgundy, the creation of a school of letters, the endowment of a monastery for Fursey and the building of the first monastery of Beodricesworth (Bury St Edmunds), all accomplished within about four years.\n\nDuring at least part of Sigeberht's reign, Ecgric ruled jointly with him over part of the kingdom of East Anglia. A passage in Bede's \"Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Anglorum\" describing the reasons for Sigeberht's abdication also mentions Ecgric:\n\nAccording to Richard Hoggett, the practice of being ruled by more than one individual may have been a common occurrence in East Anglia as it was for the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of Kent and Northumbria. Ecgric and Sigeberht may have simultaneously ruled the peoples known as the North-folk and South-folk, who lived in the parts of their kingdom that would later become the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. However, Carver notes that Ecgric may not have reigned jointly with Sigeberht, but could just have plausibly ruled as a sub-king or served as an administrator within a region under East Anglian hegemony, only rising as king of the East Angles after Sigeberht's abdication.\n\nIn contrast with Sigebert, Ecgric seems to have remained a pagan. There is no evidence that he was baptised or that he promoted Christianity in East Anglia, according to D. P. Kirby, who notes that Bede wrote nothing that could imply that Ecgric was a Christian, in contrast to his praise of Sigeberht’s efforts to establish Christianity in East Anglia.\n\nIn 633 the Christian kingdoms suffered a dual shock: Edwin of Northumbria's death at the hands of Penda of Mercia and Cadwallon ap Cadfan, and the retreat of Edwin's household and bishop from York to Kent. After 633 the Northumbrian situation was stabilised under Oswald of Northumbria, and East Anglia shared with Northumbria the benefits of the Irish missions of Fursey and Aidan of Lindisfarne. Sigeberht was Fursey's patron and perhaps soon after his arrival Sigeberht abdicated and retired to the monastery at Beodricesworth (modern Bury St. Edmunds). His abdication, which cannot be dated, left Ecgric to rule the East Anglians alone. Ecgric therefore ruled a kingdom that had been \"evangelised in the united spirit of the Roman and Irish Churches\", according to Plunkett, who notes that Felix would have respected the teachings of the Irish missionaries, despite his own strong allegiance towards Canterbury.\n\nAfter Ecgric had been ruling alone for two years, East Anglia was attacked by a Mercian army, led by Penda. The date of the invasion is usually given as around 636, although Kirby suggests it could have been so late as 641. Ecgric was sufficiently forewarned as to be able to gather an army, described by Bede as \"opimus\" or splendid. Realising that they would be inferior in battle to the war-hardened Mercians and remembering that Sigeberht was once their most vigorous and distinguished leader, the East Anglians urged him to lead them in battle, hoping that his presence would encourage them not to flee from the Mercians. After he refused, on account of his religious calling, he was borne off against his will to the battlefield. He refused to bear weapons and so was killed. Ecgric was also slain during the battle and many of his countrymen either perished or were put to flight. The location of the site of the battle in which the East Anglians were routed and their king was killed is unknown, but it can be presumed to have been close to the kingdom’s western border with the Middle Angles.\n\nEcgric is a possible contender, as well as Rædwald, Eorpwald and Sigeberht, for being the East Anglian king who was buried within Mound 1 at Sutton Hoo. Rupert Bruce-Mitford suggests that it is perhaps unlikely that Ecgric’s successor Anna, a devout Christian, would have given him a ship burial, but he does not dismiss the theory entirely.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959751", "title": "Ralf Edström", "text": "Ralf Edström\n\nRalf Sigvard Edström (born 7 October 1952 in Degerfors) is a Swedish former footballer.\n\nStarting his career in Degerfors IF, a club known to produce many young talents, Edström moved to Åtvidabergs FF and became national champion in 1972. He moved to PSV Eindhoven in 1973 and was part of the team that became national champion in 1974/75 and 1975/76.\n\nEdström made 40 appearances for the Swedish national team and scored 15 times. He is most noted for his performance in the 1974 FIFA World Cup where he had a big part in Sweden finishing fifth, and he made 6 appearances during this tournament.\n\nOn club level, he became not only Swedish Champion, but also Dutch (twice) and French Champion. He also won the Swedish, Dutch and Belgian Cups and was voted Swedish player of the year twice (1972 and 1974, winning Guldbollen).\n\nHe has been an expert radio commentator since the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "1959755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959755", "title": "Donna Ewin", "text": "Donna Ewin\n\nDonna Clarissa Ground (born 4 June 1970) known professionally as Donna Ewin, is an English former glamour model and actress.\n\nDonna Clarissa Ground was born on 4 June 1970, in Poplar, East London, England. Ewin was her mother's maiden name. Upon leaving college she joined the Yvonne Paul Management agency and first appeared on Page 3 of \"The Sun\" at age 17. She found herself in great demand, establishing herself as one of the most popular Page 3 girls on the circuit during the late '80s and early '90s.\n\nEwin appeared in many adult magazines including \"Mayfair\" and \"Playboy\" (sometimes using the pseudonym Nina Downe – an anagram of Donna Ewin), was an extra in the famous orgy scene in Stanley Kubrick's last film, \"Eyes Wide Shut\", and she also appeared regularly on the BBC comedy sketch show \"The Fast Show\" on both television and live stage shows, notably in the \"Mr. and Mrs. Shag\" sketch.\n\nEwin is now a qualified London taxi driver having completed \"The Knowledge\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1959758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959758", "title": "Martin Blinder", "text": "Martin Blinder\n\nMartin George Blinder (born 1937) is a physician and forensic psychiatrist licensed to practice in Hawaii, California, Kentucky and Georgia. He is Editor-in-Chief of the academic journal, \"Family Therapy\", past Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco, and Past Adjunct Professor of Law at Hastings School of the Law, San Francisco. He was instrumental in the development of the use of lithium carbonate for treatment of bipolar disorder and in winning FDA approval for use of this drug in the United States.\n\nIn the early 1970s he was a City Councilman and Mayor of San Anselmo, California, and authored the first law restricting public smoking in the United States. He is author of \"Psychiatry in the Everyday Practice of Law\", Fourth Edition (Thomson/West), \"Lovers, Killers, Husbands and Wives\" (St. Martin's Press), \"Fluke\" (Permanent Press), \"Choosing Lovers\" (Glenbridge Publishing) and \"The Lucrecia Borgia Cookbook\" (Renaissance Press), as well as author of articles for the \"Journal of American Medical Association\", \"The Archives of General Psychiatry\", \"The American Journal of Neuropsychiatry\", \"Judicature\", \"Journal of the California State Bar Association\", \"Journal of the Hawaiian State Bar Association\", and \"Journal of the American Bar Association\", among many others.\n\nHe has primary offices in Ka'a'wa, Hawaii, and San Anselmo/San Francisco, California.\n\nBlinder is noted for his testimony in the 1979 trial of Dan White. In that trial, Blinder testified that White was suffering from depression and pointed to several behavioral symptoms of that depression, including the claim that White had gone from being highly health-conscious to consuming sugary foods and drinks such as Twinkies and Coca-Cola. A remark by Blinder that the sugar might have worsened such a depression was widely reported as a claim that the sugar had contributed to the depression, giving rise to the derisive label, the Twinkie defense, for defendants' claims that an unusual biological factor contributed to their motivation to commit a crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959762", "title": "Woodward Dream Cruise", "text": "Woodward Dream Cruise\n\nThe Woodward Dream Cruise event is a classic car event held annually on the third Saturday of August in Metropolitan Detroit, Michigan, along Woodward Avenue, a major thoroughfare built in the early 20th century. The WDC Event spans much of the avenue: drivers travel from the suburbs of Pontiac through Ferndale in Oakland County, Michigan, to the State Fair Grounds within the Detroit city limits, just south of 8 Mile Road. An estimated one million spectators attended the 2009 Woodward Dream Cruise.\n\nStarting in 1848, when the roadway was converted from logs to planks, young carriage drivers would race along Woodward Avenue. Woodward Avenue was developed as a major street in Detroit in the early 20th century, and was lined with mansions and major churches.\n\nBy 1958, the roadway was used by youth for unofficial street racing with cars. The wide width, median, and sections lacking a large commercial presence attracted drivers eager for the competition. The numerous drive-ins along the upper road, each with its dedicated local teenaged clientele, were also popular. In the age of the muscle car, Woodward had numerous car dealerships and automobile accessory shops. These completed the attractions for young adults to cruise, race and hang out along the road.\n\nThe Woodward Dream Cruise is the world's largest one-day automotive event, drawing about 1.5 million people and 40,000 classic cars each year from around the globe. Spectators can see muscle cars, street rods, custom, collector and special interest vehicles dating across several decades. The majority of the cars on display are those that were available and popular during the 1950s, 60s and early 70s prior to the OPEC oil embargo. This had resulted in the federal government's Corporate Average Fuel Economy regulations of 1975 and the proliferation, temporarily, of more fuel-efficient and less powerful automobiles. However, the Woodward Dream Cruise also welcomes vehicles of all models whose owners have either scrupulously maintained or customized their car to create a unique vehicle or statement.\n\nPamela S. McCullough, Mayor, and Nelson House, a plumber from Ferndale, came up with the idea for the cruise in 1994 to help raise money for a children's soccer field in his community. Organizers initially expected 30,000 or 40,000 people to come to the August 19, 1995, inaugural cruise on Woodward Avenue in Ferndale, Pleasant Ridge, Berkley, Huntington Woods, Royal Oak and Birmingham. About 250,000 showed up. It is now the largest single-day classic car event in the world, and brings in over $56 million annually to the Metro Detroit economy.\n\nAlthough the cruise officially takes place on only one day, each year the celebration starts early in the summer as the classic vehicles begin to appear on local streets. The sponsoring communities of Ferndale, Pleasant Ridge, Royal Oak, Huntington Woods, Berkley, Bloomfield Township, Bloomfield Hills, and Pontiac collaborate on ancillary events. Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic, officials have decided to cancel the 2020 Woodward Dream Cruise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959766", "title": "Sales per unit area", "text": "Sales per unit area\n\nIn retail, sales per unit area is a standard and usually the primary measurement of store success. The unit of area is usually square metres in the metric system or square feet in U.S. customary units. Square feet are also widely used in retailing in the United Kingdom, but there are signs of a trend towards use of square meters.\n\nAs of 2005 annual store sales in the range of $300 per square foot ($3,000/m²) is considered a respectable result in the United States as the national average for regional malls is $341 per square foot, but the target number depends on the location, the type of store and other factors. For example, the Forum Shops at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas sets a precedent for Las Vegas stores. The location has the second highest sales per square foot of any mall in the nation at approximately $1,300 per square foot (Bal Harbour Shops is first with over $2,500 per square foot). The average for specialty apparel retailers, for instance, is $400 per square foot ($4,000/m²), and according to Baseline Magazine the retailer Hot Topic achieves an annual $619 per square foot ($6,660/m²).\n\nAccording to industry research firm RetailSails, Apple has the highest sales per square foot, with average in all their stores of $6,050 per square foot annually.\n\nAmong shopping mall retailers the food court area, considered as a single store, and jewelers post the highest sales per unit area, in the range of $600 per square foot ($6,000/m²). Books and sporting goods are among the lowest.\n"}
{"id": "1959777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959777", "title": "Dim sim", "text": "Dim sim\n\nA dim sim is a Chinese-inspired meat and vegetable dumpling-style snack food, popular in Australia and to a lesser extent in New Zealand. The name means dim sum in the creator's native dialect. \n\nThe commercial snack food normally consists of minced meat (usually pork, lamb or chicken), cabbage, and seasoning, encased in a wrapper similar to that of a traditional \"shumai\" dumpling. They are typically rectangular, or sometimes a larger circular shape. They can be served deep fried or steamed and are commonly dressed or dipped in soy sauce. An alternative way of cooking dim sims is to barbecue them, by cutting the dim sim in half along the long side and placing on a hot barbecue. Vegetarian-style dim sim normally contains cabbage, carrot, vermicelli, Chinese shiitake mushroom or other vegetable fillings, along with seasoning, although these are not generally available in commercial outlets. \n\nDim sims differ from typical Chinese dumplings in that they are often much larger, have a thicker, doughier skin and are shaped more robustly.\nThey are primarily sold in fish and chip shops, service stations, corner shops, and some Chinese restaurants and takeaway outlets in Australia. Chinese \"yum cha\" wholesale outlets and Asian frozen food companies also commonly sell this snack frozen for home cooking. They can also be found at Chinese food outlets in New Zealand. \n\nThe term \"dim sim\" dates as far back as 1928, although the modern recipe of the dish most likely was developed in Melbourne's Chinatown in 1945 by entrepreneur William Wing Young (father of TV chef Elizabeth Chong) for his food processing company Wing Lee. The larger circular version of the dish is commonly known as a \"South Melbourne dim sim\" due to it originating at South Melbourne Market.\n\nWilliam Wing Young's \"original recipe\" for the dim sim was presented by Elizabeth Chong on the second episode of the ABC1 TV show \"Myf Warhurst's Nice\" (20 June 2012). It consisted of pork, prawns, water chestnuts, spring onions and soy sauce wrapped in a soft skin-like wrapper.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959779", "title": "Unman, Wittering and Zigo", "text": "Unman, Wittering and Zigo\n\nUnman, Wittering and Zigo is a 1958 radio play by the Anglo-Irish playwright Giles Cooper.\n\nThe play is a thriller set in a traditional boys' boarding school where a senior form master has just been killed in a tragic accident. The main character is John Ebony, a teacher in his first job, brought in as a temporary measure, though one he hopes will be confirmed as permanent. Between his rebellious wife Nadia, the eccentric art master Cary Farthingale and the class of Lower 5B, Ebony struggles to exercise power, but is thwarted by reality and a disbelieving Headmaster. The resonant quotation from the play falls to the wise old Farthingale. \"Authority is a necessary evil, and every bit as evil as it is necessary.\"\n\nThe play was adapted for television as an episode of BBC 2's \"Theatre 625\" series and broadcast in June 1965. It was the BBC's Italia Prize entry that year. It featured a number of young actors who gained a higher profile including Hywel Bennett and Dennis Waterman.\n\nIn 1967, the stage premiere was produced at Manchester Grammar School, directed by Brian Derbyshire and Brian Phythian, with Patrick Miller as John Ebony.\n\nThe play is part of the curriculum for GCSE and Standard Grade English coursework in the United Kingdom and is frequently performed in public schools. Cooper himself attended Lancing College in Sussex from 1932 to 1936.\n\nA feature film version, directed by John Mackenzie, was released in 1971 with a screenplay by Simon Raven which stayed true to the basic plot, but added sexual scenes and changed Ebony's wife's name from Nadia to Sylvia. The 1971 film featured actors including David Hemmings and a young Michael Kitchen, and is also currently used for educational purposes in the UK.\n\nA reference to the play is made in the British TV series \"Little Britain\", in which a schoolmaster finishes the morning roll call with \"Unman, Wittering and Zigo absent\", while Alan Bennett credits Giles Cooper and the play's influence in his creation of \"The History Boys\".\n"}
{"id": "1959790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959790", "title": "Riolos", "text": "Riolos\n\nRiolos (), is a village and a community in the municipal unit of Larissos, Achaea, Greece. It is located on the northwestern edge of the Movri hills, 4 km north of Mataragka, 3 km southwest of Krinos, 6 km southeast of Lappas and 32 km southwest of Patras. In 2001 Riolos had a population of 801 for the village and 810 for the community, which includes the small village Mazaiika. The river Larissos flows southwest of the village. During the Greek War of Independence a battle took place in Riolos in which the Greeks, led by Thallis Theodoridis the Elder, were victorious. \n\n"}
{"id": "1959791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959791", "title": "Torbjörn Nilsson", "text": "Torbjörn Nilsson\n\nTorbjörn Anders Nilsson (born 9 July 1954 in Västerås) is a Swedish former football striker. He is considered to be one of the best Swedish footballers of all time, having won the Swedish championship twice and the UEFA Cup once with IFK Göteborg, where he spent most of his career. He also had a less successful spell in the Netherlands with PSV Eindhoven and a better one in Germany with 1. FC Kaiserslautern.\n\nNilsson was born in Västerås on 9 July 1954, and raised in Hallstahammar. He and his family (father Göte, mother Daisy, the brothers Rolf and Bosse and sister Rose-Marie) moved to Partille, outside Gothenburg, before he started school, and he began his footballing career in Jonsereds IF at the age of seven or eight. Nilsson joined IFK Göteborg for the 1975 season, and helped the club climb back to the top tier of Swedish football, Allsvenskan, by winning Division 2 in 1976. He tried his luck abroad with PSV Eindhoven, but returned to IFK after only one season. He then helped the team to a treble in 1982, the Swedish championship (IFK won both Allsvenskan and the title-deciding play-off), Svenska Cupen, and the UEFA Cup. He was awarded Guldbollen, the Swedish footballer of the year award, for his heroics.\n\nNilsson moved to Kaiserslautern in Germany, where he played two seasons, and was about to move to Benfica when his former Göteborg manager Sven-Göran Eriksson left that club. Instead, Nilsson moved home to Gothenburg and his former club. When he ended his playing career after three seasons due to knee problems, Nilsson had led the club to another Swedish Championship, and nearly a European Cup final in 1986. IFK was eliminated by FC Barcelona after having won the home leg 3–0. They lost the away match by the same score. Nilsson still regrets not taking a penalty in the ensuing penalty shootout, which forced two young and inexperienced players — Roland Nilsson and Per Edmund Mordt — to the spot. Both missed their penalties.\n\nIt is a mystery to a lot of Swedes how Nilsson with all his talent never really made it big when playing for PSV and Kaiserslautern, but according to himself he was too shy to make it in those rougher top club environments.\n\nDespite Nilsson's so-so stays abroad, and his short career in the Swedish national team — for whom he played only 28 matches and scored nine goals — he is considered to be one of the greatest Swedish footballers of all time. He declined to play for the national team for four years in the early 1980s when he was at his prime, the most important reason for this was a conflict between him and the coach Lars 'Laban' Arnesson, who mixtured a lot with different formations, which did not suit the playing style that Nilsson liked. He instead concentrated on his club team, but made a comeback in the national team in 1984, scoring a goal in the 3–1 win against Portugal in the 1986 World Cup qualification. Nilsson was elected to the Swedish football Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\nIn a Sky Sports interview, March 2020, Sven Goran Eriksson said that Nilsson was the best Striker he had ever managed.\nAfter ending his professional playing career, Torbjörn Nilsson acted as playing manager for his youth club Jonsereds IF, before becoming manager of Örgryte IS, then in Division 1, in 1991. The club was relegated to Division 2, but managed to advance two divisions into Allsvenskan the next year, thanks to the Swedish league system at the time. The luck did not last, however, and Örgryte was relegated from the highest league in 1993. Nilsson moved to IK Oddevold from Uddevalla, and brought the club to Allsvenskan for the first time in its history in 1995. He left his job after the season and did not take a new one for a year.\n\nHe then took the job as manager of Västra Frölunda IF in 1997, and for the third time coached a team to a promotion to Allsvenskan. He stayed as manager for Västra Frölunda for two seasons and led the club to a fifth and seventh place, the two best seasonal results the club has enjoyed. He took another one-year break before starting his fourth spell as manager for a Gothenburg club, BK Häcken, in 2001. He only stayed for one year, not being able to keep the club in the highest league. Instead he became the manager of the Sweden under-21 team, leading the team through a successful qualification to the 2004 UEFA U-21 Championship, where the team narrowly lost the semi-final and third place matches after penalty shootouts and extra time, respectively. He did not coach any team between 2004 and 2008, but then resumed his managerial career in Gothenburg's best women's team, Kopparbergs/Göteborg FC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959800", "title": "1918 in Swedish football", "text": "1918 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1918 season in Swedish football, starting January 1918 and ending December 1918:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1959815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959815", "title": "Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase", "text": "Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase\n\nPoly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is a family of proteins involved in a number of cellular processes such as DNA repair, genomic stability, and programmed cell death.\n\nThe PARP family comprises 17 members (10 putative). They have all very different structures and functions in the cell.\n\n\nPARP is composed of four domains of interest: a DNA-binding domain, a caspase-cleaved domain (see below), an auto-modification domain, and a catalytic domain.\nThe DNA-binding domain is composed of two zinc finger motifs. In the presence of damaged DNA (base pair-excised), the DNA-binding domain will bind the DNA and induce a conformational shift. It has been shown that this binding occurs independent of the other domains. This is integral in a programmed cell death model based on caspase cleavage inhibition of PARP. The auto-modification domain is responsible for releasing the protein from the DNA after catalysis. Also, it plays an integral role in cleavage-induced inactivation.\n\nThe main role of PARP (found in the cell nucleus) is to detect and initiate an immediate cellular response to metabolic, chemical, or radiation-induced single-strand DNA breaks (SSB) by signaling the enzymatic machinery involved in the SSB repair.\n\nOnce PARP detects a SSB, it binds to the DNA, undergoes a structural change, and begins the synthesis of a polymeric adenosine diphosphate ribose (poly (ADP-ribose) or PAR) chain, which acts as a signal for the other DNA-repairing enzymes. Target enzymes include DNA ligase III (LigIII), DNA polymerase beta (polβ), and scaffolding proteins such as X-ray cross-complementing gene 1 (XRCC1). After repairing, the PAR chains are degraded via Poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG).\n\nNAD+ is required as substrate for generating ADP-ribose monomers. It has been thought that overactivation of PARP may deplete the stores of cellular NAD+ and induce a progressive ATP depletion and necrotic cell death, since glucose oxidation is inhibited. But more recently it was suggested that inhibition of hexokinase activity leads to defects in glycolysis (Andrabi, PNAS 2014). Basal PARP activity also regulates basal bioenergetics. Note below that PARP is inactivated by caspase-3 cleavage during programmed cell death.\n\nPARP enzymes are essential in a number of cellular functions, including expression of inflammatory genes: PARP1 is required for the induction of ICAM-1 gene expression by cardiac myocytes and smooth muscle cells, in response to TNF.\n\nThe catalytic domain is responsible for Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerization. This domain has a highly conserved motif that is common to all members of the PARP family. PAR polymer can reach lengths of up to 200 nucleotides before inducing apoptotic processes. The formation of PAR polymer is similar to the formation of DNA polymer from nucleoside triphosphates. Normal DNA synthesis requires that a pyrophosphate act as the leaving group, leaving a single phosphate group linking deoxyribose sugars. PAR is synthesized using nicotinamide (NAM) as the leaving group. This leaves a pyrophosphate as the linking group between ribose sugars rather than single phosphate groups. This creates some special bulk to a PAR bridge, which may have an additional role in cell signaling.\n\nOne important function of PARP is assisting in the repair of single-strand DNA nicks. It binds sites with single-strand breaks through its N-terminal zinc fingers and will recruit XRCC1, DNA ligase III, DNA polymerase beta, and a kinase to the nick. This is called \"base excision repair\" (BER). PARP-2 has been shown to oligomerize with PARP-1 and, therefore, is also implicated in BER. The oligomerization has also been shown to stimulate PARP catalytic activity. PARP-1 is also known for its role in transcription through remodeling of chromatin by PARylating histones and relaxing chromatin structure, thus allowing transcription complex to access genes.\n\nPARP-1 and PARP-2 are activated by DNA single-strand breaks, and both PARP-1 and PARP-2 knockout mice have severe deficiencies in DNA repair, and increased sensitivity to alkylating agents or ionizing radiation.\n\nPARP activity (which is mainly due to PARP1) measured in the permeabilized mononuclear leukocyte blood cells of thirteen mammalian species (rat, guinea pig, rabbit, marmoset, sheep, pig, cattle, pigmy chimpanzee, horse, donkey, gorilla, elephant and man) correlates with maximum lifespan of the species. The difference in activity between the longest-lived (humans) and shortest-lived (rat) species tested was 5-fold. Although the enzyme kinetics (unimolecular rate constant (kcat), Km and kcat/km) of the two enzymes were not significantly different, human PARP-1 was found to have a two-fold higher specific automodification capacity than the rat enzyme, which the authors posited could account, in part, for the higher PARP activity in humans than rats. Lymphoblastoid cell lines established from blood samples of humans who were centenarians (100 years old or older) have significantly higher PARP activity than cell lines from younger (20 to 70 years old) individuals, again indicating a linkage between longevity and repair capability.\n\nThese findings suggest that PARP-mediated DNA repair capability contributes to mammalian longevity. Thus, these findings support the DNA damage theory of aging, which assumes that un-repaired DNA damage is the underlying cause of aging, and that DNA repair capability contributes to longevity.\n\nThe tankyrases (TNKs) are PARPs that comprise ankyrin repeats, an oligomerization domain (SAM), and a \"PARP catalytic domain\" (PCD). Tankyrases are also known as PARP-5a and PARP-5b. They were named for their interaction with the telomere-associated TRF1 proteins and ankyrin repeats. They may allow the removal of telomerase-inhibiting complexes from chromosome ends to allow for telomere maintenance. Through their SAM domain and ANKs, they can oligomerize and interact with many other proteins, such as TRF1, TAB182 (\"TNKS1BP1\"), \"GRB14\", IRAP, NuMa, EBNA-1, and Mcl-1. They have multiple roles in the cell, like vesicular trafficking through its interaction in GLUT4 vesicles with insulin-responsive aminopeptidase (IRAP). It also plays a role in mitotic spindle assembly through its interaction with \"nuclear mitotic apparatus protein 1\" (NuMa), therefore allowing the necessary bipolar orientation. In the absence of TNKs, mitosis arrest is observed in pre-anaphase through Mad2 spindle checkpoint. TNKs can also PARsylate Mcl-1L and Mcl-1S and inhibit both their pro- and anti-apoptotic function; relevance of this is not yet known.\n\nPARP can be activated in cells experiencing stress and/or DNA damage. Activated PARP can deplete the cell of ATP in an attempt to repair the damaged DNA. ATP depletion in a cell leads to lysis and cell death (necrosis). PARP also has the ability to induce programmed cell death, via the production of PAR, which stimulates mitochondria to release AIF. This mechanism appears to be caspase-independent. Cleavage of PARP, by enzymes such as caspases or cathepsins, typically inactivates PARP. The size of the cleavage fragments can give insight into which enzyme was responsible for the cleavage and can be useful in determining which cell death pathway has been activated.\n\nPARP-mediated post-translational modification of proteins such as CTCF can affect the amount of DNA methylation at CpG dinucleotides (needs references). This regulates the insulator features of CTCF can differentially mark the copy of DNA inherited from either the maternal or the paternal DNA through the process known as genomic imprinting (needs proofreading). PARP has also been proposed to affect the amount of DNA methylation by directly binding to the DNA methyltransferase DNMT-1 after attaching poly ADP-ribose chains to itself after interaction with CTCF and affecting DNMT1's enzymatic activity (needs references).\n\nA substantial body of preclinical and clinical data has accumulated with PARP inhibitors in various forms of cancer. In this context, the role of PARP in single-strand DNA break repair is relevant, leading to replication-associated lesions that cannot be repaired if homologous recombination repair (HRR) is defective, and leading to the synthetic lethality of PARP inhibitors in HRR-defective cancer. HRR defects are classically associated with BRCA1 and 2 mutations associated with familial breast and ovarian cancer, but there may be many other causes of HRR defects. Thus, PARP inhibitors of various types (e.g. olaparib) for BRCA mutant breast and ovarian cancers can extend beyond these tumors if appropriate biomarkers can be developed to identify HRR defects. There are several additional classes of novel PARP inhibitors that are in various stages of clinical development. \n\nAnother substantial body of data relates to the role of PARP in selected non-oncologic indications. In a number of severe, acute diseases (such as stroke, neurotrauma, circulatory shock, and acute myocardial infarction), PARP inhibitors exert therapeutic benefit (e.g. reduction of infarct size or improvement of organ function). There are also observational data demonstrating PARP activation in human tissue samples. In these disease indications, PARP overactivation due to oxidative and nitrative stress drives cell necrosis and pro-inflammatory gene expression, which contributes to disease pathology. As the clinical trials with PARP inhibitors in various forms of cancer progress, it is hoped that a second line of clinical investigations, aimed at testing of PARP inhibitors for various non-oncologic indications, will be initiated, in a process called \"therapeutic repurposing\".\n\nPARP is inactivated by caspase cleavage. It is believed that normal inactivation occurs in systems where DNA damage is extensive. In these cases, more energy would be invested in repairing damage than is feasible, so that energy is instead retrieved for other cells in the tissue through programmed cell death. Besides degradation, there is recent evidence about reversible downregulation mechanisms for PARP, among these an \"autoregulatory loop\", which is driven by PARP1 itself and modulated by the YY1 transcription factor.\n\nWhile in vitro cleavage by caspase occurs throughout the caspase family, preliminary data suggest that caspase-3 and caspase-7 are responsible for in vivo cleavage. \nCleavage occurs at aspartic acid 214 and glycine 215, separating PARP into a 24kDA and 89kDA segment. The smaller moiety includes the zinc finger motif requisite in DNA binding. The 89 kDa fragment includes the auto-modification domain and catalytic domain. \nThe putative mechanism of PCD activation via PARP inactivation relies on the separation of the DNA-binding region and the auto-modification domain. The DNA-binding region is capable of doing so independent of the rest of the protein, cleaved or not. It is unable, however, to dissociate without the auto-modification domain. In this way, the DNA-binding domain will attach to a damaged site and be unable to effect repair, as it no longer has the catalytic domain. The DNA-binding domain prevents other, non-cleaved PARP from accessing the damaged site and initiating repairs. This model suggests that this \"sugar plug\" can also begin the signal for apoptosis.\n\nRoles of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation in plant responses to DNA damage, infection, and other stresses have been studied. Plant PARP1 is very similar to animal PARP1, but intriguingly, in \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" and presumably other plants, PARP2 plays more significant roles than PARP1 in protective responses to DNA damage and bacterial pathogenesis. The plant PARP2 carries PARP regulatory and catalytic domains with only intermediate similarity to PARP1, and it carries N-terminal SAP DNA binding motifs rather than the zinc finger DNA binding motifs of plant and animal PARP1 proteins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959829", "title": "Illinois Community College System", "text": "Illinois Community College System\n\nThe Illinois Community College System consists of 39 public community college districts, composed of 48 community colleges and one multi-college center (East St. Louis Community College Center) where 3 of the community colleges offer additional classes. Thirty-seven of the districts have a single college; two districts (City Colleges of Chicago, comprising seven colleges, and Illinois Eastern Community Colleges, comprising four colleges) are multicollege. Since July 1990, the entire state has been included within community college district boundaries.\n\nIllinois has played a prominent role in the development of the community and junior college movement in the United States. Joliet Junior College, established in 1901, was the first public junior college in the nation. It was the brain child of William Rainey Harper, president of the University of Chicago, and J. Stanley Brown, the superintendent of Joliet Township High School. The college's initial enrollment was six students.\n\nBrown and Harper's innovation was designed to serve students who desired to remain within the community and still pursue a college education. Within a few years, the concept had grown to include students outside the existing high school district. By December 1902, the board of trustees officially sanctioned the program and made post-high school courses available tuition-free. In 1916, the post-high school program was formally named \"Joliet Junior College.\" The next year, the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools accredited the college, and the State Examining Board approved selected courses for teacher certification. Enrollment at the time numbered 82 students.\n\nIn 1931, Illinois adopted its first junior college legislation, which permitted the Chicago Board of Education to establish, manage, and provide for the maintenance of one junior college offering two years of college work beyond the high school level as part of the public school system of the city.\n\nThe first Junior College Act became law on July 1, 1937, and provided for the development of the junior college system as a part of the public school system. That act neither provided for charging tuition nor specified that the education was to be provided without charge to the students. In 1943 the Illinois General Assembly enacted legislation to allow referendums to establish tax rates for both education and building funds to support junior college operations. In 1951 legislation was adopted which set forth standards and procedures for establishing junior colleges. This legislation also repealed the prior law which had allowed the board of education in districts with population in excess of 25,000 to establish a junior college by resolution. In 1959 separate junior college districts were authorized by allowing any compact and contiguous territory to be organized as a junior college district with an elected board of education with authority to maintain and operate the college and levy taxes for its operation.\n\nState funding for junior college operations was first appropriated in 1955. Seven new public junior colleges were established in Illinois between 1955 and 1962, bringing the total to 18. Rock Island, Moline, and East Moline joined to form Black Hawk College in 1961, the first junior college created separate from a common school district.\n\nIn 1961, the General Assembly created the Illinois Board of Higher Education to conduct comprehensive studies on higher education needs; develop information systems; approve new units of instruction, research, or public service in all public colleges and universities; review budgets of public colleges and universities, and make recommendations to the governor and General Assembly; approve capital improvements; conduct surveys and evaluation of higher education; and prepare \"a master plan for the development, expansion, integration, coordination, and efficient utilization of the facilities, curricula, and standards of higher education in the areas of teaching, research, and public service.\" Although junior colleges were under the jurisdiction of the superintendent of public instruction at this time, the enabling legislation for the Illinois Board of Higher Education charged the board, in developing \" a master plan of higher education\" to \"give consideration to the problems and attitudes of junior colleges...as they relate to the overall policies and problems of higher education.\"\n\nBased upon the higher education master plan, the Junior College Act of 1965 was enacted, providing the foundation for the present system of public community colleges in Illinois. The act removed the junior colleges from the common school system and placed them under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Board of Higher Education. It provided for establishment of a system of locally initiated and administered comprehensive Class I junior college districts; required that all junior colleges operating in school districts where separate tax levies had been established for the college become separate junior colleges, classified as Class II districts and established procedures for converting Class II districts to Class I districts. School districts operating a junior college without a separate tax could continue to maintain the program as grades 13 and 14. The act allowed creation of junior college districts with locally elected boards. The local districts were coordinated and regulated by a new Illinois Junior College Board, which in turn reported to the Illinois Board of Higher Education, as did the governing boards of the other public colleges and universities. The act provided for local-state sharing of capital funding, acquisition of sites, operational funding, and annexations and disconnections of territory. State and local financial support for junior colleges became an obligation of all Illinois residents, whether they resided within the boundaries of a junior college district or not.\n\nOn July 15, 1965, the Junior College Act became effective; and on August 1 the school boards of districts operating junior colleges with separate educational and building rates became the boards of the newly constituted Class II districts. Also in August 1965 governor Otto Kerner, Jr. appointed nine members of the first Illinois Junior College Board.\n\nIn 1973, the term \"junior college\" was changed to \"community college\" by statute, but one college (Joliet Junior College) in the system has retained the term \"junior\" in its name.\n\nCommunity college district numbers are given for each district. Some colleges were established by school districts prior to being organized as college districts. Two are no longer functional. The colleges listed by years of origin are as follows:\n\n1946 Black Hawk College (No. 503)\n1966 Carl Sandburg College (No. 518)\nCity Colleges of Chicago (No. 508)\n1962 Harold Washington College \n1956 Harry S Truman College\n1935 Kennedy–King College\n1911 Malcolm X College\n1970 Olive–Harvey College\n1960 Richard J. Daley College\n1934 Wilbur Wright College\n1967 College of DuPage (No. 502)\n1967 College of Lake County (No. 532)\n1946 Danville Area Community College (No. 507)\n1969 East St. Louis Community College Center\n1996 Metropolitan Community College (No. 541) (1996–1998)\n1969 State Community College of East Saint Louis (No. 601) (1969–1996)\n1949 Elgin Community College (No. 509)\n1965 Harper College (No. 512)\n1990 Heartland Community College (No. 540)\n1962 Highland Community College (No. 519)\n1967 Illinois Central College (No. 514)\n1978 Illinois Eastern Community Colleges (No. 529)\n1976 Frontier Community College\n1969 Lincoln Trail College\n1963 Olney Central College\n1969 Wabash Valley College\n1924 Illinois Valley Community College (No. 513)\n1967 John A. Logan College (No. 530)\n1974 John Wood Community College (No. 539)\n1901 Joliet Junior College (No. 525)\n1966 Kankakee Community College (No. 520)\n1940 Kaskaskia College (No. 501)\n1968 Kishwaukee College (No. 523)\n1966 Lake Land College (No. 517)\n1970 Lewis and Clark Community College (No. 536)\n1967 Lincoln Land Community College (No. 526)\n1967 McHenry County College (No. 528)\n1967 Moraine Valley Community College (No. 524)\n1924 Morton College (No. 527)\n1969 Oakton Community College (No. 535)\n1966 Parkland College (No. 505)\n1957 Prairie State College (No. 515)\n1955 Rend Lake College (No. 521)\n1971 Richland Community College (No. 537)\n1964 Rock Valley College (No. 511)\n1965 Sauk Valley Community College (No. 506)\n1967 Shawnee Community College (No. 531)\n1927 South Suburban College (No. 510)\n1960 Southeastern Illinois College (No. 533)\n1946 Southwestern Illinois College (No. 522)\n1959 Spoon River College (No. 534)\n1964 Triton College (No. 504)\n1966 Waubonsee Community College (No. 516)\n\nThe Illinois community college system has a three-tier governance system. Each community college district has a locally elected board of trustees, with the exception of City Colleges of Chicago, whose local board is appointed by the mayor of Chicago. The Illinois Community College Board (ICCB) is the state coordinating board for community colleges. The Illinois Board of Higher Education is the administrative agency with responsibility for overseeing all higher education in Illinois.\n\nThe ICCB consists of 11 members appointed by the Illinois governor, and one nonvoting member selected by the Student Advisory Committee. Board members are appointed at large for six-year terms. The chair is appointed by the governor and the vice chair is elected by board members. The ICCB meets six to eight times a year. The members of the board must be citizens and residents of the state of Illinois. A member of the board cannot engage in employment for which he or she receives a regular salary from public funds and cannot hold current membership on a school board or a board of trustees of a public or nonpublic college, university, or technical institute.\n\nThe role of the ICCB is to administer the Public Community College Act. Its duties and responsibilities include:\n\nThe Illinois Board of Higher Education is the administrative agency with responsibility for all higher education sectors in Illinois. As such, it approves the instructional programs, capital projects, and systemwide operating and capital budgets for the public community college system after action by the ICCB. In addition, the Illinois Board of Higher Education periodically reviews all existing programs at community colleges and universities and advises the appropriate board when such programs are not academically and economically justified.\n\nIllinois community colleges receive funding from three major sources: local property taxes, student tuition and fees, and state appropriations. By statute, each local community college board of trustees may set tuition rates for its indistrict\nresidents including variable rates for each of its programs, terms, time of enrollment, courses, delivery method, or other identifiable grouping of courses as long as the weighted average of the tuition for all credit courses including adult education is no more than 1/3 the college district’s per capita cost. The method of calculating the per capita cost is as prescribed in Section 6-2 of the Illinois Community College Act. Community colleges also receive revenue from a variety of other federal, state, and local sources. For example, the Illinois State Board of Education distributes grants for adult education and vocational education in support of specific instructional programs.\n\nIllinois community colleges offer approximately 3,500 associate degrees and certificates in a variety of programs, including:\n\nAll programs offered within the community college system must be approved by the ICCB and Illinois Board of Higher Education on the basis of need, quality, and cost. Every community college evaluate each of its existing education programs and services on a five-year cycle to ensure that the programs continue to be justified on the basis of need, quality, and cost.\n\nTransfer degrees meet Illinois models for the specific programs and use a common general education core and numerous major-specific courses that are transferable to all public higher education institutions in the state. Occupational degrees are designed to meet the criteria for excellence established by the National Council for Occupational Education of the American Association of Community Colleges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959841", "title": "Herndon Monument", "text": "Herndon Monument\n\nThe Herndon Monument on the grounds of the U.S. Naval Academy is a grey granite obelisk. It was erected in memory of Captain William Lewis Herndon, who courageously decided to go down with his ship, SS \"Central America\", and the men left aboard rather than save himself on September 12, 1857. All women and children and many of the men aboard were saved by a nearby ship during the storm.\n\nThe monument is a *note. This measurement is 33.33 feet whereas above the claim is that the monument is 21 feet.* granite obelisk presented to the Academy by the class of 1860. It was designed by an unknown sculptor, and has the alternative long name of \"Commander William L. Herndon, USN 1813-1857\".\n\nOn the monument's base, facing the Naval Academy Chapel, is a plaque:\n\n\"Maury\" is Matthew Fontaine Maury, Herndon's co-worker (from 1842 to 1846), brother-in-law, and cousin.\n\nTo the right on the obelisk from the plaque, in raised block letters, is \"HERNDON.\". On the opposite side of the obelisk, also in raised letters, is \"September 12, 1857.\".\n\nIt is the site of the famous \"plebes-no-more\" ceremony, where the plebes (first-year students at the academy) all work together to climb the greased monument and replace a plebe \"dixie-cup hat\" on top with a combination cover. This is the official end of the plebe year.\n\nIt is a Naval Academy tradition that the midshipman who replaces the dixie cup hat will be given the Superintendent's combination cover. Legend says that he or she will be the first of his or her class to make Flag Rank, although in reality, this has not yet occurred.\n\nThe academy began recording times in 1959. In 1962 Midshipman 4th Class Ed Linz scaled the monument with the aid of a cargo net. Using such devices is now banned.\n\nThe record was set in 1969 when Midshipman Larry Fanning made the climb in 1 minute and 30 seconds. However, the monument was not greased.\n\nMidshipman 4th Class Michael J Maynard of the Class of 1975 scaled the monument in 20 minutes in 1972, believed to be the fastest time since the tradition of greasing the monument began.\n\nThe 2010 Herndon Monument climb for the Class of 2013 took place on Monday, May 24, 2010 at 1:30pm. Superintendent Vice Admiral Jeffrey Fowler indicated dissatisfaction that year with the risk of injury associated with the climbing tradition and a desire to discontinue it. Vice Adm. Fowler ordered the Brigade of Midshipmen not to slather the monument with lard \"to improve the safety of the event.\" However, his successor, Vice Admiral Michael Miller, reinstated the tradition in 2011, citing that \"[c]onducting the ceremonial climb in the same manner as so many previous classes helps to instill spirit and camaraderie among plebes and better links them to the many classes that have gone before them. The Herndon Monument climb serves as a useful event in reinforcing teamwork, organization and leadership.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959850", "title": "1919 in Swedish football", "text": "1919 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1919 season in Swedish football, starting January 1919 and ending December 1919:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1959859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959859", "title": "The Sunday Correspondent", "text": "The Sunday Correspondent\n\nThe Sunday Correspondent was a short-lived British weekly national broadsheet newspaper. The newspaper first appeared on 17 September 1989; the title ceased publication with the last issue on 25 November 1990. It was edited by Peter Cole for most of its existence. Cole later entered into academia.\n\nOn launching, the paper billed itself as the first new quality Sunday title for 28 years (since the launch of \"The Sunday Telegraph\" in 1961). The Chicago-based Tribune Company, publishers of the \"Chicago Tribune\" newspaper, were one of the investors in the new venture. Others included the Prudential Group and Rothschild Ventures, among other banking and financial institutions.\n\nInterviewed in July 1989 by \"The Glasgow Herald\", chief executive Nick Shott said the new title was to be aimed at younger readers of \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\", market research having suggested a potential readership existed there, but he also anticipated picking up interest from purchasers of the middle market titles. The newspaper was planned as having only two sections and a colour supplement. By this time, the imminent launch of \"The Independent on Sunday\" was public knowledge, and Shott himself did not think both titles could survive. At around this time, in the summer of 1989, talks took place between the holding companies of both newspapers, but failed because while the Sunday Correspondent Ltd were interested in a joint venture, Newspaper Publishing PLC wanted to buy its imminent competitor.\n\nIn March 1990, in a refinancing arrangement, the Tribune Company of Chicago doubled its shareholding to a 17.7% holding, and invested $2.9 million, making it the largest shareholder. Guardian and Manchester Evening News P.L.C., then without a national Sunday title, also became involved acquiring a 16.6% stake and gave the struggling company a substantial loan. The company had said the paper's break-even point was a circulation of 350,000, but the title was then selling only 220,000 copies.\n\nBy the time it ceased publication just over a year after its launch, it had been relaunched as Britain's first quality tabloid. In this form, from the issue published on 20 August 1990 onwards, it had a new editor, John Bryant. Underfunding and the launch of the \"IoS\" in January 1990 were factors in its demise, as well as the lack of a daily equivalent to help spread production costs. The \"IoS\" was also in competition with \"The Sunday Correspondent\" for the same sources of potential investment.\n\nJournalists Jonathan Freedland and Luke Harding of \"The Guardian\", Ian Katz of Channel 4, ITV News's political editor Robert Peston and art critic Andrew Graham-Dixon all started their national careers on the title. Other prominent journalists on the staff were Henry Porter, who edited the magazine, Donald Macintyre formerly of \"The Independent\", feature editor Mick Brown, foreign correspondent David Blundy and Catherine Bennett. \n\nOne of the features in the paper was Pass Notes, which was taken up by \"The Guardian\" in 1992, where it still remains.\n"}
{"id": "1959861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959861", "title": "St Joseph's Catholic and Anglican High School, Wrexham", "text": "St Joseph's Catholic and Anglican High School, Wrexham\n\nSt Joseph's Catholic and Anglican High School is a secondary school in Wrexham, Wales, located on Sontley Road and situated on the edge of the Erddig estate. The school is opposite the Bishop of Wrexham's residence. It is currently the only shared Church school in Wales. The two Bishops of the Catholic Dioceses of Wrexham and the Anglican Church in Wales Diocese of St. Asaph have a shared responsibility for the school.\n\nSt Joseph's was opened in 1958 as St Joseph's Catholic Secondary Modern School. Headmaster - Mr Martin Cleary. In 1972 St Joseph's became a Comprehensive High School. It joined up with the Anglican church in 2006.\n\nOriginally there were three forms, or 'houses': Bishops, Abbots and Gwyns (named for the martyr St Richard Gwyn). Eventually these were renamed and expanded and for many years there were four forms: Hannon, Mostyn, Petit and Vaughan. When the school gained joint church school status, the pupils were asked to vote for the new form names, based on contemporary religious icons. The following five names were chosen: Romero (after Óscar Romero), Cassidy (after Sheila Cassidy), Devereux (after Sean Devereux), Kolbe (after Maximilian Kolbe), King (after Martin Luther King).\n\nIn 2006 St Joseph's became a joint Anglican-Catholic school. The school has never been exclusively Catholic and has always (at least as far back as 1978) admitted non-Catholic students - mainly Anglicans.\n\nThe whole school Eucharists alternate between the two traditions. \n\nThe current headteacher is Mr C Wilkinson. He was preceded by Mrs Maria B. Rimmer, the school's first female Headteacher (January 2010 - August 2016).\n\nThe school introduces some new topics that are different from primary school such as French, German, Drama, and various technology subjects. \n\nAn official Welsh Assembly government inspection in spring 2008 awarded the school the maximum grading possible: seven grade ones.\n"}
{"id": "1959862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959862", "title": "Dress You Up", "text": "Dress You Up\n\n\"Dress You Up\" is a song by American singer Madonna from her second studio album \"Like a Virgin\" (1984). It was released on July 31, 1985 as the album's final single, by Sire Records. The song was the last track to be added to the album as it was submitted late by songwriters Andrea LaRusso and Peggy Stanziale. Madonna pushed for the song's inclusion on \"Like a Virgin\" as she particularly liked its lyrics. Musically, the song is a drum beat driven dance track featuring instrumentation from guitars and vocals from a choir and a guitar solo played by Nile Rodgers, who also produced the song. The lyrics are an extended metaphor for fashion and lust, comparing dressing up with passion. A live performance from Madonna's first tour was used as the music video.\n\nCritics reacted positively to the dance-pop nature of the track. \"Dress You Up\" became Madonna's sixth consecutive top-five single in the United States. It also reached the top-ten in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. The song was performed on four of Madonna's concert tours, most recently on the Rebel Heart Tour (2015–2016). \"Dress You Up\" was added to the Parents Music Resource Center's \"Filthy Fifteen\" list due to its sexual lyrics. The song has been covered by a number of artists.\n\n\"Dress You Up\" was the last song to be included on the \"Like a Virgin\" album. Producer Nile Rodgers had initially asked songwriters Andrea LaRusso and Peggy Stanziale to write a song for Madonna in the style of Rodgers' band Chic. However, the writing took time, since both LaRusso and Stanziale were busy with other projects. When the lyrics of the song were submitted, Rodgers rejected it as there was no time to compose a melody and record it for the album. But Madonna liked the lyrics of the song, and persuaded Rodgers to include it on \"Like a Virgin\". In Britain, the song was released as a limited-edition shaped picture disc. In this case, it was star-shaped to tie in with the Christmas release date for the single. The song is one of several of Madonna's hit singles which was not included on the 1990 compilation album \"The Immaculate Collection\". \"Dress You Up\" was, however, later included on Madonna's 2009 compilation album \"Celebration\". Although no music video was separately made for the song, a live performance of \"Dress You Up\" from The Virgin Tour, filmed in Detroit was used as the video.\n\n\"Dress You Up\" is a characteristic drum machine driven dance track and consists of a two-chord verse. The chorus is supported by vocals from a choir, a four-chord progression and a single guitar note, played by Rodgers. A rock guitar solo plays during the bridge. Towards the end of the song, the sound of the drums are decreased, while the treble is increased. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, the song is set in the time signature of common time, with a moderate tempo of 136 beats per minute. It is composed in the key of C minor, with Madonna's vocals ranging from a low-note of B to a high-note of F. The song has a basic sequence of Cm–B–G7 in the verses and A–B–Cm–Cm/G in the chorus, as its chord progression.\n\nThe lyrics of the song are a metaphor for fashion and sex. Madonna sings about clothes she would like to drape over her man, so that she can caress his body with her hands, and cover him with \"Velvet Kisses\". According to Rikky Rooksby, author of \"Madonna: The Complete Guide To Her Music\", the line \"I'll create a look that's made for you\", later became synonymous with Madonna's re-invention of her image throughout her career.\n\nNancy Erlick from \"Billboard\" said that the song felt like \"[Madonna] The pin-up girl in character; part saucy, eager to please.\" Alex Henderson from Allmusic, commented that \"Rodger's gift for sleek, seductive dance music is evident on such gems as 'Dress You Up'.\" Stephen Thomas Erlewine from Allmusic, called \"Dress You Up\" an excellent, standard-issue dance-pop. Santiago Fouz-Hernández and Freya Jarman-Ivens, authors of \"Madonna's Drowned Worlds: New Approaches To Her Cultural Transformations\", commented that Madonna sounded like a \"sex-kitten\" in the song. Sal Cinquemani from Slant Magazine called the song irresistible. William McKeen, author of \"Rock and roll is here to stay\", said that the melody of \"Dress You Up\" was insistently chugging. Debby Miller from \"Rolling Stone\" said that \"Despite her little-girl voice, there's an undercurrent of ambition that makes her more than the latest Betty Boop.\" While reviewing the album in 1995, Dave Karger from \"Entertainment Weekly\" commented that the song came off as a bit repetitious and immature. Jim Farber from the same publication commented that \"the song was built to transcend the Dynasty era.\"\n\nWhile reviewing \"The Immaculate Collection\", Alfred Soto from Stylus Magazine commented: \"\"Like A Virgin\"s Top Five absentees 'Dress You Up' and 'Angel' do a better job than the two big singles of delineating the boundaries of Madonna's determined shallowness, an act that confounds Philistines today and made the appreciation of her musical skills a lot harder than it took these critics to dismiss Cyndi Lauper as the real charlatan.\" In 2003, when fans were asked to vote for the top twenty Madonna singles of all time, by \"Q\" magazine, \"Dress You Up\" was allocated the eighth spot. The video was nominated at the 1986 MTV Video Music Awards, in the category for Best Choreography, but lost to \"Raspberry Beret\" by Prince and The Revolution.\n\n\"Dress You Up\" debuted at number 36 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on August 17, 1985. After seven weeks, the song reached number five on the Hot 100, becoming Madonna's sixth consecutive top-five hit. It also peaked at number 34 on Adult Contemporary, number three on Hot Dance Club Songs and number 64 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It placed at number 98 on the year-end chart for 1985, with Madonna becoming the top pop artist for the year. In Canada, the song debuted at number 90 on the \"RPM\" singles chart on August 24, 1985. The song was present for a total of 20 weeks on the chart, peaking at number ten after six weeks.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Dress You Up\" was released on December 12, 1985. It entered the UK Singles Chart at number 12, and reached a peak of five, being present on the chart for a total of 13 weeks. The song was certified silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), for shipments of 200,000 copies. According to Official Charts Company, the song has sold 210,000 copies there. In Australia, the song peaked at five in October 1985, becoming Madonna's sixth top-ten single there. The song also reached the top 20 in Belgium, France, Ireland, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland and the Eurochart Hot 100 Singles.\n\nMadonna has performed \"Dress You Up\" on four of her world tours, namely The Virgin Tour in 1985, the Who's That Girl World Tour in 1987, the 2009 leg of the Sticky & Sweet Tour, and Rebel Heart Tour in 2015–16. On The Virgin Tour, \"Dress You Up\" was the opening song of the set. Madonna wore a blue see-through crop-top, revealing her characteristic black bra. She also had lacy leggings and crucifixes around her ear and her neck. As the beat of the song started, Madonna entered the stage and posed on the stairs before reaching the microphone to sing the track. A performance of the song from the Virgin Tour was included on the VHS release \"\".\n\nDuring the Who's That Girl World Tour of 1987, Madonna performed it in a medley with \"Material Girl\" and \"Like a Virgin\". She wore an elaborate costume, inspired by Dame Edna Everage. It consisted of a hat strewn with fake fruits, flowers and feathers, jeweled batwing spectacles with heavy, black frames, a ruffled skirt and a bodice covered with objects such as watches and dolls and fishnets. Author Carol Clerk stated that the dress was more \"ludicrous for Madonna, than humorous.\" Two different performances of the song on this tour can be found on the videos: \"Who's That Girl: Live in Japan\", filmed in Tokyo, Japan, on June 22, 1987, and \"\", filmed in Turin, Italy, on September 4, 1987.\n\nA backing track was created to accompany the performance of \"Dress You Up\" on her 2004 Re-Invention World Tour, however Madonna found it difficult to learn the guitar chords for the song, choosing to perform \"Material Girl\" instead. In 2008, Madonna performed the first verse and chorus of the song during the request section of the Sticky & Sweet Tour. The song was performed at Chicago, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Rio de Janeiro, Toronto, Valencia and Vienna. Madonna finally added \"Dress You Up\" to the 2009 leg of the Sticky & Sweet Tour, replacing the rock version of \"Borderline\". It was performed as part of the 'old school' segment and featured the groove from The Knack's song \"My Sharona\" and \"God Save The Queen\" by the Sex Pistols.\n\nIn 2015, while appearing on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" as part of promotion for her thirteenth studio album, \"Rebel Heart\", Madonna and host Ellen DeGeneres sang the song during a revival of DeGeneres' bathroom concert series. They were dressed in matching robes and sang the song while sitting on a chair, adding commentary in between. At one point, Madonna removed the robe to reveal another dress with prints of hearts on it, and danced around DeGeneres, who also used props like oversized sunglasses and a leopard print cowboy hat for Madonna. The song was later included in the setlist of the Rebel Heart Tour, performed in a flamenco-style medley with \"Into the Groove\", \"Everybody\" and \"Lucky Star\". During the sequence the singer dressed in a Latin and gypsy inspired dress, created by Alessandro Michele for Gucci, consisting off a shawl, flamenco hat, lace, skirts and jacquard bodysuit.\n\nIn 1985, the song was included on the Parents Music Resource Center's (PMRC) \"Filthy Fifteen\" list, for the sexual content of its lyrics. The Center's founder Tipper Gore had heard her daughter listening to the song, and considered the line \"Gonna dress you up in my love\" as exemplifying 'vulgar music'. The PMRC called upon the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) to give parents a consumer-friendly means of identifying rock records unsuitable for minors – a rating system based on lyrical content. \"Dress You Up\" received a rating of 'S', for \"sex and obscenity\", from the RIAA. Gore commented on the song: \"Popular culture is morally bankrupt, flagrantly licentious and utterly materialistic—and Madonna is the worst of all.\" According to Bruce David Forbes and H. Mahan in their book \"Religion and Popular Culture in America\", Madonna's fans took the attitude \"Can't you cultural conservatives see what she is trying to do—to annoy people like you! If you don't like it, don't listen to it. Stop trying to police my morality!\" The campaign was successful and led to the creation of the Parental Advisory sticker.\n\nIn 1999 \"Dress You Up\" was sung by a group that included Alex Greenwald, Rashida Jones and Jason Thompson, for Gap's \"Everybody in Vests\" TV commercial. Music for the song was created by the Dust Brothers. A cover of the song by Apollo Heights was included on the 2007 Madonna tribute compilation \"Through the Wilderness\". The band Zolof the Rock & Roll Destroyer, and Reel Big Fish, covered the song on their 2007 EP \"Duet All Night Long\". United Kingdom dance artist Kelly Llorenna recorded a new version of the song in 2008. The cover was released as a single in 2009. In 2013, the song was covered in the \"Glee\" episode \"Feud\", mashed-up with Elton John's \"The Bitch Is Back\".\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the \"Like a Virgin\" album liner notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959863", "title": "Donald Houston", "text": "Donald Houston\n\nDonald Daniel Houston (6 November 1923 – 13 October 1991) was a Welsh actor whose first two films—\"The Blue Lagoon\" (1949) with Jean Simmons, and \"A Run for Your Money\" (1949) with Alec Guinness—were highly successful. Later in his career he was cast in military roles and in comedies such as the \"Doctor\" and \"Carry On\" series.\n\nHouston was born in Clydach Vale, near Tonypandy, Glamorgan and was the elder brother of actor Glyn Houston and a sister, Jean. His father Alexander Houston, was a professional football player from Scotland, and his mother Elsie M Jones, ran a milk round. After leaving school he worked at a local colliery before making his first foray into acting in 1940, when he performed on stage with the Pilgrim Players. He served in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War.\n\nHouston had a successful career as a character actor in British film and television, with prominent parts in several well-known films, including \"Yangtse Incident\" (1957), \"The Longest Day\" (1962, in which he appeared alongside Richard Burton), \"633 Squadron\" (1964), \"Where Eagles Dare\" (1968, again with Burton) and \"The Sea Wolves\" (1981). He would sometimes indulge his Welsh accent, and at other times conceal it behind an English public school voice. His forte tended to be authority figures, often military, such as the brilliant but tough David Caulder, the head of \"Moonbase 3\", or Dr Francis in \"Thirteen to Centaurus\" (from the anthology series \"Out of the Unknown\").\n\nHe could also handle comedy, as he proved with \"Doctor in the House\" (1954) and the later \"Doctor in Distress\" (1963), both significant successes in Europe, and \"Carry On Jack\" (1963). Though preferring quality parts, he was not above journeyman work in films such as \"Maniac\" (1963) and \"Tales That Witness Madness\" (1973).\nOn 13 October 1991, Donald Houston died in Coimbra, Portugal at the age of 67.\n"}
{"id": "1959865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959865", "title": "Hengistbury Head", "text": "Hengistbury Head\n\nHengistbury Head () is a headland jutting into the English Channel between Bournemouth and Mudeford in the English county of Dorset. It is a site of international importance in terms of its archaeology and is scheduled as an Ancient Monument. \nDeclared a Local Nature Reserve in 1990, the head and its surroundings form part of the Christchurch Harbour Site of Special Scientific Interest. \nIt is also a Special Area of Conservation, Special Protection Area, an Environmentally Sensitive Area and a Site of Nature Conservation Interest. The name \"Hengistbury Head\" refers to the immediate area; the elevated portion is called Warren Hill.\n\nThere has been human activity on the site since the Upper Palaeolithic. During the Victorian era, it was heavily quarried, and in recent years tourism has become significant – it receives more than one million visitors annually. The various habitats on the Head provide a home for many plants, birds and insects, some of them rare and critically endangered. Erosion remains a threat to the site, although long-term projects are intended to secure it for the future.\n\nHengistbury Head is a sandstone headland forming part of Southbourne, which is a suburb of the town of Bournemouth to the west; the nearest major settlement is Christchurch to the north. It is the most easterly part of the Borough of Bournemouth, and marks the most easterly point of Poole Bay. Historically part of Hampshire, the Local Government Act 1972 designated the area a part of Dorset. The northern slope of the hill tailing off towards the sea forms Mudeford spit, the sand bar closing Christchurch Harbour from the south.\n\nThe spit is home to more 300 privately owned beach-huts, which are some of the UK's most expensive. In 2015 five of the huts were put on the market for a combined asking price of £1 million. On average the huts measure around five by three metres, have no running water, and the occupants may only stay overnight from March to October. Despite the relative lack of amenities, the area has become one of the UK's most desirable; huts are rented out for up to £600 a week.\n\nThe Black House, a local landmark, stands at the end of the spit, opposite Mudeford Quay, site of the Battle of Mudeford in 1784. Built in 1848, it was once a boat-builders' house, but is now rented out to holidaymakers. It has served a variety of functions over the years, and is commonly (but inaccurately) associated with the area's smuggling past.\n\nMentioned as Hednesburia in a church deed of the early 12th century, and referred to as Hynesbury Head in the 17th, Hengistbury only took on its current spelling in the 19th century, during a period of what archaeologist Barry Cunliffe calls \"antiquarian romanticism\". Many prehistoric sites around this time were renamed to link them with historical figures. It was thought at the time that the legendary Anglo-Saxon leader Hengist could be buried here, as he was said to have been laid to rest in an unlocated mound. Twentieth-century excavations have established that the tumuli at Hengistbury Head date to the Bronze Age however.\n\nHengistbury Head is home to a plethora of nationally and internationally significant archaeological sites, with features dating from the Late Upper Palaeolithic to the Roman settlement of Britain, earning the site Scheduled Ancient Monument status. Interest in the site declined throughout the Dark Ages, until extensive development took place in Christchurch around 890 AD, when the Head may have been used as a lookout post. The area was heavily quarried during the Victorian period and nowadays receives over a million visitors annually.\n\nSeveral archaeological digs have revealed that the site was occupied during the Upper Palaeolithic. There is evidence of an open settlement of the Creswellian culture on the hill in the middle of the headland dating to around 14,100 years ago. With over 13,000 lithic artefacts it is probably the largest site of the period. Most interesting were several blades typically found at Upper Paleolithic sites across Europe, but rarely seen outside of caves in the UK, where open air sites of this age are extremely rare. People at the Head were heavily involved with the production of blades, further excavations identified 649 tools, dominated by backed blades, endscrapers and burins.\n\nAt the time the Warren Hill would have overlooked a large river valley that was to become the English Channel. Once the sea had inundated the surrounding valley, Mesolithic hunter gatherers exploited the site. Pollen analysis of peat from the Solent bed suggest a lightly wooded headland free of close-knit undergrowth during this period, an ideal habitat for game.\n\nIn Bronze Age Britain this was an important seaport. Eleven Bronze Age Britain round barrows sit on the promontory with two more a little further inland. Eleven of the round barrows were excavated; three by Bushe Fox in 1911–12 and eight by Harold St George Gray in 1919 and 1922. Two appear to be undisturbed. Numerous finds including Early Bronze Age axes and cremation urns were recovered from these tumuli, which have been consistently found to be between 3500 and 4000 years old.\n\nOne of the barrows (south of where the thatched barn now stands) contained a high status cremation of a woman of about twenty years in age, accompanied by an incense cup, a halberd-style pendant made from amber and copper alloy, and two gold cones that would have covered buttons of an organic material. The burial-goods recovered are similar to those of the Wessex culture, the Wilsford and Dorset Ridgeway series in particular. An urn from one of the barrows likely to have been made between 1700 and 1500 B.C., has been identified as \"Trevisker ware\", a type widely found throughout Devon and Cornwall which was transported east in lesser amounts, this find being one of the easternmost discovered.\n\nIn Iron Age Britain around 700 BC, a settlement on the Head was established; also around this time, the headland was cut off from the mainland by the construction of two banks and ditches called the \"Double Dykes\", similar to those found at Maiden Castle. The earthworks consisted of an inner bank three metres high, with a ditch three and a half metres deep. An outer ditch six metres wide and two metres in depth is now obscured due to wind-blown deposits of sand and a gradual silting process. These defences turned Hengistbury Head into a fortified settlement area which seems to have grown over succeeding centuries until it became an important port. The Iron Age port at Hengistbury Head forms a final site in a small chain of fortified earthworks, starting from Hambledon Hill, and also including Hod Hill, Spetisbury Rings, Buzbury Rings, Badbury Rings and Dudsbury Camp.\n\nJohn Lavender of the local Red House Museum noted evidence of small iron-ore smelting hearths on Warren Hill, while green vitreous slag has been also found on the Head. In his 1911 to 1912 excavations, Bushe-Fox found evidence for working of lead, copper and silver; two ingots discovered at this time revealed that raw materials would have been imported to the area. One ingot was of nearly pure copper, while the other, which weighed 8.6 kg, was roughly 50/50 copper-silver alloy with around one percent gold. Argentiferous (i.e. silver-bearing) copper was refined to produce silver at the Head. There are also indications that gold was worked at Hengistbury. One excavation produced part of a torc, twisted together with a small gold bracelet and another fragment in a manner suggesting it was scrap; a different site produced a streaked touchstone indicating use in gold testing.\n\nThousands of bronze coins have been found from the pre-Roman period, the vast majority having been struck by the Durotriges. The abundance of coins, together with various hearths and smelting artefacts found within a close proximity suggest that the Durotrigan finds were minted here.\n\nThe advanced level of metallurgy in the area, coupled with its ease of access from the Continent, meant that Hengistbury Head became a significant Late-Iron Age port; trading worked metal of iron, silver, and bronze in return for figs, glass, tools and other goods. Armorican coins and pottery uncovered here show links to the Brittany peninsula. Amphorae used for the transportation of North Italian wine have been found in such quantities (more than all other sites in the south of England put together), that it is clear that the Head was a main port of entry into the country. However, no similar amphorae have been unearthed in Armorica, hinting at a more direct trade route between Hengistbury Head and Italy. Most of these vessels date from before 50 B.C., while later styles are absent despite being common in other parts of Britain, indicating the wine trade seems to have declined at about the time Caesar began his Gaulish campaigns.\n\nAfter the Roman conquest, the south-east of England started to develop into a more urban economy, while the socio-economic system of the south-west remained little changed.\nHengistbury would still have served as an important hub for the Dumnonii of Cornwall and Devon, and the Durotriges of Wiltshire and Dorset; since transport by water was more efficient at the time, and the Head offered both a coastal route, and freshwater options via the Stour and Avon rivers.\n\nNo evidence of Saxon use has been found at the Head.\nThe area was not substantially reoccupied until Alfred the Great decided to rebuild the harbour as a defence against raiders. He built the town that later became Christchurch, on the north side of the harbour. Access to Salisbury up the River Avon made this a more strategic place. The Head may have been used for harbour defence at this time. In the 11th century, some of the iron-ore rich stones found at the Head were used in the construction of Christchurch Castle. These reddish-coloured stones can still be seen in the base of the now ruined castle.\n\nIn the late 1600s, Andrew Yarranton (with backing from the Earl of Clarendon) commenced a scheme to improve the harbour. In 1693 a channel was cut out to sea, whilst ironstone boulders from the head were used to create a pier. The plans proved ineffective; the pier was poorly positioned and subsequent storms (including the Great Storm of 1703) soon undid most of the work although parts of the pier known as \"Clarendon's Jetty\" or the \"Long Rocks\" are still visible today. Many tons may have been removed from the beach and the head itself to make the jetty.\nIn 1733 a new Excise and Customs Bill was introduced, restricting imports and raising taxes on many luxury items. Christchurch rapidly became a hot-bed for smugglers, where they were known as \"freetraders\", and much of the town was involved in the trade. The \"Double Dykes\" are said to have been used to hide contraband, while Mudeford spit is rumoured to have been used in the construction of \"Guinea boats\" (cheaply built galleys sometimes capable of outrunning the day's steamships). One apocryphal story is that the black house acquired its distinctive black colour when customs officers tried to smoke out some holed-up smugglers by lighting fires around the base. The house was constructed in 1848 and used by shipwrights as a dwelling and workshop, smuggling was in decline with the introduction of a free-trade policy and more effective measures being implemented by the Coast Guard by this time, so the house may not in fact have had much involvement in smuggling. The spit has a long association with shipbuilding with two large ships being built in the mid-19th century, the \"Viscountess Canning\" of 193 tons and the \"Enterprise\" 253 tons.\n\nFrom 1848 to 1872, the Hengistbury Mining Company – formed by a Christchurch-based merchant, John E. Holloway – extracted many more ironstone boulders through quarrying. Holloway brought coal from Southampton, and took the ironstone as ballast for the return journey. These boulders, known as Iron Doggers, were prized for their high quantity of iron ore (up to 30%). They form the base of Hengistbury Head, and the removal of a substantial amount of doggers over the years has weakened the headland. These and earlier excavations resulted in a loss of up to a third of the head, caused mainly by erosion after the quarry's closure. The silt washed down also threatened the ecology of the saltmarsh below. This has been reduced by the building of a dam, in 1976, to create a pool. Many \"doggers\" can still be seen lining the route of the land-train and at the quarry.\n\nIn 1910 the first international aviation meeting ever held in Britain took place on a specially laid out aerodrome consisting of a mile of grassland between the \"Double Dykes\" and the nearby village of Tuckton. About twenty pioneer aviators from around the world participated in various competitions including spot landing, altitude tests and speed trials (both for the fastest and slowest circuit).\n\nOn the second day of the meeting, co-founder of Rolls-Royce and pioneer aviator Charles Rolls was thrown from his plane, which disintegrated beneath him. Despite the fact that the first-ever powered flight had occurred only seven years previously, Rolls had been attempting a precision landing. He died from his injuries shortly after his fall.\nThe event was Britain's earliest fatal flying accident involving a powered aircraft.\n\nThere were a number of development schemes for the head including a major railway and docks scheme proposed in 1885, proposals for housing and a golf course were also put forward before World War I, though none of these schemes came to fruition. In 1919 the head was sold by Sir George Meyrick to Harry Gordon Selfridge with plans to construct a grand house. These plans also came to nothing, apart from the establishment of a nursery garden. Bournemouth Borough Council purchased the head in 1930 for £25,200; although plans for housing existed west of double dykes, the head itself was to be kept as public open space. During World War II the head was closed to the public and was occupied by the army, becoming home to a number of installations including a radar station. The area was also extensively mined. The head was finally cleared of the military defences by the 1950s.\n\nHengistbury Head Local Nature Reserve is currently owned and managed by Bournemouth Borough Council. In 1990, the land was declared a Local Nature Reserve, as a commitment by the town of Bournemouth to conserve and enhance the environment. The heathland forms part of the Dorset Heaths and is internationally protected as a Special Area of Conservation and Special Protection Area. Nearby, the upper reaches of Christchurch Harbour (including the meadows at Wick) are recognised as an Environmentally Sensitive Area.\n\nThe head today is used for a variety of reasons. Firstly it is a tourist spot where country walks can be taken all over the head due to the well defined gravel paths, some of which form part of the Bournemouth Coast Path. In 2008, many paths were resurfaced, making more (though not all) parts of the head wheelchair accessible. For example, it is now possible to gain wheelchair access to Quarry Pool. Regular field trips to the site are made by students of all ages and there are occasional guided tours or meetings around the head covering a wide variety of subjects.\n\nThere is a cafe at the bottom of the head on the Bournemouth side. Hengistbury Head Outdoor Education centre is located near here on the south shore of the harbour. Run by Brockenhurst College, the centre offers a variety of water and outdoor activities. A scenic land train (known as \"the Noddy train\") makes regular journeys from the cafe to the end of the spit, a journey of ten or so minutes. On the head itself is a H. M. Coastguard radio relay station, a nature reserve and a triangulation pillar, shown on Ordnance Survey maps as 36 metres above sea level. Ample parking (subject to charges) can be found near the cafe, but the head is also within walking distance of Southbourne and parts of Christchurch.\n\nThe Quarry Pool is now a significant part of the nature reserve features of the head. While it was very acidic in the early years, since 1990 it has allowed the growth of a significant number of plant and insect species, as well as mallard and little grebe. The insects provide valuable food for migrating sand martins and swallows.\n\nA new visitor centre for Hengistbury Head was opened in December 2013. The extant thatched barn was upgraded in an eco-friendly way and the new addition cost over a million pounds. Funds were provided by developer contributions, the Heritage Lottery Fund and £300,000 from landfill tax.\n\nThe centre houses a display area which documents the site's archaeology, ecology and geology, while work space has been created for volunteers and other community groups such as the Hengistbury Head Supporters Group, Residents' Association and Christchurch Harbour Ornithological Group. The public now have the chance to scrutinise a selection of the finds discovered at Hengistbury Head in the last century, and to interact with experienced staff, as well as providing them with the opportunity to become actively involved in the administration of the nature reserve.\n\nThe surrounding area has been extensively landscaped to create outdoor learning areas and a wildlife garden. Energy-saving features include photovoltaic panels for electricity and ground source heat pump for heating. A green roof (a living roof that is partially or completely covered with vegetation and a growing medium), is used to absorb rainfall and provide insulation. The centre is constructed using timber-frame walls insulated with straw bales.\n\nAccording to Ian West of Southampton University, \"Hengistbury Head is the best part of the Bournemouth coast for geology and geomorphology ... [and] is geologically important for the unusual nodules of sideritic ironstone [found] in Middle Eocene strata.\" The exposed and relatively untouched cliff face at the head perfectly lends itself to students of stratigraphy. Warren Hill itself is composed of Tertiary Bracklesham Beds, a mixture of clays and marls with overlying sandy and lignitic beds.\n\nOne serious threat to the future of the Head is erosion of the exposed southern cliff face from wind and rain, as well as erosion caused by the sea primarily through the process of Longshore drift. A comparison of Ordnance Survey maps reveals that 25 metres of cliff was washed away from 1915 to 1962, a process accelerated by the Bournemouth cliff's concreted promenade and groynes, construction of which started in the early 20th century. It is thought that in the last 200 years around 150 metres of land has been lost from the head. The first attempt to counteract erosion came in the 1930s when Bournemouth Council constructed a breakwater now known as \"the Long Groyne\". Since then, a gabion revetment has been constructed to secure the weakest point at the eastern end of the Head. In a long-term project to secure the head's future, from 2005 to 2008 Poole Bay was replenished with 1.8 million cubic metres of beach material, drawing ire from some surfers and beach lovers owing to the increase in sharp stones on Southbourne beach in particular. The project's organizers, the Poole Bay Partnership, state that: \"The resulting wide beaches have been a success in terms of their function as a coast protection structure and for the enjoyment they provide to the area's residents and visitors.\"\n\nHengistbury Head forms part of the Christchurch Harbour Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), and in May 1990 was declared a Local Nature Reserve. The head supports 500 plant species (a quarter of the national flora), including eight red data book species, 14 nationally scarce, and 39 locally rare species. The main nature reserve area faces Christchurch Harbour, and is contiguous with the reed beds of Wick Fields. The Head contains a large variety of habitats from the heathland on Warren Hill to freshwater ponds, sand dunes, and salt marshes. The woodland (known as Withybed Wood) is home to English oak and silver birch amongst many other trees, and is of particular interest, as it is the only such area to be shown on an 1811 Ordnance Survey map of the Bournemouth/Christchurch area. In 2002, cattle-grazing commenced in a field near the new visitor centre known as Barn Field. This, combined with gorse eradication, has assisted in the restoration of this habitat to its ancient character.\n\nPresent on the site is sea knotgrass (\"Polygonum maritimum\"), the rarest of the knotgrasses in Britain, and currently listed as a \"schedule 8 species\" under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. Such plants are afforded greater than usual protection against damaging activities – such as \"cutting, picking, destroying or selling.\" The heathland is both a Special Area of Conservation and a Special Protection Area, part of a network of the best wildlife sites in Europe.\nThe various habitats provide homes to numerous species of insects. There are 700 moth species recorded in the nature reserve, again a quarter of the national total. At different spots across the site butterflies (including the green hairstreak), damselflies (like the large red), and dragonflies (such as the hairy dragonfly) can be observed. According to a 2005 report, the exceedingly rare thirteen-spotted ladybird (\"Hippodamia 13-punctata\") was recently observed at the head, the first sighting in the UK since 1952.\n\nMore than 300 bird species have been recorded in the area, making Hengistbury Head an important migratory point. The Balearic shearwater, considered critically endangered with extinction by the IUCN and seldom sighted in the UK, has been seen in the area. Other rare birds spotted here include the purple heron, the pink-footed goose, the European honey buzzard and the melodious warbler. The fields and reserved areas near the car park provide an ideal spot to watch and listen to a significant population of skylarks during the summer months.\n\nIn 1989 a project commenced to re-introduce the country's rarest amphibian, the natterjack toad, to Hengistbury Head. The natterjack was last recorded on the headland in the 1950s before its extinction, probably as the result of a lack of suitable ponds. The project has been a great success, and today there are thriving populations at various locations. The ideal time to witness their mating rituals is in May as dusk approaches, when the distinctive call of the natterjack can be heard for miles around.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959866", "title": "Consign to Oblivion", "text": "Consign to Oblivion\n\nConsign to Oblivion is the second studio album by Dutch symphonic metal band Epica, and was released in 2005. The song \"Trois Vierges\" features a guest appearance by then Kamelot vocalist Roy Khan. The album's lyrics are inspired by the Maya civilization. The CD was released with copy control on it. This CD started a new collection of songs, called \"A New Age Dawns\". This saga is continued on the album \"Design Your Universe\".\n\nStylistically, the album is more focused towards orchestration than other Epica releases and features heavy use of a chorus. Additionally, Mark Jansen's death growls appear less frequently, occurring on only three songs, \"Force of the Shore\", \"Mother of Light\" and \"Consign to Oblivion\". But a bonus track, the Death cover \"Crystal Mountain\" includes grunts, and a grunt version of \"Quietus\" was released on the \"Quietus (Silent Reverie)\" single, making it five songs with grunts. A single with an acoustic version of the song \"Solitary Ground\" was extracted from the album \"The Score – An Epic Journey\", released the same year.\n\nThe bonus cover of \"Crystal Mountain\" is one of the very few Epica songs to not feature Simone Simons in any capacity, and the album is the band's only release to date where Simone Simons' lyrical contributions outnumber those of Jansen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959868", "title": "Glenn McMillan", "text": "Glenn McMillan\n\nGlenn Aguiar McMillan (born October 5, 1984) is a Brazilian-Australian actor best known internationally as Dustin, the Yellow Wind Ranger, on \"Power Rangers Ninja Storm\".\n\nMcMillan was born in São João da Boa Vista, Brazil and was raised in Adelaide, South Australia, Australia from the age of three. He remains close to his Brazilian heritage, speaks fluent Portuguese and revisits his place of birth often.\n\nGlenn holds a Bachelor of Laws with Honours from the University of Adelaide Law School, one semester of which he took on exchange at Pace University School of Law, New York. He also holds a Graduate Diploma of Legal Practice and a Master of Laws Majoring in Commercial Litigation from the College of Law, Sydney. He is admitted as a lawyer in Australia, England and Wales.\n\nMcMillan is a property sales consultant with Richardson & Wrench in Double Bay, Sydney.\n\nMcMillan's first professional acting role was at age 11 in a State Theatre Company of South Australia production of Six Characters in Search of an Author, by Luigi Pirandello, playing the role of the \"Young Boy\". In 1998, he played \"Ben Handleman\" in his first feature film, Sally Marshall Is Not an Alien, followed by the role of \"Tiny Maloney\" in the television series 'Chuck Finn' for Seven Network in 1999. He has performed in numerous theatre productions, including the role of \"Jack\" in Into the Woods by James Lapine and Stephen Sondheim, and \"Vyasa\" in the Mahabharata. From 2002–2003, McMillan played the role of \"Dustin Brooks\" in \"Power Rangers Ninja Storm\", filmed in New Zealand, then \"Bronley Hale\" in for Disney Channel, shot on location in South Africa, and \"Power Rangers Dino Thunder\". In 2012, McMillan appeared in the feature film Swerve (film), followed by the role of \"Adauto Agallo\" in the award-winning miniseries Mrs Biggs. From 2013 to 2015 he filmed the Australian television drama Wonderland for Network Ten, in which he played \"Carlos dos Santos\".\n\nIn 2016, he married Julia Alonso, a Brazilian doctor.\n\nHe trains Brazilian jiu-jitsu and received his blue belt from multiple world champion, Roger Gracie, and his purple belt from Fabio Gurgel. He trains at Alliance Sydney. \n"}
{"id": "1959873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959873", "title": "Baños de Agua Santa", "text": "Baños de Agua Santa\n\nBaños de Agua Santa (), commonly referred to as Baños, is a city in eastern Tungurahua Province of Ecuador. Baños is the second most populous city in Tungurahua, after the capital Ambato, and is a major tourist center. Baños is known as the \"Gateway to the Amazon,\" as it is the last city still located in the mountain region before reaching the jungle and other towns that are located in the Amazon River basin.\n\nBaños is located at an elevation of 1,820 metres (5,971 feet) on the northern foothills of the Tungurahua volcano, whose activity has been characterized by frequent powerful ash explosions and lava flows that can be seen from Banos.\n\nBaños de Agua Santa (Spanish for\" Baths of Holy Water\") is named after the hot springs located around the city which have a reputation of having healing properties due to the various minerals they contain.\n\nThe city is also a Roman Catholic religious center, as some Catholic believers say that the Virgin Mary appeared nearby a waterfall. Due to this belief, a sculpture of the virgin, called \"Virgen de Agua Santa\", was placed in the city's cathedral. \n\nThe history of the town has been intimately linked to the highly-active Tungurahua volcano. In October 1999, all 17,000+ residents were forced to evacuate the city for weeks.\n\nBaños is located on the northern foothills of the Tungurahua volcano.\n\nAlong with the town Pillaro, Baños is known as a good starting point for exploring the remote Llanganates National Park and its attractions including Cerro Hermoso. The city itself has a main central park across from the cathedral.\n\nNearby waterfalls include Virgen de Agua Santa, Inés María, Agoyán, El Manto de la Novia, Pailón del Diablo and Machay.\n\nBaños is a popular tourist destination in Ecuador due to its natural environment (it is home to more than 60 waterfalls) and its adventure sports. Locals and visitors alike undertake rafting, kayaking, canyoning, bridge jumping, hiking, biking and horseback riding.\n\nBaños is also known for its production of taffy ( ) made from cane sugar, and for small shops that sell parrot sculptures made of balsa wood.\n\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, Baños has a subtropical highland climate\n\n"}
{"id": "1959874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959874", "title": "Drew Endy", "text": "Drew Endy\n\nAndrew (Drew) David Endy (born 1970) is a synthetic biologist and Tenured Professor of bioengineering at Stanford University, California.\n\nEndy received his PhD from Dartmouth College in 1997 for his work on genetic engineering using T7 phage.\n\nEndy was a junior fellow for 3 years and later an [Assistant Professor in the Department of Biological Engineering at MIT.\n\nWith Thomas Knight, Gerald Jay Sussman, Randy Rettberg, and other s at MIT, Endy is working on synthetic biology and the engineering of standardized biological components, devices, and parts, collectively known as BioBricks. Endy is one of several founders of the Registry of Standard Biological Parts, and invented an abstraction hierarchy for integrated genetic systems.\n\nEndy has been one of the early promoters of open source biology, and helped start the Biobricks Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that will work to support open-source biology. He was also a co-founder of the now defunct Codon Devices, a biotechnology startup company that aimed to commercialize synthetic biology.\n\nIn his 2009 book, \"Denialism How Irrational Thinking Hinders Scientific Progress, Harms the Planet, and Threatens Our Lives\", Michael Specter called Endy ‘synthetic biology’s most compelling evangelist’ as he is persistent on discussing the prospects and dangers of synthetic biology on nearly any forum. According to Endy, the prospects of synthetic biology will allow \"programming\" living organisms in the same way a computer scientist program a software and computer, designing and making a disposable biological system and a manufacturing platform, even one’s own offspring or own copy with improved traits such as to prevent occurrence of disease, and bypassing evolution. The dangers lie in the unknown things that this technology will produce, who will control the technology, pay for it, the ethical and cultural impact, the safety issues and how the whole value system work. Endy is reflective and engaged in the possible risks of this field. He advocates dialogue and a serious discussion on the ‘contract’ on engineering biology with the society. It should be a national strategic priority on advancing the potential benefits of the synthetic biology technology, while accepting that risk is inevitable rather than fixating on theoretical risk.\n\nIn March 2013, heading a team of researchers that had created the biological equivalent of a transistor, which they dubbed a \"transcriptor\". The invention was the final of the three components necessary to build a fully functional biocomputer - data storage, information transmission, and a basic system of logic.\n\nEndy is a founder and steering group member of the Build-a-Cell Initiative, an inernational collaboration investigating creation of synthetic live cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959879", "title": "Treaty of Nonsuch", "text": "Treaty of Nonsuch\n\nThe Treaty of Nonsuch was signed on 19 August 1585 by Elizabeth I of England and the Dutch rebels fighting against Spanish rule. It was the first international treaty signed by what would become the Dutch Republic. It was signed at Nonsuch Palace, England.\n\nThe treaty was provoked by the signing of the Treaty of Joinville in 1584 between Philip II of Spain and the Catholic League in which Philip II promised to finance the League.\n\nElizabeth I agreed to supply 6,400 foot soldiers and 1,000 cavalry, which were initially intended as a way of lifting the siege of Antwerp, with an annual subsidy of 600,000 florins, about a quarter of the annual cost of the revolt. As a surety for this assistance, the Dutch were to hand over Brill and Flushing to England, which it would garrison at its own expense. They were known as the Cautionary Towns.\n\nThe treaty granted Elizabeth the right to appoint two councillors to the Council of State of the United Provinces.\n\nThe surety provoked the objection of Zeeland, which was to lose the most by this measure. Elizabeth rejected the title of Governor General of the Provinces, offered to her in the treaty. \n\nPhilip II viewed the treaty as a declaration of war against him by Elizabeth I, and the Anglo-Spanish War started. Three years later, he launched the Spanish Armada and attempted to invade and conquer England. The resources spent by Philip on the Armada (10 million ducats) undoubtedly diverted significant resources from fighting the Dutch revolt. Around 110 million ducats were spent on the partly-successful campaign against the resurgent revolt.\n\nThe Treaty of Nonsuch was renewed and amended by the Treaty of Westminster of 6/16 August 1598 between the States-General and the Privy Council on behalf of Elizabeth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959891", "title": "Unicenter", "text": "Unicenter\n\nUnicenter may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1959897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959897", "title": "Paffendorf", "text": "Paffendorf\n\nPaffendorf is a German techno project. The group consists of Ramon Zenker, also producer of Fragma, Gottfried Engels and Nicolas Valli. The project is represented by the Cologne DJ Christian Schmitz, active on Tiger Records. Paffendorf is best known for their year 2000 hit, \"Where Are You\", although they have had various successful hits across Europe, their best known in the UK being \"Be Cool,\" which peaked at number 7 in the UK Singles Chart in June, 2002. Their song, \"Under My Skin\", had become an Internet meme, featuring Momo, a character from the anime series \"Sumomomo Momomo\" repetitively imitating a train engine with her hands and jumping up and down. The song had been sped up to sound similar and rival to a more popular Internet meme, Caramelldansen.\n\nRamon Zenker was involved in a number of dance music projects in the late 80's, including Interactive (\"Who Is Elvis\"). Engel's and Zenker's Samba dance project Bellini, centered around three female singers, began in 1997 with the release of \"Samba de Janeiro\" in various versions. It became an international hit (#2 in Germany) and was followed by an album and more singles.\n\nThe trance project Paffendorf debuted with \"Smile\" (#22 in Germany) in 1998. \"Ruf Mich An\" / \"Call Me Now\" and \"Terminator\" achieved Top 50 status. In the year 2000 they continued in that vein and made their breakthrough: \"Where are You\" went into the German Top 15 with \"Everybody Scream\" also making the Top 50. Their hit album, \"Dance City\" was also placed firmly in the Top 50 of the album charts. The track \"Rhythm And Sex\" continued the run, whilst \"Be Cool\" went to #7 in the UK Singles Chart in June 2002. At the same time Zenker co-founded and produced the Fragma (\"Toca's Miracle\").\n\nTheir thirteenth single release, \"Under My Skin\", was successful in Japan, particular in the video hosting service, NicoNico Douga. It was first shown in a fan-vid featuring the character Momo from Sumomomo Momomo, plus the Jens O Remix version of the song that was shortened and played twice. Westerners sometimes called this the \"Paffendorf Dance\". Another version of this video involved characters from Lucky Star.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959899", "title": "Mehran, Ilam", "text": "Mehran, Ilam\n\nMehran (, also Romanized as Mehrān; formerly, Mansurabad (Persian: منسورآباد), also Romanized as Mansūrābād) is a city in and the capital of Mehran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 13,118, in 2,958 families. The county is populated by Feyli Kurds.\n\nMehran is located near Iran's western border with Iraq. Because of its strategic proximity - only two hours' drive from Baghdad - the city has played a continuing role in dealings between Iran and Iraq.\n\nIn May 1986, during the Iran–Iraq War, Iraqi forces captured Mehran, on the western plain of the Zagros Mountains in Ilam Province, and pushed eastward to the mountain base. Mehran occupied an important position on the major north–south road, close to the border on the Iranian side. Saddam Hussein offered to exchange the captured city for the desired territory of Al-Faw. The occupation lasted only one month, however.\n\nIn 2003 the Iranian government set up a camp in Mehran to accommodate an anticipated influx of up to 50,000 Iraqi refugees from the 2003 invasion of Iraq by the U.S.. By April of that year, over 100,000 Iraqis had massed near the border, prompting the Governor of Mehran to issue a plea for additional resources.\n\nIn March 2005 the Iranian government decreed that Iranian pilgrims could once again enter Iraq through Mehran; and in May 2005 it was reported that the city is to be converted into a special tourist zone from where Iranian pilgrims will travel toward Karbala and holy Shiite sites in Iraq, to be facilitated by the construction of several three and four star hotels and two shopping malls.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959900", "title": "Live Art", "text": "Live Art\n\nLive Art is the fifth album released by Béla Fleck and the Flecktones and their first non-studio album. It was recorded live at various concerts between 1992 and 1996 and features ten guest musicians.\n\nFeatured guests include Sam Bush, Branford Marsalis, Chick Corea, and Bruce Hornsby.\n\nIn his Allmusic review, music critic Thom Owens wrote \"the core of the album is Fleck & the Flecktones' dynamite instrumental improvisations, where they can demonstrate the true range of their eclecticism and talent. Of special note are the songs that feature jams with Branford Marsalis, Chick Corea, and Bruce Hornsby, who help spur the Flecktones to new heights.\"\n\nBryson Alden, writing for \"No Depression\", wrote \"Their music combines the familiar sounds of bluegrass with whatever else comes along, be it jazz, classical, rap or “The Ballad of Jed Clampett”. In lesser hands, these combinations would almost certainly be disastrous, but thanks to the superlative talent of Bela on banjo and assorted banjoesque electronic devices, along with his sidemen, each with a unique instrument/approach, the result is wonderfully pleasing... This two-CD set, recorded live over a period of five years, provides an excellent benchmark of their work.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959901", "title": "2-6-8-0", "text": "2-6-8-0\n\nA 2-6-8-0 steam locomotive, in the Whyte notation for describing locomotive wheel arrangements, has two leading wheels, a set of six driving wheels, a set of eight driving wheels, and no trailing wheels. These locomotives usually employ the Mallet principle of articulation, with a swinging front engine and a rigidly attached rear engine.\n\nOther equivalent classifications are:\nUIC classification: 1CD (also known as German classification and Italian classification)\nFrench classification: 130+040\nTurkish classification: 34+44\nSwiss classification: 3/4+4/4\n\nThe UIC classification is refined to (1'C)D for Mallet locomotives.\n\nThis type of articulated locomotive is unusual in having different numbers of driving axles in each set, and was only found in the United States of America and Germany. The Great Northern Railway and the Alabama Great Southern, a predecessor of the Southern Railway, both in the United States, were the sole long-term users of this type of locomotive.\n\nGreat Northern received 35 from Baldwin in 1910, numbered 1950–1984, designated class M-1. The M1s were rebuilt to use simple expansion In 1926 and 1927 and were redesignated class M-2. Most of the M-2s did not last long, being converted to class O-7 2-8-2s between 1929 and 1931; the thirteen exceptions remained in service until 1949–1954. The AGS had a single example in this wheel arrangement, number 300. It went to the Southern Railway and was later joined by two other 2-6-8-0 numbered 4002 and 4003.\n\nThis unusual wheel arrangement was the subject of some experimentation. The Erie Railroad briefly had a locomotive of this type numbered 2900, but it was rebuilt to a 2-8-0 in 1916 after only six years. The Baldwin Locomotive Works marketed a front end \"kit\" whereby conventional 2-8-0 locomotives could be converted to 2-6-8-0 types. None of this type locomotive have been preserved.\n\nIn Germany, during World War II, Deutsche Reichsbahn started work on a condensing 2-6-8-0 mallet locomotive built by Borsig. These were to have dual smoke stacks and had smoke deflectors to help with the driver's visibility while driving the locomotive. The locomotive would have been the largest on the German rail network, but as it was nearing completion in Borsig Werke it was destroyed in a RAF bombing raid.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959911", "title": "Imperia (statue)", "text": "Imperia (statue)\n\nImperia is a statue at the entrance of the harbour of Konstanz, Germany, commemorating the Council of Constance that took place there between 1414 and 1418. The concrete statue is high, weighs , and stands on a pedestal that rotates around its axis once every four minutes. It was created by Peter Lenk and clandestinely erected in 1993. The erection of the statue caused controversy, but it was on the private property of a rail company that did not object to its presence. \n\n\"Imperia\" shows a woman holding two men on her hands. The two men represent Pope Martin V and Emperor Sigismund. Martin V was elected during the Council while Sigismund was the king who called the council. Both are naked except for the crown and papal tiara, respectively, that they wear as symbols of their power. \n\nThe statue refers to a short story by Balzac, \"\". The story is a harsh satire of the Catholic clergy's morals, where Imperia seduces cardinals and princes at the Council of Constance and has power over them all. The historical Imperia that served as the source material of Balzac's story was a well-educated Italian courtesan who died in 1512, nearly 100 years after the council, and never visited Konstanz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959927", "title": "Gratien Gélinas", "text": "Gratien Gélinas\n\nGratien Gélinas, (December 8, 1909 – March 16, 1999) was a Canadian author, playwright, actor, director, producer and administrator who is considered one of the founders of modern Canadian theatre and film.\n\nHis major works include \"Tit-Coq\" (1948), \"Bousille et les Justes\" (1959), and \"Hier, les enfants dansaient\" (1968). He also wrote a series of satirical revues known as the \"Fridolinades\".\n\nThe \"Fridolinades\" revues, consisting of comic sketches, songs, and monologues, were named for the often-featured character Fridolin. A poor boy from Montreal, he wore a tri-colour Canadiens hockey jersey, knee socks, and suspenders. While not quite joual, the French he spoke was reflective of what a person would hear on the streets of Montreal, which made it stand out in sharp contrast to the continental French being spoken in most other theatres. Fridolin's boundless optimism in the face of constant disappointment came to emblemize the Quebec spirit of \"survivance\", and made him one of the first distinctly Canadian heroes of the stage. His success was considerable: Gélinas was declared by an adoring public to be the first playwright \"de chez nous\" (from our place).\n\nGélinas' play \"Hier, les enfants dansaient\" (\"Yesterday the Children were Dancing\") takes place entirely in one night. Based in 1966, it revolves around the tumultuous politics in Quebec around that time though its characters are entirely fictitious. Pierre Gravel is debating whether or not to accept a prominent position within the Liberal party. Throughout the course of the play, Gravel's sons, André and Larry, admit that they are active members of the separatist party and responsible for the bombs that had been threatening the city and destroying historical landmarks.\n\nGélinas also founded the \"Comédie-Canadienne\", which was active until 1972.\n\nIn 1967, Gélinas was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and was promoted to Companion in 1989. In 1985, he was made a Knight of the National Order of Quebec. He received an honorary doctorate from the Royal Military College of Canada in St-Jean in 1989.\n\nHe married Huguette Oligny in 1973 and is the grandfather of actor and pop singer Mitsou Gélinas and MusiquePlus veejay, writer and actor Abeille Gélinas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959930", "title": "William Byrd (disambiguation)", "text": "William Byrd (disambiguation)\n\nWilliam Byrd (circa 1540–1623) was an English composer.\n\nWilliam Byrd may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959932", "title": "Sésia", "text": "Sésia\n\nSésia was a department of the French Consulate and of the First French Empire in present-day Italy. It was named after the river Sesia. It was formed in 1802, when the Subalpine Republic (formerly the mainland portion of the Kingdom of Sardinia) was directly annexed to France. Its capital was Vercelli.\n\nThe department was disbanded after the defeat of Napoleon in 1814. At the Congress of Vienna, the Savoyard King of Sardinia was restored in all his previous realms and domains, including Piedmont. Its territory is now divided between the Italian provinces of Vercelli and Biella.\n\nThe department was subdivided into the following \"arrondissements\" and \"cantons\" (situation in 1812):\n\n\nIts population in 1812 was 202,733, and its area was 335,118 hectares.\n"}
{"id": "1959946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959946", "title": "Johnny Ekström", "text": "Johnny Ekström\n\nJohnny Ekström (born 5 March 1965 in Kallebäck) is a Swedish former footballer.\n\nHe is most noted for his career in IFK Göteborg, where he was highly successful. As an international professional his track record was mixed, often just staying a year in the team. He became both Swedish and German Champion, with Göteborg and Bayern Munich respectively. Ekström became a popular, respected player in Serie A club Empoli, where he acquired the nickname 'Il Ciclone' (the cyclone) due to the exceptional speed he displayed when charging ahead with the ball in his possession, his most notable quality.\n\nHe had also appeared for the Swedish national team, and participated in the 1990 FIFA World Cup in Italy, as well as Euro 1992 in Sweden.\n\nHis nicknames in Sweden are \"Kallebäcks-Expressen\" (the express train from Kallebäck) or \"Johnny Bråttom\" (Johnny-in-a-hurry), again due to his speed on the football pitch. He started his youth career in the boys' team of IFK Göteborg and is one of few that made the journey all the way to the starting lineup in the first team.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959955", "title": "Kim Sozzi", "text": "Kim Sozzi\n\nKim Sozzi (born 1978) is an American dance-pop singer from Long Island, New York.\n\nSozzi grew up on Long Island. She is of Italian and Puerto Rican descent.\n\nKim Sozzi's career began in 1999 when she signed a contract on Columbia Records for her first major album, \"Life Goes On\". Her first single from the album was \"Til I Cry You Out Of Me\", followed by \"Letting Go\" which was the soundtrack for the TV show \"Dawson's Creek\". Both singles were successful, but the album was shelved and never released. Another single, \"Feelin' Me\", was a popular dance track.\n\nAs part of the group MYNT, Kim Sozzi released the single \"How Did You Know\" followed by an album, \"Still Not Sorry\", which featured Kim Sozzi on vocals on some tracks. Kim Sozzi later left the group to pursue her solo career.\n\nKim Sozzi signed with Ultra Records and released a new single, \"Alone\", a cover of the Heart song, and another single \"Break Up\" which achieved some success in the US and the UK. In 2008, she released \"Like a Star\". \"Feel Your Love\" was released at the end of 2008, becoming Kim Sozzi's most successful single, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Airplay Chart. \"Just One Day\" was released on July 21, 2009, on Ultra Records.\nShe also made a song with Jim Johnston \"You Can Look But You Can't Touch\" for the WWE Divas Nikki and Brie, The Bella Twins, which is now solely attributed to Nikki.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959958", "title": "Blaine Larsen", "text": "Blaine Larsen\n\nBlaine Larsen (born February 2, 1986) is an American country music artist. He was raised in Buckley, Washington. At age fifteen, he recorded his debut album \"In My High School\" on Giantslayer Records, an independent record label. The album was re-issued in 2005 as \"Off to Join the World\" by BNA Records. Blaine's second album, \"Rockin' You Tonight\", was issued in June 2006, also on BNA. Larsen's two albums for that label have produced five chart singles on the Hot Country Songs charts, of which the highest-peaking was \"How Do You Get That Lonely\" at number 18. Larsen left BNA in 2009, in favor of Treehouse Records and consequently with Stroudavarious Records, but is now unsigned.\n\nLarsen was introduced to music very early. By age 10, Larsen had begun singing along to country karaoke tapes, and by age 13 he learned to play guitar as well. When Larsen was a junior in high school, he and his family made a trip to Nashville, Tennessee where Larsen recorded a demo CD composed mainly of cover songs. This CD also included a song that he had co-written with his school teacher. Nashville songwriters Rory Lee Feek and Tim Johnson discovered Larsen's demo CD. They then flew him back Nashville again to hold a recording session with him, and by 2004, his debut album \"In My High School\" was released on Feek and Johnson's label, Giantslayer Records. The album's lead-off single, which was the title track, received some airplay particularly in Seattle also reaching 60 on the country charts that year.\n\nAfter \"In My High School\" began receiving airplay, Sandy Conklin, an employee at BMG in Seattle sent a note to Joe Galante, head of the BMG labels in Nashville, recommending Larsen. Galante auditioned him and agreed to sign him at the end of 2004. Larsen was signed to BMG-affiliated BNA Records label. BNA then added a bonus track to \"In My High School\", re-releasing the album in early 2005 under the title \"Off to Join the World\". Larsen had co-written six of the ten songs on the album. BNA also released two more singles from the album: \"How Do You Get That Lonely\", which peaked at number 18. It was followed by \"The Best Man\" at number 36.\n\nIn 2006, Larsen released his second studio album, also a joint effort between BNA and Giantslayer. Entitled \"Rockin' You Tonight\", this album produced two more chart singles for Larsen: the 24 \"I Don't Know What She Said\" and the 42 \"Spoken Like a Man\". The former was co-written by Warner Bros. Records artist Lane Turner. \"Rockin' You Tonight\" also included covers of Mac Davis \"Baby, Don't Get Hooked on Me\" and Mark Chesnutt's \"I'm in Love with a Married Woman\", as well as a duet with Gretchen Wilson entitled \"Lips of a Bottle\". He also recorded separately a cover of \"I Wish That I Could Fall in Love Today\" on a tribute album to Barbara Mandrell. He also toured with renowned artists opening for their shows, including Brad Paisley, Rascal Flatts and Kenny Chesney. He charted with a cover of \"Away in a Manger\", and also co-wrote the track \"I Gotta Get to You\" on George Strait's album \"Twang\".\n\nLarsen exited BNA in 2008, and signed to Treehouse Records, a label founded by his management company, in June 2009. He was the first artist to sign for the label. After one year of operations, Treehouse Records merged in Stroudavarious Records. Larsen's next album \"Not Too Bad\" was tipped to be under the new label. A lead-off single from the prospective album, entitled \"It Did,\" made its chart debut in August 2009. It was followed by \"Chillin'\" (a minor Top 40 hit) and \"Leavin',\" but the album was eventually shelved after Stroudavarious folded into J&R Records without signing Larsen.\n\nLarsen was born in Tacoma, Washington. When he was five years old, his parents divorced; he, his mother Jenny, and his sister Lindsey then moved to Buckley, Washington. His father often promised to visit or call, but he never did. A family friend named Woody who worked side jobs as a contractor took Blaine Larsen with him on weekend jobs. One of those jobs, converting Larsen's grandmother's garage into a living space, led to romance between Woody and Blaine's mother Jenny. They later married, and Woody legally adopted Larsen just before he turned 18. Larsen wrote the autobiographical song \"The Best Man\" about his own family.\n\nFlying has been one of Larsen's biggest passions and he is a pilot. He never took any singing lessons, but his step father encouraged him to sing and learn to play the guitar.\n\nLarsen married Sammie in December 2005. They had their first daughter Zoe in April 2007. They had their second child, a son they named Noble in April 2011.\n\nLarsen became an ambassador for Compassion International and in 2010 went to a one-week trip with the organization to Colombia, also sponsoring one of the Colombian kids he met during his mission.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959970", "title": "In the Game Trading Cards", "text": "In the Game Trading Cards\n\nIn The Game (ITG) was a sports card manufacturing company founded by Brian H. Price in 1998 with its head office in the United States and an office in Canada. The company mainly produced ice hockey trading cards. In 2014 the right to use the \"In The Game\" name was transferred to Leaf Trading Cards in Dallas, Texas.\n\nIn The Game's first entrance into the trading card market came in the 1998-1999 season, when they produced the NHL Players Association's \"Be A Player\" brand trading cards in partnership with the NHLPA. Be A Player featured one certified autograph card per pack. Since then, In The Game has expanded its production to include other sets.\n\nIn 1998, Price was asked by Ted Saskin of the NHLPA to determine what should be done with the NHLPA's Be A Player hockey product. The product was started in 1994 and was supposed to give to each of the NHLPA licensees for two years. Pinnacle had the license for 1996 and 1997 but they went bankrupt and Be A Player needed a home. Price was hired by the NHLPA as a consultant to determine the fate of Be A Player. He advised Saskin that Upper Deck should be given back the Be A Player brand because of collector loyalty. However, Saskin asked Price if he would come back into the hockey card market and manufacture Be A Player in partnership with the NHLPA. Price agreed and In The Game, Inc. was founded.\n\nIn 2005, in conjunction with the 2004-05 NHL lockout, the NHL Players Association (NHLPA) terminated its license agreement with In The Game. The company has continued to produce trading card sets featuring active and retired NHL players and minor/junior hockey players. After the 2005-06 season, In The Game obtained a license to produce cards featuring players and logos under the umbrella of Hockey Canada. During the 2006-07 season, ITG produced the International Ice Signature Series along with boxed sets commemorating gold medal wins by the Canadian national women's team and World Junior men's team. However, ITG lost their American Hockey League licensing to Upper Deck (also the exclusive distributor of NHL licensed trading cards) in June 2014.\n\nIn 2010, ITG also made a brief foray into baseball cards, releasing one set featuring top prospects before running into further licensing issues.\n\nIn 2014, the assets owned by In The Game and the In The Game trade name were sold to Leaf Trading Cards in Dallas, Texas.\n"}
{"id": "1959977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959977", "title": "1911 Atlantic hurricane season", "text": "1911 Atlantic hurricane season\n\nThe 1911 Atlantic hurricane season was relatively inactive, with only six known tropical cyclones forming in the Atlantic during the summer and fall. There were three suspected tropical depressions, including one that began the season in February and one that ended the season when it dissipated in December. Three storms intensified into hurricanes, two of which attained Category 2 status on the modern-day Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale. Storm data is largely based on the Atlantic hurricane database, which underwent a thorough revision for the period between 1911 and 1914 in 2005.\n\nMost of the cyclones directly impacted land. A westward-moving hurricane killed 17 people and severely damaged Charleston, South Carolina, and the surrounding area in late August. A couple of weeks earlier, the Pensacola, Florida area had a storm in the Gulf of Mexico that produced winds of over land. The fourth storm of the season struck the coast of Nicaragua, killing 10 and causing extensive damage.\n\nThe Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) officially recognizes six tropical cyclones from the 1911 season. Only three attained hurricane status, with winds of or greater. The third hurricane of the season was the most intense storm, with a minimum central air pressure of . A week after its dissipation, another hurricane formed with wind speeds that matched the previous storm, but with unknown air pressure. Three weak tropical depressions developed and remained below tropical storm force; the first formed in February and the third in December. The first storm to reach tropical storm intensity developed on August 4, and the final tropical storm of the year dissipated on October 31.\n\nThe early 1900s lacked modern forecasting and documentation. The hurricane database from these years is sometimes found to be incomplete or incorrect, and new storms are continually being added as part of the ongoing Atlantic hurricane reanalysis. The period from 1911 through 1914 was reanalyzed in 2005. Two previously unknown tropical cyclones were identified using records including historical weather maps and ship reports, and information on the known storms was amended and corrected. These storms are referred to simply by their number in chronological order, since tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean were not given official names until much later.\n\nIdentified by its lack of associated frontal boundaries and closed circulation center, the first tropical cyclone of the 1911 season formed on August 4 over southern Alabama in the United States. At only tropical depression strength, it tracked eastward and emerged into the Atlantic Ocean the next day. Several days later, while located near Bermuda, the depression became a tropical storm and turned northeastward. The storm lasted several more days until dissipating on August 11. The storm produced heavy rainfall on the Bermuda, but no gale-force winds were reported. The storm was unknown until the 2005 Atlantic hurricane database revision recognized it as a tropical storm.\n\nBased on ship observations in the southeastern Gulf of Mexico, a low-pressure area developed north of Key West in early August. It developed into a tropical depression at 12:00 UTC on August 8, and strengthened into a tropical storm at 06:00 UTC on August 9 while moving northwestward off the west coast of Florida. Gradual intensification continued, and at 06:00 UTC on August 11 the storm strengthened to hurricane status. At 22:00 UTC on August 11, the hurricane reached its peak intensity and concurrently made landfall near the border between Alabama and Florida as a small tropical cyclone. During this time, the storm's maximum sustained winds were estimated at 80 mph (130 km/h), making it the equivalent of a Category 1 hurricane on the modern day Saffir–Simpson hurricane wind scale. A lull in the storm accompanied the nearby passage of its eye before conditions once again deteriorated. Although the lowest barometric pressure measured on land was 1007 mbar (hPa; 29.74 inHg) in Pensacola, Florida, the storm's pressure was estimated to be much lower at 982 mbar (hPa: 29.00 inHg). After making landfall, the hurricane weakened and slowly drifted westward, weakening to a tropical depression over Louisiana on August 13, before dissipating over Arkansas by 12:00 UTC the next day.\n\nWhile developing in the Gulf of Mexico, the tropical cyclone brought light rainfall to Key West, amounting to over two days. The hurricane's outer rainbands affected the Florida panhandle as early as August 10, producing winds as strong as in Pensacola, where it was considered the worst since 1906. During the afternoon of August 11, the United States Weather Bureau issued storm warnings for coastal areas of the gulf coast where the hurricane was expected to impact. Upon making landfall, the storm brought heavy precipitation, peaking at in Molino, Florida, although the heaviest rainfall was localized from Mississippi to central Alabama. Some washouts occurred during brief episodes of heavy rain as the storm drifted westward after landfall. Strong winds in the Pensacola area downed telecommunication lines and disrupted power, cutting off communication to outside areas for 24 hours. A pavilion on Santa Rosa Island had a third of its roof torn, and some other buildings inland were also unroofed. Offshore, twelve barges were grounded after being swept by the rough surf. Heavy losses were reported to timber after they were swept away when log booms failed. Damage figures from the Pensacola area were conservatively estimated at US$12,600, considered lighter than expected, although there were some deaths.\n\nOver a week after the dissipation of the previous hurricane, the third storm of the season developed on August 23 and slowly tracked west-northwestward. After attaining hurricane status, the storm turned more towards the northwest, and several days later reached its peak wind speeds of 100 mph (155 km/h); a barometric pressure of 972 mbar (hPa) was reported. The center passed inland a few miles south of Savannah, Georgia, on August 28; upon making landfall, the hurricane rapidly degenerated. It deteriorated into a tropical depression on August 29 and persisted over land until dissipating a couple of days later.\n\nThe hurricane, relatively small in size, caused widespread damage between Savannah and Charleston, South Carolina. Savannah itself received only minor damage, although the storm's center passed close by. Along the coast of Georgia, torrential rainfall caused numerous washouts on railroads. Crops, livestock and roads in the area took heavy damage. At Charleston, winds were estimated at after an anemometer, last reporting , failed, and of precipitation fell over three days.\n\nThe storm raged for more than 36 hours, causing severe damage; the winds unroofed hundreds of buildings, demolished many houses and had an extensive impact on power and telephone services. Tides above normal left a \"confused mass of wrecked vessels and damaged wharfs\", according to a local forecaster in Charleston, while six navy torpedo boats were ripped from their moorings and blown ashore. In total, 17 people were killed in the hurricane, and property damage in Charleston was estimated at $1 million (1911 USD, $ 2014 USD).\n\nThe next storm formed well to the east of the Lesser Antilles on September 3 and moved westward, attaining tropical storm status about a day later. The storm slowed and curved toward the southwest, nearing the northern coast of Colombia before pulling away from land and strengthening into a hurricane. It further intensified to Category 2 status before striking Nicaragua on September 10. Quickly weakening to a tropical storm, the cyclone continued westward across Central America and briefly entered the eastern Pacific Ocean. It dissipated shortly thereafter. In the town of Corinto, a report indicated the deaths of 10 people and 50 additional injuries. About 250 houses were destroyed, leaving approximately $2 million (1911 USD, $ 2014 USD) in damage. Data on this storm is extremely scarce; as such, only minor revisions could be made to its chronology in the hurricane database.\n\nThe fifth official tropical cyclone of the year was also previously unknown until contemporary reassessments. It exhibited some hybrid characteristics, and may have qualified for subtropical cyclone status according to the modern classification scheme. On September 15, the storm formed over the central Atlantic and initially moved westward. It gradually intensified as it turned northwestward, and on September 19 it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone southeast of New England. The system was subsequently absorbed by a more powerful frontal boundary approaching from the northwest.\n\nThe final storm was first observed as a disturbance near Puerto Rico in the Caribbean Sea in late October. The disturbance was the precursor to a tropical depression which developed over the southern Bahamas and headed west-southwestward across Cuba, where, at Havana, winds blew from the southeast at . It became a tropical storm on October 27 and drifted southwestward. Near the eastern tip of the Yucatán Peninsula, the storm turned sharply northward. An area of high pressure over the United States prevented the cyclone from turning eastward toward Florida, and it continued into the Gulf of Mexico. However, on October 31, the storm curved eastward and moved ashore over northern Florida. The storm decreased in intensity as it passed into the Atlantic. The storm's circulation center remained poorly defined throughout its course. It was long believed to have developed south of Cuba, although a reevaluation of ship data indicated the depression had actually formed east of the island. On October 26, the Weather Bureau hoisted hurricane warnings along the east coast of Florida from Key West to West Palm Beach, and on the west coast up to Tampa.\nIn addition to the six officially recognized tropical storms and hurricanes, three tropical depressions in the 1911 season have been identified. The first developed in February from a trough of low pressure in the open Atlantic and progressed westward. Although a ship dubiously reported winds of over in association with the system, a lack of supporting evidence precludes its designation as a tropical storm. The cyclone dissipated by February 21. The second depression evolved from an extratropical cyclone in mid- to late May, becoming a tropical cyclone on May 22 northeast of Bermuda. It persisted for three days as it meandered around the same general area before being absorbed by another non-tropical storm. The modern-day documentation of this system was also hindered by a lack of data. On December 11, the third tropical depression formed near the Turks and Caicos Islands. It progressed westward and was situated just north of eastern Cuba the next day. The system began to weaken on December 13 and dissipated shortly thereafter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959988", "title": "Pierre Gendron (academic)", "text": "Pierre Gendron (academic)\n\nPierre Raoul Gendron, (May 1, 1916 – February 16, 1984) was a Canadian academic who was the first dean of the Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences at the University of Ottawa from 1953 until 1962.\n\nAs president of the board of directors of Dow Breweries, Gendron convinced the brewer to fund a planetarium in Montreal, overseeing the creation of the Dow Planetarium.\n\nIn 1970, he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada \"for his scientific and administrative contribution to industry and his service to his community\".\n"}
{"id": "1959998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959998", "title": "American Railway Association", "text": "American Railway Association\n\nThe American Railway Association (ARA) was an industry trade group representing railroads in the United States. The organization had its inception in meetings of General Managers and ranking railroad operating officials known as Time Table Conventions, the first of which was held on October 1, 1872, at Louisville, Kentucky. In 1875, the group changed its name to General Time Convention and in October 1892, to American Railway Association. In January 1919, ten separate groups of operating officers were amalgamated with the association and carried on their activities as divisions, sections or committees of the larger group.\n\nOn October 12, 1934, the ARA ceased to exist, having joined with several other railroad industry trade groups to merge into the Association of American Railroads.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959999", "title": "Templeborough", "text": "Templeborough\n\nTempleborough (historically Templebrough) is a suburb of Rotherham, South Yorkshire, England. The suburb falls within the Brinsworth and Catcliffe ward of Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council. The area takes its name from the remains of the Roman fort found there which were mistakenly believed to be that of a Roman Temple.\n\nA Roman fort was first built on the site in earth and wood in the first century AD (most likely between the years 43 to 68), and was later rebuilt in stone. It is thought to have been occupied until the Roman withdrawal from Britain , but its original name has never been ascertained. The Roman road called Icknield Street (sometimes Ryknild or Riknild Street) crossed the River Don at a ford close to the fort. There was also a road named Batham Gate that ran southwest from the fort to Brough-on-Noe in Derbyshire. The double bank that surrounded the fort was still visible in 1831 although it is believed that stone blocks from the site were regularly carried off and re-used in nearby buildings.\n\nArchaeological excavations of part of the fort and bath house were carried out in 1877 by the Rotherham Literary and Scientific Society headed by local historians, J D Leader and John Guest. They found evidence that the fort had been burned to the ground and rebuilt twice. Coins discovered during this excavation ranged in date from the time of the emperors Augustus to Constantine I.\n\nIn 1916 the site of the fort was acquired by Steel, Peech and Tozer's steelworks in order to expand their works to meet the demand for steel during World War I. The plans for the steelworks required the site to be levelled, and 10–15 feet of soil were removed from the area of the fort, destroying all archaeological remains. However, before the works were constructed, an archaeologist specialising in Roman remains, Sir Thomas May, was invited by Rotherham Corporation to re-excavate the fort over the course of eight months from November 1916 to July 1917.\n\nA tile stamped with the stamp of Cohors IV Gallorum found on the site dates to either the time of Domitian (81–96) or Trajan (98–117). The Fourth Cohort of Gauls are known to have occupied the fort, as evidenced by the clay tiles and carved Roman tombstones discovered on the site. The remains include one of the earliest known memorials to a named British female.\n\nNotable among the finds were:\nFinds from both excavations are now housed in Clifton Park Museum in Rotherham. The original stone columns from the Roman granary at Templeborough Fort were re-erected in Clifton Park in 1922.\n\nSteel, Peech and Tozer, known locally as \"Steelos\" was one of the largest manufacturers in the Rotherham area. In 1918 they merged with Samuel Fox and Company, based in Stocksbridge and Appleby-Frodingham Steel Company in Scunthorpe creating United Steel Companies (USC). The Templeborough steelworks was reputed to be a mile long. At its height in the mid-20th century, the company employed 10,000 people. In the 1950s as Templeborough's open hearth furnaces had become outdated USC set up “Operation SPEAR” (Steel Peech Electric Arc Reorganization), to introduce six modern electric arc furnaces to replace the 14 open hearth furnaces. This resulted in Templeborough Melting Shop becoming the largest electric arc steel making plant in the world: they were capable of producing 1.8 million tons per year. USC also employed the cybernetician Stafford Beer to run a simulation of a \"cybernetic factory\".\n\nAfter nationalisation in 1967 it became part of the British Steel Corporation. The steelworks closed in 1993 and has since been partly converted into a museum — the £46 million Magna Centre. The only remaining Steel, Peech and Tozer plant is Brinsworth Strip Mills, located on Sheffield Road, which is now part of Liberty Speciality Steels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960004", "title": "Churchill Falls (Labrador) Corporation Limited", "text": "Churchill Falls (Labrador) Corporation Limited\n\nThe Churchill Falls (Labrador) Corporation, also known as CF(L)Co or CFLco is a Canadian electric company. The company was founded in 1961 and is based in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador. Churchill Falls (Labrador) Corporation Limited operates as a subsidiary of Newfoundland and Labrador Hydro.\n\nCF(L)Co was originally formed in 1958 as a subsidiary of British Newfoundland Development Corporation (BRINCO) and known as the Hamilton Falls Power Corporation, it built and operated the Churchill Falls hydroelectric complex.\n\nIn 1961, the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador granted the Hamilton Falls Power Corporation a 99-year lease to the 67,340 square kilometers watershed of the Upper Churchill. The Hamilton Falls Power Corporation became to be known as the Churchill Falls Corporation in 1965 when the name of the falls was changed to commemorate former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill.\n\nCF(L)Co began construction on Churchill Falls Generating Station in 1966 and on May 12, 1969, signed a power contract with Hydro-Québec. The agreement committed Hydro-Québec to buy most of the plant's output at one-quarter of a cent per kilowatt-hour — the exact rate is 0.25425¢ per kilowatt-hour until 2016 and 0.20¢ for the last 25 years of the contract —, to build and maintain power lines to carry the power to market and to enter into a risk-sharing agreement whereas the Quebec Crown corporation would cover part of the interest risk and buy some of BRINCO's debt, in exchange for an increased share in CF(L)Co.\n\nThe 5,428-megawatt generating station delivered its first kilowatts on December 6, 1971 and its 11 turbines were fully operational by June 1974. In 1974 the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador purchased a controlling interest in CF(L)Co from BRINCO and turned it over to the Newfoundland and Labrador Power Commission. The Commission had a 65.8% share in the corporation and the remaining 34.2% was owned by Hydro-Québec.\n\nIn 1967, the year CF(L)Co qualified for Crown Corporation status, the Newfoundland Government initiated proceedings in the Newfoundland Supreme Court to recall 800 megawatts (MW) of the Churchill Falls power from CF(L)Co based upon the lease granted to the corporation in 1961. By 1980, the case had not been resolved, and in that year the Newfoundland Legislature passed the Re Upper Churchill Water Rights Reversion Act to reclaim the water rights granted to the corporation.\n\nBoth legislations and the contract itself were subject to protracted legal battles between the two neighboring provinces, ending up before the Supreme Court of Canada. The court declared the Upper Churchill Water Rights Reversion Act \"ultra vires\" in 1984, and twice affirmed the validity of the 1969 contract in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960015", "title": "John Stoughton", "text": "John Stoughton\n\nJohn Stoughton (18 November 1807 – 24 October 1897) was an English Nonconformist minister and historian.\n\nHe was born at Norwich. His father was an Episcopalian, his mother a member of the Religious Society of Friends. Stoughton was educated at Norwich Grammar School, and, after an interval of legal study, at Highbury Congregational College. In 1833 he became minister at Windsor, in 1843 at Kensington; in 1856 he was elected chairman of the Congregational Union. From 1872 to 1884 he was professor of historical theology in New College, Hampstead.\n\nStoughton contributed an account of Nonconformist modes of celebrating the Lord's Supper to the ritual commission of 1870, arranged a conference on co-operation between Anglicans and dissenters (presided over by Archbishop Tait) in 1876, was one of Dean Stanley's lecturers in Westminster Abbey and a pall-bearer at his funeral. He was elected to the Athenaeum Club in 1874 on the nomination of Matthew Arnold. He died at Ealing on 24 October 1897.\n\nStoughton wrote works of English religious history:\n\nHe also wrote more popular works, among which were \"Homes and Haunts of Luther\" (1875), \"Footprints of Italian Reformers\" (1881), and \"The Spanish Reformers\" (1883). His \"Recollections of a Long Life\" (1894) was autobiographical.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960020", "title": "Bulgarian Academy of Sciences", "text": "Bulgarian Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (abbreviated BAS, in Bulgarian: Българска академия на науките, \"Balgarska akademiya na naukite\", abbreviated \"БАН\") is the National Academy of Bulgaria, established in 1869. The Academy, located in Sofia, is autonomous and consists of a Society of Academicians, Correspondent Members and Foreign Members. It publishes and circulates different scientific works, encyclopaedias, dictionaries and journals, and runs its own publishing house.\nJulian Revalski has been the president of the BAS since 2016. As of 2009, its budget was 84 million leva (€42.7 million). The Bulgarian Space Agency, part of the BAS, has a budget of €1 million.\n\nAs Bulgaria was part of the Ottoman Empire, Bulgarian émigrés founded the \"Bulgarian Literary Society\" on 26 September 1869, in Brăila in the Kingdom of Romania. The first Statutes accepted were:\n\nBoard of Trustees\n\nActing members:\n\nThe following year, the Literary Society began issuing the \"Periodical Journal\", its official publication, and in 1871 elected its first honorary member - Gavril Krastevich.\n\nIn 1878, shortly after Bulgaria's liberation from Ottoman rule, the General Assembly voted to move the headquarters of the Society from Brăila to Sofia, and on 1 March 1893 the BLS moved into its own building, right next to where the Bulgarian Parliament is seated. The BLS headquarters were completed in 1892. The building was designed by architect Hermann Mayer and was expanded during the 1920s.\n\nThe Bulgarian Literary Society adopted its present-day name in 1911, and Ivan Geshov became the Academy's first president. The BAS became a member of the Union of Slavonic Academies and Scientific Communities in 1913 and was accepted as a member of the International Council of Scientific Unions in 1931.\n\nThe BAS has 9 main sections, more broadly united under three main branches: \"Natural, mathematical and engineering sciences\"; \"Biological, medical and agrarian sciences\" and \"Social sciences, humanities and art\". Each consists of independent scientific institutes, laboratories and other sections.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAcademia Peak and Camp Academia on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica are named for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in appreciation of Academy’s contribution to the Antarctic exploration.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960028", "title": "Nicholas Baker (politician)", "text": "Nicholas Baker (politician)\n\nSir Nicholas Brian Baker (23 November 1938 – 25 April 1997) was a British Conservative Member of Parliament and government minister.\n\nHe was educated at Clifton College and Oxford University. After unsuccessfully contesting the safe Labour seat of Peckham in February and October 1974, he represented the parliamentary constituency of North Dorset from 1979 until his death in 1997. He was married to Carol d'Abo, sister of musician & broadcaster Mike d'Abo, and they adopted a son Matthew and a daughter Annabel.\n\nHe was also a Home Office junior minister under Michael Howard. In this role he was involved in blocking Mohamed Al-Fayed's long-running attempts to attain British citizenship, and in the widely publicised reprieve of a dog called Dempsey which had been threatened with death under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991.\n\nHealth problems caused Baker to resign his ministerial post, and he announced that he would not re-stand for his parliamentary seat at the 1997 general election. He died shortly before the election, having been knighted during the final weeks of his life.\n"}
{"id": "1960031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960031", "title": "Newfoundland Power Inc.", "text": "Newfoundland Power Inc.\n\nNewfoundland Power Incorporated is a Canadian utility company formed by the Royal Securities Corporation of Montreal in 1924. It is regulated by the Public Utilities Commission. Newfoundland Power is the primary retailer of electric power in Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nIn the year of its incorporation it purchased the assets of the St. John's Light and Power Company which had been formed originally by Robert Gillespie Reid as the St. John's Street Railway Company in 1896. Those assets included Newfoundland and Labrador's first hydro electric generating station at Petty Harbour, Petty Harbour Hydro Electric Generating Station.\n\nAfter 1924 Newfoundland Light & Power Company became a subsidiary of the International Power Company, and it remained a subsidiary until 1949, when the parent company sold its shares in it to the general public.\n\nThe Newfoundland Light & Power Company supplied the general needs of the St. John's urban area and operated the city's electrical street car system. In 1948 the street railway was disbanded and the company became solely an electric company.\n\nNewfoundland Power operates 23 hydro generating plants, three diesel plants and three gas turbine facilities for a total installed capacity of 139.4 MW.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960033", "title": "Junkers EF 132", "text": "Junkers EF 132\n\nThe EF 132 was a planned jet bomber, under development for the \"Luftwaffe\" during World War II. It was the last aircraft project development undertaken by Junkers during the war, and was the culmination of the Ju 287 design started in 1942.\n\nThe shoulder-mounted wings were swept back 35° and featured a small amount of anhedral. Six Junkers Jumo 012 jet engines, each of which developed 24.5 kN (5,500 lbf) of thrust, were buried in the wing roots. Wind tunnel results showed the advantages of having the engines within the wing, rather than causing drag by being mounted below the wing surfaces. Several wooden mockups were built of the wing sections, in order to find the best way to mount the engines without wasting too much space while at the same time providing maintenance accessibility. The trailing edge flaps were designed to be split flaps, and the goal was to make the gearing and operation simple. Because of the high placement of the wings to the fuselage, an unbroken bomb bay of 12 m (39 ft 4 in) could be utilized in the center fuselage. The tailplanes were also swept back and the EF 132 had a normal vertical fin and rudder. An interesting landing gear arrangement was planned, that consisted of a nose wheel, two tandem main wheels beneath the center rear fuselage, and outrigger-type wheels under each outer wing. A fully glazed, pressurized cockpit located in the extreme fuselage nose held a crew of five. Armament consisted of two remotely-controlled twin 20 mm cannon turrets (one located aft of the cockpit, the other beneath the fuselage) and a tail barbette containing another pair of 20 mm cannons. All of this defensive armament was remotely controlled from the cockpit, and a bomb load of 4,000–5,000 kg (8,820–11,020 lb) was envisioned to be carried.\n\nA windtunnel model was tested in early 1945, and a full-scale wooden mockup was also built at the Dessau Junkers facility. The development stage had progressed far when the Red Army reached the Dessau complex and took possession of the Junkers Ju 287, EF 131 and EF 132 designs and components. In October, 1946 the whole complex and the German engineers were transferred to GOZ No.1 (\"Gosoodarstvenny Opytnyy Zavod\", State Experimental Plant), at Dubna in the Soviet Union, to continue development of the EF 131 and EF 132. Design work on the EF 132 continued under Dr. Brunolf Baade at OKB-1 (the design bureau attached to GOZ No.1), under order of Council of Ministers directive No.874-266, an unpowered example was constructed to gather additional data, but only slow progress was made before the project was terminated on 12 June 1948, by CoM directive 2058-805.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960043", "title": "Abies procera", "text": "Abies procera\n\nAbies procera, the noble fir, also called red fir and Christmastree, is a western North American fir, native to the Cascade Range and Coast Range mountains of extreme northwest California and western Oregon and Washington in the United States. It is a high-altitude tree, typically occurring at altitude, only rarely reaching the tree line.\n\n\"A. procera\" is a large evergreen tree up to 70 m (130–230 ft) tall and 2 m (6.5 ft) in trunk diameter, rarely to 90 m (295 ft) tall and 2.7 m (8.9 ft) in diameter, with a narrow conic crown. The bark on young trees is smooth and gray with resin blisters, becoming red-brown, rough and fissured on old trees. The leaves are needle-like, 1–3.5 cm long, glaucous blue-green above and below with strong stomal bands, and a blunt to notched tip. They are arranged spirally on the shoot, but twisted slightly S-shaped to be upcurved above the shoot. The cones are erect, long, with the purple scales almost completely hidden by the long exserted yellow-green bract scales; ripening brown and disintegrating to release the winged seeds in fall.\n\nThe specific epithet \"procera\" means \"tall\".\n\n\"A. procera\" is very closely related to red fir (\"A. magnifica\"), which replaces it farther southeast in southernmost Oregon and California, being best distinguished by the leaves having a groove along the midrib on the upper side; red fir does not show this. Red fir also tends to have the leaves less closely packed, with the shoot bark visible between the leaves, whereas the shoot is largely hidden in noble fir. Red fir cones also mostly have shorter bracts, except in \"A. magnifica\" var. \"shastensis\"; this variety is considered by some botanists to be a hybrid between noble fir and red fir.\n\nNoble fir is a popular Christmas tree.\n\nThe wood is used for general structural purposes and paper manufacture.\n\nThe prostrate grey cultivar \"A. procera\" (Glauca Group) ‘Glauca Prostrata’ has gained the Royal Horticultural Society’s Award of Garden Merit. \n\n"}
{"id": "1960052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960052", "title": "Ry, Denmark", "text": "Ry, Denmark\n\nRy is a town with a population of 6,374 (1 January 2019) in central Denmark, located in Skanderborg municipality in Jutland. The town sprouted up around a railway station near the older town of Rye which is now much smaller than Ry.\n\nRy is located along the Gudenå (\"River Guden\") between the lakes \"Gudensø\", \"Birkesø\", \"Vessø\", \"Lillesø\", \"Rye Møllesø\" and \"Knudsø\".\n\nRy is known for Himmelbjerget one of the highest natural points in the Danish landscape. It is 147m (482 ft) high. \n\nRy continuation school has won the girls school football tournament in Denmark 2005 and 2006. In 2006 Gudenå School, Ry held Smallschool Festival with more than 1,500 participants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960061", "title": "Reuben Sturman", "text": "Reuben Sturman\n\nReuben Sturman (1924 – October 27, 1997), sometimes referred as the \"Walt Disney of Porn\", was an American pornographer and businessman from Ohio, who co-founded sex toys company Doc Johnson. He was featured as a subject in Eric Schlosser's 2003 book on underground economies, \"Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market\".\n\nSturman, the son of immigrant Russian Jews, grew up on Cleveland's East Side. He served in the Army Air Corps during World War II and then went on to study at Western Reserve University, graduating in 1948, before starting his own business selling comic books from his car. By the late 1950s, his business had swelled to a major wholesale magazine company with affiliates in several American cities. During the 1960s, Sturman started selling magazines with sexual content, a product he discovered could make profits that outmatched anything that could be achieved by selling any kind of comic book. By the late 1960s, Sturman was the biggest distributor of adult magazines in the U.S.\n\nHis first problems with the authorities started in 1964, when Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents raided a Cleveland warehouse, confiscating copies of a magazine entitled \"Sex Life of a Cop\". This was the start of over two decades of legal difficulties. Though his operations were raided and large volumes of magazines were confiscated on numerous occasions, Sturman managed to avoid prosecution by counter-suits, shady business practices and by using at least 20 different aliases to protect his identity. Sturman became increasingly involved in semi-legal or criminal activities during this time, and had connections with the Gambino crime family.\n\nThe American journalist and writer Eric Schlosser described Sturman in a \"U.S. News & World Report\" article in 1997:\n\nSturman's refusal to pay taxes properly finally brought him down. In 1989, Sturman was convicted of tax evasion and sentenced to 10 years in jail and $2.5 million in fines. Another charge, this time for the interstate transportation of obscene material, resulted in a plea bargain for Sturman, but he was later caught trying to bribe a juror, via his ex-wife, and was sentenced to 19 additional years for extortion. He briefly escaped prison in Boron, California, but was re-apprehended in Anaheim. He died in a federal prison in Lexington, Kentucky on October 27, 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960065", "title": "A Good Woman (film)", "text": "A Good Woman (film)\n\nA Good Woman is a 2004 romantic comedy-drama film directed by Mike Barker. The screenplay by Howard Himelstein is based on the 1892 play \"Lady Windermere's Fan\" by Oscar Wilde. It is the fourth screen version of the work, following a 1916 silent film using Wilde's original title, Ernst Lubitsch's 1925 version and Otto Preminger's 1949 adaptation entitled \"The Fan\".\n\nSet in 1930, the film opens in New York City, where femme fatale Mrs. Erlynne finds that she is no longer welcomed by either the high-ranking men she has seduced or the society wives she has betrayed. Selling her jewelry, she buys passage on a liner bound for Amalfi, Italy, where she apparently sets her sights on newlywed Robert Windermere. When his car frequently is seen parked outside her villa, local gossips become convinced the two are having an affair.\n\nRobert's demure wife Meg remains oblivious to the stories about the two circulating throughout the town, but when she discovers her husband's cheque register with numerous stubs indicating payments to Erlynne, she suspects the worst. What she doesn't know is that Erlynne actually is her mother, who has been extorting payments from Robert in return for keeping her secret. She is consoled with the advice, \"Plain women resort to crying; pretty women go shopping.\"\n\nIn retaliation for what she believes is her husband's transgression, Meg wears a revealing gown to her twenty-first birthday celebration, attended by Erlynne - wearing the same dress - in the company of Lord Augustus, a wealthy, twice-divorced man who has proposed marriage to Erlynne. Complications ensue when Lord Darlington professes his love for Meg and implores her to leave her supposedly wayward husband, an invitation she accepts.\n\nErlynne, having found Meg's farewell note to Robert, intercepts her on Darlington's yacht, where the two are trapped when Augustus, Darlington, Robert, and friends arrive for a night of drinking. Robert is startled to see the fan he gave Meg for her birthday on board; while Meg makes a hasty escape, Erlynne reveals herself and claims she had taken it from the party in error; and Augustus, thinking his fiancée was planning a romantic rendezvous with Darlington, ends their engagement.\n\nRobert pays Erlynne to leave Amalfi immediately and begs her not to reveal her identity to Meg. Reluctantly, she complies with his wishes, although she returns his cheque before she departs. On board the plane waiting to take her to a new life, she discovers Augustus, who presents her with the fan Meg gave him when she confessed to him all that had really happened. Erlynne accepts his renewed proposal of marriage and the two depart for places unknown.\n\nTwenty-two people from Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Luxembourg were credited as producers of the film.\n\nIt was shot on location in Italy at Amalfi, Atrani, Ravello, Sorrento, and Rome.\n\nIt grossed $238,609 in the US and $6,639,233 in foreign markets for a total worldwide box office of $6,877,842.\n\nIn his review in \"The New York Times\", Stephen Holden called the film a \"misbegotten Hollywood-minded screen adaptation\" and added, \"There is an excruciating divide between the film's British actors (led by Tom Wilkinson and Stephen Campbell Moore), who are comfortable delivering Wilde's aphorisms . . . and its American marquee names, Helen Hunt and Scarlett Johansson, [who have] little connection to the English language as spoken in the high Wildean style.\"\n\nDerek Elley of \"Variety\" stated, \"In most respects, the film is so far from Wilde's play that it's practically a separate work. Bathed in pastels, ochres, blacks and golds, and easily moving around a variety of locations, it's like another slice of '30s nostalgia in the vein of \"Enchanted April\" or \"Where Angels Fear to Tread\". Though undeniably retaining their wit, the Wilde-isms are finally more of a distraction, imported from another world and another genre.\"\n\nIn the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Mick LaSalle opined, \"There's nothing to dislike about this movie . . . Yet something is wrong with \"A Good Woman\": The lightning never strikes. It's never quite alive . . . the process of literalizing the action, an inevitable consequence of moving a play to the screen, makes [it] less exaggerated and more somber than is ideal. But nothing can diminish the wit and the pleasure of Wilde's epigrams.\"\n\nKenneth Turan of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote, \"The film is well intentioned and mildly diverting, but in attempting to modernize its story it has lost many of the things that make the original so memorable and not gained much in return . . . Despite its talented cast, the result lacks Wilde's trademark bite; it's soft and middlebrow, even though he was anything but . . . Although transposing this story to photogenic Italy makes for the requisite number of scenic vistas, it also creates a number of problems for the story, starting with the fact that Wilde's concerns about the restrictive nature of society don't play as well outside the rigid confines of Victorian England. Also sacrificed in this more naturalistic production is the brilliance of Wilde's artifice. The sharpness and crackling energy of his conception, frankly, makes a bad fit with the film's fitful and not particularly successful attempts to make these characters more well-rounded . . . \"A Good Woman\" won't ruin anyone's day, but it won't make anyone's either, and it won't get the great Irish playwright anything like the admiration his work deserves.\"\n\nIn \"The Times\", Wendy Ide observed, \"There’s more life in Oscar Wilde’s long-dead corpse than there is in \"A Good Woman\" . . . spiked with as many pithy Wildean aphorisms as could be cannibalised from his other work and crowbarred unceremoniously into the flagging script.\"\n\nRottentomatoes.com reports that 39% of critics gave it a positive review, based on 77 reviews.\n\nHunt's performance was panned with the AV Club saying, \"Helen Hunt looks embarrassingly out of place trying to play an infamous seductress.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1960070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960070", "title": "Calixarene", "text": "Calixarene\n\nA calixarene is a macrocycle or cyclic oligomer based on a hydroxyalkylation product of a phenol and an aldehyde.\n\nThe word calixarene is derived from calix or chalice because this type of molecule resembles a vase and from the word arene that refers to the aromatic building block. Calixarenes have hydrophobic cavities that can hold smaller molecules or ions and belong to the class of cavitands known in host–guest chemistry. Calixarene nomenclature is straightforward and involves counting the number of repeating units in the ring and include it in the name. A calix[4]arene has 4 units in the ring and a calix[6]arene has 6. A substituent in the meso position R is added to the name with a prefix C- as in C-methylcalix[6]arene.\n\nThe aromatic components are derived from phenol, resorcinol, or pyrogallol to give, respectively, calixarenes, resorcinarenes, and pyrogallolarenes. For phenol, the aldehyde most often used is simple formaldehyde, while larger aldehydes, like acetaldehyde, are usually required in condensation reactions with resorcinol and pyrogallol to facilitate formation of the C4v symmetric vase conformation. Additionally, substituted aldehydes and some heterocycles (e.g. furan) may be used to impart additional functional groups onto the pendent groups of resorcinarenes and pyrogallolarenes. The chemical reaction qualifies as electrophilic aromatic substitution, followed by an elimination of water, and then a second aromatic substitution. The reaction is catalyzed by acids or bases.\n\nCalixarenes are difficult to produce because random polymerization occurs inside of complex mixtures of linear and cyclic oligomers with different numbers of repeating units. With finely tuned starting materials and reaction conditions, synthesis can also be surprisingly facile. In 2005, researchers produced pyrogallol[4]arene simply by mixing a solvent-free dispersion of isovaleraldehyde with pyrogallol, and a catalytic amount of \"p\"-toluenesulfonic acid, in a mortar and pestle. Calixarenes are sparingly soluble as parent compounds and melt at high temperatures compared to other crystalline solids.\n\nCalixarenes are characterised by a three-dimensional basket, cup or bucket shape. In calix[4]arenes the internal volume is around 10 cubic angstroms. Calixarenes are characterised by a wide upper rim and a narrow lower rim and a central annulus. With phenol as a starting material the 4 hydroxyl groups are intrannular on the lower rim. In a resorcin[4]arene 8 hydroxyl groups are placed extraannular on the upper ring. Calixarenes exist in different chemical conformations because rotation around the methylene bridge is not difficult. In calix[4]arene 4 up–down conformations exist: cone (point group C,C), partial cone C, 1,2 alternate C and 1,3 alternate D. The 4 hydroxyl groups interact by hydrogen bonding and stabilize the cone conformation. This conformation is in dynamic equilibrium with the other conformations. Conformations can be locked in place with proper substituents replacing the hydroxyl groups which increase the rotational barrier. Alternatively placing a bulky substituent on the upper rim also locks a conformation. The calixarene based on \"p\"-\"tert\"-butyl phenol is also a cone. Calixarenes are structurally related to the pillararenes.\n\nIn 1872 Adolf von Baeyer mixed various aldehydes, including formaldehyde, with phenols in a strongly acidic solution. The resultant tars defied characterization; but represented the typical products of a phenol/formaldehyde polymerization. Leo Baekeland discovered that these tars could be cured into a brittle substance which he marketed as \"Bakelite\". This polymer was the first commercial synthetic plastic.\n\nThe success of Bakelite spurred scientific investigations into the chemistry of the phenol/formaldehyde reaction. One result was the discovery made in 1942 by Alois Zinke, that p-alkyl phenols and formaldehyde in a strongly basic solution yield mixtures containing cyclic tetramers. Concomitantly, Joseph Niederl and H. J. Vogel obtained similar cyclic tetramers from the acid-catalyzed reaction of resorcinol and aldehydes such as benzaldehyde. A number of years later, John Cornforth showed that the product from p-tert-butylphenol and formaldehyde is a mixture of the cyclic tetramer and another ambiguous cyclomer. His interest in these compounds was in the tuberculostatic properties of their oxyethylated derivatives.\n\nIn the early 1970s C. David Gutsche recognized the calix shape of the cyclic tetramer and thought that it might furnish the structure for building an enzyme xenologue. He initiated a study that lasted for three decades. His attention to these compounds came from acquaintance with the Petrolite company's commercial demulsifiers, made by oxyethylation of the still ambiguous products from p-alkylphenols and formaldehyde. He introduced the name \"calixarene\": from \"calix\", the Greek name for a chalice, and \"arene\" for the presence of aryl groups in the cyclic array. He also determined the structures for the cyclic tetramer, hexamer, and octamer, along with procedures for obtaining these materials in good to excellent yields. He then established procedures for attaching functional groups to both the upper and lower rims and mapped the conformational states of these flexible molecules. Additionally, he proved that the cyclic tetramer can be frozen into a cone conformation, by the addition of measurably large substituents to the lower rim of the calix shape.\n\nConcomitant with Gutsche's work was that of the Hermann Kämmerer and Volker Böhmer. They developed methods for the stepwise synthesis of calixarenes. Chemists of University of Parma, Giovanni Andreetti, Rocco Ungaro and Andrea Pochini were the first to resolve x-ray crystallographic images of calixarenes. In the mid 1980s, other groups of investigators joined the field of calixarene chemistry. It has become an important aspect of supramolecular chemistry and attracts the attention of hundreds of scientists around the world. The Niederl cyclic tetramers from resorcinol and aldehydes were studied in detail by Donald J. Cram, who called the derived compounds \"cavitands\" and \"carcerands\". An accurate and detailed history of the calixarenes along with extensive discussion of calixarene chemistry can be found in the 1989 publication (ref 1) as well as the second edition in 2008\n\nSome calixarenes are efficient sodium ionophores and are potentially useful in chemical sensors. Calixarenes are used in commercial applications as sodium selective electrodes for the measurement of sodium levels in blood. Calixarenes also form complexes with cadmium, lead, lanthanides and actinides. Calix[5]arene and the C fullerene in \"p\"-xylene form a ball-and-socket supramolecular complex. Calixarenes also form exo-calix ammonium salts with aliphatic amines such as piperidine. Derivatives or homologues of calix[4]arene exhibit highly selective binding behavior towards anions (especially halogen anions) with changes in optical properties such as fluorescence.\n\nMolecular self-assembly of resorcinarenes and pyrogallolarenes led to larger supramolecular assemblies. Both in the crystalline state and in solution, they are known to form hexamers that are akin to certain Archimedean solids with an internal volume of around one cubic nanometer (nanocapsules). (Isobutylpyrogallol[4]arene) is held together by 48 intermolecular hydrogen bonds. The remaining 24 hydrogen bonds are intramolecular. The cavity is filled by a number of solvent molecules.\n\nCalixarenes in general, and more specifically calix[4]arenes have been extensively used as molecular platform to build up supramolecular catalysts. The design of this kind of catalysts consists in functionalizing the upper rim of the lower rim of calixarenes with ligands able to bind metal cations, notably Cu(II) or Zn(II), or other active functions. These compounds are active in the catalysis of hydrolytic reactions.\n\nCalixarenes are of interest as enzyme mimetics, components of ion sensitive electrodes or sensors, selective membranes, non-linear optics and in HPLC stationary phases. In addition, in nanotechnology calixarenes are used as negative resist for high-resolution electron beam lithography .\n\nA tetrathia[4]arene is found to mimic some properties of the aquaporin proteins. This calixarene adopts a 1,3-alternate conformation (methoxy groups populate the lower ring) and water is not contained in the basket but grabbed by two opposing tert-butyl groups on the outer rim in a pincer. The nonporous and hydrophobic crystals are soaked in water for 8 hours in which time the calixarene:water ratio nevertheless acquires the value of one.\n\nCalixarenes accelerate reactions taking place inside the concavity by a combination of local concentration effect and polar stabilization of the transition state. An extended resorcin[4]arene cavitand is found to accelerate the reaction rate of a Menshutkin reaction between quinuclidine and butylbromide by a factor of 1600.\n\nIn heterocalixarenes the phenolic units are replaced by heterocycles, for instance by furans in calix[n]furanes and by pyridines in calix[n]pyridines. Calixarenes have been used as the macrocycle portion of a rotaxane and two calixarene molecules covalently joined together by the lower rims form carcerands.\n\nCalix[4]arenes with XXYZ or WXYZ substitution patterns at the upper rim are inherently chiral and their enantiomers can be resolved by chiral column chromatography. Recently, inherently chiral calixarenes have been synthesised in good yields by asymmetric ortholithiation using a chiral oxazoline directing group. This removes the need for resolution techniques.\n"}
{"id": "1960087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960087", "title": "Hablot Knight Browne", "text": "Hablot Knight Browne\n\nHablot Knight Browne (10 July 1815 – 8 July 1882) was an English artist and illustrator. Well-known by his pen name, Phiz, he illustrated books by Charles Dickens, Charles Lever, and Harrison Ainsworth.\n\nOf Huguenot ancestry, Hablot Knight Browne was born in England, in Lambeth (near London) on Kennington Lane. He was the fourteenth of Catherine and William Loder Browne's fifteen children. According to biographer, Valerie Browne Lester, Phiz was in fact the illegitimate son of his putative eldest sister Kate and Captain Nicholas Hablot of Napoleon's Imperial Guard. There is some uncertainty regarding the exact date of birth. 10 July 1815 is the date given by Valerie Browne Lester, his great-great-granddaughter. John Buchanan-Brown in his book \"Phiz!: Illustrator of Dickens' World\" says 12 July 1815. The date on his Christening record of 21 December 1815 at St Mary's Church, Lambeth, Surrey, England gives 11 June 1815, as does the \"Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition\" and 15 June 1815 (\"Dictionary of National Biography\"). A copy of the program from his burial service, which is still owned by the Browne family, says he was born 10 July 1815. \n\nWhen he was 7 years old, his father William Browne abandoned the family, changed his name to Breton and sailed with embezzled funds to Philadelphia where he became known for his watercolour paintings. William Browne was then declared dead by his wife Catherine.\n\nThomas Moxon, husband of William's sister Ann Loder Browne, helped to support the family, who were left badly off.\n\nBrowne was apprenticed to William Finden, an engraver, in whose studio he obtained his only artistic education. However, he was unsuited for engraving, and having during 1833 secured an important prize from the Society of Arts for a drawing of John Gilpin, he abandoned engraving in the following year and began other artistic work, with the ultimate object of becoming a painter.\n\nIn the spring of 1836, he met Charles Dickens. It was at the time when Dickens was looking for someone to illustrate \"Pickwick\". Browne became the illustrator of his little pamphlet \"Sunday under Three Heads\". In the original edition of \"Pickwick\", issued in shilling monthly parts from early in 1836 until the end of 1837, the first seven plates were drawn by Robert Seymour, who committed suicide in April 1836. The next two plates were by Robert William Buss.\n\nBrowne and William Makepeace Thackeray visited the publishers' office with specimens of their work for Dickens's inspection. The novelist preferred Browne. Browne's first two etched plates for Pickwick were signed \"Nemo\", but the third was signed \"Phiz\", a pseudonym which was retained in future. When asked to explain why he chose this name he answered that the change from \"Nemo\" to \"Phiz\" was made to harmonize better with Dickens's \"Boz\".\n\nPhiz developed the character Sam Weller graphically just as Seymour had developed Pickwick. Dickens and Phiz became good friends and in 1838 travelled together to Yorkshire to see the schools of which Nicholas Nickleby became the hero: afterwards they made several journeys of this nature in company to facilitate the illustrator's work. Other Dickens characters illustrated by Phiz were Squeers, Micawber, Guppy, Major Bagstock, Mrs Gamp, Tom Pinch and David Copperfield.\n\nOf the ten books by Dickens which Phiz illustrated, he is most known for \"David Copperfield\", \"Pickwick\", \"Dombey and Son\", \"Martin Chuzzlewit\" and \"Bleak House\". Browne made several drawings for \"Punch\" in his early days and also towards the end of his life. He designed the wrapper which was used for eighteen months from January 1842. He also contributed to \"Punch's Pocket Books\".\n\nIn addition to his work for Dickens, Phiz illustrated more than twenty of Lever's novels (among them \"Harry Lorrequer\", \"Charles O'Malley\", \"Jack Hinton\" and the \"Knight of Gwynne\"). He also illustrated Harrison Ainsworth's and Frank Smedley's novels. \"Mervyn Clitheroe\" by Ainsworth is one of the most accomplished of the artist's works. \n\nMost of Browne's work was etched on steel plates because these yielded a far larger edition than copper. Browne was annoyed at some of his etchings being transferred to stone by the publishers and printed as lithographic reproductions. Partly with the view to prevent this treatment of his work, he employed a machine to rule a series of lines over the plate in order to obtain what appeared to be a tint; when manipulated with acid this tint gave an effect somewhat resembling mezzotint, which at that time it was found practically impossible to transfer to stone.\n\nBrowne was in continual employment by publishers until 1867, when he suffered an illness that caused a degree of paralysis. After recovering, he produced many woodcuts. In 1878 he was awarded an annuity by the Royal Academy. His health gradually worsened until he died on 8 July 1882.\n\nFour of his illustrations were issued as stamps by the Royal Mail in 2012 to mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of Charles Dickens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960094", "title": "Snake River Conspiracy", "text": "Snake River Conspiracy\n\nSnake River Conspiracy was an Industrial rock band. It was founded in San Francisco by Jason Slater and Eric Valentine.\n\nThe band was composed of musicians from different bands. The band was founded as a project of Jason Slater (Former member of Third Eye Blind). Lead singer Tobey Torres joined, and later, Martina Axen (drummer and backup singer of Drain STH) joined as well. The drummer of the band was Neil Taylor and is supported by Bobby Hewitt (former drummer of Orgy). The band also consisted of guitarist Eric Hendrikx, Fab Fernandez and the lead guitarist Mitchell Doran. In 2016 Tobey Torres and Mitchell Doran formed a new band called Mojave Phone Booth.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960096", "title": "Bonar Bridge", "text": "Bonar Bridge\n\nBonar Bridge (, ) is a village on the north bank of the Kyle of Sutherland to the west and the Dornoch Firth to the east in the Parish of Creich in the Highland council area of Scotland.\n\nThe Kyle of Sutherland (\"the Kyle\" for locals) is a river estuary of the Rivers Oykel, Cassley, Shin and Carron that all enter the Kyle above the bridge at Bonar.\n\nThe estuary (downstream) and the rivers (upstream) separate Sutherland from Ross and Cromarty to the south, and the estuary opens into the Dornoch Firth to the east.\n\nEvidence of pre-historic inhabitance abounds in the area with many ancient hut circles and cairns.\n\nOne excavation was performed in 2004 by the \"Time Team\" UK Television program. It excavated a small henge and a crannog (artificial-island home) in Loch Migdale.\n\nIn May 1900, a priceless collection of early Bronze Age jewellery known as the Migdale Hoard was discovered by workmen blasting a granite knoll behind Bonar Bridge, near what is known as \"Tulloch Hill\".\n\nDating from about 2000BC, the artifacts are in the custody of the National Museums Scotland in Edinburgh. The Migdale Hoard includes a bronze axe head, sets of bronze bangles and anklets, and a series of beautifully carved jet and cannel coal buttons that may well have adorned a Bronze Age jacket, bronze hair ornaments and fragments of an elaborate bronze headdress.\n\nThere are a number of Pictish Symbol stones in the surrounding area, the closest being at Creich (in field near graveyard), Kincardine Church and Edderton (one at Church, one in field).\n\nSutherland was named so (Sudrland) by the Norse of Orkney as it formed the Southern part of the Norse province of \"Cat\". Modern Caithness was the \"Ness\" part, with the third part \"Strathnavern\" (modern StrathNaver) being the third part (now mostly in modern Sutherland).\nThe Dornoch Firth was the boundary between \"Cat\" and Ross and was called \"Ekkjal\" (Oykell) by the Norse and it is mentioned in the Orkneyinga saga.\n\n\"In the 11th or 12th century a contest of the inhabitants with the Danes is recorded to have occurred at Drin-leah (Drum Leadh), near Bonar Bridge, whence the invaders were driven back with great loss to their ships at Portnacoulter, [Meikle Ferry]. The extraordinary number of tumuli [Cairns] or graves on the scene of [the] action, while they attenst the truth of the tradition, and the greatness of the slaughter, cannot fail to excite the wonder of reflecting persons at the great numbers who must have been engaged and the consequent density of the population at that remote time\".\n\nThe oldest records of local place names (on North side of the Kyle) found on maps are (in order from oldest) Sordel (Swordale, from Norse name) which is now a part of Bonar Bridge and has Swordale Farm, Little Swordale (Sordel Beg) (a mixed Norse Gaelic name with \"Beag\" meaning small in Gaelic) which is now abandoned, Creich (sometimes with Little Creich called out), Migdale then later Tulloch . A name \"Eam\" occurs several times towards Invershin, past Drumliach.\n\nOne such map is Sutherland, Strath Okel & Strath Charron of Robert Gordon's from 1654 or the Bleu Atlas of 1654, both found in the National Library of Scotland.\n\nOn the South side of the Kyle, MidFearn (Ferne 1573) is the oldest location shown, with Kincardine (with its church) appearing next.\n\nThe Battles of Invercarron and Carbisdale took place in 1650 during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms close to the village of Culrain, which lies to the West of Bonar Bridge. The battles were fought between the forces of the Scottish Covenantor Government and royalist forces loyal to the King, led by James Graham, 1st Marquess of Montrose. The royalists were defeated.\n\nIn 1746 the Earl of Cromartie and his forces returning South were attacked by Clan Sutherland near Bonar Bridge, in what became known as the Battle of Bonar Bridge. Most of the Jacobite officers were captured, many of the men were killed and the rest were driven onto the shore where several were drowned trying to swim the Kyle of Sutherland. Thus Clan MacKenzie were prevented from joining the Jacobite army at the Battle of Culloden.\n\nUntil 1812 the only means of crossing the Dornoch Firth was by ferry. On the night of 16 August 1809 over 100 people boarded the ferry boat on the Dornoch side along with goods and stock for the market in Tain. The over-laden ferryboat set off and, though conditions were calm, the boat was dangerously low in the water. About halfway across the boat turned broadside to the tide and began to take in water. It sank almost immediately with the loss of some 99 lives, including the Sheriff of Dornoch, Hugh MacCulloch. Over £2,900 were raised for disaster relief, much of it coming from overseas. It resulted in the construction of Bonar Bridge in 1812.\n\nIn 1927 a school of Pilot Whales ran aground in the Bay between Bonar Bridge and Ardgay.\n\nThe village is at the junction of the A836 road with the A949. The A836 leads north towards Lairg and Tongue and east over the Kyle for 4 miles to the B9176 junction to the A9 at Skiach, near Alness. Then runs along the south bank of the Dornoch Firth to the A9 near Tain. The A949 runs east along the north bank of the Firth to the A9 near Dornoch, at the other extreme of the Dornoch Firth bridge that takes the A9 over the Dornoch Firth from Tain here.\n\nThe village is a transport hub for pupils travelling to Dornoch Academy, Golspie High School and Tain Royal Academy. Stagecoach North Scotland provide numerous services via Bonar Bridge including the 25X-Inverness to Dornoch, 62-Tain to Lairg, 166-Bonar Bridge to Helmsdale, 167-Lairg to Dornoch and the X99 Wick to Inverness.\n\nThe village is 1 mile (1.6 km) from Ardgay railway station, which lies south of the Kyle. Ardgay is on the Far North Line, the railway line linking Inverness with Wick and Thurso. For a long time, Ardgay Station () was called Bonar Bridge Station.\n\nLight airplanes can land at Dornoch aerodrome; otherwise the closest airport is Inverness.\n\nOriginally, the Kyle of Sutherland and the rivers feeding it were crossed where Bonar Bridge lies, and at other points downstream such as Creich (where the small \"Stell\" ferry ruin still stands) and at what was called \"Portnacoulter\" (Meikle Ferry) and upstream at what was called Portinleck (Culrain-Invershin) by small ferry boats (or Cobbles) and much further upstream by small bridges (e.g. Oykel bridge).\n\nThe Bonar Bridge site provided the best point to ford the water without having to travel too far west to cross a bridge. Thus it was the preferred place to cross while droving cattle from the north and north-east to market further south. The fording point lies slightly downstream from the current bridge, more or less where the \"Bonar shot\" salmon fishing station was, below the old ice-house below Dornoch Road.\n\nConstruction of the first bridge (photo) across the Kyle of Sutherland at Bonar Bridge started in September 1811 and completed in November 1812. The engineer was Thomas Telford and the builders were Simpson & Cargill. The components of the bridge were cast in Denbighshire and assembled there, before being taken apart and transported to its site for re-erection. The New Statistical Account for Scotland explains that consideration was given to sites at Meikle Ferry (referred to as Portnacoulter, Port a' Choltair in Gaelic, named for its shape like a \"coulter\" the blade of a plough) which was considered too wide, at Creich (also considered too wide) and at Portinleck (between Culrain and Invershin) which was further up the estuary and required a longer journey around and also a second bridge across the River Carron.\n\nA plaque on the Ross-Shire side of the bridge was engraved with the following text:\n\"Traveller, Stop and Read with gratitude the Names of the Parliamentary Commissioners appointed in the Year 1803 to direct the Making of above Five Hundred Miles of Roads through the Highlands of Scotland and of numerouse Bridges, particularly those at Beauly, Scuddel, Bonar, Fleet, and Helmsdale, connecting those Roads!\"\nThis cast iron arch bridge carried the Great North Road, and was the prototype for several other Telford bridges, including Craigellachie Bridge, Mythe Bridge and Holt Fleet Bridge. The bridges all employed diamond-shaped bracing in the arch spandrels. Spanning 45.7 m (150 ft), Bonar Bridge cost £9,736 to build, and lasted for 80 years. Historian Roland Paxton stated that it \"\"combined elegance with economy and strength to an unparalleled degree\"\".\n\nThe bridge was swept away by a flood on 29 January 1892, a winter of many great floods in the North of Scotland. Apparently this event occurred as predicted by the Brahan Seer.\n\nThe replacement bridge of steel and granite was \"built by The County Councils of Ross and Cromarty and Sutherland 1893 Opened 6th, July, 1893\" (taken from an engraving in a marble plaque on the Bonar end of this bridge).\n\nThe third bridge built at Bonar is the currently standing bridge. It was built alongside the older bridge while it was still standing (but considered weak and needing renewal) and after it was opened to traffic on 14 December 1973 the second bridge was dismantled.\n\nTraffic and commerce through Bonar Bridge has decreased since the construction of the Dornoch Firth Bridge, further down the estuary to the east, and other roads direct to the north-west from Dingwall. \n\nThe Scottish Gaelic word for ford is \"Àth\" (pronounced \"Ah\").\nThe Kyle of Sutherland had a ford here and it became called \"Am Ban Àth\", \"Ban\" meaning 'fair', which would be \"Fairford\" in English.\n\nOver time \"Ban Àth\" became recorded as:\n\nThus the evolution of the name reflects the evolution of the water crossing at this point:\nFairFord -> FairFord Ferry -> FairFord Bridge\n\nLocals refer to the village as \"Bonar\", usually dropping \"Bridge\".\n\nAtlantic Salmon, Sea Trout, Rainbow Trout, Brown Trout, Buzzards, Osprey, Grey Seal, Oyster Catcher, etc.\n\n\nMost years, the village celebrates it Gala Week or the Salmon Queen Week, in August.\n\nNearby places of interest for tourists visiting the area include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960108", "title": "Dempsey", "text": "Dempsey\n\nDempsey is a surname of Irish origin.\n\nDempsey is an anglicised form of Ó Díomasaigh, \"descendant of Díomasach\"; this personal name is the Irish adjective \"díomasach\" \"proud\". The family originated in the Kingdom of Uí Failghe.\n\nAccording to John Grenham:\n\n\"In the original Irish Dempsey is Ó Diomasaigh, from diomasach, meaning \"proud\" or \"arrogant\". The name was also occasionally anglicised \"Proudman\". The Ó Diomasaigh originated in the territory of Clanmalier, on the borders of what are now counties Laois and Offaly, and remained powerful in the area until the seventeenth century. In the 12th century, Henry II set his court up in Dublin and summoned the Leinster Chiefs. The O’Dempsey, Chief of Offaly, refused to attend. Strongbow together with his son-in-law De Quincy marched into the O'Dempsey territory to take land by force. In a famous battle the O'Dempsey together with his followers routed the Normans with great slaughter, an action that kept the Normans out of the Dempsey territories for over 300 years. In later years, their allegiance was to the English and they were involved with the newcomers in the massacre of the O’Lalors in Laois in 1577, an action which local tradition says was responsible for their later losses. Sir Terence: son of Dermod Ruadh; was knighted in May 1599 for services to the Crown by Robert Devereux, earl of Essex, lord lieutenant of Ireland; Charles the first recognised the strength of the family by granting the English titles of Viscount Clanmaliera and Baron Philipstown in 1631 to Terence O'Dempsey. (PJ Goode – The O'Dempsey Chronicles) The loyalty of the family to the Crown was short-lived, however, and the Williamite wars later in the century destroyed their power and scattered them.\"\n\nAnother source states:\n\n\"The O'Dempsey family derive their name from Diummasach, an 11th-century Uí Failge prince of the Clann Máel Ugra, aka Cenél Maoilughra. The Clann Máel Úgra, in turn, took their name from Máelaugrai, an Uí Failge chieftain who flourished in the middle of the 9th century. The center of their territory, anglicized Clanmalier, was near Ballybrittas in northeast Co. Leix. Their power later extended into the barony of Upper Phillipstown. O'Donovan, in his Ordnance Survey letters, places Clann-Maoilughra in the present Barony of Upper Philipstown in the King's County and the Barony of Portnahinch in the Queen's County.\"\n\nAn Ó Diomasaigh genealogy records the following:\n\"Flann m. Máel Ruanaid m. Cellaich m. Máel Augra m. Conchobuir m. Áeda m. Tomaltajich m. Flaind m. Díumasaich m. Congaile m. Forannáin m. Congaile m. Máel h-Umai m. Cathail m. Bruidge m. Nath Í m. Rosa Failgi.\"\n\nThe final person may be identical with Failge Berraide (fl.507–514), a King of the Uí Failge and of Laigin descent (see List of kings of Uí Failghe).\n\nA new bloodline has been recently traced to when the Dempseys came to America. When the family known as the Dempseys got off the boat, they were asked their legal names by American officials, who would put them in the American records, making them a citizen, it was misspelled Dimsey, therefore creating the Dimsey bloodline. Another group of the family came on the boat, and was correctly identified as Dempsey, leading to the American Dempsey bloodline. Similarly, Dempcy dating back to the Revolutionary War, was also a misspelling of Dempsey.\n\nThe Irish annals list a number of members of the family:\n\n\nAn unrelated family, Mac Diomasaigh, are found in County Antrim and its neighbouring counties.\n\nNotable people with the surname Dempsey include:\n\n\nAs a given name:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960117", "title": "Delbert Black", "text": "Delbert Black\n\nDelbert D. Black (11 July 1922 – 5 March 2000) was a senior sailor in the United States Navy who served as the first Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy from 13 January 1967 to 1 April 1971.\n\nBlack was born in Orr, Oklahoma, graduating from high school in 1940. He enlisted in the United States Navy on 14 March 1941.\nDelbert \"Del\" Black was married to Ima Black for 50 years and had a son Donny D. Black.\n\nUpon completion of recruit training in San Diego, Black was assigned to the and was aboard during the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. He later served at Receiving Station, Pearl Harbor; ; Naval Air Base Samar, Philippines; , ; ; U.S. Navy Ceremonial Guard, Washington, D.C.; Yokosuka, Japan ship repair facilities; ; ; ; Recruiting Duty, Columbia, Tennessee; ; ; and Fleet Anti-Air Warfare Training Center (FAAWTC), Dam Neck, Virginia. During his career, he advanced from striking for the rate of Gunner's Mate to the rank of Master Chief.\n\nOn 13 January 1967, the Secretary of the Navy announced the appointment of Master Chief Gunner's Mate (GMCM) Black as the first Senior Enlisted Advisor, the position that would evolve into Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy. As such, he was the highest rated enlisted man in the United States Navy, serving as the enlisted representative to the Chief of Naval Operations. His function was to counsel the highest ranks of the Navy on issues associated with enlisted guidance, leadership, and policy. Black was the first enlisted man to write a foreword for The Bluejacket's Manual.\n\nUpon retirement from active duty, Black continued his involvement with the navy through retired and active duty organizations. He was an active member of the USO Council of Central Florida; the Fleet Reserve Association; and Co-Chairman on the Secretary of Navy Committee on Retired Personnel. He died at his home in Winter Park, Florida from a heart attack at the age of 77. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery, Section 11, Site 496 LH.\nAt a March 13, 2015 ceremony at the Navy Memorial in Washington, D.C., Navy Secretary Ray Mabus and Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy (AW/NAC) Michael D. Stevens announced that an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, \"USS Delbert D. Black\", would honor Delbert Black.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960159", "title": "Mission-type tactics", "text": "Mission-type tactics\n\nMission-type tactics (, from \"Auftrag\" and \"Taktik\"; also known as mission command in the US and UK), is a form of military tactics where the emphasis is on the outcome of a mission rather than the specific means of achieving it. Mission-type tactics have been a central component of the military tactics of German armed forces since the 19th century. The term \"Auftragstaktik\" was coined by opponents of the development of mission-type tactics. Opponents of the implementation of mission-type tactics were called \"Normaltaktiker\". In today's German army, the Bundeswehr, the term \"Auftragstaktik\" is considered an incorrect characterization of the concept; instead, \"Führen mit Auftrag\" (\"leading by mission\") is officially used, but the older, unofficial term is more widespread.\n\nIn mission-type tactics, the military commander gives subordinate leaders a clearly defined goal (the objective), the forces needed to accomplish that goal and a time frame within which the goal must be reached. The subordinate leaders then implement the order independently. The subordinate leader is given, to a large extent, the planning initiative and a freedom in execution which allows a high degree of flexibility at the operational and tactical levels of command. Mission-type orders free the higher leadership from tactical details.\n\nFor the success of the mission-type tactics it is especially important that the subordinate leaders understand the intent of the orders and are given proper guidance and that they are trained so they can act independently. The success of the doctrine rests upon the recipient of orders understanding the intent of the issuer and acting to achieve the goal even if their actions violate other guidance or orders they have received. Taking the risks of violating other previously expressed limitations as a routine step to achieving a mission is a behaviour most easily sustained in a particular type of innovative culture. That culture is today often associated with elite units and not a whole army.\n\nMission-type tactics are advocated, but not always used, by the chain of command in the United States, Canadian, Dutch and British armies. Mission command is compatible with modern military net-centric concepts, and less centralized approaches to command and control (C2) in general. A review and analysis of mission-type tactics in a variety of military establishments is provided by Shamir.\n\nIn translation to English, the German word (which is not, nor ever has been, part of the official German military lexicon) loses some of its impact. It does not describe a set of tactics \"per se\"; it is certainly not limited to the tactical level of operations, nor is it a method of leadership, but it does encapsulate a style of command: \"Tactics focused on accomplishing the task/mission\" as opposed to \"Befehlstaktik\", i.e. \"Tactics focused on executing a set of orders\". Direct orders are an exception in the German armed forces, while \"tasks\" are the standard instrument of leadership from high command down to squad level.\n\nMany other terms were used to denote concepts of mission-type tactics in Germany between 1891 and 1914, including Freies Verfahren (free method), Freie Taktik (free tactics), Auftragsverfahren (mission method), Individualverfahren (individual method), Initiativverfahren (initiative method), to name a few. An excellent discussion of the evolution of the terminology is given by Leistenschneider.\n\nFor a mission-focused command to succeed, it is crucial that subordinate leaders:\n\nThe obverse of this, is the implicit requirement imposed on superior commanders:\n\nThe success of the doctrine rests upon the recipient of orders understanding the intent of whoever issues the orders and acting to achieve the goal even if their actions violate other guidance or orders they have received. Mission-type tactics assume the possibility of violating other, previously expressed limitations as a step to achieving a mission and are a concept most easily sustained in a decentralised command culture. This is quite alien to any organisation in which, at every level, a subordinate commander is only expected (and, therefore, trained) to follow detailed orders.\n\nThis has significant implications for any army considering the adoption of \"Auftragstaktik\". To clarify, the classic German approach called for every commander to be trained to function effectively at two levels of command above his appointment; a platoon commander—an appointment that was, and is, an NCO one in the German Army—would be expected to control battalion actions, if need be.\n\nSome would say that today, such a culture is associated only with elite units and not a whole army. Few armies seem to have mastered the approach. The Wehrmacht are perhaps the premier example—a degree of competence achieved only after rigorous training under Hans von Seeckt between 1919 and 1935. Since World War II, only the Israeli Defence Force seem to have come close to matching the Wehrmacht of World War II in the exercise of command in this style-partly due to a conscious decision on the part of Moshe Dayan, who fought under British command in World War II, and who attended a British Army Staff training course which—according to his memoirs—greatly disappointed him.\n\nThis style of command originates in a state (Prussia) which saw itself as small, surrounded by enemies, and in imminent danger of destruction. The same may be said of Israel. This may offer a clue to the failure of other equally developed armies to adopt this way of exercising command; for example, the British Army in 1987 announced an intention to adopt 'Mission Command', yet an internal 2004 British Army review of command and control in the Iraq War in 2003 clearly shows that they had achieved the reverse: British orders were substantially more detailed, and subordinates generally more constrained than twenty years earlier, indicating that there is more to \"Auftragstaktik\" than process.\n\nAfter the severe defeat of the Prussians by Napoleon in 1806 in the Battle of Jena-Auerstedt, the Prussian military rethought their military approach and aimed to build a college of military capability, the General Staff, as a systemic counter to the individual genius that had so soundly beaten them. Napoleon fought a continual battle of movement. Throughout his career (at least until the Peninsular war) he demonstrated his ability to defeat any enemy by the greater flexibility of his units and through better deployment. The fact that his troops were mainly composed of conscripts showed that it was his organisation of them and not their professional training that must have been superior. The institutionalization of excellence within the Prussian Army was to build this same flexibility as well as the other role of the General Staff Officer, which was to make sure each military unit understood and executed its mission.\n\nOne of the earliest alleged uses of \"Auftragstaktik\" was at the Battle of Königgrätz in the Austro-Prussian War. \"Auftragstaktik\" is one of the tools often claimed to have given the Prussians their decisive victory. This claim is difficult to accept, since no appreciation of \"Auftragstaktik\" had been accepted officially. The Bohemian Campaign could only have been an example of its use if having subordinate commanders that ignore directives from superiors, who march southward when ordered to march east, and treat their senior commanders with barely concealed contempt, can truly be described as a form of \"flexible command\". Most of the Prussian commanders, particularly Frederick Charles of the 1st Prussian Army, had no understanding of Moltke the Elder's strategy. He did not much like those parts he did understand. He was uncooperative when under Moltke's orders and disobeyed them several times. During the battle and without authorisation, he acted on his own initiative and launched a premature attack on the Austrian Army, which nearly ended in disaster. If the Crown Prince Frederick William had arrived only an hour later, the battle might have been decisively lost.\n\nAfter the First World War, this monitoring, coaching and training role built a level of trust, competency and understanding across the whole 4,000-strong German post-war officer corps which made a new level of excellence possible.\n\nExcellence in this case is derived in part from the tradition of Gerhard von Scharnhorst, Carl von Clausewitz and Helmuth von Moltke and was based upon the premise that hard-and-fast rules had no place in the environment of war, which was the realm of human emotion, friction, chance and uncertainty. Moltke is considered one of the principal advocates of independent thinking and acting among his subordinates: Diverse are the situations under which an officer has to act on the basis of his own view of the situation. It would be wrong if he had to wait for orders at times when no orders can be given. But most productive are his actions when he acts within the framework of his senior commander's intent.\n\nUnder the \"Auftragstaktik\" system the selection of combat formations, as well as their route and rate of advance, was based upon a unit's mission, the terrain and the enemy's disposition, something Napoleon was renowned for doing. Building a high level of trust, competency and understanding is crucial for the success of such a doctrine. The freedoms this might imply have challenged many armies' views of military discipline, including the Prussian army's.\n\nThe force flexibility that underlies this command style poses particular challenges once this new, task-oriented formation is created. The creation of combined-arms forces poses particular challenges to command, especially if they are attached during a battle. To this end (in and before WW2) the German General Staff cross-posted officers and NCOs between the different branches of the Army. It was therefore not unusual to find an armor commander with experience of artillery and infantry command. Similarly, NCOs with cross-branch tactical experience ensured that these combined-arms teams did operate in an integrated fashion. The German High Command (OKH) ran multiple exercises, or war games, in the 1930s, starting with small operations and in later years involving very large formations and major movements to ensure doctrinal coherence and the opportunity to revise and learn. The General Staff played a vital role in assuring the quality of these exercises and in ensuring lessons were learnt and much of the philosophy was incorporated in their 1933 Field Manual Truppenführung.\n\nDoctrine is the conceptual underpinning of \"how\" to think and operate effectively; teaching leaders \"what\" to think is dogma; doctrine is thus a framework to ensure common understanding and is the basis of training in armies.\n\nA couple of statements may be in order to underline the general motivation of \"Auftragstaktik\":\n\n\nThus, \"Auftragstaktik\" can be seen as a doctrine within which formal rules can be selectively suspended in order to overcome \"friction\". Problems will occur with misplaced communications, troops going to the wrong location, delays caused by weather etc., and, in case of a battle, by successes of the enemy; it is the duty of the commander to do his best to overcome them. \"Auftragstaktik\" encourages commanders to exhibit initiative, flexibility and improvisation while in command. \"Auftragstaktik\" does not, of course, allow a commander to actually disobey orders, but it \"does\" allow (what may be seen as surprising by some) - and even demand - that he considers an order no longer binding if it wouldn't be given in the changed situation (according to his own judgment); only the intent of the higher commander must be maintained.\n\nThis demands, of course, that junior officers and NCOs - rarely private ranks - both have the skill and also the self-confidence to treat the order accordingly. A sub-leader whose first fear is to be lectured by his superior, and hence cannot bring himself to do anything else with orders than execute them to the letter, is not capable of \"Auftragstaktik\". Also, it means that the so-called \"leader on site\" (German: \"Führer vor Ort\") and to determine who that is (say, if soldiers from different units without uniting command structure fight together in one place) becomes rather more important than the vertical chain of command. This is because the leader on site must be obeyed unconditionally (that is, within the bounds of international law, penal law and human dignity); as for higher but \"absent\" leaders, it is ultimately in the leader on site's responsibility to determine whether the situation has changed (though of course if he deviates from an order he will have to explain his actions afterward).\n\nThere are cases cited where in combat the operational orders were a copy of orders that had been issued for an earlier operation or training exercise. It is claimed that almost the only thing that was changed were unit names and locations. This strongly suggests that long experience of operations had allowed senior commanders to be quite abstract in their orders, issued without great fear of being misunderstood. It also suggests that sequences of moves on quite a large scale were already familiar to the forces involved which probably made their execution better.\n\n\"\"The paradox of war in the Information Age is one of managing massive amounts of information and resisting the temptation to overcontrol it. The competitive advantage is nullified when you try to run decisions up and down the chain of command. All platoons and tank crews have real-time information on what is going on around them, the location of the enemy, and the nature and targeting of the enemy's weapons system. Once the commander's intent is understood, decisions must be devolved to the lowest possible level to allow these front line soldiers to exploit the opportunities that develop\".\" —General Gordon R. Sullivan, quoted in \"Delivering Results\" by David Ulrich.\n\nAnalysis by the US Army of the 1939 German campaign in Poland found that \"The emphasis which the Germans placed on the development of leadership and initiative in commanders during years of preparatory training brought its rewards in the Polish campaign. With confidence that these principles had been properly inculcated, all commanders, from the highest to the lowest echelons, felt free to carry out their missions or meet changes in situations with a minimum of interference by higher commanders.\" They recognized that \"initiative, flexibility and mobility\" were the essential aspects of German tactics.\n\nA key aspect of mission-type tactics is forward control. In order to understand what is happening at the point of action and to be able to take decisions quickly, the operational commander needs to be able to observe results. The decision to deviate from original plans in pursuit of the mission must be made here for 'friction' to be overcome and momentum to be sustained. The impact of the application of personal influence was thought to be critical and only possible because of the bench-strength provided by general staff officers managing in the formations' rear. This aspect is also responsible for the high casualty rate amongst commanders even in successful operations (5% of all dead). Heinz Guderian ensured that all German tanks had radio receivers in order to make his command effective.\n\nThe domination of the battlefield, combined with the difficulty of discerning the pattern of the attacker's assault which uses integrated command of combined arms teams, means that conventional force strategies are rendered ineffective as the \"Front seemed to disappear\".\n\nIf the principles of mission command are maintained but applied in a different (facilitated) manner they are equally applicable and effective in business. This has been demonstrated by authors such as Stephen Bungay (\"The Art of Action\", 2011), and Jeremy Tozer (\"Leading Initiatives\", 1995 and \"Leading Through Leaders\", 2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960164", "title": "Handful of Rain", "text": "Handful of Rain\n\nHandful of Rain is the eighth studio album by American heavy metal band Savatage, released in 1994. This is the first album since the death of the band's founding member and lead guitarist Criss Oliva who in turn had contributed to writing on two of its songs before his passing, namely \"Taunting Cobras\" and \"Nothing's Going On\".\n\n\"Handful of Rain\" marked the only time that Savatage had recorded together as a three-piece, their only release with former Testament guitarist Alex Skolnick (who had replaced Criss), and their only one without Johnny Lee Middleton (who is credited on the insert, but did not perform) since 1985's \"Power of the Night\". Drummer Steve Wacholz (also credited) had already left Savatage by the time the album was recorded. Instead of replacing Middleton and Wacholz, Jon Oliva provided both drums and bass on the album as well as rhythm guitar, piano, keyboards, and backing vocals.\n\nBefore the recording of the band's previous album, \"Edge of Thorns\", Jon Oliva had temporarily left the band and stepped down as lead vocalist, and was replaced on vocals by Zak Stevens. After the recording drummer and founding member Steve Wacholz left the band and was replaced by Andy James, who quit the band immediately after Criss Oliva's death and was also contacted by Zak Stevens and Jon Olivia about tracking drums for HOA but declined to do so. The band's original plan for the next album was to have Jon Oliva rejoin the band on keys and secondary vocals, along with former rhythm guitarist Chris Caffery at a later date, but this was shaken up due to the death of lead guitarist and founding member Criss Oliva at the end of 1993.\n\nJon Oliva and producer Paul O'Neill decided to keep Savatage going to honour the memory of Criss, and went to Morrisound Studios in Tampa, Florida to work on the next album. They had invited Middleton, Stevens, Wacholz and Caffery to join them, but these were still dealing with the death of Criss and did not show up. Jon Oliva and O'Neill started writing and recording the album together, with Oliva performing all drums and bass on the album, with both he and O'Neill responsible for rhythm guitar and keyboards. Oliva also performed some lead guitar, but the pair eventually enlisted former Testament guitarist Alex Skolnick to record most of the guitar solos, and subsequently contacted vocalist Zak Stevens to record the vocal parts for the album.\n\nThe first album since the death of Criss Oliva, the music is often dark in reflection of brother Jon Oliva's loss. \"Chance\" is about Chiune Sugihara, a Japanese diplomat in Lithuania during World War II who defied government orders by signing exit visas for thousands of Jewish refugees. \"Castles Burning\" is about Giovanni Falcone, an Italian magistrate killed by the mafia in 1992. \"Alone You Breathe\" is a tribute to Criss which reuses the chord progression (albeit in a different key) and lyrics from the \"\" song \"Believe\" in its long coda, and also part of the ending chorus in the \"Gutter Ballet\" song \"When The Crowds Are Gone\", although the lyrics do not mirror his death and the songs are not literally about him.\n\nThe album also marked the first time Savatage wrote a trademark vocal counterpoint in a song. The third section of \"Chance\" has at one point, five overdubbed vocals from singer Zak Stevens.\n\nAlthough it was more a Jon Oliva's solo effort, the album was released on August 16, 1994 as the eighth Savatage album. Oliva could not appear as a band member for contractual problems and so the sleeve and booklet included photos of both Wacholz and Middleton to maintain a more \"classic\" Savatage line-up feeling to the release. Wacholz is also in the video for the song \"Handful of Rain\". Jeff Plate, a former bandmate of Stevens, did not play the drums on the album, but was pictured as part of the band line-up in the European edition of the album. Plate would become a full-fledged member of the band by the time of their next release, \"Dead Winter Dead\" in 1995.\n\nThe title track was originally released as an abridged version, missing its second verse. Some editions of the album (for instance, the \"Rock Masters\" version released on the iTunes Store) include the omitted piece, referred to by the band and fans alike as \"The Barmaid Verse\".\n\nThe touring band consisted of Stevens on lead vocals and Middleton on bass guitar as the only remaining members of the line-up from the previous album. The tour also featured the official return of Jon Oliva to the band, who played keyboards, rhythm guitar and also performed vocals on several songs. The line-up was rounded out by lead guitarist Skolnick and Plate on drums.\n\nThe tour in support of \"Handful of Rain\" was documented in the live album \"Japan Live '94\", which was released in 1995.\n\nIn a contemporary review for \"Rock Hard\" magazine, Matthias Breusch was disappointed for not being able to elect \"Handful of Rain\" among the best records of the month, like he did with \"Edge of Thorns\". Despite sounding like a true Savatage album and a natural progression from previous works, he found the album lacking \"catchy tunes\" and \"uptempo anthems\", with the best tracks being slower songs and ballads exalted by Skolnick's guitar work.\n\nModern reviews are mixed. Alex Henderson of AllMusic considered \"Handful of Rain\" an excellent album \"that is melodic, ambitious, often operatic and consistently absorbing\" and the band \"impressively consistent\", even after the personnel changes caused by Criss Oliva's death. Martin Popoff instead wrote that the album was \"upsetting and confusing\" for older fans, confirming the band's \"fascination for power pomp, accomplished, progressive light/heavy balladry\", with less focus on fast heavy metal.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960171", "title": "Sérgio Ferreira", "text": "Sérgio Ferreira\n\nSérgio Ferreira may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1960173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960173", "title": "Håkan Mild", "text": "Håkan Mild\n\nStig Håkan Mild (born 14 June 1971) is a Swedish former professional footballer who played as a central midfielder. He is director of sports at IFK Göteborg, his main club as a player, with which he won four Swedish Championships. He was also part of the Swedish national team that finished third in the 1994 World Cup.\n\nBorn in Trollhättan, Västra Götaland, Mild started his career with the local club Trollhättans FK, and was early on scouted by the at that time leading Swedish club IFK Göteborg which he joined in 1988. He made his debut in the first team of IFK Göteborg the same year, in a friendly match against IF Elfsborg, 29 September. He played his first league game the following season, when he came on as a substitute against Halmstads BK, 26 July. He then scored his first goal in a competitive match in 1990, and became Swedish champion for the first time that same year, playing in a majority of the club's matches during the season.\n\nHe became a regular in the team and won another championship title the next season, as well as winning Svenska Cupen. He also scored his first goal in Allsvenskan in 1991, and played four matches in the European Cup. He was at the time a member of the Swedish Olympic team that competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics, where he played all four matches. He returned to European football and played all ten matches in the 1992–93 UEFA Champions League, against amongst others A.C. Milan and FC Porto. Mild also scored a goal against Lech Poznań in the qualifying round of the tournament. He became Swedish champion with IFK again in 1993.\n\nHåkan Mild then moved abroad to Swiss club Servette FC where he won the Swiss Super League title the first season. He then played in the 1994 World Cup, where he was substituted on in two games, and played the last three games—quarter-final, semi-final and third place match—from start scoring one goal and assisting one. He returned to Servette FC to play another season but his first visit on the continent was not very successful and he returned to IFK Göteborg for the second half of the 1995 season. He led the club to another Swedish Championship the following season, but left the club again, this time to play in Spain and Real Sociedad.\n\nHe played 49 matches in Primera Division over two seasons, and was a member of the squad that finished third in 1997–98, the club's best result during the 1990s. He returned home to Gothenburg and IFK a second time, but had to tamper with injury problems the second half of 1998. He played another three seasons before trying his luck in another club abroad, this time Wimbledon F.C. in England. This proved to be his least successful stay abroad, playing only nine matches over a little more than one season. The low, but undisclosed, fee for his transfer to Wimbledon gave Mild a bad conscience, so he chose to not accept the almost 500,000 SEK (around US$50,000 at that time) of match bonuses he had not yet been paid. This, amongst other things, has given Håkan Mild a special status amongst the IFK fans.\n\nHe returned in time to help IFK stay in Allsvenskan during the worst season of the club since 1976—when the club played in Division 2—as they barely avoided relegation by winning a play-off after the season's end. Mild then played another three seasons, partially interrupted by injury problems. He played his last match 11 December 2005 home against FC Lyn Oslo in the Royal League tournament, and his name was sung during all 90 minutes of the match, as a final farewell. He then assumed the position of director of sports in the club.\n\nHe played a total of 459 matches over 18 years for IFK Göteborg, and is regarded as one of the club's greatest players ever not only due to his work on the field, but also for his club spirit, leader qualities and work ethics. He has only represented one Swedish club on higher levels, and statements such as \"IFK is my home\" and \"IFK has always meant so much to me that it sometimes has become a problem\" has only cemented the view on him amongst supporters as one of the greatest.\n\nHe played 74 games for the Swedish national team, scoring eight goals, and besides participation in the 1994 FIFA World Cup and the 1992 Summer Olympics, he also played in Euro 2000.\n\nIn 2001, he did a running test called the Pacer test and scored a record high of 19.2 which is the best ever recorded.\n\n\nSweden\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960180", "title": "Kid Auto Races at Venice", "text": "Kid Auto Races at Venice\n\nKid Auto Races at Venice (also known as The Pest) is a 1914 American film starring Charles Chaplin in which his \"Little Tramp\" character makes his first appearance in a film exhibited before the public. The first film to be produced that featured the character was actually \"Mabel's Strange Predicament\"; it was shot a few days before \"Kid Auto Races\" but released two days after it.\n\nMade by Keystone Studios and directed by Henry Lehrman, the movie portrays Chaplin as a spectator at a \"baby-cart race\" in Venice, Los Angeles. The spectator keeps getting in the way of the camera and interferes with the race, causing great frustration to the public and participants. The film was shot during the Junior Vanderbilt Cup, an actual race with Chaplin and Lehrman improvising gags in front of real-life spectators.\n\nUnusually the camera breaks the fourth wall to show a second camera filming (as though it were the first), to better explain the joke. At this stage Chaplin gets in the way only of the visible camera on screen, not the actual filming camera. In so doing it takes on a spectator's viewpoint and becomes one of the first public films to show a film camera and cameraperson in operation.\n\nIn the year that the film was released, a reviewer from the silent movie periodical \"Bioscope\" wrote, \"Some sensational happenings are witnessed during the contests between the baby cars, while the funny man persistently obstructs the eager cameramen in their operations.\" A reviewer from the silent movie periodical \"The Cinema\" noted, \"Kid Auto Races struck us as about the funniest film we have ever seen. When we subsequently saw Chaplin in more ambitious efforts, our opinion that the Keystone Company had made the capture of their career was strengthened. Chaplin is a born screen comedian; he does things we have never seen done on the screen before.\"\n\n\nBy 1914, the Vanderbilt Cup had become an important automobile racing event in the United States, and the 1914 event was to be held in Santa Monica, California. The city decided to sponsor a junior version of the event, apparently with several classes of engines and with age limits for the drivers. Some classes had no engines and used a ramp to accelerate the cars in a manner similar to soap box derby races. Other classes used small engines. Chaplin's movie includes one scene shot at the bottom of the ramp used for the engineless races. There is no evidence that Junior Vanderbilt Cups were held either before or after the 1914 event. Actual silver cups were awarded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960186", "title": "Error catastrophe", "text": "Error catastrophe\n\nError catastrophe is the extinction of an organism (often in the context of microorganisms such as viruses) as a result of excessive mutations. Error catastrophe is something predicted in mathematical models and has also been observed empirically.\n\nLike every organism, viruses 'make mistakes' (or mutate) during replication. The resulting mutations increase biodiversity among the population and help subvert the ability of a host's immune system to recognise it in a subsequent infection. The more mutations the virus makes during replication, the more likely it is to avoid recognition by the immune system and the more diverse its population will be (see the article on biodiversity for an explanation of the selective advantages of this). However, if it makes too many mutations, it may lose some of its biological features which have evolved to its advantage, including its ability to reproduce at all.\n\nThe question arises: \"how many mutations can be made during each replication before the population of viruses begins to lose self-identity?\"\n\nConsider a virus which has a genetic identity modeled by a string of ones and zeros (e.g. 11010001011101...). Suppose that the string has fixed length \"L\" and that during replication the virus copies each digit one by one, making a mistake with probability \"q\" independently of all other digits.\n\nDue to the mutations resulting from erroneous replication, there exist up to \"2\" distinct strains derived from the parent virus. Let \"x\" denote the concentration of strain \"i\"; let \"a\" denote the rate at which strain \"i\" reproduces; and let \"Q\" denote the probability of a virus of strain \"i\" mutating to strain \"j\".\n\nThen the rate of change of concentration \"x\" is given by\n\nAt this point, we make a mathematical idealisation: we pick the fittest strain (the one with the greatest reproduction rate \"a\") and assume that it is unique (i.e. that the chosen \"a\" satisfies \"a > a\" for all \"i\"); and we then group the remaining strains into a single group. Let the concentrations of the two groups be \"x , y\" with reproduction rates \"a>b\", respectively; let \"Q\" be the probability of a virus in the first group (\"x\") mutating to a member of the second group (\"y\") and let \"R\" be the probability of a member of the second group returning to the first (via an unlikely and very specific mutation). The equations governing the development of the populations are:\n\nWe are particularly interested in the case where \"L\" is very large, so we may safely neglect \"R\" and instead consider:\n\nThen setting \"z = x/y\" we have\n\nAssuming \"z\" achieves a steady concentration over time, \"z\" settles down to satisfy\n\n(which is deduced by setting the derivative of \"z\" with respect to time to zero).\n\nSo the important question is \"under what parameter values does the original population persist (continue to exist)?\" The population persists if and only if the steady state value of \"z\" is strictly positive. i.e. if and only if:\n\nThis result is more popularly expressed in terms of the ratio of \"a:b\" and the error rate \"q\" of individual digits: set \"b/a = (1-s)\", then the condition becomes\n\nTaking a logarithm on both sides and approximating for small \"q\" and \"s\" one gets\n\nreducing the condition to:\n\nRNA viruses which replicate close to the error threshold have a genome size of order 10 (10000) base pairs. Human DNA is about \"3.3\" billion (10) base units long. This means that the replication mechanism for human DNA must be orders of magnitude more accurate than for the RNA of RNA viruses.\n\nTo avoid error catastrophe, the amount of information lost through mutation must be less than the amount gained through natural selection. This fact can be used to arrive at essentially the same equations as the more common differential presentation.\n\nThe information lost can be quantified as the genome length \"L\" times the replication error rate \"q\". The probability of survival, \"S\", determines the amount of information contributed by natural selection— and information is the negative log of probability. Therefore, a genome can only survive unchanged when\n\nFor example, the very simple genome where \"L = 1\" and \"q = 1\" is a genome with one bit which always mutates. Since \"Lq\" is then 1, it follows that S has to be ½ or less. This corresponds to half the offspring surviving; namely the half with the correct genome.\n\nSome viruses such as polio or hepatitis C operate very close to the critical mutation rate (i.e. the largest \"q\" that \"L\" will allow). Drugs have been created to increase the mutation rate of the viruses in order to push them over the critical boundary so that they lose self-identity. However, given the criticism of the basic assumption of the mathematical model, this approach is problematic.\nThe result introduces a Catch-22 mystery for biologists, Eigen's paradox: in general, large genomes are required for accurate replication (high replication rates are achieved by the help of enzymes), but a large genome requires a high accuracy rate \"q\" to persist. Which comes first and how does it happen? An illustration of the difficulty involved is \"L\" can only be 100 if \"q\"' is 0.99 - a very small string length in terms of genes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960189", "title": "USS Philip (DD-498)", "text": "USS Philip (DD-498)\n\nUSS \"Philip\" (DD/DDE-498), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Rear Admiral John W. Philip (1840–1900).\n\n\"Philip\" was laid down by the Federal Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co., Kearny, New Jersey, 7 May 1942; launched 13 October 1942; sponsored by Mrs. Barrett Philip; and commissioned 21 November 1942, Commander Thomas C. Ragan in command. Among the junior officers at commissioning was Ensign Benjamin C. Bradlee, who later became executive editor of \"The Washington Post\".\n\n\"Philip\"s first mission came during the early morning of 30 June 1943 when she bombarded installations in the Shortland Islands area in the southwest Pacific. Operating in the screen of the Second Transport Group, \"Philip\", on 15 August 1943, made a good showing in her first scrape with the enemy. Several bomb splashes were seen near Barakoma Beach, Vella Lavella, indicating that Japanese bombers were attacking the LCIs unloading there. A few minutes later, two dive bombers headed for \"Philip\" to unload their explosives. Each dropped a bomb, but both missed. The first aircraft, taken under fire by the ship's guns, kept getting closer until a friendly F4U Corsair took over the fight. Guns were shifted to the second and they soon shot it down.\n\nJapanese aircraft came back for another attack at nightfall. Silhouetted clearly against a full moon, \"Philip\" was the most desirable target. One torpedo wake passed a few yards astern and another crossed parallel to the ship after it was seen in time to take evasive action. The ship's guns kept firing at one of the bombers, finally shooting it down.\n\nAgain during the next evening, Japanese aircraft made several attacks. This time, their objective proved to be the cumbersome LSTs withdrawing from Barakoma Beach. While laying a heavy smoke screen and shooting at the aircraft, \"Philip\" collided with under the cover of her own smoke. Although damage to both vessels resulted, damage control parties of both ships rigged up shoring to prevent flooding and stayed in the battle. \"Philip\" kept her guns firing at the Japanese aircraft, one was shot down and another was claimed as a possible kill.\n\nThe Japanese continued to press their attacks in an attempt to dislodge American forces from their toehold on the Solomons. One aircraft released its torpedo and then flew between the ship's stacks and another was shot down, crashing into the sea 30 yards to port. A second attack brought another close call; two torpedoes dropped 15 yards astern. \"Philip\"s anti-aircraft guncrews shot down one of the torpedo bombers.\n\nTwo days later, while leading a convoy out of Tulagi, the destroyer launched a pair of attacks on what appeared to be a Japanese submarine, without damage to the enemy.\n\nOn 27 October, the destroyer fired at mortar emplacements on Mono Island and then came into Blanche Harbor, Treasury Island, Solomons. Six enemy Aichi D3A aircraft attempted to destroy the transports sitting there. The attack was repelled and \"Philip\" did her share by hitting one aircraft, which was seen to fly away in flames.\n\nA barge sweep off Bougainville and bombardment of Choiseul Bay was conducted on 8 January 1944; ten days later, the destroyer returned for gunnery support on Bougainville, raking the island's northeast shores with surface fire.\n\nLeading a convoy of LCIs into Bougainville on 15 February, \"Philip\" weathered a bombing attack similar to earlier actions; but retaliated in like manner, damaging one aircraft and repelling the others.\n\nAfter a bombardment of Empress Augusta Bay 14 March, \"Philip\" left to take part in the Marianas campaign. From 17 June to the end of July, the destroyer's guns were in use almost daily against enemy positions on Saipan and Tinian. Known gun emplacements, troop concentrations, and air fields were the main targets, although several smaller engagements were performed at small craft in Tinian and boats in Tanapag Harbor.\n\nThe Philippines came next. An assault on Mindoro, 12–15 December, was her initial step. One airplane was damaged in the battle. More fierce airplane attacks came when \"Philip\" joined a screening force around a resupply echelon traveling from Leyte to Mindoro, later that month. Frequent raids with coordinated bombing and suicide attacks by as many as six planes at one time greeted the slow convoy during its entire trip. Two of the attackers were shot down by the destroyer and another was damaged. A 20-millimeter shell, fired by an LCT at a Japanese plane, landed upon the aluminum spray shield on the ship's starboard bridge wing, tearing a hole in the structure and wounding two men. One of the wounded men died five hours after the accident.\n\nMany of the ships were not as fortunate as \"Philip\", which escaped with comparatively little damage. Kamikaze aircraft struck many of the less maneuverable merchant ships.\n\nWhen received a hit from a kamikaze \"Philip\" assisted with two of her men, acting upon their own initiative, boarding the crippled destroyer, setting her depth charges on safe, and jettisoning them.\n\nSteaming out of Leyte 5 January 1945, \"Philip\" sailed to join a task group which went on to invade Lingayen Gulf, Luzon Island, Philippines, 9 January. The destroyer remained in the area until 12 January, screening the transports as they unloaded. Several air attacks and suicide boat assaults were encountered during the journey from Leyte.\n\nDuring the early morning of 10 January, the destroyer challenged a small boat which it picked up on radar. The small craft, acting queerly, did not reply. After illuminating the small explosive-laden boat, \"Philip\" opened with its 20-millimeter and .45 sub-machine guns. The boat turned sharply, headed directly for the ship's port side amidships but was exploded 20 yards short of her mark.\n\nTwo brief fire support missions were conducted in the occupation of Zamboanga Peninsula, Mindanao, during March, and assaults on Sanga-Sanga and Jolo Islands, Sulu Archipelago, Philippines, were successfully conducted by \"Philip\" during 2–10 April.\n\nOn 30 April, the destroyer joined a special attack unit to transport, protect, and establish units of the 26th Australian Brigade on Sauau, Borneo, N.E.I. Major landings on Tarakan Island followed a day later; enemy opposition in force was surprisingly absent.\n\nRelieved of radar picket duty off Brunei Bay on 12 June, \"Philip\" rendezvoused with a minesweeping group and left to clear the area of Miri-Luton, Sarawak, Borneo, in preparation for an assault which was to come seven days later.\n\nHaving previously paved the way for an assault landing on Brunei Bay, Borneo, \"Philip\" covered the \"sweeps\" while preparations were made for the next invasion. A total of 246 mines were cut loose from the heavily planted area, not without loss of much valuable sweep gear. Hostile gun positions in the Miri area were softened by the destroyer while the minesweepers performed their chores.\n\nElements of the First Australian Corps, loaded at Morotai, landed at Balikpapan, Borneo, 1 July, while \"Philip\" stood guard for enemy attempts to hinder the invasion. Remaining in the area until 19 July, the destroyer bombarded the surrounding shores and helped repel such feeble air attacks as the Japanese could muster.\n\nThe end of the war followed the Borneo operation, but it did not bring about immediate return to the United States for the busy destroyer. She was sent to China on mine destruction duty and remained in the Pacific area until late in 1945.\n\nThe veteran destroyer got back to the West Coast just in time to allow the crew to spend New Year's Eve on home soil. She subsequently sailed to the Atlantic and, by Directive dated January 1947, was placed out of commission, in reserve, attached to the U.S. Atlantic Reserve Fleet, berthed at Charleston, South Carolina\n\n\"Philips classification was changed to DDE-498\"' on 26 March 1949.\n\n\"Philip\" recommissioned at Charleston, South Carolina 30 June 1950, and sailed to the Panama Canal Zone and San Diego en route to her new home port, Pearl Harbor. Here she arrived 10 September 1950, and immediately assumed her part in advanced hunter-killer exercises. During the autumn of 1950, \"Philip\" acted as plane-guard for the aircraft bearing President Harry S. Truman to his mid-ocean conference with General Douglas MacArthur on Wake Island, to discuss the conduct of the Korean War.\n\n\"Philip\" departed Pearl Harbor 1 June 1951 for Midway and Yokosuka, Japan. On 15 June, she joined Task Force 77 (TF 77) in the Sea of Japan for duty screening the fast carrier task force as it conducted air operations against enemy forces in North Korea. She returned to Japan for anti-submarine warfare exercises from 30 June to 10 July, and next day sailed for Taiwan and duty on patrol in the Taiwan Straits. A visit to Hong Kong which began 29 July was interrupted by Typhoon Louise. Through August, \"Philip\" continued her patrol duties, and early in September conducted anti-submarine exercises off Okinawa until 11 September when she put into Yokosuka for upkeep.\n\nOn 24 September 1951 \"Philip\" was bound for the east coast of Korea. Here she had escort duty with TF 77 until 3 October, when she received orders which sent her to duty on the west coast of Korea with the United Nations Naval Forces which included Australian and British units. Here \"Philip\" screened the carrier group, and served to enforce the naval blockade on the 38th parallel.\n\nFighting her way through the most devastating typhoon in years, Ruth, \"Philip\" steamed back to duty with TF 77, joining up 15 October. Released from this duty 31 October. \"Philip\" proceeded to Yokosuka, and departed 2 November for Pearl Harbor.\n\nOn arriving at Pearl Harbor, the ship commenced a yard period, which was followed by a period of refresher training. Underway training and plane guard duty continued until 27 October 1952, when \"Philip\" began a short drydock period, part of her preparation for another tour of duty in the Korean War. She departed Pearl Harbor 10 November, bound for Yokosuka, Japan, where she arrived ten days later.\n\nLate in the afternoon of 25 November 1952 \"Philip\" joined Task Force 78, and began duty in the screen of the task force. Later duty included a shore bombardment patrol in company with in the vicinity of latitude 38'30'N off the east coast of Korea. On 5 December, the two vessels entered Wonsan Harbor to fire on shore targets, and then returned to the bombline to carry out call fire missions. Steady steaming with TF-78 was resumed from 8 December until 27 December, interrupted only by a night search for a sonar contact and two rescue missions for pilots of downed aircraft. After a period of tender availability in Yokosuka, \"Philip\" resumed similar duty until May 1953.\n\n\"Philip\" returned to Pearl Harbor 29 May 1953, and operated for a month in training exercises. Late in June she began an intensive three-month overhaul at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard. Overhaul completed, she returned to a busy schedule of operations in the Hawaiian group which included search and rescue missions, anti-submarine exercises, practice shore bombardment, and carrier plane guard duties.\n\nA major fleet exercise occupied \"Philip\" during the first months of 1954, and she then began preparations for another journey to the Western Pacific. On 14 June, she stood out for Yokosuka, Japan, where she arrived 23 June, mooring alongside for two days of tender availability. \"Philip\" then got underway for the Shimonoseki Straits and Chinhae, Korea. After reporting for duty with Task Force 95, \"Philip\" steamed to Inchon to join and act as plane guard for the British carrier on the United Nations Blockade. \"Philip\" escorted \"Warrior\" to Kure, Japan, 4 July, and sailed on to Sasebo for a week's restricted availability.\n\nAfter further service in Korean waters, \"Philip\" left Japan for Pearl Harbor, arriving home 29 August 1954 for a month's overhaul, She resumed operations in the Hawaiian Islands until 15 March 1955, when she entered the yard for a comprehensive overhaul. Overhaul was followed by refresher training and preparation for another Far Eastern deployment. On 8 August 1955, she sailed for Yokosuka, Japan, arriving ten days later. On this tour of duty, she participated in large scale antisubmarine warfare exercises off Okinawa, operated with Task Force 77, and served on the Taiwan Patrol before heading for home 6 January 1956.\n\nOperations in Hawaiian waters occupied \"Philip\" between 15 January 1956, and 30 October when she once more took departure for the Far East. Serving primarily in Japanese waters, \"Philip\" completed a shorter tour than previously, and was back home in Pearl Harbor 22 January 1957.\n\nDuring 1957, she joined Destroyer Squadron 25, unique in its three divisions, rather than the usual two. The escort destroyers of Destroyer Squadron 25 were so deployed that one division of the three was in the Far East at any given time, and it was on this schedule that \"Philip\" once more sailed for the Orient 27 December.\n\nArriving in Yokosuka 5 January 1958 \"Philip\" served on exercises off Japan and Okinawa, in the Philippine Islands, and in the South China Sea until 23 April, when her division began the homeward bound voyage, by an unusual route. Arriving in Brisbane, Australia 2 May, \"Philip\" visited Melbourne and Sydney, Australia; Wellington, New Zealand; and Pago Pago, American Samoa, before returning to Pearl Harbor 29 May. Here she resumed her operations in the Hawaiian Group throughout the remainder of 1958.\n\nFrom the latter part of June 1958 until the end of January 1959, \"Philip\" took part in hunter-killer operations, conducted shore bombardment, air, and surface shoots, single and dual ship antisubmarine exercises, and fulfilled the duties of plane guard destroyer for the super carrier . On 18 February, \"Philip\" and the other escort destroyers of DesDiv 252 got underway and proceeded to Yokosuka, Japan. \"Philip\" operated around Japan and in the South China Sea before arriving Brisbane, Australia, 11 July. The deployment ended at Pearl Harbor 30 July.\n\nThe division sailed from Honolulu again for Yokosuka 22 April 1960. After operating in the waters of Japan and Okinawa \"Philip\" returned to Pearl Harbor 29 October 1960. On 4 February 1962 \"Philip\" was off for Yokosuka again. This cruise was spent in the waters of Japan, the Philippines, and Vietnam. Effective 1 July 1962 \"Philip\" was redesignated from DDE to DD. \"Philip\" returned to Pearl Harbor 18 July 1962.\n\nOn 3 October 1962, \"Philip' operated with the Essex Class carrier USS Kearsarge CVS-33 (primary recovery ship) in the recovery of astronaut Wally Schirra who flew aboard the Mercury - Atlas 8 mission who splashed down in the Pacific at 32°07'30\"N, 174°45'W.\n\n\"Philip\" steamed again for Yokosuka 12 November 1963, operating again in Japanese, Philippine, and Vietnamese waters, and returning to Pearl Harbor 10 April 1964. After another period of operations out of Hawaii, \"Philip\" steamed for Yokosuka again 19 April 1965. This cruise was highlighted by duty on Yankee Station off Vietnam and by patrol of the Taiwan straits. She returned home 1 October 1965.\n\nThe USS \"Philip was featured in the 1965 Otto Preminger film \"In Harm's Way\" starring John Wayne. It makes its appearance as the fictitious destroyer USS \"Cassiday (with an altered hull number of DD 298) that steams out of Pearl Harbor at the beginning of the 7 Dec 1941 attack, joins up with the Wayne character's cruiser in an \"ad hoc\" task group, depth charges a Japanese submarine that attacks the task group, and pulls alongside the Wayne character's cruiser to render aid after it has been torpedoed by the same Japanese submarine.\n\n\"Philip\" was decommissioned 30 September 1968 and struck from the Navy List on 1 October 1968. She was sold 15 December 1971 but sank in a storm on her way to be scrapped 2 February 1972.\n\n\"Philip\" received nine battle stars for World War II service and five battle stars for Korean War service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960195", "title": "Veterans' Glass City Skyway", "text": "Veterans' Glass City Skyway\n\nThe Veterans' Glass City Skyway, commonly called the Toledo Skyway Bridge, is a cable-stayed bridge on Interstate 280 in Toledo, Ohio. After many delays, it opened in 2007. The bridge has taken traffic and reduced delays on the Robert Craig Memorial Bridge, a bascule bridge that was, until its transfer to local control, one of the last moveable bridges on the Interstate highway system. The Skyway is Ohio Department of Transportation's (ODOT) biggest single construction project.\n\nThe ODOT and the city of Toledo began planning the bridge in April 1999. The project consisted of building an span across the Maumee River and low-lying land on its banks. The community selected a \"glass\" theme for the bridge design, choosing to honor the region's heritage in the glass manufacturing industry. The bridge was designed by Figg Bridge Engineers, Inc. for ODOT.\n\nConstruction began in 2001. The main span over the Maumee River is a cable-stayed type bridge with a single pylon and two spans 612'-6\" (200 m) on each side of the pylon. The main span approaches are about north of the river and south of the Maumee. The bridge opened to traffic on June 24, 2007.\n\nThe bridge carries three lanes of traffic in each direction. The road surface reaches a height of above the surface of the Maumee River. The bridge is the most expensive project ever undertaken by ODOT, costing about US$237 million.\n\nThe main attraction of the bridge is the single pylon which contains 384 light emitting diode (LED) fixtures that can create 16.7 million color combinations. The LEDs shine through the glass facing on all four sides of upper 196 feet of the main pylon. These lights can be visible up to away.\n\nThe bridge is one of two installations of a new cable-stayed cradle system that eliminates anchorages in the pylon by carrying the stays from anchorages in the bridge deck, through the pylon and back to anchorages in the deck. The cradle system provides many benefits during construction and over the 100+ year service life of the bridge. Each strand acts independently, allowing for the selective removal, inspection and replacement of the strands.\n\nThe supplanted Craig Bridge was named in memory of Second Lieutenant Robert Craig, World War II veteran and recipient of the Medal of Honor. Veterans' groups originally opposed any name that did not memorialize Lt. Craig. As a compromise, the name \"Veterans' Glass City Skyway\" was selected for the new bridge, honoring all veterans, while the Craig Bridge remains in place, carrying a rerouted State Route 65. While under construction, the bridge was generically referred to as the \"Maumee River Crossing\".\n\nThe sole known suicide from the bridge occurred on August 31, 2013, when a man crashed his car and leapt from the East Toledo side onto rocks of the Maumee River.\n\nIce sometimes falls from the cables, temporarily blocking lanes. This was anticipated during the design process, but deemed unlikely.\n\nThe original timeline put the completion date in May 2006, but that became impossible when the gantry truss responsible for construction of the main span collapsed on February 16, 2004. The collapse killed four workers and injured four others. On top of that, main line production was all but halted for 16 months after the accident. Though two new cranes were quickly brought in, testing them took months and operations were slower than expected due to increased oversight of the project by OSHA following the accident.\n\nAbout 9:15 a.m. on April 19, 2007, Andrew Burris of Curtice, Ohio, a member of United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America Local 1138, died when the construction platform he was on became detached and fell from the bridge. The platform was anchored to the northbound side of the bridge, and broke off, falling about 95 feet to the ground, where the platform, still carrying Burris, landed on the east side of the roadway. Authorities from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration have not determined why the platform broke free from the bridge, and the Toledo Police Department does not suspect foul play.\n\n\"On behalf of Director Beasley and the Ohio Department of Transportation, we extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Andrew Burris,\" said ODOT District 2 director, Dave Dysard. \"We also extend our condolences to his relatives, friends and his fellow workers who have made us proud through their commitment and dedication to their work. Andrew was a part of the team that took the pylon to the top back in 2005. For four-and-a-half years, he was an integral part of the team that worked to complete this vital link for our community.\"\n\nBurris was from a line of carpenters, and kept a scrapbook of the project. His mother, Ruth, was quoted as saying \"I think he felt closer to heaven there.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960212", "title": "Reed Johnson", "text": "Reed Johnson\n\nReed Cameron Johnson (born December 8, 1976) is an American former professional baseball outfielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Toronto Blue Jays, Chicago Cubs, Los Angeles Dodgers, Atlanta Braves, Miami Marlins, and Washington Nationals.\n\nJohnson was born in Riverside, California and grew up in Temecula, in southern Riverside (California) County. He attended Temecula Valley High School, where he participated in baseball and soccer. He was an All-League and an All-County selection.\n\nJohnson attended college at Cal State Fullerton and was named an Academic All-American. He also set records by being the first Cal State Fullerton player to score 100 runs and collect 100 hits in a season. In 1998, he played collegiate summer baseball with the Brewster Whitecaps of the Cape Cod Baseball League.\n\nJohnson was drafted by the Toronto Blue Jays in the 17th round of the 1999 MLB Draft. In the minors, he was a Southern League All-Star in 2001 with the Tennessee Smokies, while hitting .314 with 13 home runs and 74 RBI. Johnson made his Major League debut on April 17, 2003 against the New York Yankees as a pinch runner. He recorded his first major league hit on April 20, 2003 against Boston Red Sox pitcher Casey Fossum and his first home run on May 17, 2003 against Jeremy Affeldt of the Kansas City Royals . He finished his rookie season, with a .294 batting average, 10 home runs, and 52 runs batted in. Johnson also won the American League Rookie of the Month Award for the month of September.\n\nHe is one of only five batters, through August 2009, to have hit both a leadoff and walk-off home run in the same game (having done so in 2003), the others being Billy Hamilton (1893), Victor Power (1957), Darin Erstad (2000), and Ian Kinsler (2009).\n\nJohnson extended his tenure with the Blue Jays on December 7, 2005, after signing a one-year extension worth $1,425,000.\n\nAt the start the season, Johnson was platooned with Frank Catalanotto in left field, as they had been for the previous two seasons. In a Toronto Star article, Johnson was quoted as saying, \"I train so that I can play every day. I don't train to be a fourth outfielder, or there would be a lot less training. I wouldn't be waking up as early. I wouldn't be trying to be in the shape that I'm in. I know my body can take the pounding of an everyday season\".\n\nIn 2006, Johnson led all leadoff hitters in the American League with a .390 on-base percentage and also had a .319 batting average.\n\nOne of Johnson's more dubious honors is his propensity for being hit by pitches. Consistently among the Blue Jays leaders in being hit, in 2006 Johnson moved past Ed Sprague to take second on the Blue Jays all-time hit by pitch list, trailing only Carlos Delgado. He is also one of several players to be hit a major-league record three times in one game; Johnson was hit three times in a game against the Texas Rangers on April 15, 2005. He equaled this feat again on April 7, 2006, against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.\n\nIn 2008, the Blue Jays acquired veteran Matt Stairs, again relegating Johnson to a platoon role. The Blue Jays signed all-star shortstop David Eckstein, and removed Johnson from his familiar role as leadoff hitter. The Blue Jays also signed outfielder Shannon Stewart to a minor league contract. Stewart, who played in 855 games for Toronto from to 2003, was a dependable and consistent force at the top of the Blue Jays lineup for many years, although by this point he was considered a liability in the field at times because of an injury suffered playing football, which greatly reduced his throwing strength. His presence at spring training made Johnson's role all the more uncertain. Johnson was released by the Jays on March 23, and replaced by Stewart.\n\nOn March 25, he signed a one-year deal with the Chicago Cubs. Johnson platooned in center field with Jim Edmonds (as well as Félix Pie to start the season). Johnson \"batted in\" a game-winning run after he was hit by a pitch with the bases loaded on June 12, against the Atlanta Braves. During a crucial game in the 2008 season against the Milwaukee Brewers, Johnson executed a perfect hard slide into second base that prevented a double play, and allowed the Cubs to take a one-run lead. When Johnson returned to Rogers Centre to play the Toronto Blue Jays on June 13, 2008, he received a long standing ovation from Blue Jays fans.\n\nDuring a game early in the 2009 season, also against the Brewers, Johnson showed versatility on the field by catching a Prince Fielder drive that had cleared the wall, preventing the Brewers from tying the game on a grand slam. He was placed on the 15-day DL on July 30 that same year with a left foot fracture.\n\nOn February 1, 2010, Johnson signed a one-year deal with the Los Angeles Dodgers to replace Juan Pierre as the team's fourth outfielder. He appeared in 102 games with a .262 batting average during the season.\n\nJohnson appears in the opening introduction sequence of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno as a Dodger player. As the announcer introduces The Tonight Show, game footage of Johnson hitting a ball and running to first base is seen in the opening sequence; the exact game is not known. The shot of Johnson does not last more than two and a half seconds.\n\nOn January 12, 2011, Johnson signed a minor league deal to return to the Cubs with an invitation to Spring Training.\n\nOn April 20, Johnson hit a walk-off homer into the left-field seats off Luke Gregerson to defeat the San Diego Padres 2-1 in the first game of a doubleheader. In 2011, he batted .309 in 246 at-bats. Through 2011, he had the second-best career fielding percentage (.991) among all active major league left fielders, behind Ryan Braun.\n\nOn December 21, 2011, Johnson re-signed with the Cubs on a one-year deal.\n\nOn July 30, 2012, Johnson was traded along with left-handed pitcher Paul Maholm to the Atlanta Braves for right-handed pitchers Arodys Vizcaíno and Jaye Chapman.\n\nOn December 7, 2012, Johnson re-signed with the Atlanta Braves to a 1-year contract.\n\nOn January 31, 2014, Johnson signed a minor league contract with the Miami Marlins. He batted .235/.266/.348 with 2 home runs and 35 RBIs in 113 games with the team.\n\nOn February 17, 2015, the Marlins re-signed Johnson to another minor league contract. He was released on March 30.\n\nHours after being released by Miami, Johnson agreed to a minor league contract with the Washington Nationals. He appeared in 17 games for the Nationals in 2015 and hit .227. They re-signed him to a minor league contract after the season. He was released on April 3, 2016.\n\nGrowing up, Johnson participated in curling. He resides in Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "1960226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960226", "title": "View (SQL)", "text": "View (SQL)\n\nIn a database, a view is the result set of a \"stored\" query on the data, which the database users can query just as they would in a persistent database collection object. This pre-established query command is kept in the database dictionary. Unlike ordinary \"base tables\" in a relational database, a view does not form part of the physical schema: as a result set, it is a virtual table computed or collated dynamically from data in the database when access to that view is requested. Changes applied to the data in a relevant \"underlying table\" are reflected in the data shown in subsequent invocations of the view. In some NoSQL databases, views are the only way to query data.\n\nViews can provide advantages over tables:\n\nJust as a function (in programming) can provide abstraction, so can a database view. In another parallel with functions, database users can manipulate nested views, thus one view can aggregate data from other views. Without the use of views, the normalization of databases above second normal form would become much more difficult. Views can make it easier to create lossless join decomposition.\n\nJust as rows in a base table lack any defined ordering, rows available through a view do not appear with any default sorting. A view is a relational table, and the relational model defines a table as a set of rows. Since sets are not ordered — by definition — neither are the rows of a view. Therefore, an ORDER BY clause in the view definition is meaningless; the SQL standard () does not allow an ORDER BY clause in the subquery of a CREATE VIEW command, just as it is refused in a CREATE TABLE statement. However, sorted data can be obtained from a view, in the same way as any other table — as part of a query statement on that view. Nevertheless, some DBMS (such as Oracle Database) do not abide by this SQL standard restriction.\n\nDatabase practitioners can define views as read-only or updatable. If the database system can determine the reverse mapping from the view schema to the schema of the underlying base tables, then the view is updatable. INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE operations can be performed on updatable views. Read-only views do not support such operations because the DBMS cannot map the changes to the underlying base tables. A view update is done by key preservation.\n\nSome systems support the definition of INSTEAD OF triggers on views. This technique allows the definition of other logic for execution in place of an insert, update, or delete operation on the views. Thus database systems can implement data modifications based on read-only views. However, an INSTEAD OF trigger does not change the read-only or updatable property of the view itself.\n\nVarious database management systems have extended the views from read-only subsets of data, particularly materialized views: pre-executed, non-virtual views commonly used in data warehousing. They give a static snapshot of the data and may include data from remote sources. The accuracy of a materialized view depends on the frequency of trigger mechanisms behind its updates.\n\nMaterialized views were introduced by Oracle Database, while IBM DB2 provides so-called \"materialized query tables\" (MQTs) for the same purpose. Microsoft SQL Server introduced in its 2000 version indexed views which only store a separate index from the table, but not the entire data. PostgreSQL implemented materialized views in its 9.3 release.\n\nA view is equivalent to its source query. When queries are run against views, the query is modified. For example, if there exists a view named accounts_view with the content as follows:\naccounts_view:\nSELECT name,\nthen the application could run a simple query such as:\nSimple query\nSELECT name,\nThe RDBMS then takes the simple query, replaces the equivalent view, then sends the following to the query optimizer:\nPreprocessed query:\nSELECT name,\nThe optimizer then removes unnecessary fields and complexity (for example: it is not necessary to read the address, since the parent invocation does not make use of it) and then sends the query to the SQL engine for processing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960245", "title": "Chris Finlayson", "text": "Chris Finlayson\n\nChristopher Francis Finlayson (born 1956) is a New Zealand lawyer and former Member of Parliament, representing the National Party. From 19 November 2008 until 26 October 2017 he was a Cabinet minister. He was the Attorney-General, Minister for Treaty of Waitangi Negotiations and, for a shorter period, Minister of Culture and Heritage. On 6 October 2014, Finlayson also assumed responsibility for the ministerial portfolios of Minister Responsible for the Government Communications Security Bureau and the Minister in Charge of the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, New Zealand's two main intelligence agencies. He left parliament and politics in January 2019.\n\nFinlayson grew up in the Wellington suburb of Khandallah; he has three siblings.\n\nHe attended St Benedict's Convent School, and St. Patrick's College. He graduated with a BA in Latin and French and an LLM from Victoria University of Wellington.\n\nFinlayson has been heavily involved in the arts community. He chaired Creative New Zealand's Arts Board from 1998 to 2001, and was a former trustee of the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra.\n\nFinlayson was admitted to the Bar as a barrister and solicitor in 1981. He was a partner in Brandon Brookfield from 1986 to 1990 and then in Bell Gully from 1991 to 2003. He has practised as a barrister sole at the Barristers.Comm chambers since 2003.\n\nAt Bell Gully he spent years fighting for Ngāi Tahu against the government, pursuing its treaty claims through a series of high-profile court battles. \"I used to love going to the office in the morning when we were suing the Crown\" Finlayson said in a speech in 2009. \"Ngāi Tahu mastered the art of aggressive litigation, whether it was suing the Waitangi Tribunal and [National Treaty negotiations minister] Doug Graham or the Director-General of Conservation. It was take no prisoners and it resulted in a good settlement.\" The signing of the Treaty deal with Ngāi Tahu in 1997 was the highlight of his legal career.\n\nSince his admission, Finlayson has appeared in all courts of New Zealand, including seven appearances before the Privy Council, including as counsel for the New Zealand Bar Association in \"Harley v McDonald\" [2001] 2 WLR 1749 and counsel for the British Government in R v Attorney General for England and Wales (a decision of the Privy Council delivered on 17 March 2003). He has extensive experience appearing before tribunals and local authorities in New Zealand. He has had significant experience teaching in the Faculty of Law of Victoria University of Wellington.\n\nFinlayson co-authored \"McGechan on Procedure\", a text on the practice and procedure of the Courts of New Zealand, and was the founding editor of the \"Procedure Reports of New Zealand\". He has written papers on many subjects, including intellectual property, litigation and conflicts of interest and has presented New Zealand Law Society seminars on High Court practice, conflicts of interest and limitation.\n\nSince his appointment as Attorney General, Finlayson has been successful in reaching an unprecedented number of financial Waitangi Treaty settlements (59 over nine years) with many Maori iwi he had represented in private practice. He has also used his executive powers to make more High Court applications seeking litigants be prevented court access on grounds they are vexatious than in the prior 60 years, including a protracted court battle against legal news blogger Vince Siemer.\n\nOn 13 December 2012, Finlayson was recommended by Prime Minister John Key for appointment by the Governor-General as Queen's Counsel, based on his role as Attorney-General. This was a departure from normal practice, as recorded in the \"NZ Gazette\" from 1994, all QCs have been recommended by the Attorney General.\n\nFinlayson joined the National Party in 1974 while still at St Patrick's College, after having had a long conversation with Keith Holyoake at Parliament the previous year.\n\nFinlayson stood as National's candidate for the Mana electorate in the 2005 election, and was also ranked twenty-seventh on National's party list, making him the second most highly ranked National candidate who was not already an MP. While he failed to win Mana, losing by a margin of 6,734 votes, the National Party polled well on party votes and Finlayson was elected via the party list. Upon his election, he was appointed shadow Attorney-General by then leader Don Brash. He had previously held the Shadow Cabinet roles of Shadow Attorney-General, Shadow Treaty Negotiations Minister and Shadow Arts, Culture and Heritage Minister. And he was the Deputy Chairman of the Justice and Electoral Select Committee.\n\nFollowing the election of John Key as leader, Finlayson was promoted to the Shadow Cabinet and placed at 14th on the 2008 election party list. Since the , Finlayson has contested the electorate, which has been held by his cousin Annette King of the Labour Party since the .\n\nIn June 2010 he was found by the registrar of pecuniary interests to have broken the rules in not declaring a directorship in his annual pecuniary interest return.\n\nIn the , the National Party beat the Labour Party in the party vote in that electorate; the first time since the initial Rongotai election in 1996, as the Green Party gained over 25% of the party vote. \n\nFollowing the 2014 election, Finlayson was appointed as the Minister Responsible for the Government Communications Security Bureau and the Minister in Charge of the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, the country's two main intelligence agencies. These positions had been traditionally held by the Prime Minister; instead, John Key assumed the newly created position of Minister of National Security and Intelligence.\n\nAfter National lost the 2017 general election and became the main opposition party, Finlayson was appointed Shadow Attorney-General.\n\nFinlayson left parliament in January 2019 after announcing his intention in November 2018. He has said the highlights of his political career are:\n\n\nAfter politics he intends to pursue work as a commercial arbitrator.\n\nFinlayson has described himself as being an \"odd fish\" since he is gay as well as being a Catholic. He has no partner, and says he is celibate.\n\nHe is a distant cousin on his mother's side of former Labour MP Annette King.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960255", "title": "EMachines eOne", "text": "EMachines eOne\n\nThe eOne is an all-in-one desktop computer that was produced by eMachines in 1999. The eOne was heavily inspired by Apple Computer's \"Bondi Blue\" iMac. As a result, eMachines was sued by Apple for allegedly infringing upon the distinctive trade dress of the iMac. Apple and eMachines settled the case in 2000, requiring the model to be discontinued.\n\nUpon its release in 1999, the eOne came with a translucent \"cool blue\" case, while the original iMac had a two-toned case with \"Bondi Blue\" accents. At US$799, the eOne was also cheaper than the US$1,199 iMac. eMachines hoped to avoid legal trouble because the shape of the computer was different from the iMac. However, Apple sued eMachines, alleging that the computer's design infringed upon the protected trade dress of the iMac. In March 2000, eMachines reached a settlement with Apple, under which it agreed to discontinue the infringing model.\n\nThe eOne was available at Circuit City and Micro Center, but it did not sell well in the few months when it was available due to a lawsuit from Apple which eventually caused the eOne to be widely considered a failure for eMachines. The eOne was discontinued in 2002, and due to its lackluster sales, is rare in the secondary market.\n\nThe eOne had a 433 MHz Intel Celeron microprocessor, 64 megabytes of PC-100 SDRAM RAM, a 15-inch CRT monitor, a 10BASE-T Ethernet port, a floppy drive, an 8 MB ATI video card, a 56k modem, and a CD-ROM drive, along with the ability to use PC cards, which were commonly used to expand the capabilities of laptops. As a Wintel-based computer, the eOne ran Windows 98 or Windows Me, as opposed to the iMac running Mac OS 9.\n\nIn 2007, three years after acquiring eMachines, Gateway released the One, an all-in-one desktop computer which is similar to the eOne but in black and utilizing a flatscreen monitor. \n"}
{"id": "1960256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960256", "title": "Arcaicam Esperantom", "text": "Arcaicam Esperantom\n\nArcaicam Esperantom (; ), is an auxiliary sociolect for translating literature into Esperanto created to act as a fictional 'Old Esperanto', in the vein of languages such as Middle English or the use of Latin citations in modern texts.\n\nIt was created by Manuel Halvelik as part of a range of stylistic variants including \"Gavaro\" (slang) and \"Popido\" (patois), forming \"Serio <La Sociolekta Triopo>\".\n\nHalvelik also compiled a scientific vocabulary closer to Greco-Latin roots and proposed its application to fields such as taxonomy and linguistics. He gave this register to Esperanto the name Uniespo (\"Uniëspo\", \"Universala Esperanto\", \"Universal Esperanto\").\n\nThe idea of an \"old Esperanto\" was proposed by the Hungarian poet Kalman Kalocsay who in 1931 included a translation of the Funeral Sermon and Prayer, the first Hungarian text (12th century), with hypothetic forms as if Esperanto were a Romance language deriving from Vulgar Latin.\n\nLa Sociolekta Triopo (The sociolect triple) does not create new Esperantidos (e.g. Esperanto II), but its sole purpose - including \"Arcaicam Esperantom\" - is to reflect styles in literature translated into Esperanto, like the Berlin Middle-German dialect spoken by characters in Carl Zuckmayers \"Captain of Köpenick\" (Popido), or ancient styles in Walter Scott's Ivanhoe (Arkaika Esperanto).\n\n\"La Sociolekta Triopo\" thus constitutes not three new \"constructed languages\", but \"constructed auxiliary sociolects for Esperanto\", understandable by every reader of Esperanto but still providing the stylistial differences between dialects (Popido), slang (Gavaro), and ancient forms contrasting with \"Fundamento\", standard Esperanto, e.g. in works of Mark Twain (slang and southern dialect) or Lord of the Rings (Arĥaika Esperanto for the elves, Popido for the Hobbits).\n\n\n\n\nEx: The modern Esperanto verb \"esti\" (to be), present tense:\n\nThe Arcaicam Esperantom verb \"estir\" (to be), present tense:\n\nThe other verb tenses behave the same way, as does the conditional mood:\n\nThe imperative mood behaves differently from that pattern:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960270", "title": "Nasrid dynasty", "text": "Nasrid dynasty\n\nThe Nasrid dynasty ( \"banū Naṣr\" or \"banū al-Aḥmar\"; Spanish: \"Nazarí\") was the last Muslim dynasty in the Iberian Peninsula, ruling the Emirate of Granada from 1230 until 1492. The Nasrid dynasty rose to power after the defeat of the Almohad Caliphate in 1212 at the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. Twenty-three emirs ruled Granada from the founding of the dynasty in 1230 by Muhammad I until 2 January 1492, when Muhammad XII surrendered all lands to Queen Isabella I of Castile. Today, the most visible evidence of the Nasrid dynasty is part of the Alhambra palace complex built under their rule.\n\nThe dynasty founded by Muhammad I of Granada held a territory that included Granada, Jaén, Almería, and Málaga. Valencia, Xàtiva, and Jaén were conquered by Christians during the campaigns of the Reconquista and the Nasrids were made into tribute paying vassals in 1243. Granada continued as a center of Islamic culture. The Nasrids formed alliances with the Marinids of the Maghreb. \nNasrid crafts like textile work such as ceramic overglaze used techniques from 9th century Baghdad and were applied to make lusterware, first in Málaga, Murcia, and Almería, and then by the 15th century in Manises. This style of pottery produced first under Muslim patronage, then Christian, influenced the later style of colorful and glazed Italian ceramics known as \"maiolica\". Throughout the 14th century the Nasrids are noted for their palace architecture like the Alhambra, which was a product of the efforts of Ismail I and Muhammad V.\n\nIn 1469 Ferdinand II of Aragon married Isabella I of Castile, uniting the Christian Kingdoms of Castile and Aragon in a common cause dedicated to purging Islam from the Iberian Peninsula. The last Nasrid ruler Muhammad XII of the Emirate of Granada was exiled to the Maghreb in 1492 and the remaining Muslim population was given the status of \"mudéjar\".\n\nThe Nasrid dynasty was descended from the Arab Banu Khazraj tribe, and claimed direct male-line descent from Sa'd ibn Ubadah, the chief of the tribe and one of the companions of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The \"nasab\" of Yusuf (nicknamed \"al-Ahmar\", meaning \"the Red\"). The Nasrids were of Azd origin.\n\nDuring the time the Christians were launching a campaign against the Emirate of Granada that would effectively end the Nasrid dynasty, the Nasrids were engaged in a civil war over the throne of Granada. When Abu l-Hasan Ali, Sultan of Granada, was ousted by his son Muhammad XII, Abu l-Hasan Ali retreated to Málaga and civil war broke out between the competing factions. Christians took full advantage of this and continued capturing Muslim strongholds. Muhammed XII was caught by Christian forces in 1483 at Lucena, Córdoba. He was freed after he swore an oath of allegiance to Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile. Abu l-Hasan Ali finally abdicated in favor of his brother Muhammad XIII, Sultan of Granada, known as Al-Zaghal (the valiant), and a power struggle with Muhammad XII continued. Al-Zaghal prevailed in the inner struggle but was forced to surrender to the Christians. Muhammad XII was given a lordship in the Alpujarras mountains but instead took financial compensation from the Spanish crown to leave the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nThe Nasrid dynasty was one of the longest ruling Muslim dynasty in the Iberian Peninsula, reigning for more than 250 years from the establishment of the Emirate of Granada in 1230 to its annexation in 1492. The Nasrids constructed the Alhambra palace-fortress complex in Granada.\n\nThe family tree below shows the genealogical relationship between each sultan of the Nasrid dynasty. It starts with their common ancestor, Yusuf al-Ahmar. Daughters are omitted, as are sons whose descendants never reigned. During times of rival claims to the throne, the family tree generally recognizes the sultan who controlled the city of Granada itself and the Alhambra palace.\nFirst dynasty (\"al-dawla al-ghalibiyya\"):\n\n\nSecond dynasty (\"al-dawla al-isma'iliyya al-nasriyya\"):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960277", "title": "Traces of Sadness", "text": "Traces of Sadness\n\nTraces of Sadness is the second album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja. Released in June 2004, the album included the hit singles \"Tough Enough\", \"Liar\" and \"When the Indians Cry\". It peaked at number three in the German album charts and brought the girls into the mainstream, while increasing their popularity in other countries such as Switzerland and Austria, staying in the charts for almost a full year in the former. \"Traces of Sadness\" was certified Gold (100,000 copies) by the IFPI in Germany, Gold in Austria (15,000 copies) and Platinum in Estonia.\n\n\nThe album also contained two extras:\n\n\n\nThe limited edition of the album also contained two extras:\n\nA shorter version of the songs \"Liar\", \"Metal Queen\" and \"Tough Enough\" were made playable in \"Drummania V2\"/\"GuitarFreaks V2\"/\"Dance Dance Revolution Ultramix 2\". \"Tough Enough\" was also available to play on the arcade release of \"Dancing Stage Fusion\". However, it was not included with the home release for PlayStation or PlayStation 2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960284", "title": "Perrys Lookdown", "text": "Perrys Lookdown\n\nPerrys Lookdown is named after the bushranger and Bouddi Trail Runner Dominic Perry, he is well known for his exploits in the area and makes up one section of the famed Perrys to Loweys trail run, it is situated on the edge of the Grose Valley in the Blue Mountains, Australia. Free campsites (five individual sites) are adjacent to the car park. The Blue Gum Forest is often accessed by foot from here, 656 vertical metres below the lookdown. The road to Blackheath is unsealed.\n"}
{"id": "1960297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960297", "title": "Lake Ray Hubbard", "text": "Lake Ray Hubbard\n\nLake Ray Hubbard, formerly Forney Lake, is a fresh water impoundment (reservoir) located in Dallas, Texas in the counties of Dallas, Kaufman, Collin, and Rockwall just north of the City of Forney. It was created by the construction of the Rockwall-Forney Dam which impounded the East Fork Trinity River.\n\nIt measures in size with a storage capacity of 490,000 acre-feet (600 million cubic meters) and a maximum depth of 40 feet (12 m). The dam is currently owned by the City of Dallas. Interstate 30 bisects the lake. The lake was originally named Forney Lake for the nearby town of Forney, Texas. After the City of Dallas incorporated the lake, it was renamed after a living person, Ray Hubbard, who presided over the Dallas Parks and Recreation System board from 1943 to 1972.The reservoir is currently managed and owned by Dallas Water Utilities.\n\nOriginally designed to provide water to the North Texas region, the project was started in 1964 and managed by the S. and A. Construction Company and the Markham, Brown and M. C. Winter Construction Company. The lake was impounded in 1968, and a earthfill dam was completed in 1969. By 1970 the lake reached its maximum design extent.\n\nDue to the territorial expansion and exercise of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Dallas, the lake and the Interstate 30 bridges are now within the jurisdiction of the City of Dallas, rather than the cities surrounding it. There is a mutual aid agreement in place between Dallas and the other cities, but ultimate responsibility lies with Dallas.\n\nSeveral areas of the lake have been infested with hydrilla.\n\nBecause of its location in a densely populated area, the lake is crossed by several bridges and causeways. The most significant is Interstate 30, with six lanes on a causeway that bisects the lake, and President George Bush Turnpike, the eastern expansion completed in 2012 with a bridge spanning the Rowlett Creek inlet. The Texas State Highway 66 bridge was constructed in the 1970s and twinned in the early 2000s, joining Rowlett and Rockwall, and other minor bridges exist on Rowlett Road and Miller Road. There is also a railway crossing formerly operated by Missouri–Kansas–Texas Railroad, now part of Union Pacific, which crosses the Muddy Creek inlet and joins the I-30 causeway.\n\nThe lake contains a large population of hybrid striped bass, white bass, largemouth bass, channel catfish, blue catfish, white crappie, and alligator gar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960302", "title": "Edward Morgan", "text": "Edward Morgan\n\nEdward, Ted, Teddy, Ed, Eddy or Eddie Morgan may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1960311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960311", "title": "Nicky Wagner", "text": "Nicky Wagner\n\nNicola Joanne Wagner (born 23 July 1953) is a New Zealand teacher, businesswoman and politician. She represented the Christchurch Central electorate for the New Zealand National Party in the New Zealand Parliament.\n\nBorn in Christchurch, Wagner received a teaching degree from Christchurch College of Education, a BA from the University of Canterbury, and an MBA from Massey University. After working for a time as a teacher, she entered the business world, and established a successful fashion marketing company and later an internet marketing business. She was an internet pioneer establishing firstly FashioNZ a website to support the New Zealand fashion industry and GardenNZ for the gardening industry.\n\nIn 2003 Wagner was elected to the Canterbury Regional Council, and was a councillor until 2007.\n\nShe appeared on the National party list at 37th place for the 2002 general election, which was not enough to win a seat. She contested the Christchurch Central electorate for the National Party in the 2005 general election. While Wagner did not win the electorate, her high list placing (28th, the third highest placing for a newcomer behind Tim Groser and Chris Finlayson) ensured her election to Parliament. Prior to her election, Wagner had endorsed the NZ Flag.com Trust's campaign for a referendum on New Zealand's flag, stating \"Our flag should celebrate our nation's identity and our special foot-print on this earth. We will always respect and cherish our links with the past that are represented in our present flag but a young country needs to create a strong vision for its future.\" In her first term in Parliament she sat on the Justice and Electoral select committee and later the Local Government and Environment Committee.\n\nIn 2005, Wagner voted for the controversial Marriage (Gender Clarification) Amendment Bill 2005, a bill which would have amended the Marriage Act to define marriage as only between a man and a woman.\n\nRecontesting Christchurch Central in the 2008 general election, Wagner drastically cut Labour's majority in both the electorate and the party vote, reducing the candidate majority from 7,836 to 936. She remained in Parliament, having been re-elected through the National Party list.\n\nIn 2009, Wagner voted against the Misuse of Drugs (Medicinal Cannabis) Amendment Bill, a bill aimed at amending the Misuse of Drugs Act so that cannabis could be used for medical purposes.\n\nShe contested Christchurch Central for the third time in the 2011 general election and won the seat off Labour with a 47-vote majority, after special votes broke an exact tie between her and incumbent MP Brendon Burns on election night. This marked the first time National had ever held the Christchurch Central electorate since its creation in 1946.\n\nWagner was the Chair of the Local Government and Environment Select Committee and sat on the Maori Affairs Select Committee. She also chaired the BlueGreens Caucus Committee and the Arts, Culture and Heritage Caucus Committee. In 2013 she was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary to Gerry Brownlee and Nick Smith in the Christchurch Earthquake Recovery and Conservation portfolios, respectively.\n\nThe boundaries of the Christchurch Central electorate were redrawn for the . When the draft boundaries were published for consultation, Wagner declared the electorate as more Labour focussed and \"unwinnable\" due to the proposed loss of more affluent suburbs. When the final boundaries were released in April 2014, Wagner vowed to stand again and fight for re-election. Wagner won the seat with a majority of 2420 at the September 20th 2014 General Election.\n\nIn September 2014, Wagner defended employing Simon Lusk, a controversial political strategist mentioned in Dirty Politics, claiming New Zealand's grassroots campaigning is \"very much amateurish\".\n\nOn 8 October 2014, Wagner was appointed a Minister outside of Cabinet, holding the portfolios of Customs, Disability Issues, Associate Canterbury Earthquake Recovery, and Associate Conservation. She is ranked 23 on the party list.\n\nOn 14 June 2017, Wagner made a comment on Twitter that she'd \"rather be out on the harbour\" while mentioning that she was attending disability meetings, attracting online criticism. Labour and Green politicians commented on the issue, stating \"It really makes me question her commitment to the disability community if she'd rather be out on the harbour than in meetings with them.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1960312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960312", "title": "Vistula Historic District", "text": "Vistula Historic District\n\nVistula Historic District is a designated historic district in the city of Toledo, Ohio, USA, listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The district comprises Toledo's oldest neighborhood and encompasses an area roughly bounded by Champlain, Summit, Walnut and Magnolia streets.\n\nVistula was a village established on land in what was then part of Michigan Territory, purchased in 1832 by Benjamin F. Stickney, in company with several investors from Lockport, New York, including Edward Bissell. In January 1833, Stickney platted the village of Vistula.\n\nAnother settlement, named Port Lawrence, had first been established in 1817, although the companies arranging sales of the land failed and nothing much was developed until a new plat was recorded for the village in 1833. This area encompassed roughly east to west from Jefferson to Washington Street and north to south, from Superior Street to the River, or slightly farther upstream from where the Vistula settlement would later be established.\n\nWhen Vistula and Port Lawrence merged to form the city of Toledo in 1837, the area which had been contested between Michigan and Ohio in the Toledo War was granted to Ohio by the United States Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960320", "title": "Animal Logic (band)", "text": "Animal Logic (band)\n\nAnimal Logic is the name of a band (and its eponymous first release) formed in 1987 by ex-Police drummer Stewart Copeland, virtuoso bassist Stanley Clarke, and singer-songwriter Deborah Holland. The group recorded two albums under the auspices of Police manager Miles Copeland III before disbanding, with nearly all the songs recorded supplied by Holland.\n\nThe first rock band to be called Animal Logic was started by Rob Hatch at James Madison University in Harrisonburg, VA in 1984. Animal Logic consisted of Rob Gould (lead vocals), John Wright, (lead guitar), Bob Williams (keys, vocals), John \"Boomer\" Espenbaum (drums), and Hatch (bass). The name was formed by combining two stickers from Hatch's sticker-covered bass case \"Animal Time\" and \"Defy Logic\". The rights to the name were sold to Copeland, Clarke, et al in 1988.\n\nCopeland's former bandmate in The Police, guitarist Andy Summers, was also a member of the group in its initial stages when it was known as \"Rush Hour,\" but left following a short Brazilian tour in late 1987 before the recording of the first album. Michael Thompson was called at the last minute to record guitar parts, leading him to tour with the band as a supporting player. Rusty Anderson, later lead guitarist for Paul McCartney, also recorded and toured with the group.\n\nIn 2013, Copeland, Clarke, and Holland recorded a new song, \"Whipping Boy\", at the Sacred Grove.\n\nIn January 2019, Holland posted several pictures and short videos from a new Animal Logic recording session at the Sacred Grove with Copeland and Clarke online via Facebook.\n\nIn a March 2020 interview with sterwartcopeland.com, Deborah Holland confirmed that Animal Logic has been working on material for a new EP: “We’re in the process of finishing up five songs though the bulk of the work is now on Stanley’s shoulders and he has a crazy schedule so it may take a while.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960328", "title": "Mizuno Shinryu", "text": "Mizuno Shinryu\n\nThe was a late-World War II Japanese rocket-powered interceptor. While the Jinryū was still in development, Mizuno began to develop an Interceptor which both the Army and Navy air force were in desperate need of to fend off the Boeing B-29 Superfortress. When Japan surrendered to the Allies on 15 August 1945, all aircraft that were under development were stopped, including the Jinryū & Shinryū II. The Shinryū II was the second aircraft developed in Japan to use a canard design, after the \"J7W1\".\n\nIn June 1944, the first Boeing B-29 Superfortresses appeared over Japan. It was the start of bombing campaign that would see key Japanese cities, infrastructure and industries reduced to ashes through conventional and firebombing raids. With the aircraft industry being a priority target, the \"Kaigun Koku Hombu\" looked to ways to combat the B-29 menace. One concept was a point defence interceptor that could quickly rise to meet the bombers and so the Mizuno Shinryū II was born. However, the development of the Shinryū II (Shinryū meaning 'Divine Dragon') began with designs for a far more conventional craft.\n\nIn November 1944, the Kaigun Koku Hombu looked into the possibilities of an aircraft to undertake missions. While the mission was not unique, the fact that the aircraft being investigated would be a glider was. The Kaigun Koku Hombu envisioned that gliders would be launched with rocket boosters from caves or shore positions and pilots would guide the aircraft and the 100 kg (220 Ib) explosive payload inside it into Allied ships or tanks should the Japanese home islands be invaded. The Kaigun Koku Hombu assigned the DaiIchi Kaigun Koku Gijutsu-shū at Yokosuka the task of turning the glider into reality. The project was led by Shigeki Sakakibara who staffed a number of teams that would each be responsible for one part of the glider. The different sections were the wings, the fuselage, control surfaces, aerodynamic testing and test flights once the prototype was complete. The Kaigun Koku Hombu gave instructions that the glider must be built from as much wood as possible.\n\nThis restriction was imposed for two reasons. The first was that in using wood and keeping the use of metal to an absolute minimum, the glider could be manufactured in any small shop using only wood working tools, and secondly, as a consequence, what metals were available would be conserved for other military uses. Much of the glider's design was conceived by Yoshio Akita. A number of concepts were discussed and sketched and after much deliberation among Akita and his teams the design was complete by May 1945, and Mizuno Corporation, a small glider manufacturer better known for sports equipment, had almost finished the prototype.\n\nThe glider was very simple and used a high-wing monoplane form. The straight and flat wings were wide but had a short span and were designed to ensure that the glider was easy to handle given that inexperienced pilots would be at the controls. Also, the platform would be able to accommodate the rocket engines that were to be used to boost the glider into the air. The pilot sat in an open cockpit. The design was sent to the Kaigun Koku Hombu for review. Sakakibara studied the plans and projections and after his analysis it was felt the glider was flawed and changes were necessary.\n\nAfter these had been made the design was approved. Work began on the revised Jinryū, as the glider was now called, by the middle of June 1945. To hasten the construction, the finalised blueprints and work plans for the Jinryū were drawn up even as the components for the first prototype were being built. Construction of the Jinryū was again given to Mizuno. Working around the clock, the company completed two prototypes with such speed that wind tunnel testing of the design was still underway. In fact, the first flight of the Jinryū occurred even before the results of the testing had been provided to Tonsho and Sakakibara. Tashiichi Narabayashi was the pilot who flew the maiden flight in mid-July 1945 at the airfield in Ishioka, a city located in Ibaraki prefecture, about 90 km (56 miles) northeast of Tokyo. The Jinryū was towed into the air by a Tachikawa Ki-9 (known to the Allies as Spruce) piloted by Saburo Fujikura, a man known for his skill in flying gliders prior to the beginning of the war.\n\nFor the first test, Narabayashi assessed the Jinryū's handling. On landing, his opinion was that the glider was stable and possessed good handling characteristics. For the second flight Narabayashi would investigate the Jinryū's diving capability and after a few bounces on the ground the Ki-9 and the Jinryū took off. At a height of 2,300m (7,545 ft), Narabayashi went to cast off from the Ki-9 but found that the tow rope release had stuck; however, he was able to cut the rope and proceed with the test flight. When Narabayashi put the Jinryū into a dive and had reached 300 km/h (186 mph), the glider began to vibrate to such a degree that he was unable to read the gauges. Pulling the nose up to bleed off speed, Narabayashi discovered that the vibrations ceased. During his descent Narabayashi examined the vibrations and after landing the issue was reviewed. The conclusion was that the tail was not sufficiently reinforced and the vertical stabiliser was too small.\n\nThe Jinryū was modified by adding some strengthening in the tail and the fitting a second stabiliser. The changes were later validated both in the air and in the wind tunnel testing of the modified Jinryū model. Before flying the Jinryū, Narabayashi had suspected that the aircraft would have stability problems which, as was seen, proved to be the case. With the handling and flight characteristics of the Jinryū proven, the testing moved to the next phase - that of-powered flight. The glider was relocated to an airfield in Kasumigaura, about 19 km (12 miles) north of Ishioka. Here, the Jinryū was modified to accept a group of three Toku-Ro I Type I rocket engines that together would produce 661 Ib of thrust during a 10-second burn.\n\nTesting of the rocket array showed two serious flaws. The first was the quality of the rockets that resulted in a number of failures. The second was the inconsistency of the burn times. Narabayashi noted his concerns and forwarded them to Major Suganuma who had been placed in charge of the Jinryū project. In addition to expressing his doubts about the rocket engines, he also stated that the Jinryū would be unsuited for missions because, despite the changes made to the glider to improve the flight characteristics, it was a challenging aircraft to fly. Narabayashi suggested that instead of being used for operations the glider should be modified to take six rocket engines each with a 30-second burn time. He estimated that at maximum burn the Jinryū could attain a speed of 750 km/h (466 mph), and for weapons he envisioned that it could carry ten explosive charges adapted from artillery shells used by the IJA in their 100mm guns (likely the Type 92). Not only did Narabayashi agree that the Jinryū could be used against tanks and ships but added that it could also be used to attack US B-29 bombers.\n\nDespite the issues with the rockets work continued on preparing the Jinryū for powered flight. Major Suganuma, however, would become the catalyst for the Shinryū II's continued development. Taking Narabayashi's concerns on board, Suganuma formed a team to revise the Jinryū and produce a design for an interceptor rather than a glider; Suganuma was especially interested in this idea since he had access to rocket engines that promised 32 second burn times. Two people were retained from the Jinryū project: Sakakibara, the lead designer, and Yoshio Tonsho who would oversee the construction of the prototype. Yujiro Murakami was tasked with the aerodynamic testing of the Shinryū II. All of those assigned to develop the Shinryū II were ordered by Suganuma to maintain the utmost secrecy. Unlike the Jinryū, the Shinryū II was to be built from the outset as an interceptor. Sakakibara would use a canard design that made this the second Japanese aircraft to be developed during the war with such a feature (the first was the Kyushu J7W Shinden). In addition, the main wings had a platform similar to a cropped delta. These design features were included as a means of ensuring stability in flight as well as good handling characteristics. Since the average Japanese pilot had little experience with canard equipped aircraft, the Shinryū II had spoilers fitted into the top of each main wing. Each spoiler was able to rotate between 60 degrees and 90 degrees and if the mechanism for controlling the spoilers was damaged, they would automatically return to the closed position. The pilot was provided with an enclosed cockpit. For power, the Shinryū II was to use four Toku-Ro I Type 2 rocket engines located in the rear of the fuselage. Each engine provided a 30-second burn time and all together up to 600 kg (1,322lb) of thrust could be delivered. Two rockets would be used to get the Shinryū II airborne while the other two engines would be used when making the attack. There was a concern regarding the operating temperatures of the Toku Ro rockets and two methods of cooling the engines were considered. The first would have utilised an air-cooled combustion chamber that would have required an air inlet using a bayonet mechanism in order to maintain air flow across the chamber. It also would have required specific positioning of the fuel injectors so as not to have the air flow disrupt the injection process. The second method would use injectors which sprayed a water and alcohol mixture onto the rocket nozzle, cooling it.\n\nIn reviewing the two solutions for cooling, it was determined that the water/alcohol system would be the simplest to implement. No provision was made for a wheeled landing gear system and skids were used. A nose skid was provided with a basic spring suspension to absorb the landing forces. Under each wing was a non-sprung skid arrangement supported by two struts. For take-off the Shinryū II was to use two wheeled dolly similar to the one used by the Mitsubishi J8M Shūsui. Once airborne the pilot could jettison the dolly. In addition to conventional runway take-off procedures, other methods for launching the Shinryū II were considered but what exactly these were is not known. It can be speculated that towing the Shinryū II aloft was one consideration. Another may have been air dropping the Shinryū II in the same manner as the Kūgishō MXY7 Ōka. In both cases this may have preserved two of the rocket engines which would have been used up had the Shinryū II taken off from the ground. In order to combat the B-29, which could operate at altitudes up to 10,241m (33,600 ft), the Shinryū II was to be equipped with a pressurised cockpit or, if such a cockpit proved problematic, the pilot would wear a pressure suit.\n\nFor weapons, the Shinryū II was to be armed with eight rockets. Attached to the inside of the rear landing skid arrangement were four tubes, one on top of the other and angled downwards, which contained the rockets. There has been some conjecture as to the mission objective of the Shinryū II. Some sources make the case that the Shinryū II was to be used like the MXY7 while others come to the conclusion that the Shinryū II was to attack armoured ground targets such as tanks. In both cases these sources state that the nose of the Shinryū II contained an impact fused explosive warhead and once the rocket armament was expended, the pilot would crash the aircraft into his final target using the warhead to deliver the coup de grace. However, analysis of the Shinryū II shows that neither mission was likely. The aircraft would have been far more complex to build than the Showa Toka or Baka and the Shinryū II was constructed for maneuverability, high altitude operation and the means to land. In addition, using the Shinryū II for missions against tanks makes little sense when there were other simpler and more effective means (both already in service and under development) to eliminate armour.\n\nPerhaps this is a case of the Jinryū glider's role being applied to the Shinryū II, or an assumption based on the fact that, like the IJN's other special attack aircraft such as the Nakajima Kikka, Kawanishi Baika and Showa Toka, the Shinryū II possessed no letter/numerical designation. So, by extension, the Shinryū II must also have been a special attack weapon. This, of course, is not to say that the pilot could not choose to use the Shinryū II as a aircraft. As an interceptor, the Shinryū II had a similar role to the Mitsubishi J8M Shūsui and the German Bachem Ba 349 Natter, which the Japanese were aware of and obtained data on (although the plans never made it to Japan). Like the J8M and Ba349, and due to the limited range afforded by the rocket engines, the Shinryū II would have to be positioned close to targets that were likely to be bombed. And like the J8M, the Shinryū II would have used a jettisonable wheeled dolly to take-off while firing a pair of its rocket engines. Unlike the J8M which burned up all of its fuel at once, the Shinryū II had a second set of rocket engines which could be used to sustain flight endurance or to increase speed during the attack. In the same way as the Ba349, the Shinryū II would be armed with rocket projectiles, likely fired as a group to affect a spread pattern, to bring down the bomber target. Finally, akin to the J8M, once the fuel and ammunition were expended, the Shinryū II would glide back to its base to be recovered, refueled and rearmed.\n\nThe Shinryū II would never be built because the end of the hostilities in August 1945 terminated any further work on the design. Likewise, the Jinryū glider would never fly under power. After the failure of the rocket motors during ground tests, the war came to a close before more suitable and reliable motors could be acquired and tested. Mizuno completed a total of five Jinryū gliders. As a note, Jinryū is the known name for the first Mizuno glider.\n\nFor the purposes of this text, the author used Shinryū II to differentiate the interceptor from the glider. The kanji is the same for both spellings but is pronounced differently. Both translations of Jinryū and Shinryū mean 'Divine Dragon'. Shinryū II is also used in contemporary texts and as such, is used here for recognition purposes. Whether the interceptor would have carried the same name as the glider is unknown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960330", "title": "Columbus Avenue", "text": "Columbus Avenue\n\nColumbus Avenue may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1960331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960331", "title": "Eddie Calvert", "text": "Eddie Calvert\n\nAlbert Edward \"Eddie\" Calvert (15 March 1922 – 7 August 1978) was an English trumpeter, who enjoyed his greatest success in the 1950s. Between 1953 and 1958, Calvert achieved seven instrumental hits on the UK Singles Chart including two chart-toppers, \"Oh, Mein Papa\" in 1953 and \"Cherry Pink (and Apple Blossom White)\" in 1955.\n\nCalvert was born in Preston, Lancashire, England, and grew up in a family where the music of his local brass band featured highly. He was soon able to play a variety of instruments, and he was most accomplished on the trumpet. After the Second World War, invalided out of the Army, he borrowed money from his father to get his first job in a Manchester band and graduated from playing as an amateur in brass bands to professional engagements with popular dance orchestras of the day, including Geraldo's plus Billy Ternent, and he soon became renowned for the virtuosity of his performances. Following his exposure on television with the Stanley Black Orchestra, an enthusiastic announcer introduced him as the 'Man with the Golden Trumpet' – an apt description that remained with him for the rest of his musical career.\n\nCalvert's style was unusually individualistic, and he became a familiar musician on BBC Radio and TV during the 1950s. He first recorded for Melodisc c. 1949–1951 before he started to record for EMI's Columbia label and his records included two UK number ones, \"Oh Mein Papa\" and, more than a year later, \"Cherry Pink and Apple Blossom White\". He was the first British instrumentalist to achieve two number ones. \"Oh Mein Papa\" which also sold well in the United States, topped the UK Singles Chart for nine weeks (then a UK chart record), and he received the first gold disc awarded for a UK instrumental track.\n\nFurther chart entries were \"John and Julie\", taken from the soundtrack of the film \"John and Juliet\", and \"Mandy\", his last major hit. Other recordings included \"Stranger in Paradise\" (1955), \"The Man with the Golden Arm\" (1956) and \"Jealousy\" (1960). Calvert co-wrote the song \"My Son, My Son\", which was a hit for Vera Lynn in 1954. In spite of being an instrumental, his theme music for the film \"The Man with the Golden Arm\" was banned by the BBC \"due to its connection with a film about drugs\".\n\nIn 1956 he was invited by orchestra leader, Norrie Paramor and their mutual friends Ruby Murray and Michael Holliday to record an extended-play single with four tracks. Calvert played Silent Night and on another track he, Murray and Holliday teamed up in a version of Good Luck, Good Health, God Bless You. The single, released by Columbia Records achieved some success in Britain but was more popular in Australia and South Africa.\n\nAs music began to change in the 1960s with the worldwide popularity of groups like the Beatles and the rock n' roll genre, Calvert's musical renditions became less popular among record buyers. By 1968 Calvert had become disillusioned with life under the Labour government of Harold Wilson and was especially critical of London's policy towards Rhodesia. After a world tour that included several stops in Africa, he left the UK, making South Africa his home. He continued to perform there, and was a regular visitor to Rhodesia. He continued to record for the local market and performed a version of \"Amazing Grace\", retitled \"Amazing Race\" specially adapted for Rhodesia.\n\nOn 7 August 1978, Calvert collapsed and died of a heart attack in the bathroom of his home in Rivonia, Johannesburg. He was 56 years old.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960335", "title": "Caher Island", "text": "Caher Island\n\nCaher Island (\"Cathair na Naomh\" in Irish), an uninhabited island off the coast of County Mayo in Ireland, is situated between the larger Clare Island and Inishturk.\n\n\"Cathair na Naomh\" in Irish means the \"City of the Saints\".\n\nAn ancient centre for pilgrimage, it is still visited for this reason today. On 15 August each year, the Feast of the Assumption, there is a pilgrimage to the island.\n\nThe island has an Early Christian monastery with the remains of a chapel in an enclosure and several carved slabs. The island appears to hold the remains of hermitages of seventh century monks.\n\nThe island is accessed by boat from Inishturk. Caher can only be accessed reasonably safely by approaching with a small boat, such as a currach, from the east to the point marked as Portatemple on the charts. This is not a safe harbour, as heavy Atlantic swells can break through even on rare calm days. The comment on the chart for the area, \"The entire area of irregular depths up to 4 miles offshore between Clew Bay and Killary harbour 10 miles further south, breaks in bad weather\" reflects the fact that even in moderate swell conditions of less than 5 metres, peaks can rise and break unexpectedly.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960338", "title": "Hoogsteen base pair", "text": "Hoogsteen base pair\n\nA Hoogsteen base pair is a variation of base-pairing in nucleic acids such as the A•T pair. In this manner, two nucleobases, one on each strand, can be held together by hydrogen bonds in the major groove. A Hoogsteen base pair applies the N7 position of the purine base (as a hydrogen bond acceptor) and C6 amino group (as a donor), which bind the Watson-Crick (N3–C4) face of the pyrimidine base.\n\nTen years after James Watson and Francis Crick published their model of the DNA double helix, Karst Hoogsteen reported a crystal structure of a complex in which analogues of A and T formed a base pair that had a different geometry from that described by Watson and Crick. Similarly, an alternative base-pairing geometry can occur for G•C pairs. Hoogsteen pointed out that if the alternative hydrogen-bonding patterns were present in DNA, then the double helix would have to assume a quite different shape. Hoogsteen base pairs are observed in alternative structures such as the four-stranded G-quadruplex structures that form in DNA and RNA.\n\nHoogsteen pairs have quite different properties from Watson-Crick base pairs. The angle between the two glycosidic bonds (ca. 80° in the A• T pair) is larger and the C1′–C1′ distance (ca. 860 pm or 8.6 Å) is smaller than in the regular geometry. In some cases, called \"reversed Hoogsteen base pair\"s, one base is rotated 180° with respect to the other.\n\nIn some DNA sequences, especially CA and TA dinucleotides, Hoogsteen base pairs exist as transient entities that are present in thermal equilibrium with standard Watson–Crick base pairs. The detection of the transient species required the use of NMR techniques that have only recently been applied to macromolecules.\n\nHoogsteen base pairs have been observed in protein–DNA complexes. Some proteins have evolved to recognize only one base-pair type, and use intermolecular interactions to shift the equilibrium between the two geometries.\n\nDNA has many features that allow its sequence-specific recognition by proteins. This recognition was originally thought to primarily involve specific hydrogen-bonding interactions between amino-acid side chains and bases. But it soon became clear that there was no identifiable one-to-one correspondence — that is, there was no simple code to be read. Part of the problem is that DNA can undergo conformational changes that distort the classical double helix. The resulting variations alter the presentation of DNA bases to proteins molecules and thus affect the recognition mechanism.\n\nAs distortions in the double helix are themselves are dependent on base sequence, proteins are able to recognize DNA in a manner similar to the way that they recognize other proteins and small ligand molecules, i.e. via geometric shape (instead of the specific sequence). For example, stretches of A and T bases can lead to narrowing the minor groove of DNA (the narrower of the two grooves in the double helix), resulting in enhanced local negative electrostatic potentials which in turn creates binding sites for positively charged arginine amino-acid residues on the protein.\n\nThis non-Watson-Crick base-pairing allows the third strands to wind around the duplexes, which are assembled in the Watson-Crick pattern, and form triple-stranded helices such as (poly(dA)•2poly(dT)) and (poly(rG)•2poly(rC)). It can be also seen in three-dimensional structures of transfer RNA, as T54•A58 and U8•A14.\n\nHoogsteen pairs also allows formation of secondary structures of single stranded DNA and RNA G-rich called G-quadruplexes (G4-DNA and G4-RNA). Evidence exists for both in vitro and in vivo formation of G4s. Genomic G4s have been suggested to regulate gene transcription and at the RNA level inhibit protein synthesis through steric inhibition of ribosome function. It needs four triplets of G, separated by short spacers. This permits assembly of planar quartets which are composed of stacked associations of Hoogsteen bonded guanine molecules.\n\nWatson-Crick base pairs are indicated by a \"•\", \"-\", or a \".\" (example: A•T, or poly(rC)•2poly(rC)).\n\nHoogsteen triple-stranded DNA base pairs are indicated by a \"*\" or a \":\" (example: C•G*C+, T•A*T, C•G*G, or T•A*A).\n\n"}
{"id": "1960339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960339", "title": "Eugene Mirman", "text": "Eugene Mirman\n\nEugene Boris Mirman (born as \"Evgeniy Borisovich Mirman\" (Евгений Борисович Мирман) July 24, 1974) is a Russian-American comedian and writer known for playing Yvgeny Mirminsky on \"Delocated\" and Gene Belcher on the animated comedy \"Bob's Burgers\".\n\nMirman was born in Moscow to Jewish parents. His family emigrated to the US when he was four and a half years old. He attended William Diamond Middle School and Lexington High School in Lexington, Massachusetts. During summers he attended Camp Tohkomeupog in East Madison, New Hampshire.\n\nMirman is a graduate of Hampshire College in Western Massachusetts. As part of the college's \"choose your own major\" program, Mirman graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in comedy, with a one-hour routine as his thesis. He returned to his high school to deliver its 2009 commencement address. He returned to Hampshire to deliver the 2012 commencement speech as well.\n\nIn 2004, Mirman released \"The Absurd Nightclub Comedy of Eugene Mirman\", a CD/DVD on Suicide Squeeze Records. The album was voted one of the Best Albums of 2004 by both \"The A.V. Club\" and \"Time Out\" New York. His second album, \"En Garde, Society\" was released by Sub Pop in 2006. Three years later, Mirman released another comedy album, \"God Is a Twelve-Year-Old Boy with Aspergers\" which was recorded in Chicago at the Lakeshore Theatre. In 2012, Mirman released \"An Evening Of Comedy In A Fake, Underground Laboratory\".\n\nMirman has appeared at the U.S. Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen, Colorado, the Just for Laughs Festival in Montreal, Bumbershoot and South by Southwest. He co-produced the weekly standup-variety show Invite Them Up with Bobby Tisdale and Holly Schlesinger, which won a Nightlife Award. He currently produces Pretty Good Friends (formerly Tearing the Veil of Maya) at Union Hall in Park Slope, Brooklyn with Julie Smith, which has been voted the best comedy night in New York City by \"New York Magazine\". Similar to comedians David Cross and Patton Oswalt, Mirman often performs in rock clubs and theaters as opposed to traditional comedy clubs. Often touring the US, Mirman occasionally opens for the comedy troupe Stella (former members of The State). He has opened for various bands such as The Shins and toured with Modest Mouse, Yo La Tengo, Gogol Bordello, Andrew Bird, and Cake. In 2012, Mirman stated that opening for musicians is uncommon and that music concerts pay three times that of a comedy gig. Mirman also toured with Patton Oswalt, Brian Posehn and Maria Bamford on the Comedians of Comedy tour. He has toured as an opener for the comedy duo Flight of the Conchords (and was a regular actor on their HBO series) and with Andy Kindler and Marc Maron in \"Stand Uppity\".\n\nIn January 2010, Mirman performed standup comedy on the \"John Oliver's New York Stand Up Show\" on Comedy Central.\n\nMirman's Eugene Mirman Comedy Festival ran for 10 years from 2008 to 2017.\n\nOn April 10, 2015, Mirman filmed a live stand-up special in Tucson, Arizona, directed by Bobcat Goldthwait. The special was released on Netflix in 2015 as \"Eugene Mirman: Vegan on His Way to the Complain Store\".\n\nMirman has appeared on several TV shows, including \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", HBO's \"Flight of the Conchords\" as the character Eugene, the BBC's \"Russell Howard's Good News\", \"Comedy Central Presents\", \"Delocated\", \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\", Comedy Central's \"Premium Blend\", VH1, \"Third Watch\", Cartoon Network's \"Home Movies\", \"Cheap Seats\", \"Lucy, the Daughter of the Devil\" and more. He also played a spokes-potato on Food Network.\n\nIn 2010, Mirman co-starred with Phill Jupitus in the Dave TV movie \"Comedy Exchange\". In late 2010, Mirman performed on the Comedy Central show \"The Benson Interruption\".\n\nOn February 21, 2011, Mirman appeared on \"The Colbert Report\" as a fertility clown. On April 4, 2013, Mirman provided the voice for Cecil Tunt, multi-millionaire brother of Cheryl/Carol Tunt on FX's \"Archer\". On March 13, 2016, Mirman appeared on \"Last Week Tonight\" as a hacker.\n\nMirman voices the character Gene Belcher on the Fox animated series \"Bob's Burgers\".\n\nMirman was a guest voice as Emperor Keith Merman in the Netflix original \"The Adventures of Puss in Boots\".\n\nIn January 2009, Mirman released a satirical self-help book entitled \"The Will to Whatevs\".\n\nHe often appears on \"StarTalk Radio\", hosted by Neil deGrasse Tyson. He has also appeared several times on the TV adaptation.\n\nMirman guest starred as an \"Expert witness\" on humorist John Hodgman's podcast \"Judge John Hodgman\".\n\nMirman appeared on Ken Reid's \"TV Guidance Counselor Podcast\" on April 24, 2015. The episode was recorded live as part of the 2015 Eugene Mirman Comedy Festival in Boston.\n\nMirman plays a supporting role of Benny the gerbil on the children's podcast \"This Podcast Has Fleas\" in 2017.\n\nMirman married his longtime girlfriend, set decorator Katie Westfall Tharp on Labor Day 2015. The couple has a son, born 2016. Tharp died of cancer on January 29, 2020.\n\nMirman speaks fluent Russian and English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960343", "title": "Evolutionary epistemology", "text": "Evolutionary epistemology\n\nEvolutionary epistemology refers to three distinct topics: (1) the biological evolution of cognitive mechanisms in animals and humans, (2) a theory that knowledge itself evolves by natural selection, and (3) the study of the historical discovery of new abstract entities such as abstract number or abstract value that necessarily precede the individual acquisition and usage of such abstractions.\n\n\"Evolutionary epistemology\" can refer to a branch of epistemology that applies the concepts of biological evolution to the growth of animal and human cognition. It argues that the mind is in part genetically determined and that its structure and function reflect adaptation, a nonteleological process of interaction between the organism and its environment. A cognitive trait tending to increase inclusive fitness in a given population should therefore grow more common over time, and a trait tending to prevent its carriers from passing on their genes should show up less and less frequently.\n\n\"Evolutionary epistemology\" can also refer to a theory that applies the concepts of biological evolution to the growth of human knowledge, and argues that units of knowledge themselves, particularly scientific theories, evolve according to selection. In this case, a theory—like the germ theory of disease—becomes more or less credible according to changes in the body of knowledge surrounding it.\n\nOne of the hallmarks of evolutionary epistemology is the notion that empirical testing alone does not justify the pragmatic value of scientific theories, but rather that social and methodological processes select those theories with the closest \"fit\" to a given problem. The mere fact that a theory has survived the most rigorous empirical tests available does not, in the calculus of probability, predict its ability to survive future testing. Karl Popper used Newtonian physics as an example of a body of theories so thoroughly confirmed by testing as to be considered unassailable, but which were nevertheless overturned by Einstein's insights into the nature of space-time. For the evolutionary epistemologist, all theories are true only provisionally, regardless of the degree of empirical testing they have survived.\n\n\"Evolutionary epistemology\" can also refer to the opposite of (onto)genetic epistemology, namely phylogenetic epistemology as the historical discovery and reification of abstractions that necessarily precedes the learning of such abstractions by individuals. Piaget dismissed this possibility, stating\n\nPiaget was mistaken in so quickly dismissing the study of phylogenetic epistemology, as there is much historical data available about the origins and evolution of the various notational systems that reify different kinds of abstract entity.\n\nPopper gave its first comprehensive treatment in his 1970 article \"Sketch of an Evolutionary Epistemology\" , after Donald T. Campbell had coined the phrase in a letter to Popper in 1963. Campbell wrote on evolutionary epistemology in 1974; Piaget alluded to it in 1974 and described the concept as one of five possible theories in \"The Origins of Intelligence in Children\" (1936).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960350", "title": "Seuthopolis", "text": "Seuthopolis\n\nSeuthopolis (Ancient Greek: Σευθόπολις) was an ancient hellenistic-type city founded by the Thracian king Seuthes III between 325–315 BC and the capital of the Odrysian kingdom. \n\nIts ruins are now located at the bottom of the Koprinka Reservoir near Kazanlak, Stara Zagora Province, in central Bulgaria.\nSeveral kilometres north of the city is the Valley of the Thracian Rulers where many magnificent royal tombs are located.\nSeuthopolis was not a true polis, but rather the seat of Seuthes and his court. His palace had a dual role, functioning also as a sanctuary of the Cabeiri, the gods of Samothrace. Most of the space within the city was occupied not by homes but by official structures, the majority of the people living outside the city. It had Thracian and Greek populace. In 281 BC it was sacked by Celts.\n\nThe dual role of Seuthes' palace (royal court and sanctuary) indicates that Seuthes was a priest–king: the high priest of the Cabeiri among the Odrysian Thracians. According to Seuthopolis’ sign, the sanctuary of Dionysius/Sabazios was situated on the square.\n\nThe cemetery of Seuthopolis included a number of brick tholos tombs, some covered by tumuli, in which the upper-class were interred, sometimes along with their horses. The less affluent were cremated, with modest grave goods laid alongside.\nThe ruins of the city were discovered and excavated in 1948 by Bulgarian archeologists during the construction of the Georgi Dimitrov (later renamed Koprinka) Reservoir. However, it was decided to continue with the construction and flood the dam, leaving Seuthopolis at its bottom. Despite the importance of the discovery, the Communist Government back then gave the archaeologists 6 years to research and preserve as much of the city as they can. \n\nOne of the most important archaeological finds is the so-called \"Great inscription\" found in 1953 in the palace-citadel. It is written in Greek, which indicates that Thracians were already hellenised in the 3rd century BC.\n\nIn 2005, Bulgarian architect Zheko Tilev proposed a project to uncover, preserve and reconstruct the city of Seuthopolis (the best preserved Thracian city in Bulgaria) by means of a dam wall surrounding the ruins in the middle of the dam, enabling the site's inscription as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and making it a tourist destination of world importance. Tourists would be transported to the site by boats. The round wall, 420 metres in diameter, would enable visitors to see the city from 20 metres above and would also feature \"hanging gardens\", glass lifts, a quay, restaurants, cafés, shops, ateliers, etc. It would be illuminated at night.\n\nThe project was donated by the architect to Kazanlak municipality and funds are being raised to begin construction. According to Tilev, it would cost minimum €50 million.\n\nSevtopolis Peak on Greenwich Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named for Seuthopolis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960351", "title": "Vanilla Ninja (album)", "text": "Vanilla Ninja (album)\n\nVanilla Ninja is the first album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja. The album was released on May 30, 2003, and was only ever released in Estonia, despite the group's subsequent success in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The album did well in Estonia, and one track, the group's Eurolaul 2003 entry \"Club Kung Fu\", was released as a single in Germany and reached #95 in March 2004.\n\nThe album contained a blend of songs in English and Estonian, as well as a drum 'n' bass remix of \"Club Kung Fu\". It is the group's only album with songs in Estonian.\n\n\"Vanilla Ninja\" was certified Platinum in Estonia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960353", "title": "Bernard Gallacher", "text": "Bernard Gallacher\n\nBernard Gallacher, OBE (born 9 February 1949) is a Scottish professional golfer.\n\nGallacher was born in Bathgate, Scotland. He took up golf at the age of eleven. In 1965 he won the Lothians Golf Association Boys Championship. He won the 1967 Scottish Amateur Open Stroke Play Championship and turned professional the same year. He won the Sir Henry Cotton Rookie of the Year award in 1968. His first professional wins came in 1969; a pair of them in Zambia and another pair in Europe in the equivalent of European Tour events (the European Tour wasn't established until 1972). He accumulated ten wins on the European Tour between 1974 and 1984 and finished in the top ten on the European Tour Order of Merit five times between 1972 and 1982, with a best placing of third in 1974.\n\nIn 1969, at the age of 20, Gallacher became the youngest man to represent Great Britain in the Ryder Cup up to that time. This record was subsequently beaten by Nick Faldo and others. He went on to play in the Ryder Cup eight times and was non-playing captain of the European Team in 1991, 1993 and 1995. All three of those matches were very close; Europe lost the first two but won the third.\n\nGallacher now plays on the European Seniors Tour. His first senior win came at The Mobile Cup in 2002. He was the professional at the prestigious Wentworth Club near London for 25 years until the end of 1996. His daughter Kirsty was a presenter on Sky Sports News for 20 years.\n\nGallacher also wrote a column for Scottish golf magazine \"bunkered\" from 1998 until 2008. In August 2014, Gallacher was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" opposing Scottish independence in the run-up to September's referendum on that issue.\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (2–2)\n\n\"Note: Gallacher never played in the U.S. Open nor the PGA Championship.\"\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut (3rd round cut in 1969 Open Championship)\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960355", "title": "Jeseník", "text": "Jeseník\n\nJeseník (), Frývaldov until 1947 (; ) is a town in the Olomouc Region of the Czech Republic, the administrative capital of Jeseník District.\n\nThe original name was Freiwaldau, deriving from German \"frei vom Walde\". – the name means “free from the woods”. The former Czech name of Frývaldov was a phonetic transcription of the German original (frei=frý, waldau= valdov). After Second World War the town was renamed along with many other towns containing German elements in their names. It is named after the surrounding mountains which are called Hrubý Jeseník, or Jeseníky.\n\nThe town is located in the historic Czech Silesia region on the Bělá River, a tributary of the Nysa Kłodzka. It is situated within the Hrubý Jeseník mountain range, north of the Praděd peak. In the west are the foothills of the Golden Mountains\n\n\nFreiwaldau in the Duchy of Silesia, probably founded in the course of the German \"Ostsiedlung\", was first mentioned in 1267, when it already held the status of a town belonging to the territory of the Bishops of Wrocław. With the surrounding villages it became part of the bishops' ecclesiastical Duchy of Nysa in 1290.\n\nIn the 14th century Freiwaldau developed as a centre of iron production with several foundries and hammer mills processing the ore from the productive deposits in the surrounding mountains. Later on, the flourishing town was purchased by the Swabian Fugger dynasty. In 1506 the Bishop Johann Thurzó vested its citizens with \"Bergregal\" privileges. After the iron ore deposits were exhausted, the Fugger sold the town back to the Wrocław bishops in 1547 and linen weaving became the most important source of income.\n\nSilesia with the Lands of the Bohemian Crown had passed to the Austrian Habsburg Monarchy in 1526; after the First Silesian War it became part of Austrian Silesia in 1742. It remained with the Austrian Empire and the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, until World War I and the creation of Czechoslovakia in 1918. According to the Austrian administration census of 1910 the town had 6,859 inhabitants, 6,619 of whom had permanent residence there. The census asked people for their native language: 6,588 (99.5%) were speaking German, 16 Czech and 13 Polish. Jews were not allowed to declare Yiddish, most of them thus declared German. Most populous religious groups were Roman Catholics with 6,552 (95.5%), followed by Protestants with 208 (3%) and the Jews with 83 (1.2%).\n\nOn November 25, 1931, the local Communist party organised a hunger march of around 1,000 unemployed stoneworkers ('Steinklopfer') to Freiwaldau. The police chief at Setzdorf instructed his men to prevent the demonstration from reaching the town. The police forced the marchers to take an alternative route through the forest. The police soon caught up with them at Nieder-Lindewiese, and a clash ensued during which the marchers threw sticks, stones and other objects at the gendarmes. After two stones hit the commander of the unit, First Lieutenant Oldřich Jirkovský, on the forehead, gave his men the order to fire on the crowd. As a result, ten people, including six women - among them a 60-year-old woman and a 14-year-old girl - were killed and fifteen men and women seriously injured and taken to the hospital in Freiwaldau. The Vienna \"Neue Zeitung\" attributed the march to the growing indebtedness of local stone- and chalkworkers, who could no longer earn enough for subsistence.\n\nFrom 1938 to 1945 it was one of the municipalities in Sudetenland. The German population was expelled according to the Beneš Decrees in 1945.\n\n\n\nJeseník is twinned with:\n"}
{"id": "1960357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960357", "title": "Paul Gérin-Lajoie", "text": "Paul Gérin-Lajoie\n\nPaul Gérin-Lajoie, (February 23, 1920 – June 25, 2018) was a Canadian lawyer, philanthropist, and a former member of the National Assembly of Quebec and Cabinet Minister.\n\nBorn in Montreal, Quebec, the son of Henri Gérin-Lajoie and Pauline Dorion, he studied at Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf, where he was editor of the school paper, the Université de Montréal, and Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar, where he received a Doctor of Laws degree. He was admitted to the Bar of Quebec in 1943.\n\nHe ran unsuccessfully as a Liberal candidate in the riding of Vaudreuil-Soulanges in the 1956 general election and in a 1957 by-election. In 1958, he came in second at the Quebec Liberal Party leadership convention.\n\nHe was elected in Vaudreuil-Soulanges in the 1960 election and was re-elected in 1962 and 1966. From 1960 to 1964 he was the Minister of Youth in the cabinet of Jean Lesage (eventually serving as vice-premier) and in 1964 became the first person since 1875 to be appointed Minister of Education, serving in that position until 1966. As Minister of Education he was the driving force behind major changes made to Quebec's education system. He did not run for re-election in 1970.\n\nGérin-Lajoie was president of the Canadian International Development Agency from 1970 to 1977.\n\nHe founded the Paul Gérin-Lajoie Foundation, in 1977, an organization that has contributed to the basic education of children in the poorest countries in addition to raising awareness of these countries among primary school children in Canada.\n\nIn 1966, he received an honorary doctorate from Sir George Williams University, which later became Concordia University. In 1979, he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada \"in recognition of his distinguished services to his country, chiefly as president of the Canadian International Development Agency from 1970 to 1977, and as deputy premier and minister of education of the Government of Québec from 1960 to 1966\". In 1987, he was made an Officer of the National Order of Quebec and was promoted to Grand Officer in 1998. In 2002, he was made a Knight of the Order of the Legion of Honour by the Government of France.\nThere’s a high school, named in his honour, called École Secondaire Paul-Gérin-Lajoie-d’Outremont; located in the borough of Outremont,Montreal.\n\nhttp://www.paul-gerin-lajoie-doutremont.ca/\n\n"}
{"id": "1960360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960360", "title": "Achillbeg", "text": "Achillbeg\n\nAcaill Bheag (Achillbeg) is a small island in County Mayo, Ireland, just off the southern tip of Achill Island.\n\nIts name means \"Little Achill\".\n\nAcaill Bheag was evacuated in 1965 and the inhabitants were settled on the main (Achill) island and nearby mainland. The main settlement was in the centre of the island, bounded by two hills to the north and south. There are a small number of holiday homes on the island, but they are usually empty for most of the year. Access to the island is from \"Cé Mhór\", in the village of \"An Chloich Mhór\" (Cloghmore), by local arrangement. A lighthouse on Acaill Bheag's southern tip was completed in 1965.\n\nA comprehensive book about the life and times of the island and the people and way of life there, \"Achillbeg - The Life of an Island\", by Jonathan Beaumont was published in 2005.\n\nThe Irish artist Pete Hogan wrote a book about his time spent living on the island in 1983, \"The Artist on the Island: An Achill Journal\" which was published in 2013.\n\nThe table below reports data on Achillbeg's population taken from \"Discover the Islands of Ireland\" (1999) and the Census of Ireland. \n"}
{"id": "1960367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960367", "title": "Mursi people", "text": "Mursi people\n\nThe Mursi (or Mun as they refer to themselves) are a Surmic pastoralist ethnic group in Ethiopia. They principally reside in the Debub Omo Zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region, close to the border with South Sudan. According to the 2007 national census, there are 11,500 Mursi, 848 of whom live in urban areas; of the total number, 92.25% live in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region (SNNPR).\n\nSurrounded by mountains between the Omo River and its tributary the Mago, the home of the Mursi is one of the most isolated regions of the country. Their neighbors include the Aari, the Banna, the Bodi, the Karo, the Kwegu, the Nyangatom and the Suri. They are grouped together with the Me'en and Suri by the Ethiopian government under the name Surma.\n\nThe Mursi speak the Mursi language as a mother tongue. It is classified as Surmic, which is a branch of the Nilo-Saharan language family. Mursi is closely related (over 80% cognate) to Me'en and Suri, as well as Kwegu. According to the 1994 national census, there were 3,163 people who were identified as Mursi in the SNNPR; 3,158 spoke Mursi as their first language, while 31 spoke it as their second language. According to the analytical volume of the 1994 national census, where Mursi was grouped under Me'en, 89.7% were monolingual, and the second languages spoken were Bench (4.2%), Amharic, the official language of Ethiopia (3.5%), and Kafa (1.1%).\n\nTwo orthographies for the Mursi language exist. One is the Amharic-based, although the Mursi language is one the Surmic languages with incompatible vowel structures and stressed and unstressed consonants compared to Amharic. The second is the more suitable Latin-based alphabet. The Latin-based orthography was developed by David Turton and Moges Yigezu of Addis Ababa University.\n\nLike many agro-pastoralists in East Africa, the Mursi experience a force greater than themselves, which they call \"Tumwi\". This is usually located in the Sky, although sometimes \"Tumwi\" manifests itself as a thing of the sky (\"ahi a tumwin\"), such as a rainbow or a bird. The principal religious and ritual office in the society is that of the Kômoru, the Priest or Shaman. This is an inherited office, unlike the more informal political role of the Jalaba. The Kômoru embodies in his person the well-being of the group as a whole and acts as a means of communication between the community and the god (\"Tumwi\"), especially when it is threatened by such events as drought, crop pests and disease. His role is characterized by the performance of public rituals to bring rain, to protect men, cattle and crops from disease, and to ward off threatened attacks from other tribes. Ideally, in order to preserve this link between the people and the Tumwi, the Kômoru should not leave Mursiland or even his local group (\"bhuran\"). One clan in particular, Komortê, is considered to be, par excellence, the priestly clan, but there are priestly families in two other clans, namely Garikuli and Bumai.\n\nThe religion of the Mursi people is classified as Animism, although some Mursi have adopted Christianity. There is a Serving in Mission Station in the northeastern corner of Mursiland, which provides education, basic medical care and instruction in Christianity.\n\nThe Mursi undergo various rites of passage, educational or disciplinary processes. Lip plates are a well known aspect of the Mursi and Surma, who are probably the last groups in Africa amongst whom it is still the norm for women to wear large pottery, wooden discs, or ‘plates,’ in their lower lips. Girls' lips are pierced at the age of 15 or 16. Occasionally lip plates are worn to a dance by unmarried women, and increasingly they are worn to attract tourists in order to earn some extra money. \nCeremonial duelling (\"thagine\"), a form of ritualised male violence, is a highly valued and popular activity of Mursi men, especially unmarried men, and a key marker of Mursi identity. Age sets are an important political feature, where men are formed into named \"age sets\" and pass through a number of \"age grades\" during the course of their lives; married women have the same age grade status as their husbands. \n\nThe African Parks Foundation and government park officials are accused of coercing Mursi into giving up their land within the boundaries of the Omo National Park without compensation. The documents are being used to legalize the boundaries of the park, which African Parks has taken over.\n\nA group called \"Native Solutions to Conservation Refugees\" says that the documents will make the Mursi 'illegal squatters' on their own land and that a similar fate is befalling the Suri, Dizi, Me'en, and Nyangatom, who also live within the park. After the African Parks Foundation took over Omo National Park, the Mursi feared that they would eventually be evicted from their land like the Guji-Oromo in Nechasar National Park. Due to mounting pressures from human rights activists, African Parks Foundation announced its plans to leave Omo National Park in 2007.\nThe Mursi have declared their territory a community conservation area as of July, 2008 and have begun a community tourism project.\n\nThe Gibe III hydroelectric dam, in the middle Basin of the Omo and completed in October 2015, will greatly modify the flood regime upon which thousands of people in the lower basin depend for their livelihoods. By regulating the river flows, and ‘uplifting’ the low flows during the dry season, it will also make possible the development of large-scale commercial irrigation schemes, although the latest report commissioned suggests that there is not enough water in the Omo River to irrigate the proposed area of plantations. The most ambitious of these is already being implemented by the state-run Ethiopian Sugar Corporation on land either taken from the Omo National Park or currently occupied by the Bodi, Mursi, Nyangatom and Kara. If current plans are realised the lower Omo will become by far the largest irrigation complex in Ethiopia, at least doubling the total irrigated area in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960371", "title": "Amorio", "text": "Amorio\n\nAmorio may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1960381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960381", "title": "Kawanishi Baika", "text": "Kawanishi Baika\n\nThe was a pulsejet-powered \"kamikaze\" (\"divine wind\") aircraft under development for the Imperial Japanese Navy towards the end of World War II. The war ended before any were built.\n\nNazi Germany supplied the Japanese with a great deal of technical data, including details of the Argus As 014 pulse jet engine. It remains debatable whether that technical data included examples of the V1, let alone the piloted Fieseler Fi 103R (Reichenberg). It is noted that wartime U.S. intelligence reports stated that the Japanese knew of the V-1 by October 1943, and one report stated that Japan received one example in November 1944. The reports also suggested that the Japanese were very interested in the V-1 air-launching techniques as used by the Germans.\n\nOne U.S. Army Air Force document from 1946 shows the Baika as being a copy of the Reichenberg. The cargo manifest of the Japanese submarine I-29 lists a single V-1 fuselage as being included in a shipment of equipment. Some contemporary Japanese historians debate on what, if any, V-1 and Fi 103R data the Japanese actually received and whether the Baika may simply have been an independent design.\nThe only tangible outcome of the Axis cooperation, however, was the construction of prototypes of the Maru Ka10 pulse-jet engine which was to power the \"Baika\".\n\n\nThe currently accepted illustrations of the Baika come from the 1953 published book \"Koku Gijutsu No Zenbo\" in which Technical Commander Iwaya (the man who brought the Me 163 and BMW 003 info to Japan) provided drawings of all three versions of the Baika with all versions shown with tricycle landing gear in place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960387", "title": "Amorio, Evros", "text": "Amorio, Evros\n\nAmorio () is a village in the municipal unit of Orfeas, northeastern Evros, Greece. It is situated at 2 km from the right bank of the river Evros, that forms the border with Turkey here. Amorio is 6 km northeast of Lavara, 7 km southwest of Didymoteicho and 21 km west of Uzunköprü (Turkey). The Greek National Road 51/E85 (Alexandroupoli - Orestiada - Svilengrad) and the railway from Alexandroupoli to Didymoteicho pass through the village.\n\nAfter the Balkan Wars of 1912 and 1913, the area of Western Thrace became part of Bulgaria. As a result of the 1919 Treaty of Neuilly, it became a part of Greece. Amorio suffered damage from floods in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960389", "title": "Bartow High School", "text": "Bartow High School\n\nBartow Senior High School is the only high school in Bartow, Florida. It resulted from a merger of the whites-only Summerlin Institute and Union Academy, a school for African Americans, after desegregation. The school is also the location of the International Baccalaureate School at Bartow High. \n\nSummerlin Institute was founded in 1887 as the first public high school in Bartow, Florida. It was named after Jacob Summerlin who donated large amounts of land to the cities of Bartow and Orlando. This school was the first brick school in the United States located south of Jacksonville, Florida. It was also the only public military school in Florida.\n\nUnion Academy dates to 1897 when it opened as an elementary school for African Americans. In 1923, a secondary school curriculum was added and Union Academy became a high school for African-Americans.\n\nSummerlin Institute was relocated to the corner of Broadway Avenue and Tharp Street, the current location of Bartow High School, in 1927. \n\nIn 1968 Polk County, Florida schools were integrated and all high school students living in Bartow and surrounding areas were, for the first time, going to the same school. The name of Summerlin Institute was changed to Bartow Senior High School, and Union Academy became an integrated middle school. The name change was (and still is) controversial because Summerlin Institute was considered one of the more prestigious public schools in the Southern United States, but because the school was named after Jacob Summerlin, who was a slaveholder, many felt the name change was appropriate. Many (but not all) Bartowians consider the history, traditions, alumni, of Bartow High School to include the pre-1970 histories of Summerlin Institutes and Union Academy as well as the history of Bartow High School (1970–present), thus making the 1970 integration a \"merger\" of two schools. Others consider Summerlin Institute/Bartow High School one school, and Union Academy a now defunct high school, but current middle school.\n\nIn 1996, Bartow High School earned approval from the IBO to offer the International Baccalaureate Diploma program. The students pursuing this program are placed in the International Baccalaureate School, a school-within-a-school on the Bartow High campus. While IB students attend many IB specific classes they take regular Bartow High School electives and participate in the Bartow High School athletic program. Beginning with the Class of 2010, it was only composed of students from western Polk County, due to the opening of a second IB school at Haines City High School for students from eastern Polk County. The current principal of the IB school in Bartow is Brian Andrews.\n\nIn 2006, the Summerlin Academy was established as a military school originally located under the same roof as Bartow High School and International Baccalaureate School. In 2008, Summerlin moved to its own facility in Bartow.\n\nThe school's nickname is the yellow jackets, although the school colors and uniforms are blue and orange (a result of the merge between Summerlin Institute and Union Academy; Summerlin's colors were orange and white and Union's colors were blue and white).\n\nOver the last forty years, the school has won team and individual state championships in football, boys basketball, swimming, boys weightlifting and girls softball.\n\nThe girls' softball team is the only school to have appeared in a FHSAA state championship game for 10 consecutive years (1997–2006), winning 7 of those matches. Two Bartow pitchers became the first and second players in FHSAA softball history to pitch in four state championship games. Melissa Parsons pitched from 1997–2000, winning the '97 and '00 titles. Lindsay Littlejohn won four state title games from 2002–2005. Bartow also became the first team to win five consecutive state softball championships (2002–2006). In 2003, the program earned a No. 1 national ranking by the USA Today Coaches' Poll.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960395", "title": "RBD", "text": "RBD\n\nRBD were a Latin pop group from Mexico that gained popularity from Televisa's soap opera \"Rebelde\", and found international success from 2004 until their separation in 2009. RBD sold over 66 million records worldwide, making them the most successful Latin pop group of all time. The band was composed of Alfonso Herrera, Anahí, Dulce María, Christian Chávez, Christopher von Uckermann and Maite Perroni.\n\nIn November 2004, they released their debut studio album titled \"Rebelde\" to great success. In September 2005 they released their second album \"Nuestro Amor\", receiving their first nomination in the Latin Grammy Awards. In 2006 RBD released their third album, \"Celestial\". The album's lead single, \"Ser o Parecer\", topped the \"Billboard\" Hot Latin Songs chart for two consecutive weeks. In the same year they released their first English-language album, \"Rebels\". In 2007 they released \"Empezar Desde Cero\", being nominated again at the Latin Grammy Awards. In 2009, their last album entitled \"Para Olvidarte De Mí\".\n\nThe band was officially formed on October 30, 2004, and on August 15, 2008, RBD announced through a press release that they would disband in March 10, 2009.\n\nRBD was formed on October 30, 2004, following the premiere of the Mexican soap opera, \"Rebelde\". The members were Dulce María, Anahí, Maite Perroni, Christian Chávez, Alfonso Herrera, and Christopher von Uckermann. The band released their debut single, \"Rebelde\" exactly one month before they were put together. Their first album of the same name, was released on November 11, 2004, by EMI. All four singles were number one hits in Mexico.\n\n\"Rebelde\" sold well in the United States, reaching #95 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and reaching number two on the Latin Albums chart. In July 2005 a live CD/DVD, Tour Generación RBD En Vivo was released documenting their tour around Mexico that included 45 sold-out concerts across the country, including sixteen in Mexico City alone.\n\nWith the success of \"Rebelde\", the group used the hiatus between the first and second season to release their second album, which included twelve songs plus \"Una Canción\", a live recording, and \"Liso, Sensual\", a studio version of the song previously performed on their last tour. They released their second studio album, \"Nuestro Amor\" on September 22, 2005. This album set new record sales in Mexico, selling 127,000 copies on its release day, and 160,000 copies within its first week. In the U.S., the album topped the Latin Albums Chart for 3 weeks and peaked at #88 on the \"Billboard\" 200. The first four singles reached number one in Mexico. In the United States \"Nuestro Amor\", \"Aún Hay Algo\" and \"Este Corazón\" charted on the Hot Latin chart at #6, #24 and #10 respectively.\n\nIn November 2005 a Portuguese-language version of their debut album was released under the title \"Brazilian Edition\".\n\nIn early 2006, RBD went on tour around the U.S. for the first time. The tour was recorded and released as a CD/DVD in April under the title \"Live in Hollywood\". It peaked at number 6 on the Latin Albums Chart. Since that year, former pop-rock singer Lynda Thomas, who had been working uncredited with the band since their debut album, officially became a recurring contributor for RBD; the first song that was credited to her was the single \"No Pares\", performed by Dulce María. That same year RBD earned a nomination for the Latin Grammy Awards ceremony of 2006 in the category \"Best Pop Album by a Group or Duo\" for \"Nuestro Amor\". They performed a new version of \"Tras de Mí\" at the event.\n\nIn May 2006, they released a Portuguese version of \"Nuestro Amor\", entitled \"Nosso Amor Rebelde\", intended for the Brazilian market. \"Nosso Amor Rebelde\" is their second album in Portuguese. Released only in Brazil, the album contains Portuguese versions of 11 songs from \"Nuestro Amor\".\n\nIn November 2006, they released their third studio album \"Celestial\" produced and directed by Carlos Lara which debuted at number 15 in the \"Billboard\" 200, marking first-week sales of over 137,000 copies in the U.S.\n2006 also brought RBD a nomination for the Latin Grammy Awards in the category \"Best Pop Album by a Group or Duo\" for \"Nuestro Amor\". They performed a new version of \"Tras de Mí\" at the ceremony.\n\nIn November 2005 a Portuguese-language version of their debut album was released under the title Brazilian Edition.\n\nIn early 2006, RBD went on tour around the U.S. for the first time. The tour was recorded and released as a CD/DVD in April under the title \"Live in Hollywood\". It peaked at number 6 on the Latin Albums Chart.\n\nIn May 2006, they released a Portuguese version of \"Nuestro Amor\", entitled Brazilian Edition, intended for the Brazilian market. Nosso Amor Rebelde is their second album in Portuguese. Released only in Brazil, the album contains Portuguese versions of 11 songs from \"Nuestro Amor\".\nThe album however did not have a full week of album sales, due to its Friday release. Despite this, it became their first album to peak or chart within the top 20 of the Billboard 200.\n\nCelestial is the third album in Spanish of the Mexican group RBD, and also the first to be launched simultaneously in all the countries in which the group is known. Three singles were released: \"Ser o Parecer\", \"Celestial\" and \"Bésame Sin Miedo\"\n\nOne month later, in December 2006 a Portuguese-language edition of the album was released for the Brazilian market called \"Celestial (Versão Brasil)\". This 3rd album in Portuguese was the first to be recorded in Brazil.\n\nFrom their tour of Brazil, RBD released a DVD entitled \"Live in Rio\". They were also honored for selling over 2.5 million copies of their albums and DVDs in Brazil. In Spain, \"Rebelde\" spent 5 weeks on the top of the charts going 3x Platinum for sales over 240,000, \"Nuestro Amor\" sold enough to be certified 2x Platinum, while \"Celestial\", has been certified Platinum.\n\nIn December 2006, they released their first English album, \"Rebels\" which debuted at number 40 on the Billboard 200 album chart with first-week sales of 94,000 copies. With \"Rebels\" RBD won gold record in Japan for more than 250.000 copies sold. \"Rebels\" sold 3 million copies worldwide.\nThey were nominated twice in the category for \"Latin Pop Album of the Year By a Duo or Group\", with \"Celestial\" and \"Live in Hollywood\", which were both released in 2006. They also received a nomination for \"Top Latin Albums Artist of the Year\" and \"Latin Tour of the Year\" for Tour Generación 2006. The show was held on April 26 in Miami. They won in all categories they were nominated in; \"Celestial\" was the one for which they won the \"Latin Pop Album of the Year By a Duo or Group\" award.\n\nOn March 2, 2007, Christian Chavez revealed that he is homosexual after pictures of him marrying another man in Canada surfaced on the Internet. In a letter on the group's website, he asked fans for understanding and acceptance. After this the group worked two side-projects; \"Sálvame\", an organization that helps homeless youth get an education and shelter, and \"\", their new sitcom. RBD was also nominated four times in three categories for the 2007 Billboard Latin Music Awards.\n\nThe group also prepared their 2007 world tour called \"Tour Celestial 2007\", starting in Ecuador on April 20. They were invited by Donald Trump to perform three songs at the 2007 Miss Universe final in Mexico City, on May 28, 2007. The group performed a medley of \"Wanna Play\", \"Cariño Mio\" and \"Money Money\" in the event. In June 2007, RBD recorded the video for \"Bésame Sin Miedo\" in Transylvania, while touring in Romania, where \"Celestial\" was also released. It was the same year they were chosen to headline, along with The Black Eyed Peas, a series of Pepsi commercials to air on South America and Spanish-speaking countries. On July 19, 2007, RBD performed their single \"Bésame Sin Miedo\" at Premios Juventud 2007, and also won seven awards that night, including \"Voice of the Moment\" and \"Favorite Concert\". They had won a total of 24 Premios Juventud awards by then. RBD broke the record for most albums in the top 20 in Brazil, being with three different albums in the top 20 for the week ending January 20, 2007. Their song \"Tu Amor\" was nominated for best international song in France. In a recent interview in Mexico, Christopher stated that it has always been an honor to be compared to Menudo and Timbiriche but mentioned that RBD surpassed those groups by accomplishing much more in only five years, being the only Mexican group to gain world-wide fame.(RBD: World Wide Phenomenon)\n\nThe first worldwide \"RBD Day\" was held on October 4, 2007. RBD celebrated the day with fans in Houston, Texas, and during their press conference they confirmed that their fourth Spanish studio album would be titled \"Empezar Desde Cero\", produced again by Carlos Lara and Armando Avila. The first single from Empezar Desde Cero, \"Inalcanzable\", debuted on October 2007 and peaked at #2 in Mexican charts. Empezar Desde Cero was released November 20, debuting on #1 on the Billboard Latin Charts, and peaking at the top 5 in a variety of countries such as Brazil (being their first album not to top the charts in that country, peaking at #3) and Mexico. As of November 2008, \"Empezar Desde Cero\" had sold over 1 million copies worldwide. It was also voted by Billboard Readers as the third best album released in 2007.\n\nIn April 2008, RBD performed a concert for Brazil's capital city, Brasília's 48th Birthday Celebration Party. The free concert was held at the city's main park and had an audience of over 500,000 fans. Still on April, RBD was stated to be the first artist ever in the history of Slovenia charts to have 6 different albums in the Top 10 at the same weekend.\n\nOn August, 2008, the 2008 Latin Grammy nominations were announced, with RBD being nominated for Best Pop Album with Empezar Desde Cero.\n\nOn August 14, 2008, they released the album of the greatest hits:RBD-The Best of.\n\nOn August 15, 2008, RBD announced through a press release that they would disband in 2009. The group's manager, Pedro Damian, explained that, although there weren't any fights among the members, it was decided to be the best that they should disband, for the members were already planning different solo activities.\n\nHerrera and Perroni were occupied with their television projects (Perroni as the protagonist of \"Cuidado con el ángel\" and Herrera with the TV Series \"Terminales\"). Chavez was in the middle of a tour with the musical \"Avenue Q\"'s Mexican stage production, and was planning to build his career as a solo artist, actor and producer. Anahí managed her own clothing store in Mexico City and began an organization to help those with eating disorders. Dulce María was involved with the shooting of a movie \"Alguien a visto a Lupita\"and a variety of projects, such as dubbing a cartoon character in a Mexican motion picture. Later, Uckermann starred in the TV show \"Kdabra\", produced by Fox in Colombia.\n\nOn November 25, RBD released \"Best Of\" (in Brazil: \"Hits Em Português\"; in U.S.: \"Greatest Hits\"), a CD/DVD featuring their singles and a DVD with music videos, as part of their goodbye. A Portuguese version of the album was also released.\n\n\"Para Olvidarte De Mí\" was the last RBD album to be released. It was released March 10, 2009. It is preceded by the first single \"Para Olvidarte De Mí\". On December 2, 2009, the live concert DVD, \"Tournée do Adeus\", was released, containing the group's last show in Brazil. The DVD was recorded in São Paulo.\n\nIn late 2012, it was announced by Pedro Damián, told the Televisa channel, that the group would return to the stage in 2013. According to Damian, the project was to do something amazing and interesting: \"\"Let's talk to them. Let's convince them to do something amazing, something interesting.\"\" He stated he was determined to revive the picture band and he would be chatting with members; trying to convince them to do a reunion. Following Damian's statements, Dulce María said in an interview with Televisa that it was too early for a comeback; however, she did not rule out the possibility of ever doing a reunion with her former teammates. \"\"I do not know about the future,\"\" she stated in the interview. \"\"[B]ut right now there's no way. Each of us is focused on his or her career. It's still very early. But don't say never.\"\" Around the same time, in an interview for MTV Brasil, Christian Chávez said it was possible for a return in 2014, and this was confirmed by Damían. On July 27, 2013, However, there was no official statement from Dulce, Herrera, Uckermann, Anahi or Perroni of this occurring or a set date.\n\nWith resistance from some members, producer Pedro Damián decided to develop a documentary about the group in celebration of the sextet's ten-year anniversary. In an interview with Televisa channel, the producer said he'll have something more concrete on the project later in the year. \"\"I have something like 800 hours of recordings... We are already working.\"\"\n\n\nTour Generación RBD was RBD's first national tour. It spawned 80 sold out dates in Mexico, they visited Monterrey three times gathering over 150,000 fans. The tour was certified by OCESA as the fourth most rapidly sold tour in Mexico, behind The Cure's 2004 Sing to the Deadly Mouse Trap Tour (#1), Britney Spears' 2002 Dream Within a Dream Tour (#2), and Backstreet Boys 2001 Black & Blue Tour (#3). The tour started on May 13, 2005 in Toluca, Mexico, and ended on December 18, 2005 in Lima, Peru. The band first international concerts took place in Colombia with much success, they performed first in Medellin in front a crowd of 30,000, later in Cali in front of more than 50,000 being the group's highest attendance concert in Colombia and later in Bogota. The second phase of the tour began in the United States in March 2006, at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum with a crowd of more than 68,000 fans – a record-breaking act for a Latin group and a sure sign of their widespread success. 694,655 tickets were sold in 2006 accounting for North American Shows worth a total of $23,600,000 worldwide tickets sells reached 749,485 they came in as the 14th top selling act of 2006 worldwide.\nRBD did a stadium tour through Brazil. They were the first Mexican pop group to perform in big venues such as Maracanã and Morumbi which are usually used by global pop stars, such as Madonna, U2, The Rolling Stones and Michael Jackson.\n\n\"Celestial '07 World Tour\" is RBD's second tour where they performed in America and Europe and South and Central America. On June 22, 2007, RBD filmed their concert in Madrid, Spain(40.000+ attended the concert) for a DVD called \"Tour Celestial 2007: Hecho en España\".\nIn early October, it was confirmed by Roptus.com that the rest of the tour would be postponed until further notice. The reason the website gave for these actions was that RBD wants to give their audience a much well deserved show by performing some songs off their new album, \"Empezar desde Cero\", which was released on November 20, 2007. RBD Grossed $5,400,000 alone on North American dates only and a combined total of 293,742 Tickets WorldWide.\n\nThe \"Empezar Desde Cero Tour\" began in Hildalgo, Texas on February 2008, at the Dodge Arena. In late 2007, their Celestial Tour 2007 in the United States was rescheduled until February 2008 and became part of their new tour, \"Empezar Desde Cero Tour\". La Nueva Banda Timbiriche was their opening act in the United States. The tour is taking place in the United States, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Paraguay, Brazil, Spain, Slovenia, Serbia, Dominican Republic, Romania, and many other countries in South America, and Europe. RBD performed in Brazil for over 500,000 people, breaking the Rolling Stones's record. In September, they did a series of concerts in Slovenia, the first concert was sold out in only 30 minutes breaking records. Poll Star released the top 100 selling concerts for the mid year 2008\nRBD came in number 49 with 166,839 Tickets sold from 1/1/08 to 6/30/08.. Third Quarter sales from Pollsatr ranked RBD at number 48 out of 100 with 301,015 tickets sold from 1/1/08 to 9/30/08. PollStar Year end sales from 1/01/08 to 12/31/08 showed RBD with a total of 367,346 tickets sold for 2008. RBD pulled in 4.4 million dollars worth of ticket sales in from there North American dates.\n\nThe Gira Del Adiós World Tour was a world tour by Mexican group RBD. The tour was set to visit South America, North America and Europe and it started on November 1, 2008. The tour ended on December 21, 2008.\n\nOn August 14, 2008, the group RBD announced its last tour, named Gira Del Adiós or Tour Del Adiós. The tour itinerary included about 20 cities in countries such as Argentina, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Paraguay and Chile, and Brazil. In November 2008 the group began the tour in the following cities: La Paz, Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Rosario. In December, RBD concerts were held in the cities of: Los Angeles, Guayaquil, Quito, Lima, Santiago, Ljubljana, Bucharest, Belgrade, Madrid. The last presentation of \"Gira Del Adiós\" occurred on December 21 in Madrid, as well as the final farewell of the phenomenon, RBD.\n\nIn Brazil, the tour was called \"Turnê Do Adeus\". The first five presentations in the country were held soon after the presentations in Argentina.\n\nAs in Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, Rio de Janeiro with 30 000 persons and more than 25 000 in São Paulo (Where was the last recorded live DVD of the group, entitled \"\"Tournée do Adeus.\"\") and Brasília.\n\nRBD was one of the most important phenomenon of Latin pop culture in the 2000s despite their short transition in music scene, the cultural phenomenon led by the soap opera \"Rebelde\" and the pop music group \"RBD\", accompanied by advertising strategies and artistic from 2004 to 2009 first in Mexico and then in Latin America meant the recognition from the young audience who followed the adventures of the group massively, leaving a legacy of six studio albums, two \"TV Series\"and multiple recognitions. On March 2, 2007, the world knew about the sexual orientation of Christian Chávez, who through a statement spoke about this, after photos of his marriage with the Canadian BJ Murphy came out. The RBD member became the first openly gay Mexican international singer. 4 October, it was selected as the \"RBD World Day\" since on that date in 2004 the Soap Opera \"Rebelde\" was released in Mexico.\n\nAfter the accident in Brazil where thousands of RBD fans ran to a van thinking RBD was inside of it and while it happened 43 people were injured and 3 people were killed in February 2006, the Mexican group RBD launched \"Fundación Sálvame\" (the \"Save Me Foundation\", named after one of their songs) to help street children. It began operations on May 1, 2006, The foundation serves Mexico, Brazil and Spain. Later during the Celestial tour they spoke about the incident and said \"it is something that struck us all they didn't tell us what happened until we were on are way back to Mexico and to know that your fans were killed at your concert is a horrible feeling\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1960402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960402", "title": "Opočno", "text": "Opočno\n\nOpočno (; ) is a small town in Bohemia with a population of over 3,000, located in the Hradec Králové Region of the Czech Republic. Opočno is well known for its Castle which is one of the most magnificent examples of Renaissance architecture in Bohemia.\n\nOpočno was first mentioned in 1068 by Cosmas of Prague in his \"Chronica Boemorum\". In that time the Castle Opočno played an important role in administration of the entire region of Orlické hory. During the Middle Ages the Castle was built in the Gothic style.\n\nIn the late 15th century, the members of the Bohemian noble family Trčka z Lípy became owners of Opočno. During their rule Opočno enjoyed a period of a significant economic growth. In the years 1560–69 Opočno Castle was rebuilt in the Renaissance style. After the extinction of the Trčka family Opočno was acquired by the Colloredo family. In 1673 a Capuchin monastery was founded in Opočno. In June 1813, at the castles of Opočno and Ratibořice, an agreement was negotiated between armies of Russia, Prussia and Austria on how to advance against Napoleon's army.\n\nDuring World War II, in 1942, the property of Colloredo-Mandsfeld family including the château in Opočno was confiscated by the Nazis. Until today the restitution claims of the Colloredo-Mansfeld family in Opočno are not definitively solved.\n\nThe main tourist attraction of Opočno is Opočno Castle, a Renaissance and Baroque château. In Opočno there are three churches. The parish church of the Holy Trinity, the church of the Nativity of Christ (originally a convent church of the Capuchin monastery) and the Marian Chapel in the old cemetery which now serves as a concert hall.\n\n\nOpočno is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1960404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960404", "title": "Aarón Díaz", "text": "Aarón Díaz\n\nAarón Díaz Spencer (born March 7, 1982) is a Mexican American actor, singer, and model.\n\nAarón Díaz Spencer was born in Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco, Mexico to an Irish-American mother (surname Spencer) and a Mexican father (surname Díaz). Diaz speaks English and Spanish fluently and lived for several years in Palo Alto, California. He finished high school in Palo Alto, before returning to Mexico to study at the exclusive Televisa Acting School Centro de Educación Artística (CEA).\n\nHe made his acting debut in the popular teen drama \"Clase 406\", playing the role of Kike González. In 2004, he followed \"Clase 406\" with another teen drama titled \"Corazones al límite\" co-starring Sherlyn and Sara Maldonado. He then played the role of the older Andrés Romero in the telenovela \"Barrera de amor\" starring Yadhira Carrillo. He starred along former flame Sherlyn in Mexico's own version of Grease entitled \"Vaselina\".\n\nDiaz signed on in 2006 with Pedro Damian, (creator of \"Clase 406\") to be Alexander Von Ferdinand, the main male protagonist for the teen telenovela called \"Lola...Érase una vez\", co-starring Eiza González and Grettell Valdez which premiered on February 26, 2007 on \"Canal 5\" in Mexico.\n\nIn 2008 he debuted as a designer and entrepreneur with the clothing brand 'Perra'.\n\nApart from acting, Díaz is also a singer and he released his first album titled \"Enamórate de mí\" in June 2009. His second album self-titled \"Aaron Diaz,\" was released in 2011.\n\nIn 2010/2011 he was the main protagonist alongside Angelique Boyer and Sebastián Rulli in the latest version of the telenovela \"Teresa\", playing the role of Mariano.\n\nIn 2010 he released a 2011 calendar with exclusive, artistic, and original photos of himself. The success of the first calendar caused him to release a 2012 version in December 2011.\n\nIn November 2011, Díaz made his debut in an American television show in the ABC series \"Pan Am\", playing the role of Miguel, a dashing, charming, and wealthy entrepreneur in the episode 'Unscheduled Departure'.\n\nFor the first time in his career, Díaz starred in an antagonist role in the telenovela, \"El Talismán\", where he played the role of Antonio Negrete, alongside Blanca Soto and Rafael Novoa.\n\nIn 2016, Díaz was cast in the ABC thriller series \"Quantico\" in the recurring role of CIA recruit, León Velez.\n\nDíaz was in a relationship with Sherlyn from 2002 to 2006. \n\nIn 2007, he began dating actress Kate del Castillo, and they were married on August 29, 2009 in Las Vegas, Nevada. A religious ceremony was later held in the Episcopal Church in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico on September 5 of the same year. They announced their separation in July 2011 and were later divorced.\n\nDíaz began dating his \"El Talismán\" co-star Lola Ponce in 2012. They have two daughters: Erin (born February 2013) and Regina (born August 2014) and got married in 2015, in a private ceremony held in Morocco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960409", "title": "SS Marine Electric", "text": "SS Marine Electric\n\nSS \"Marine Electric\", was a 605-foot bulk carrier, that sank on 12 February 1983, about 30 miles off the coast of Virginia, in 130 feet of water. Thirty-one of the 34 crewmembers were killed; the three survivors endured 90 minutes drifting in the frigid waters of the Atlantic. The wreck resulted in some of the most important maritime reforms in the second half of the 20th century. The tragedy tightened inspection standards, resulted in mandatory survival suits for winter North Atlantic runs, and helped create the now famous Coast Guard rescue swimmer program.\n\nThe ship was built by the Sun Shipbuilding and Drydock Company of Chester, Pennsylvania for the U.S. Maritime Commission (contract No. 1770) as a Type T2-SE-A1 tanker, hull number 437. She was laid down on 10 January 1944, launched on 2 May, and delivered on 23 May.\n\nIn May 1947, she was sold to the Gulf Oil Corporation and renamed \"Gulfmills\". In May 1961, she was purchased by Marine Transport Lines (MTL), and renamed \"Marine Electric\". The ship was modified by the addition of a new midsection for cargo transport, built at the Bremer Vulkan yard in Bremen, Germany, which was then towed to the Bethlehem Steel Co. yard in East Boston. This extended the ship's length overall from to , and her tonnage from 10,448 to . The work was completed in November 1962. However, the \"Marine Electric\" was showing its age, exhibiting corrosion and damage to the hull and other structural components.\n\nThe \"Marine Electric\" put to sea for her final voyage on 10 February 1983, sailing from Norfolk, Virginia to Somerset, Massachusetts with a cargo of 24,800 tons of granulated coal. The ship sailed through a fierce (and ultimately record-breaking) storm that was gathering.\n\nThe \"Marine Electric\" neared the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay at about 2:00 a.m. on Thursday, 10 February. She battled 25-foot (7.6-m) waves and winds gusting to more than , fighting the storm to reach port with her cargo.\n\nThe following day, she was contacted by the United States Coast Guard to turn back to assist a fishing vessel, the \"Theodora\", that was taking on water. The \"Theodora\" eventually recovered and proceeded on its westerly course back to Virginia; the \"Marine Electric\" turned north to resume its original route.\n\nDuring the course of the investigation into the ship’s sinking, representatives of MTL theorized that the ship ran aground during her maneuvering to help the \"Theodora\", fatally damaging the hull. They contended that it was this grounding that caused the \"Marine Electric\" to sink five hours later.\n\nBut Coast Guard investigations, and independent examinations of the wreck, told a different story: the \"Marine Electric\" left port in an un-seaworthy condition, with gaping holes in its deck plating and hatch covers. The hatch covers, in particular, posed a problem, since without them the cargo hold could fill with water in the storm and drag the ship under. And it was there that the investigation took a second, dramatic turn.\n\nInvestigators discovered that much of the paperwork supporting MTL's declarations that the \"Marine Electric\" was seaworthy was faked. Inspection records showed inspections of the hatch covers during periods where they'd in fact been removed from the ship for maintenance; inspections were recorded during periods of time when the ship wasn't even in port. A representative of the hatch covers' manufacturer warned MTL in 1982 that their condition posed a threat to the ship’s seaworthiness. But inspectors never tested them. And yet, the \"Marine Electric\" was repeatedly certified as seaworthy.\n\nPart of the problem was that the Coast Guard delegated some of its inspection authority to the American Bureau of Shipping. The ABS is a private, non-profit agency that developed rules, standards and guidelines for ship's hulls. In the wake of the \"Marine Electric\" tragedy, questions were raised about how successfully the ABS was exercising the inspection authority delegated to it, as well as about whether the Coast Guard even had the authority to delegate that role. Also there was a conflict of interest in that the inspection fees paid to the ABS were paid by the ship owners.\n\nIn the wake of the \"Marine Electric\" sinking, \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" assigned two reporters, Tim Dwyer and Robert Frump, to look into old ship catastrophes. In the series, the writers concluded that government programs designed to strengthen the merchant marine had actually kept unsafe ships afloat. Frump later wrote a book, \"Until the Sea Shall Free Them\", about the sinking.\n\nIn the wake of the Marine Board report, and the newspaper's investigation, the Coast Guard dramatically changed its inspection and oversight procedures. The Coast Guard report noted that the ABS, in particular, \"cannot be considered impartial\", and described its failure to notice the critical problems with the ship as negligent. At the same time, the report noted that \"the inexperience of the inspectors who went aboard the \"Marine Electric\", and their failure to recognize the safety hazards...raises doubt about the capabilities of the Coast Guard inspectors to enforce the laws and regulations in a satisfactory manner.\"\n\nWhile the Coast Guard commandant did not accept all of the recommendations of the Marine Board report, inspections tightened and more than 70 old World War II relics still functioning 40 years after the war were sent to scrap yards. In 2003, Coast Guard Captain Dominic Calicchio was posthumously awarded The Plimsoll Award by \"Professional Mariner\" magazine in part because of his role as a member of the Marine Board of Investigation.\n\nAdditionally, the Coast Guard required that survival suits be required on all winter North Atlantic runs. Later, as a direct result of the casualties on the \"Marine Electric\", Congress pushed for and the Coast Guard eventually established the now famous Coast Guard Rescue Swimmer program.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960423", "title": "Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime", "text": "Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime\n\n\"Rocket Slime\" stars the common enemy and mascot of the series, a Slime, this one in particular being named Rocket (Surarin in the Japanese version). Rocket lives in a town called Boingburg, inhabited by other Slimes, each one being a type of Slime species found in the series. There are no humans in \"Rocket Slime\"; instead, its world is inhabited by Slimes and other enemies from the series. It features two forms of gameplay; the first being an overhead style, where the player maneuvers Rocket around a variety of stages, and another where the Schleiman Tank must do battle against an opposing tank, firing ammunition found throughout the first portion of the game.\n\nThe player views \"Rocket Slime\" from an overhead view, and controls Rocket entirely with the face and shoulder buttons. Rocket has the ability to jump as well as hover, though his primary technique is the Elasto Blast, an attack that launches Rocket forward. The Elasto Blast's strength is determined by how long the player allows for it to charge. This technique is constantly used throughout the game, used to pick up objects and attack enemies. When an enemy or object is hit by the Elasto Blast, it is sent flying, requiring the player to move forward and grab the item or enemy before they land if they wish to pick them up. The player may hold up to three items and/or enemies at any given time. Any item or enemy may be used as a weapon against an enemy if thrown at them. Rocket has a health meter that consists of multiple hearts, where Rocket will lose half a heart if damaged. The player may increase it by finding a rare item.\n\nEach stage has a certain number of Slimes, and a variety of different items and enemies that can be found within. The game uses a day/night system, causing differences in enemies. Enemies that can be found awake during the day are asleep at night, and vice versa. There are several differences in the levels, but one thing they have in common are the railways. These railways typically lead back to Boingburg, allowing the player to send items, enemies, and other Slimes back to Boingburg, or leave the level via the railways. When a Slime is sent back, the Slime will send a letter to the player, including either an item or a recipe for an item. When an enemy is sent back, that enemy will become a resident of Boingburg, though only one enemy per species is allowed. When an item is sent back, it can be used as ammunition for Rocket's tank or sold at a shop. Another common element are the tank battles, where the player may battle a Plob tank. Defeating a tank gives Rocket a specific item and sometimes a Slime, who returns to Boingburg. Most stages have a boss battle near the end of the stage. All bosses have a health meter, which must be depleted for Rocket to progress any further. When the player leaves the stage, a screen is shown detailing what Slimes the player acquired in this session of the stage, as well as any items and enemies that he or she collected.\n\nIn between stages, the player is sent back to Boingburg to rest. In the beginning after the Plob attack, there are no Slimes remaining, and the Plobs have destroyed much of the town, leaving large spiked balls blocking much of the houses and the village. Most of these spiked balls have ST written on them, meaning \"Slime Tons\". The number listed is the number of Slimes the player must rescue in order to get rid of the spiked ball in question. After a certain point in the game, the rescued Slimes rebuild Boingburg and return it to its state in the prologue. There are several things the player may do while in Boingburg. Early on, the player only has the ability to save his or her game, but eventually gains access to much more, including tank customization, a shop, a tank arena, a surfing mini-game, and an area where the player may synthesize items using recipes that are collected throughout the game.\n\nAnother primary game mechanic is the tank battles. Tank battles either occur in the stages or at the tank battle arena in Boingburg. In stages, when the player encounters a platform with an enemy on it standing in front of a slime-shaped tank, he or she may summon his or her tank to do battle with them. When the player goes into the battle, the top screen displays a zoomed out view of the two tanks on either side of the screen, and the bottom screen displays the standard gameplay. Each tank has two cannons that ammunition may be loaded into, and an HP meter, the latter which varies from tank to tank. Ammunition comes from varying points in the tank; the location of these drop points varies depending on which tank is being used. The player picks up ammunition using the Elasto Blast, like he or she picks up items in the other mode of play. He or she then may throw the ammunition into one or both of the cannons, causing the ammunition to be fired at the opposing tank. The opponent, however, will also fire ammunition at the player's tank. If two pieces of ammunition collide with each other, both pieces will fall to the ground, though some pieces of ammunition have more defensive and/or offensive power than others.\n\nThe player may leave his or her tank, either by shooting him or herself out of one of the cannons or by leaving the tank and breaking into the opposing tank. If the player makes it to the other tank by means of the cannon, he or she will enter the main area of their tank. While in their tank, the player may use the Elasto Blast attack to break their computers, making it more difficult for them to retaliate. The player may also attack his or her opponents or steal ammunition to use in his or her tank. The opponent may also do the same, either breaking in or going in via the cannon. A tank is not destroyed when its HP is depleted; instead, a door protecting the tank's engine (shaped like a heart) is destroyed, and at which point, the opposing tank's crew will invade and try to destroy the engine. If it is destroyed, the tank battle is over. Most tank battles that the player wins rewards the player with a particular item and a Slime, the Slime only appearing once per tank battle.\n\nIn Boingburg, the player may load ammunition into his or her tank. This ammunition consists of items the player has collected throughout the game. After a certain point in the game, the player may also choose three computer-controlled tank assistants. These consists of particular Slimes that are able to participate. Under certain conditions, the player may also gain the ability to recruit enemies. Each tank assistance has a unique set of commands that they can be ordered to follow. While in Boingburg, the player may play multi-player with another player who owns a Nintendo DS system and \"Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime\". If another player does not own a copy, he or she may only play a tank battle demo.\n\n\"Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime\" is based in the fictional world of Slimenia, specifically in the capital city of Boingburg. It begins with four Slimes, Rocket, Hooly, Bo, and Swotsy, who are playing in front of the castle. Hooly has gotten his hands on a valuable flute, and in response to the flute being blown by Rocket, his father comes running over, forcing Hooly to stick the flute in Rocket's mouth. Afterward, an organization of platypus-like creatures known as the Plob invades Boingburg, capturing 100 of its 101 inhabitants. They are organized by who has the most tails, with the lowest ranked villains having one, and the Plobfather has seven. Because he was distorted and long, the Plob mistakenly believed Rocket was not a Slime but a worm, and discarded him into Forewood Forest. There, Rocket begins his journey to rescue his fellow slimes, who have been locked up in large treasure chests. Rocket later happens upon a large tank called the Schleiman Tank, which he activates with the flute that he had acquired. This tank now allows him to battle other tanks employed by the Plob; including the Carrot Top, Platypanzer and Cactiballistix. He also must do battle with many other enemies, including the leader, Don Clawleone (a.k.a. The Plobfather), Flucifer (The Dark One) and a mysterious slime named Slival and his Schwartzman Tank. Slival becomes his nemesis and is encountered a lot throughout the game, including at Mt. Krakatroda for a final battle.\n\n\"Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime\" was created by Yuji Horii, creator of the \"Dragon Quest\" franchise, and Yoshiki Watabe, who also worked on \"\" and \"\", as well as its predecessor, \"Slime MoriMori Dragon Quest: Shōgeki no Shippo Dan\". While planning a version of the original \"Dragon Quest\" for the Game Boy, Watabe and Horii discussed making a game aimed at children. The duo wanted to use a character from a well-known franchise and decided it should be the Slime character from \"Dragon Quest\". The developers did not want to give the protagonist a sword and shield, feeling it would make the slime character into a blue Link from \"The Legend of Zelda\". They also rejected having the character breath fire or run fast like Sonic the Hedgehog, so they refocused on what a slime could do, and that his how they discovered that his movements should be stretching and catapulting itself like a slingshot. Because Watabe believed the dual screen function was the focus of the Nintendo DS, he wanted to make use of the dual screen in a way that was not done in the original Slime game. Early in the title's life, the developers had a version of it that uses the touch screen to use Rocket's Elasto Blast technique, but scrapped the idea, due to it being too hard to control. To build on the slingshot paradigm in the second game in the series, the design team added tanks. The developers also chose to keep humans out of the game, due to that if they did appear, they would probably just run around killing all the Slimes. Watabe explained that the system of enemies having tales came from his desire toe explain to children the idea of a gang and a hierarchy, loosely based on his own experience with bosses.\n\nThe success of \"Dragon Quest VIII\" in the west prompted an international release for the Slime series. The protagonists name is Rocket, which was influenced by wanting western audiences not to associate the character Slime with an inert blob, but show it was a powerful character that can “rocket“ around. Also due to lack of familiarity with ‘’Dragon Quest’’ slimes, the games title was modified to include mention of the \"Dragon Quest\" series. After Japanese release, American translators were used instead of British ones to give the phrasing a more “modern” sound than a typical \"Dragon Quest\" title. Watabe said that if \"Dragon Quest Heroes\" sold well, that the developer would look into a sequel, and they may also include Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection support. \"Rocket Slime\" was developed originally for gamers who were eight to ten years old, but in the west the average purchasers age was twenty five. Enthusiasm was also higher for sequels in the west, while there was less enthusiasm in Japan.\n\n\"Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime\" sold over 293,000 copies in Japan by the end of 2006. It has received generally positive reception, holding an aggregate of 83/100 from Metacritic \"Nintendo Power\" praised its multi-player tank battle mode, calling the game a \"well-placed and satisfying adventure\". \"Play Magazine\" commented that \"Rocket Slime\" is a quality spin-off, adding that other developers should take a cue from it. \"Game Informer\" commented that the slimes in \"Rocket Slime\" have an \"irresistible charm\", calling the exploration gameplay \"clever\". \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" praised it, calling it a \"kid's game that completely rocks\". \"Edge\" noted that while it wasn't a bold game, it had little to criticize, calling its developers \"masters of their craft\". NGamer UK called the dialogue \"so bad it's good\".\n"}
{"id": "1960425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960425", "title": "Evans Lookout", "text": "Evans Lookout\n\nEvans Lookout is a lookout in the Blue Mountains, New South Wales, Australia. Overlooking the sandstone cliffs of the Grose River Valley, the lookout is also an access point for pedestrian access to the valley floor.\n\nNearby walks include the Grand Canyon and trails to Govetts Leap lookout.\n\nA popular, easily accessible location, the lookout is located within the Blue Mountains National Park close to the town of Blackheath.\n"}
{"id": "1960430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960430", "title": "Fear of Pop: Volume 1", "text": "Fear of Pop: Volume 1\n\nVolume 1 is the name of the first album by the experimental band Fear of Pop. The album was a project of Ben Folds, John Mark Painter, Fleming McWilliams, and others. It was released on November 17, 1998 on 550 Records (with distribution from Sony Records).\n\nAt some stores, a limited edition 12\" vinyl single for \"In Love\" was bundled for free with Volume 1. It featured a remix of the song by Thievery Corporation, as well as a couple of cuts off of the album.\n\nAlthough Folds, Southern and Painter were the primary contributors to the records, a large cast of other musicians were included as well. William Shatner provided vocals on \"In Love\" (as well as the reprise, \"Still in Love\"). Painter's wife, Fleming McWilliams, sang on several tracks. Frally Hynes, Folds' Australian then-girlfriend (and wife from 1999 to 2007) performed frantic lead vocals on \"Root to This\" (\"root\" being a crude Australian slang term for sexual intercourse). Folds sang on a number of songs as well.\n\nThe track \"Rubber Sled\" is a humorous reference to Ben Folds Five bass player Robert Sledge. A clip of Brick by Ben Folds Five is playing in the background at the beginning of this song, though played at twice its normal speed, and a sample of Folds yelling \"Robert Sledge on the bass guitar!\" can be heard approximately halfway through the song. \"I Paid My Money\" was at least almost a decade old at the time it was recorded in 1998. The original 1990 demo version featured Folds singing over an African-American choir.\n\nThe cover of the album, features the silhouette of a running man being pursued by cowboys on horseback with lassoes. The back of the album case shows the silhouette of a boy in a cowboy outfit sitting on a park bench with what appears to be an erect penis in his hands. The inner cover depicts a woman being violently attacked on a television seen in a city apartment. All the images are from David Bethell's \"Just Your Average Second On This Planet\" 1997-1998\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960431", "title": "Blue Tattoo (album)", "text": "Blue Tattoo (album)\n\nBlue Tattoo is the third album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja, and the last original Vanilla Ninja album released by Bros Records. Following the successful 2004 album \"Traces of Sadness\", \"Blue Tattoo\" was the group's most successful album yet with the singles \"Blue Tattoo\" (from which the album gets its name), \"I Know\" and \"Cool Vibes\". \"Cool Vibes\" was also the 2005 Swiss Eurovision entry, increasing the album's popularity in Switzerland.\n\nIn both Switzerland and Germany it peaked at #4 in the charts, with an Austrian chart high of #7. The album also topped the Estonian album chart.\n\n\nThe album also contained two extras:\n\n\n\nThe limited edition of the album also contained two extras:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960443", "title": "Yokosuka Tenga", "text": "Yokosuka Tenga\n\nThe Yokosuka \"Tenga\" (天河, \"Milky Way\") was a proposal to provide the Imperial Japanese Navy with a jet-powered bomber towards the end of World War II. The concept was to replace the piston engines of the P1Y1 with turbojets. \n\nThe powerplant selected was the thrust Ishikawajima Ne-30, then under development. However, before a single example could be built, both the Ne-30 project and the Tenga were cancelled due to technical difficulties with the turbojet design.\n\nRelated development\nComparable aircraft\n\n"}
{"id": "1960451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960451", "title": "Fontet", "text": "Fontet\n\nFontet is a commune in the Gironde department in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in southwestern France.\n\nIt is situated between Bordeaux and Bergerac.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960473", "title": "Toy wagon", "text": "Toy wagon\n\nA toy wagon has the same structure as the traditional, larger wagon, but is much smaller and has an open top. An average wagon is able to seat one child, and is generally propelled by human power through a handle at the front. Some famous brands are Radio Flyer, Red Rider, Northern Tool and Equipment, Lowe's, Cardinal, and Speedway Express.\n\nAncient cultures such as the Mayans and the Aztecs had toy carts.\n\nToy wagons have been around since the late 19th century, and are traditionally painted red. They were originally made of wood. Antonio Pasin started making wagons in 1917 and eventually started the Radio Flyer company. He produced many of them in his workshop in Chicago and they became a national hit after the 1933 Chicago World Fair. His toy wagons helped bring people back from the thoughts of the looming war to their simple pleasures.\n\nThe basic design of toy wagons has been the same since the late 19th century. Usually, a small wagon contains 9, 12, or 16 bolts. The back axle usually contains 4 bolts, and the front varies among the different steering designs. The wheels can be air tires, hard rubber tires, or hard plastic tires. Some small kids' wagons are made completely out of plastic. Some are made of wood, aluminum, poly, or steel. The shape of the handle also can be different, some shaped like a T, others like a D, and some with a circle handhold at the end. The main problem with wagons is rust. Wagons are usually painted in outdoor paint to prevent rusting, but all metal wagons will eventually get slightly battered and can then rust.\n\nPeople also use toy wagons for small, outdoor projects. Companies such as Northern Tool, Lowe's, and Tractor Supply Company make wagons specifically for outdoor work. Usually they are painted a different color than red and are made of metal. They are also usually larger and more expensive. Wagons can be useful for moving dirt, wood chips, mulch, or gravel. They can also be used in gardening for moving plants. Nursery wagons are available just for professional gardening. Nursery wagons let dirt and water go through the bottom and are good for plants and pots in a greenhouse. They can also be used for moving camping gear or boxes. Some utility wagons are self-propelled by small motors so that the user can handle heavier loads on rough, uneven terrain. These wagons are often equipped with a tilting cargo bed which allows the user to dump their cargo more easily, making them suitable for small farms. Some companies, such as Speedway Express, make huge 8-wheeled wagons that are made of wood, usually handmade by the Amish.\n\nIn 1997, Radio Flyer made a huge wagon long and wide to celebrate the 80th anniversary of Radio Flyer. The wagon weighs 15,000 pounds and is constructed of steel.\n"}
{"id": "1960488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960488", "title": "Gail Fisher", "text": "Gail Fisher\n\nGail Fisher (August 18, 1935 – December 2, 2000) was an American actress who was one of the first black women to play substantive roles in American television. She was best known for playing the role of secretary Peggy Fair on the television detective series \"Mannix\" from 1968 through 1975, a role for which she won two Golden Globe Awards and an Emmy Award; she was the first black woman to win either award. She also won an NAACP Image Award in 1969.\n\nThe youngest of five children, Fisher was born in Orange, New Jersey. Her father died when she was two years old, and she was raised by her mother, Ona Fisher, who supported her family with a home-operated hair-styling business while living in the Potter's Crossing neighborhood of Edison, New Jersey. She graduated from Metuchen High School in Metuchen, New Jersey. During her teenaged years, she was a cheerleader and entered several beauty contests, winning the titles of Miss Transit, Miss Black New Jersey, and Miss Press Photographer.\n\nIn a contest sponsored by Coca-Cola, Fisher won the opportunity to spend two years studying acting at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. As a student of acting in New York City, she worked with Lee Strasberg and became a member of the Repertory Theater at Lincoln Center, where she worked with Elia Kazan and Herbert Blau. As a young woman, she also worked as a model.\n\nFisher made her first television appearance in 1960 at age 25, appearing in the NTA Film Network program \"The Play of the Week\". Also during the early 1960s, she appeared in a television commercial for All laundry detergent, which she said made her \"the first black female—no, make that black, period—to make a national TV commercial, on camera, with lines.\" In 1965, Herbert Blau cast her in a theatrical production of \"Danton's Death\".\n\nShe first appeared in \"Mannix\" during the second season, when Mannix leaves a detective firm and sets up shop as a private investigator. She became the second African American woman after Nichelle Nichols of \"Star Trek\" to show prominently on weekly television. In 1968, she made guest appearances on the TV series \"My Three Sons\", \"Love, American Style\", and \"Room 222\". In 1970, her work on \"Mannix\" was honored when she received the Emmy Award for outstanding performance by an actress in a dramatic supporting role, becoming the first African-American woman to do so. In 1971, Fisher became the first African-American woman to win a Golden Globe, and won her second in 1973. After \"Mannix\" was cancelled in 1975, she appeared on television on about once a year, guest starring on popular shows such as \"Fantasy Island\", \"Knight Rider\", \"General Hospital\", and \"The White Shadow\".\n\nFisher was married and divorced twice. She had two daughters, Samara and Jole, from her 1964 marriage to John Levy. Her marriage to Wali Muhammad (Walter Youngblood), famed cornerman to Sugar Ray Robinson and Muhammad Ali, ended in divorce when he changed religions. Wali was also an assistant minister to Malcolm X at Nation of Islam Mosque No. 7.\n\n\"Jet\" magazine reported in its July 26, 1973 issue that she also was married to Robert A. Walker, a businessman from Los Angeles. In 1978, she was arrested for cocaine and marijuana possession and for illegally operating a blue box.\n\nFisher died in Los Angeles in 2000, aged 65, reportedly from kidney failure. Twelve hours after Gail Fisher died, her brother Clifton died from heart failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960502", "title": "Goshen Township, Auglaize County, Ohio", "text": "Goshen Township, Auglaize County, Ohio\n\nGoshen Township is one of the fourteen townships of Auglaize County, Ohio, United States. The 2010 census found 529 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the southern part of the eastern edge of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nNo municipalities are located in Goshen Township, although the unincorporated community of New Hampshire lies in the township's center.\n\nGoshen Township contains slightly less than eighteen square miles. It is the smallest township in terms of both population and area in Auglaize County. The southeastern part of the township is located in the Virginia Military District.\n\nIt is one of seven Goshen Townships statewide.\n\nOriginally part of Allen County, the township was formed in 1836.\n\nThe township was also involved in one of the last county border changes in Ohio. This change occurred in 1888 when part of Stokes Township in Logan County was exchanged to Clay Township for part of Goshen Township.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nThe current trustees are Gary Horn, Donald Spangler, and Larry Williams, and Jodi Hennon is the township clerk. The trustees themselves plow snow and mow along the roads in the township. On November 6, 2007, Edward Spencer was elected to replace Larry Williams in January 2008.\n\nThe Waynesfield-Goshen School District encompasses a large part of the township, with small portions in the northeast served by the Upper Scioto Valley Local School District. \n\nThe township is served by the Wapakoneta (45895) post office, the Waynesfield post office (45896) and the Lakeview (43331) post office. New Hampshire has its own zip code (45870).\n\n"}
{"id": "1960504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960504", "title": "Mike Belkin", "text": "Mike Belkin\n\nMichael I. Belkin (born June 29, 1945)\nis a former top-ranked Canadian tennis player.\n\nCanada's top-ranked player five times between 1966 and 1972, Belkin had a career 17–12 Davis Cup record, including a 14–7 record in singles.\n\nThe right-handed Belkin attained a career-high singles ranking of no. 7 world amateur during the early 1960s. He joined the fledgling professional tour in the later half of his playing career, compiling a 36–36 career singles win-loss record. He reached the quarter-finals at the 1968 Australian Championships, which he lost to top seed William Bowrey. The field was especially weak that year as nine of the top amateurs of 1967 had turned pro. He also reached the third round in singles in his inaugural Wimbledon.\n\nBelkin's best Grand Prix results were semi-finals appearances in 1969 at both the Cincinnati event and Canadian Open.\n\nBelkin was one of Canada's early tennis phenoms, with his parents moving to Miami Beach when he was 12 for the sake of his tennis. He won the United States National Boys' (15 and under) singles championship, and won the prestigious Orange Bowl boys and junior (18 and under) singles titles, coincidentally played in Miami Beach, in 1960 and 61 respectively.\n\nWhile still a student at Miami Beach High School, the right-handed Belkin was Florida men's champion, defeating both Frank Froehling and Gardnar Mulloy to become so. He was also U.S. National Junior Champion (18 and under) champion, according to a March, 1963 Sports Illustrated article. It goes on to describe how Belkin was an excellent clay court play without any tournament experience on grass. His game was built around an excellent baseline game with both a solid forehand and two-handed backhand. At the time of the article, the 17-year-old Belkin was 3 months into revising his game to include serve and volley technique.\n\nBelkin was a top-ranking collegiate player attending the University of Miami. He reached the finals of the 1965 NCAA individual championships where he lost to Arthur Ashe 4–6, 1–6, 1–6.\n\nAs a 16-year-old, Belkin lost to Briton Roger Taylor in straight sets in the opening round of the 1961 U.S. Championships.> He again lost in the first round at the 1962 U.S. Championship, this time in five sets, to American James Farrin. And the year after, for a third consecutive time, Belkin lost in the first round of the same tournament, this time in straight sets to Norman Berry.\n\nIn 1964, Belkin played Wimbledon Championship for the first time, and fared well given his lack of experience on grass. He defeated Claude De Gronckel in the first round, and Cliff Drysdale in the second, both in four sets, before falling to Bob Hewitt in the third, in straight sets. At the 1964 U.S. Championships later that summer, Belkin defeated Rodney Susman in the first round before falling to Cliff Richey in the second in five sets.\n\nHaving not competed in singles in any main draws of grand slam tournaments in 1965, Belkin played in two in 1966. At Roland Garros he lost in the first round, to Pancho Guzmán in four sets. At Wimbledon, Belkin reached the second round. He defeated Australian Jim Moore in straight sets before falling to No. 4 seed Manuel Santana 0–6, 1–6, 2–6. In 1967 he again did not compete in a grand slam event.\n\nAt the 1968 Australian Championships, in addition to reaching the quarters in singles, a run which saw victories over one M. Marchment, Max Pettman, and Allan Stone, Belkin reached the second round in doubles partnering Geoff Pollard.\n\nBelkin played the 1969 French Open, but was forced to abandon his match against Georges Goven up two sets. He and partner Pancho Guzmán withdrew from their first round doubles match.\n\nIn the summer, Belkin played the Cincinnati Championships, defeating Phil Dent and Stan Smith in the later rounds to reach the semi-finals. In doubles, he and partner Luis Ayala lost in the second round, to Arthur Ashe and Charlie Pasarell. The following week Belkin played U.S. Clay Court Championships, reaching the quarters in both singles and doubles. He singles he defeated Franklin Robbins, Goven, and Jim Osborne before falling to Ashe in three sets. In doubles he played with Bob Carmichael.\n\nTwo weeks later, Belkin played the Canadian Open, reaching the semis in singles, where he lost a four-setter to Cliff Richey and the quarters in doubles, partnering compatriot Vic Rollins. Later in August, at the second ever U.S. Open, Belkin lost to Marty Riessen in the second round in singles, and the first round in singles, partnering American Frank Tutvin.\n\nBelkin only played the main draw of only four professional circuit events in 1970, Cincinnati, the U.S. Clay Court Championships, Canadian Open, and U.S. Open, playing doubles in only the latter two events.\n\nAt Cincinnati, Belkin was soundly beaten by Jeff Borowiak in the first round 1–6, 1–6. The following week in Indianapolis, he defeated Jean-Baptiste Chanfreau and G. Turner Howard before losing in three sets to Croat Željko Franulović.\n\nIn Toronto, Belkin had a bye into the second round where he lost handily to Andrés Gimeno 2–6, 1–6. At Forest Hills, he also lost his first match in straight sets, in the first round to Frenchman player Pierre Barthes. In doubles at both tournaments, Belkin and partner John Sharpe lost in the first round.\n\nMore active on the tour in 1971, Belkin competed in main draws in a total of 11 events, all Pepsi-Cola Grand Prix events but one, but not in any grand slam tournaments. In mid-February he played the New York Grand Prix, losing in the first round in singles, to Manuel Orantes 4–6, 0–6, and doubles, partnering Richard Russell. The following week he competed in the Salisbury Grand Prix (in Salisbury, Maryland), and again lost handily in the first round in singles, 2–6, 4–6 to Joaquin Loyo-Mayo. In doubles, he and partner Tom Edlefsen reached the second round.\n\nThe following week, Belkin played the Macon Outdoor and did even better. Having a first round bye, he beat Jan Kodeš 6–1, 7–5, before falling to Tom Gorman 2–6, 5–7. In doubles, he and partner Nikola Špear won two matches to reach the quarter-finals, where they lost to Kodes and Željko Franulović. The following week at the Hampton Grand Prix, Belkin lost in the first round in both singles and doubles, falling in singles to Ion Ţiriac and in doubles partnering Edlefsen for a second time.\n\nIn April Belkin reached the semi-finals of the Houston Outdoor, losing in five sets in that round to Clark Graebner. His next action was in July, at the Washington Star International, a WCT event. He scored easy wins over Roscoe Tanner and Patricio Cornejo before losing to Andrés Gimeno 6–4, 2–6, 3–6. In doubles, Belkin and Richard Russell reached the second round. The following week in singles, Belkin reached the semi-finals of the Tanglewood Grand Prix, losing to Franulovic. In the quarters he crushed rookie tour player Jimmy Connors 6–1, 6–2.\n\nOne week later Belkin reached the third round of the Cincinnati Outdoor, beating Rudy Hernando and Brian Gottfried before succumbing to Jaime Fillol. In doubles, he again partnered Russell and the tandem reached the second round. The following week Belkin competed at the Canadian Open, losing in the first round in singles to Ray Ruffels, and in doubles partnering once again John Sharpe. The week after he lost to Ruffels again in Canada, and nearly by the identical score, at the Toronto WCT event. Belkin played one final time in 1971, singles at the Sacramento Outdoor, losing again in the first round, this time to Raymond Moore by default.\n\nBelkin played four American winter indoor events. In early February, he lost handily in singles in the first round in Omaha and Kansas City in consecutive weeks, both times to Ilie Năstase. At the later tournament he also played doubles, with he and partner Tom Edlefsen losing in the second round. Two weeks later, Belkin reached the second round in singles in Salisbury, defeating Milan Holeček 6–3, 6–4, before falling to Roscoe Tanner 3–6, 3–6. In doubles, he and partner Hans Kary lost in the first round. The following week at the New York Indoor, Belkin lost in the first round to Alejandro Olmedo 3–6, 4–6.\n\nBelkin saw his next main draw action in August. At the Tanglewood Grand Prix, he lost to Dick Stockton 4–6, 3–6. The following week at the U.S. Clay Court Championships, on Belkin's strongest surface, clay, he beat Jun Kuki and Adriano Panatta before falling to Bob Hewitt in the round of 16. The following week in Montreal, he lost however in the first round, to Onny Parun, 7–6, 3–6, 1–6. In doubles, he and partner Eddie Dibbs reached the quarter-finals, losing there to the famous doubles team of Hewitt and Frew McMillan. Two weeks later at the U.S. Open, Belkin was level with Cliff Drysdale in the first set 5 games when he retired from the match. Belkin was entered one more main draw, in mid-September, the Montreal WCT, but withdraw from his first round match in both singles and doubles (partnering compatriot Richard Legendre).\n\nBelkin opened 1973 playing 3 indoor events in the States. He lost in the first round to Herb Fitzgibbon in singles and in doubles partnering Nicholas Kalogeropoulos at the Baltimore Indoor in early January. Two weeks later at the Birmingham Indoor, Belkin reached the second round in singles beating Szabolcz Baranyi 6–4, 6–1, before losing to Jürgen Fassbender 3–6, 5–7. In doubles, he and partner Gavorielle Marcu lost in the first round. The following week, Belkin lost in the first round at the Omaha Indoor to Baranyi 3–6, 0–6.\n\nThe final 3 events Belkin played this year were ones held in Canada. In middle February, at the Calgary Indoor, Belkin defeated Hans Kary in three sets before falling to Paul Gerken 3–6, 1–6. In doubles he and partner Pat Cramer lost in the opening round. In August at the Canadian Open, Belkin beat Adriano Panatta 6–4, 6–3 in the first round and lost to Iván Molina in the second 4–6, 2–6. In October, Belkin appeared at the Quebec Grand Prix, losing in the first round to Haroon Rahim 4-6, 6-7(5). In doubles, he and partner, veteran Quebecer Robert Bedard, lost in the first round as well, 3–6, 1–6 to Onny Parun and Raymond Moore.\n\nBelkin entered the first computer rankings, on September 13 at No. 145. Two weeks later, with the next rankings released, he stood at No. 128, his career high. In the final rankings released for the year, on December 14, Belkin was No. 161.\n\nBelkin played one event in 1974, the U.S. Pro Tennis Championships, where he lost in the first round to Guillermo Vilas 2–6, 2–6. On December 12, his singles ranking stood at World No. 318.\n\nIn 1975, Belkin competed in two events, also only in singles, both in Florida, his home state. These would be his last tour events to appear in. In early February, he lost in the first round to Jeff Borowiak 6–7(5), 1–6 at the St. Petersburg WCT. Two weeks later, at the Boca Raton Grand Prix, he completed his touring career with his best result in years, reaching the quarter-finals. He defeated Rolf Thung 6–1, 6–4, Jan Kodeš 7–5, 1–6, 7–6, before losing to Jürgen Fassbender 4–6, 3–6. This saw his next ranking, on March 5, rise to World No. 208. His final ranking, released on December 15 saw him rated at No. 222.\n\nBelkin first played Davis Cup for Canada in 1966 in two ties as Canada advanced to the Europe Group quarterfinals. Against Finland in the first round, Belkin won the second rubber over Rauno Suominen 6–1, 6–3, 3–6, 6–3. He also won a dead rubber as Canada defeated the Finns 4–1. In the next round however, Canada went up a strong French team at Roland Garros stadium. Belkin lost the opening rubber 1–6, 6–4, 3–6, 4–6 to François Jauffret. Belkin also lost the final, dead, rubber in 5 sets to Pierre Darmon as Canada was swept 0–5.\n\nThe following year Belkin defeated Mike Sangster 6-2, 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 in the opening rubber against Great Britain in Europe Group first round action, played in Bournemouth on clay. Britain won the next four rubbers however, including the doubles 12-10 in the fifth, with Roger Taylor and Bobby Wilson overcoming Belkin and Keith Carpenter.\n\nIn 1968, Canada again fell at the first hurdle, losing the first round of North and Central America Semifinal action against Mexico. Played in Mexico City on clay, Mexico swept Canada 5-0. Belkin lost the second rubber 14-16, 6-4, 3-6, 3-6 to Joaquim Loyo-Mayo. He again partnered Carpenter in the doubles, a match lost in straight sets.\n\nThe following year Canada defeated the Netherlands 3-2 in the first round of Europe Group, with Belkin winning all 3 rubbers. In a tie played in Scheveningen, first he defeated Niklaus Fleury 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 in the second rubber. He and Harry Fauquier then won the doubles rubber in four sets. Then, in the deciding fifth rubber, Belkin beat Jan Horduk 6-1, 6-1, 6-2. In the next round, Canada faced the Soviet Union, in Moscow, and lost 1-4. Belkin took the only rubber off the Soviets when he beat Toomas Leius 7-9, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2, 9-7. In a fifth, dead, rubber, Belkin retired down 2 sets to Alex Metreveli.\n\nIn 1970, Canada won two ties before succumbing to Brazil in the Americas Inter-Zone final. To reach that final they first beat the Caribbean and then New Zealand in the North and Central American Group. They swept the Caribbean in early June in Winnipeg on clay, with Belkin defeating Lance Lumsden in five sets in the 2nd rubber and teaming with John Sharpe to win the doubles in straight sets. They then a week later beat New Zealand 3-2 in at the same venue. Belkin lost the first rubber to Brian Fairlie in straight sets. He then teamed with Sharpe to win the doubles. Belkin then won the deciding rubber over Onny Parun 6-2, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. Against Brazil in São Paulo, Belkin leveled the tie at a win apiece when Belkin beat José Edison Mandarino. He and Sharpe however lost the doubles tie in 5 sets, despite being up 2 sets to 1. Belkin then beat Thomaz Koch in four sets to again level the tie. John Sharpe was trounced by Mandarino in the final however, 1-6, 0-6, 2-6.\n\nIn 1971, Canada lost its only tie of the year, 2-3 to Mexico in Mexico City. Belkin won the second rubber over Loyo-Mayo in four sets, to level the tie. He and Sharpe lost the doubles, however, in four sets, to give the Mexicans the lead. Belkin won the fourth rubber over Marcelo Lara to, again, level the tie at 2-2. In the decider, Sharpe, facing Loyo-Mayo, won the first set but proceeded to lose the next three to lose. The following year saw the same foe and exactly the same result, a 2-3 loss, this time at a tie held in Vancouver (at Jericho Tennis Club). Belkin again beat Loyo-Mayo, this time in rubber 1 and in five sets. Canada again lost the doubles rubber, as Belkin and Dale Power lost in four sets. Loyo-Mayo then defeated Anthony Bardsley in straight sets to give the win to Mexico. Belkin beat Raúl Ramírez in a dead, fifth rubber.\n\nBelkin concluded his Davis Cup career retiring from rubber 1 against Iván Molina of Colombia, having lost the first set 7-9. Canada lost the North and Central America Group preliminary round tie 1-4. Belkin's career Davis Cup win-loss stands at 14 and 7 in singles and 3 and 5 in doubles, with all matches played outdoors on clay.\n\nBelkin was inducted into the Canadian Tennis Hall of Fame in 1994.\n\nAs of 2006, Belkin was tennis director at the Sonesta Beach Resort on Key Biscayne, Florida. He joined the resort in 1993. In 1993 Mike Belkin's son Mark Belkin was Born. Mark Belkin was an inspiring Young tennis Champion having won 69 trophies in 2 years. He was Top-10 in the Florida for two age groups. Mike Belkin's son attended Coral Gables Senior High and played tennis there for all 4 Years, his final record was 44-2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960507", "title": "Small Time Crooks", "text": "Small Time Crooks\n\nSmall Time Crooks is a 2000 American crime-comedy film. Written and directed by Woody Allen, the film's plot has some similarities to that of the 1942 comedy \"Larceny, Inc.\" It stars Allen, Hugh Grant, Elaine May and Tracey Ullman.\n\n\"Small Time Crooks\" received positive reviews from critics. Ullman also received a nomination for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical, and May won the Best Supporting Actress citation at the National Society of Film Critics Awards.\n\nCareer criminal Ray (Woody Allen) and his cronies want to lease a closed pizzeria so they can dig a tunnel from the basement of the restaurant to a nearby bank. Ray's wife Frenchy (Tracey Ullman) covers what they are doing by selling cookies in the restaurant. The robbery scheme soon proves to be a miserable failure, but, after they franchise the business, selling cookies makes them millionaires.\n\nOne day Frenchy throws a big party and overhears people making fun of their poor decorating taste and lack of culture. She asks an art dealer named David (Hugh Grant) to train her and Ray so they can fit in with the American upper class. Ray hates every minute of it, but Frenchy likes their new culture.\n\nWhat Frenchy does not know is that David is really just using her to finance his art projects. Ray finally gets fed up and leaves Frenchy. David and Frenchy go to Europe for more cultural enlightenment and while there, she gets a call and finds out she has been defrauded by her accountants. She's lost everything including her cookie company, home, and possessions. David turns on her right away and immediately dumps her.\n\nMeanwhile, Ray has gone back to being a crook and tries to steal a valuable necklace at a party. He has had a duplicate made and through a series of circumstances gets the duplicate and real one mixed up. At the party, he finds out that Frenchy is broke, so he leaves and goes to see her. He consoles her by saying he stole the valuable necklace and shows it to her. Her new-found cultural enlightenment enables her to tell the necklace is a fake; Ray has gotten the wrong one. But she produces a very expensive cigarette case that she once had given to David as a gift but stole back after he dumped her. It once belonged to the Duke of Windsor. They reconcile, decide to sell it, and retire to Florida.\n\nThe film received generally positive reviews from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes records that 66% out of 100 reviews for the film were positive, with an average rating of 6.3/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Woody Allen rises from his recent slump with \"Small Time Crooks\". A simple, funny movie, \"Crooks\" proves Allen still has the touch that made his name synonymous with off-beat comedy.\" Metacritic reports the film has an average score of 69 out of 100, based on 32 reviews.\n\nUllman was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for her performance, and Elaine May won Best Supporting Actress at the National Society of Film Critics Awards for her performance.\n\n\"Small Time Crooks\" was the highest-grossing film directed by Allen at the North American box office between 1989's \"Crimes and Misdemeanors\" and 2005's \"Match Point\", with a gross of $17.2 million. However, it was also one of the few later Allen films which did less well outside the U.S. and Canada, and its global gross was $29.9 million.\n\nAllen has never said whether the film's similarity to \"Larceny, Inc.\" was deliberate or if his film was in any way inspired by it. The plot also parallels episodes of at least two American TV series: \"Gomer Pyle\" (\"Dynamite Diner\") and \"Car 54, Where Are You?\" (\"The White Elephant\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960508", "title": "Letterfrack", "text": "Letterfrack\n\nLetterfrack or Letterfrac () is a small village in the Connemara area of County Galway, Ireland. It was founded by Quakers in the mid-19th century. The village is approximately west of Renvyle and north-east of Clifden on Barnaderg Bay and lies at the head of Ballinakill harbour. Letterfrack contains the visitors centre for Connemara National Park.\n\nJames and Mary Ellis, a Quaker couple from Bradford in England, moved to Letterfrack, during the Great Famine. Ellis became the resident landlord in Letterfrack in 1849. As Quakers, the Ellises wanted to help with the post-famine relief effort. They leased nearly of rough land and set about farming it and planting it with woodland. They built a schoolhouse, housing for tradesmen, a shop, a dispensary, and a temperance hotel. In 1857 the property was sold to John Hall, a staunch Protestant, and supporter of the Irish Church Mission to Roman Catholics. The ICM used the building with the aim of converting Catholics to Protestantism. After 25 years without much success, Hall sold it in 1882, under the impression he was selling it to a Protestant buyer, for £3000 for .\n\nHowever, under a false name, the Catholic Archbishop of Tuam, John McEvilly, bought the former Ellis property in 1882, which at that time was being used by the Protestant Irish Church Missions to Roman Catholics. In 1885, he established St Joseph's Industrial School, Letterfrack which opened in 1887. Letterfrack Industrial School became notorious for neglect and abuse of the children in its charge, and the school closed in 1974.\n\nLetterfrack was selected by Marconi as the location for the transatlantic wireless receiver station for his new duplex transatlantic wireless service. The Duplex operation was initially developed by Marconi at Letterfrack and quickly became standard practice for commercial and military radiotelegraph communication worldwide.\n\nBeginning in 1913, eastbound messages were sent from Marconi Towers, a high power wireless station in Nova Scotia, to Letterfrack; while westbound messages were sent simultaneously from the Clifden high power wireless station to Louisbourg. The Letterfrack station was closed in April 1917 at the direction of the Admiralty and was never re-opened for commercial traffic. Some experimental work on shortwave and other work, by Marconi engineers Franklin and Witt, was carried out into the early 1920s.\n\nIn 1924–26 a church was built on the ground of the Industrial School after the designs of the architect Rudolf Maximilian Butler in a Romanesque Revival style. The church was dedicated to Saint Joseph by Thomas Gilmartin on 12 June 1926. The church consists of a single four-bay nave aligned north-south with two small side chapels and an attached sacristy on its western side.\n\nIn 1987 the \"Connemara West\" began running furniture courses which has become the Furniture College/Campus for the Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology.\n\nConnemara Community Radio broadcasts from Letterfrack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960521", "title": "PL/P", "text": "PL/P\n\nThe PL/P programming language (an acronym of \"Programming Language for Prime (computers)\") is a mid-level programming language developed by Prime Computer to serve as their second primary system programming language after Fortran IV. PL/P was a subset of PL/I.\n\nAdditions to the PRIMOS operating system for Prime 50 Series computers were written mostly in PL/P in later years. Certain PRIMOS modules written in Fortran IV during PRIMOS's early years were rewritten in PL/P. PL/P was the most widespread compiled programming language used for commercial PRIMOS applications, outpacing the use of the Prime C compiler, the CPL (PRIMOS) scripting language, and the Fortran IV compiler in commercial applications.\n"}
{"id": "1960535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960535", "title": "The Rippingtons", "text": "The Rippingtons\n\nThe Rippingtons are an American contemporary jazz group, mainly relating to the genres smooth jazz, jazz fusion, jazz pop, and crossover jazz. Formed in 1985 by guitarist and band leader Russ Freeman, their career has spanned three decades. With a revolving door of musicians, Freeman has been the only consistent member.\n\nMany of their songs have been played during The Weather Channel's \"Local on the 8s\" forecast segments. The band's mascot is a grinning, sunglasses-wearing, jazz cat which appears in the artwork of all the band's releases and on their official website.\n\n\nPast members have included bassists Kim Stone, 1990–2008, Steve Bailey and Bill Lanphier; saxophone players Jeff Kashiwa, Paul Taylor, Eric Marienthal, Kenny G, Kirk Whalum and Nelson Rangell; pianists/keyboard players Dave Kochanski, David Benoit, Gregg Karukas, Tom McMorran and Mark Portmann; drummers Tony Morales, David Anderson, Omar Hakim, and Dave Hooper; and percussionists Scott Breadman, Ray Yslas and Steve Reid.\n\nThe band name was conceived by Russ Freeman after hearing friends play \"and they were ripping\", so Freeman thought of Rippingtons for a name.\n\nThe band's recording career began in 1986 with the recording of the album \"Moonlighting\". The album was well received by critics and consumers and featured the song \"She Likes to Watch,\" which has gone on to become a staple of the band's live set and one of their signature tunes. In January 1988, the Rippingtons released \"Kilimanjaro\" and began to tour more extensively. Mark Portmann, Steve Bailey (replacing Bill Lanphier), and Jeff Kashiwa joined the band, the band then released \"Tourist in Paradise\". The tour for this album featured the group's first visit to Japan with David Benoit in 1989, where they joined the special summer concert series in Tokyo produced by Japanese saxophonist, Sadao Watanabe.\n\nIn August 1990, the year bassist Kim Stone joined the group replacing Steve Bailey, the album \"Welcome to the St. James' Club\" was released, and became the band's first CD to debut at #1 in the Billboard Charts.\n\nIn 1991, Russ Freeman relocated to Colorado and opened Cheyenne Mountain Ranch studios. The move influenced the group's next album, \"Curves Ahead\", which featured songs based on the ski atmosphere in Colorado. Standouts include \"Aspen\" and the title track.\n\nIn August 1992, the group released \"Weekend in Monaco\", which, to date, has been one of their best selling albums. After its release the group toured Europe for the first time in June 1993. The U.S. leg of the tour was documented on the album \"Live in L.A.\", with the video recorded live at The Ventura Theatre, Ventura, California on September 25, 1992 and the album recorded at The Greek Theatre, Los Angeles, California on September 26, 1992.\n\nTom McMorran joined the band in 1994 after Mark Portmann left and in August of that year the band released \"Sahara\". The following tour featured extensive dates in East Asia, where the group played Tokyo, Osaka, Fukuoka (Japan), and Southeast Asia including Jakarta (Indonesia), Manila (Philippines) as well as Singapore and Guam.\n\nIn 1995, David Kochanski joined the group and the group made its presence known on the Internet. February 1996 saw the release of \"Brave New World\", which featured covers of \"Ain't No Stoppin' Us Now,\" \"While My Guitar Gently Weeps,\" and \"Caravan of Love.\" The album was a stylistic departure for the band and included more Urban Jazz than had appeared on previous releases. Tony Morales, the original drummer, left the band in 1994 to pursue a career in web management. Morales put together the Rippingtons' first web site, which was nominated for an AOL award (Best Jazz Band Site). He later became the webmaster and manager of Silicon Graphics International's web sites for 10 years, and now has his own hosting and development business tonyhosting.com.\n\nIn August 1997, the group released \"Black Diamond\", their first record on Peak Records in conjunction with Windham Hill Records. The album debuted at #1 on Billboard. In 1999 Dave Hooper and Ramon Yslas joined the Rippingtons and Jeff Kashiwa was replaced by Paul Taylor. In May 1999 the group released \"Topaz\", which featured Native American flute work by Robert Tree Cody. Topaz remains one of the group's most requested CDs.\n\nIn 2000 Russ Freeman relocated to South Florida and the move was reflected thematically in \"Life in the Tropics\". This was the group's first album to be recorded digitally. In 2001 Scott Breadman, Bill Heller, Dave Karasony, and Eric Marenthial joined the group and the following tour was documented on the live album \"Live Across America\". In 2003 the group released \"Let It Ripp\", featuring the title cut, which became a hit.\n\nIn 2005 the group released \"Wild Card\", which plays on their ongoing Latin influences. The album features guest vocal spots by Latin music stars Willy Chirino, Chante Moore, and Albita.\n\nIn 2006, the group celebrated their 20th anniversary by releasing \"20th Anniversary\", a two disc set which includes the main CD as well as a 20th Anniversary Retrospective DVD.\n\nOn March 10, 2009, the Rippingtons made a return to the contemporary jazz scene with the release of the album \"Modern Art\". A new bassist, Ricardo \"Rico\" Belled, participated in the recording of this album. \"Modern Art\" was nominated for a Grammy in the category \"Best Pop Instrumental Album.\"\n\nIn October 2009, the Rippingtons returned to Japan to perform four nights (eight gigs) at the Cotton Club in Tokyo. This was their first-time return to Japan in 18 years.\n\nIn 2011, the Rippingtons took listeners to the French coast with the thematic album, \"Côte D'Azur.\" The album features French, Latin, Gypsy and Euro rhythms. Saxophonist Jeff Kashiwa is featured on the album (he returned for the second album in a row.)\n\nThe group released \"Built To Last\" on August 28, 2012, featuring Zakk Wylde, a full orchestra, and elements of jazz, rock, pop and country. This album was the first for the Rippingtons under its new partnership with E1 Music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960550", "title": "Česká Třebová", "text": "Česká Třebová\n\nČeská Třebová (; ) is a town in the Pardubice Region of the Czech Republic. The city is located in the east of the Czech Republic. It is the fourth most populated city and second largest in the Pardubice Region. Česká Třebová is spread over 41 km² and the population is about 15,500 citizens. The city of Česká Třebová is divided into 6 cadastral areas: Česká Třebová, Kozlov, Lhotka, Parník, Skuhrov and Svinná.\n\nČeská Třebová was founded in the 13th century by king's locator lord Oldřich of Drnholec. In that time, the Roman church of St. Catherine was built. In 1304, the King of Bohemia Wenceslaus II gave it to the Zbraslav Abbey and later, in the 14th century, the town belonged to the bishops of Litomyšl. In the 15th and 16th centuries, the town prospered but due to the subsequent loss of its city rights, the Thirty Years' War, plagues and fires, it became poor and insignificant. In the 19th century, a railway station was built, which greatly aided the city development.\n\nThe city's coat of arms sports a black rooster with a human head on a red field. According to a legend, a city scribe lost the city signet and was sentenced to die as a result. Before the execution, his wife saw a rooster dug out the signet from trash, saving her husbands life.\n\nThe city is home to a 4th league Ice Hockey club, HC Kohouti Česká Třebová (), who play at the \"Na Skále\" arena with a capacity of 1,200.\n\nČeská Třebová railway station is a major railway junction linking Prague with two pan-European corridors. The city experienced rapid development after the station was opened in 1845.\n\nČeská Třebová is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1960572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960572", "title": "Konavle", "text": "Konavle\n\nKonavle () is a municipality and a small region located southeast of Dubrovnik, Croatia.\n\nIt is administratively part of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the center of the municipality is Cavtat.\n\nThe total municipality population was 8,577 people in 2011, split in the following 32 settlements:\n\nIn the 2011 census, 97.1% of the population were Croats. Historically, inhabitants of Konavle were called \"Canalesi\".\n\nGovernment of Dubrovnik in 1427 eradicate Bogomilism in Konavle and acted as in Pelješac when they expelled the Orthodox priests. Catholicism to Konavle was restored with Franciscans. Restoration of Catholicism was so rapid and efficient that at the end of the Middle Ages only Catholics lived there.\nEven though considerably damaged during the Croatian War of Independence, Konavle maintain its status as one of the wealthiest counties in all of Croatia, consistently ranking amongst the ten richest counties.\n\nKonavle is actually a narrow field located between the Sniježnica mountain and the Adriatic Sea, spanning the area from the coastal town of Cavtat to the Montenegrin border at Prevlaka. Other than Cavtat, only the southernmost village of Molunat is located on the coast, while the other 30 villages are in the hinterland.\n\nThe Sniježnica peak at 1234 meters of altitude is the highest point of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and village of Kuna with its 700 m altitude is the highest village in the county. Although Gruda is the administrative center of the municipality, the largest settlement is Cavtat.\n\nThe airport for Dubrovnik is located near the Konavle village of Čilipi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960583", "title": "Shark Island, Namibia", "text": "Shark Island, Namibia\n\nShark Island () is a small peninsula adjacent to the coastal city of Lüderitz in Namibia. Its area is about . Formerly an island, it became a peninsula from 1906 on by the creation of a wide land connection that doubled its former size.\n\nIt had been formerly named Star Island by British Captain Alexander during his 1795 surveying expedition.\n\nThe island was site of Shark Island concentration camp. It was Namibia's first large-scale concentration camp. Close to 1,800 Nama prisoners arrived in September 1906, including Cornelius Frederiks, one of the strongest Nama military leaders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960587", "title": "Richard Gwyn (Canadian writer)", "text": "Richard Gwyn (Canadian writer)\n\nRichard John Philip Jermy Gwyn, (born May 26, 1934) is a Canadian retired journalist, author, historian, and former civil servant.\n\nRichard Gwyn was born on May 26, 1934, in Bury St. Edmunds, England. He was the second son to Brigadier Philip Eustace Congreve Jermy-Gwyn, an Indian Army officer, and Elizabeth Edith Jermy-Gwyn (née Tilley), eldest daughter of Sir John Anthony Cecil Tilley. His older brother died at infancy.\n\nAt the age of 20, in 1954, he emigrated to Canada.\n\nGwyn was educated at Stonyhurst College, a co-educational Roman Catholic School in Lancashire, England. Gwyn also attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1959, Gwyn was the parliamentary correspondent for United Press International. Later in 1959 to 1960, he worked for Thomson Newspapers. From 1960 to 1962, he was the Ottawa editor for Maclean-Hunter Business Publications. From 1962 to 1968, he worked for \"Time Canada\" as a parliamentary correspondent and contributing editor. From 1968 to 1970, he was the executive assistant to the Minister of Communications, Eric Kierans. From 1970 to 1973, he was the director-general, socio-economic planning in the Department of Communications.\n\nIn 1973, Gwyn joined \"The Toronto Star\" and worked as a national affairs columnist until 1985. He then became an international affairs columnist later that year until 1992. He continued to write columns on public affairs for the \"Star\", on a freelance basis, until 2016.\n\nAs an author, he is best known for his 1980 contemporary biography of Pierre Elliot Trudeau, \"The Northern Magus\", and for a two-volume historical biography of Sir John A. Macdonald. The first volume of his Macdonald biography, \"The Man Who Made Us\", won the Charles Taylor Prize for Literary Non-Fiction in 2008. The second volume, \"Nation Maker: Sir John A. Macdonald: His Life, Our Times; Volume Two: 1867-1891\", won the Shaughnessy Cohen Prize for Political Writing in 2012 and was a finalist for the Governor General's Award for English-language non-fiction and the Hilary Weston Writers' Trust Prize for Nonfiction.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1987 he and Robert Fulford co-hosted the long-form interview show \"Realities\" on TVOntario. Gwyn also appeared weekly as a panelist from 1994 to 2006 on TVO's \"Studio 2\" and \"Diplomatic Immunity\" and was an occasional guest on \"The Agenda\" until 2017.\n\nFour years after emigrating to Canada, Gwyn married Sandra Gwyn in 1958. Their marriage lasted till her death on May 26, 2000, due to breast cancer. Gwyn subsequently remarried to Carol Bishop-Gwyn, and after residing in the Cabbagetown neighbourhood of Toronto, he moved with his wife into a condominium in the Lawrence Park neighbourhood.\n\nOn November 29, 2001, Gwyn was appointed chancellor of St. Jerome's University at the University of Waterloo and was installed on March 17, 2002. The same year, he became an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\nGwyn ceased writing his column in 2016 and made his last appearance as a television panelist in 2017. He has been living with Alzheimer's disease for several years and is currently residing at Dunfield Retirement Residence, an assisted living facility in midtown Toronto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960593", "title": "David Penhaligon", "text": "David Penhaligon\n\nDavid Charles Penhaligon (6 June 1944 – 22 December 1986) was a British politician from Cornwall who was Liberal Member of Parliament for the constituency of Truro from 1974–86. He was a popular figure in all parties and had potential to be a front-runner for the party leadership had he not been killed in a car accident. In 2014 a Crowdfunder campaign was launched to record his life's work and impact.\n\nPenhaligon was born on D-Day and brought up in Truro. He was a cousin of actress Susan Penhaligon. He attended Truro School, and then Cornwall Technical College where he studied mechanical engineering. Penhaligon worked for Holman Brothers in Camborne as a research and development engineer working on rock drilling. As an interesting anecdote, he was also a part-time DJ at the Hall for Cornwall where he once encountered 14 year old Roger Taylor, subsequently the Queen drummer, at a musical event that he compered in Truro City Hall during 1964. By 1973 he had qualified as a Chartered Mechanical Engineer; he also took over from his father a sub-post office in Chacewater from 1967 (after his marriage in 1968 to Annette Lidgey, she ran the business). His Liberal activities led to some work in local broadcasting.\n\nPenhaligon's decision to join the Liberal Party was inspired in 1963 when, aged 19, he was an important witness to a murder case. His evidence, which supported the case of the defendant Dennis Whitty, was not enough to prevent him from being convicted and hanged. Penhaligon was appalled by the practice of capital punishment. He led the Truro Young Liberals and built up the local party (which had been the weakest in Cornwall) into one of the strongest; he was the chair of the Cornish Young Liberals from 1966 to 1968. However he was not selected as Liberal candidate for Truro in the 1966 general election (nor for any other seat), and he was also rejected for Falmouth and Camborne in 1968 apparently because his strong Cornish accent was thought unattractive.\n\nIn the 1970 general election he fought the Devon constituency of Totnes when the previous candidate Paul Tyler transferred to Bodmin. He polled poorly in the context of an election in which the party as a whole suffered. However, Penhaligon had acquired useful experience of fighting election campaigns and picked up additional tips from Wallace Lawler's practices in inner-city Birmingham.\n\nIn 1971 Penhaligon was easily selected as candidate for Truro, a seat which did not look an easier prospect than Totnes. This gave him three years in which to get his name known and meet his prospective constituents (a practice known as 'nursing' a constituency) and when the election came in February 1974 he won nearly 21,000 votes and cut the majority of the sitting Conservative MP to 2,561. Truro became the fourth 'target' constituency for the Liberals for the next election — which would take place within months because of the inconclusive outcome in February.\n\nPenhaligon was readopted and worked on trying to persuade the remaining Labour voters in the seat to back him. In the October 1974 election he was elected with a majority of 464 votes – the only Liberal gain of that election. Due to House of Commons rules on 'offices of profit under the crown' he transferred his sub-postmastership to his wife. In Parliament he swiftly won a reputation for humorous speeches, urging a national minimum wage and increased state pensions. He voted for fellow Cornish MP John Pardoe over David Steel in the Liberal leadership election of 1976. He was hard to place in conventional political terms: he changed his mind over capital punishment, initially voting against in December 1974, but supporting it in December 1975.\n\nAlthough frequently speaking on national issues, it was clear that Penhaligon's main concern was local. He became known in particular for defending the Cornish tin mining industry and the local Fishing fleets. He spoke with conviction and knowledge about the problems of rural areas in Cornwall with road fuel costs and inadequate infrastructure.\n\nIn a speech made at Camborne in support of the miners he famously said...\n\nWhen the Lib-Lab pact was first mooted in March 1977, Penhaligon was initially opposed and spoke against it. He later came round and told the Liberal Assembly in September 1977 that it had achieved an 'economic revolution'. At a special Assembly in January 1978 he was a star speaker in persuading the delegates representing Liberal members to continue the pact. The pact allowed the Liberals to influence government legislation and Penhaligon objected to proposals from Tony Benn for an Electricity Industry Bill which would centralise control, which single-handedly prevented any progress.\n\nPart of Penhaligon's support for the Lib-Lab pact was his fear that an early general election would result in a poor performance for the Liberals, and his own seat might be vulnerable. In October 1978 after the pact had lapsed, he explained that \"Turkeys don't volunteer for Christmas!\". The scandal over former party leader Jeremy Thorpe, who was charged with conspiracy to murder in August 1978, was a matter of particular concern and Penhaligon urged Thorpe to stand down and the Liberal Party not to endorse him. When Thorpe did seek re-election, Penhaligon refused to help his campaign.\n\nDespite his narrow majority and the belief that he was the most vulnerable of the Liberal MPs, Penhaligon kept his seat with a much larger majority (8,708) in the 1979 general election. Against the Conservative government, he strongly opposed nuclear power. Against the majority of Liberal Party members he strongly supported NATO and nuclear weapons, describing a separate European non-nuclear defence as 'akin to a behaving like a virgin in a brothel', although he supported demands for 'dual key control' of United States cruise missiles based in Britain.\n\nPenhaligon supported the SDP-Liberal Alliance from the start, although he resented SDP attempts to take control of the Liberal Party's target seats. He was named in January 1982 as one of the 'firemen' who would sort out any disagreements between the parties (John Horam was his SDP counterpart). He was particularly prominent and impressive in the 1983 election campaign in which he spoke for the Liberal Party on Transport, Industry and Energy; Hugo Young described him as having \"a closer grasp of national electoral politics ... than any other Liberal MP\". After the election he became an early proponent of a merger between the SDP and the Liberals under a single leader, largely to avoid disputes over allocations of Parliamentary seats.\n\nFrom 1983 Penhaligon headed the Liberal by-election unit which planned the campaigns in individual seats. At the Liberal Assembly in September 1984 he was chosen as President-elect of the Liberal Party (the first sitting MP to be elected to the post), and served as Party President from 1985 to 1986. This carried with it the job of presiding over the Liberal Assembly at the end of his term, which saw a party split over defence policy and whether to support nuclear weapons; Penhaligon did not intervene, something he regretted afterwards.\n\nHe was appointed as Chief spokesman on the economy in 1985; though admitting he had no financial experience, he challenged the Conservative policy on privatisation and monetarism. He was a central figure in planning the Alliance general election campaign at the time of his death.\n\nAt 6.45am on 22 December 1986, he was travelling to a post office to meet workers there when a van skidded on an icy road and hit his Rover SD1 car near Truck Fork, Probus, Cornwall. Penhaligon was pronounced dead at the scene. The van driver was not prosecuted for the accident. The inquest held in March 1987 strongly suggested that Penhaligon was not wearing a seat belt at the time of the crash, nor was the driver of the van, who was thrown out of his vehicle and suffered two broken legs as a result. Penhaligon's injuries were extensive fracture of his ribs and fracture of the neck vertebrae. The cause of death was damage to the aorta as well as massive damage to the spleen and liver.\n\nFrom July 1986, Penhaligon had employed Matthew Taylor, a University of Oxford graduate, as his research assistant on the economy; Taylor was selected to follow him as Liberal candidate for Truro and was duly returned in the 1987 Truro by-election.\n\nPenhaligon's widow wrote his biography in 1989; his son Matthew has previously been an active member of the Liberal Democrats and was the party's candidate for the Mayoralty of Hackney in May 2006.\n\nThe Liberal Democrats remember Penhaligon's ability to recruit and enthuse members through the Penhaligon Award, a trophy presented annually at the party's autumn party conference to the Local Party which demonstrates the greatest increase in party membership together with activities to develop and involve members and activists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960602", "title": "Robin egg blue", "text": "Robin egg blue\n\nRobin egg blue, also called eggshell blue, or lost egg blue, is a shade of cyan (greenish-blue color), approximating the shade of the eggs laid by the American robin.\n\nThe first recorded use of \"robin egg blue\" as a color name in English was in 1873.\n\nPale robin egg blue is identical to the following tone of the color \"robin egg blue\" displayed on the ISCC-NBS color list: ISCC-NBS Dictionary of Color Names (1955)—Color sample of Robin Egg (color sample #162):.\n\nTiffany Blue is the trademarked name for the light medium tone of robin egg blue associated with Tiffany & Co., the New York City jewelry company.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960616", "title": "Douglas Adams at the BBC", "text": "Douglas Adams at the BBC\n\nDouglas Adams at the BBC is a three CD set released by BBC Audio in 2004 (). By using extracts from many radio and TV productions, the three discs cover Douglas Adams's association with BBC Radio and TV from 1974 to 2001, and also include tributes to Adams that were transmitted between 2001 and 2003. Subjects are covered in an A-Z format (thus becoming an \"A-Z of Douglas Adams\"). Linking narration on all three discs is provided by Simon Jones. Several of the sketches, many of which are included for the first time since their original transmissions, had been discussed in biographies of Adams (e.g. \"Don't Panic\" by Neil Gaiman and \"Wish You Were Here\" by Nick Webb). In addition, the complete script for \"The Lost Hitchhiker Sketch\" appears in the 25th anniversary edition of \"\". Disc one covers subjects A to G, disc two covers subjects H to P, and disc three covers subjects Q to Z.\n\n\nNote: The CD set was released in early September 2004, after the Tertiary Phase of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" had been recorded, but before transmissions began. The earliest material on the set is from August 1974 (with material Adams had written while a student at Cambridge) and the most recent extracts are from the TV and radio tributes to Adams from August and September 2001 and March 2003.\n"}
{"id": "1960633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960633", "title": "Pájara", "text": "Pájara\n\nPájara is a municipality in the southwestern portion of the island of Fuerteventura in the Province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands as well as the name of its largest town. Its population is 20,931 (2013), and the area is 383.52 km². Pájara is both the southernmost and the westernmost municipality on the island. Pájara is also the largest municipality on the island. The largest towns in the municipality of Pájara are Morro Jable and Costa Calma, both situated on the coast. The small port Ajuy is situated in the north of the municipality, near Betancuria. The Jandía peninsula is part of the municipality.\n\nFuerteventura is the oldest island in the Canary Islands, dating back 20 million years to a volcanic eruption from the Canary hotspot. The majority of the island was created about 5 million years ago and since then has been eroded by wind and precipitation. On the seabed off the West coast of the island rests an enormous slab of bedrock long and wide, which appears to have slid off the island largely intact at some point in prehistory, similar to the predicted future collapse of Cumbre Vieja, a geological fault on another Canary Island, La Palma. The last volcanic activity in Fuerteventura occurred between 4,000 and 5,000 years ago.\n\nThe highest point in Fuerteventura is Pico de la Zarza (807 m) in the Southwestern part of the island. Geographical features include Istmo de la Pared, which is wide and is the narrowest part of Fuerteventura. The island is divided into two parts, the northern portion which is Maxorata and the southwestern part called the Jandía peninsula.\n\nFuerteventura was chosen among 500 European destinations by the Quality Coast International Certification Program of the European Coastal and Marine Union as one of the most attractive tourist destinations for visitors interested in cultural heritage, environment and sustainability.\n\nThe church of Nuestra Señora de Regla in Pájara town has interesting sculptures of sun pattern, snakes, panther and birds above the main entrance. It is thought by some experts to show Aztec influence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960640", "title": "Midnight blue", "text": "Midnight blue\n\nMidnight blue is a dark shade of blue named for its resemblance to the apparently blue color of a moonlit night sky around full moon. Midnight blue is the color of a vat full of indigo dye; therefore, midnight blue may also be considered a dark shade of indigo. Midnight blue is identifiably blue to the eye in sunlight or full-spectrum light, but can appear black under certain more limited spectra sometimes found in artificial lighting (especially early 20th-century incandescent). It is similar to navy, which is also a dark blue.\n\nThere are two major shades of midnight blue—the X11 color and the Crayola color. This color was originally called \"midnight\". The first recorded use of \"midnight\" as a color name in English was in 1915.\n\nAt right is displayed the color midnight blue.\n\nThis is the \"X11 web color midnight blue\".\nAt right is displayed the dark shade of midnight blue that is called \"midnight blue\" in Crayola crayons.\n\nMidnight blue became an official crayola color in 1958; before that, since having been formulated by Crayola in 1903, it was called Prussian blue.\n\nHigher Education\n\nComic books\n\nFashion\n\nMilitary\n\nSports\n\nMusic\n\nTelevision\n\n"}
{"id": "1960664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960664", "title": "Commission for Africa", "text": "Commission for Africa\n\nThe Commission for Africa, also known as the Blair Commission for Africa, was an initiative established by the British government to examine and provide impetus for development in Africa. Initiated in Spring 2004, its objectives include the generation of new ideas for development and to deliver implementation of existing international commitments towards Africa. African leaders form a majority of the 17 commissioners.\n\nThe report of the Commission was released in March 2005. The publication was welcomed by international agencies, who also urged caution. \"The proof of the Africa Commission’s worth will be in the political will and energy it manages to drum up to turn its recommendations into reality,\" said a spokesperson for Oxfam.\n\nThe Commission and its report had a clear impact upon the public debate in the UK, and to some extent elsewhere, on how development in Africa might be accelerated. At the G8 summit of world leaders in Gleneagles, Scotland that year, the report was seen as a blueprint for action by the G8. The Gleneagles summit pledged what the Commission report had asked for in terms of a doubling of aid and significant extensions of multilateral debt relief. But it failed to deliver what the Commission had demanded on trade – including an end to agricultural export subsidies by rich nations and end to 'reciprocity' in world trade negotiations.\n\nThe summit did, however, promise to implement 50 of the Commission's 90 recommendations including: $36bn of debt relief in 100% debt cancellation delivered for 19 countries; the launch of the UN Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF); doubling previous levels of aid for basic education, to remove school fees, and to scale up efforts to boost girls’ participation and female literacy; two million additional Africans given antiretroviral treatment for HIV/AIDS; immunisation programmes which have stopped the transmission of polio everywhere except Nigeria; training 20,000 more African peacekeepers; tightening controls on the trade in small arms; working more closely with the African Union and its New Partnership for Africa (Nepad) programme to make African governments more accountable to their people; pressing rich nations to ratify the UN Convention on Corruption; putting in place measures to return cash looted by dictators from Western banks to the legitimate owners; and using export credits to clamp down on Western companies who pay bribes.\n\nAfter the summit however the profile of the report faded but it clearly had a major impact on the delivery of policy, though it is not clear whether all the Commission recommendations which were pledged at Gleneagles will be fully implemented.\n\nIn April 2007, the Africa Progress Panel (APP) was launched as an independent authority on Africa to focus world leaders' attention on delivering their commitments to the continent. The Panel, chaired by Kofi Annan, is composed of Michel Camdessus, Peter Eigen, Bob Geldof, Graça Machel, Strive Masiyiwa, Linah Mohohlo, Robert Rubin, and Tidjane Thiam.\n\nOn 13 September 2010, the Commission launched a second report, \"Still Our Common Interest\", looking at what had happened since the last report – both in Africa and against the individual recommendations made in 2005. It found that, despite considerable progress towards the Millennium Development Goals in many African countries, Africa's economic success over the preceding five years had yet to be translated into economic benefits for the majority of Africans. The report noted that there had been progress against many of the recommendations, but very little movement in the area of trade reform, in particular. It made new recommendations on how to ensure that the promise of Africa's accelerated economic growth was converted into development across the sub-Saharan African region. It called on African countries to continue reforms that would make it easier to invest and do business and on African governments to fulfill their commitments to spending on health, education, water, sanitation and infrastructure. It called for continued and expanding aid from developed countries, but reiterated the importance of making progress on increasing Africa's share of global trade. It is stated that one per cent of global trade is worth $195 billion to Africa in 2009 – five times the amount it received in aid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960671", "title": "Soco", "text": "Soco\n\nSoco, SOCO, or SoCo may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960683", "title": "Clone town", "text": "Clone town\n\nClone town is a global term for a town where the High Street or other major shopping areas are significantly dominated by chain stores. The term was coined by the New Economics Foundation (NEF), a British think tank, in the 2004 report on \"Clone Town Britain\".\n\nA survey conducted by the NEF in 2005 estimated that 41% of towns in the UK and 48% of London villages could be considered clone towns, with the trend rising.\n\nThe NEF report argued that the spread of clone towns is highly damaging to society because of the removal of diversity:\n\n\nThe converse argument is that large chain stores have grown so big because their products are desirable to large numbers of people and so their arrival in towns provides convenient access to the products that the population might want. It is argued that providing locals with easy access to popular products that they want should be a higher priority than ensuring that people travelling between multiple towns experience variety. Furthermore, because they are wealthy, businesses they are more likely to consume much local services and to employ local people, thus energising the local economy.\n\nThe NEF report also notes that the creation of chain stores and supermarkets has been in part a response to the consolidation of retail land ownership in the UK. Retailers are forced to consolidate to have any leverage over landlords that have already consolidated.\n\nOther commentators have raised concerns regarding the loss of \"sociability\" offered by traditional shopping: \"the demise of the small shop would mean that people will not just be disadvantaged in their role as consumers but also as members of communities – the erosion of small shops is viewed as the erosion of the 'social glue' that binds communities together, entrenching social exclusion in the UK\".\n\nThe 2005 survey rated Exeter as the best example of a clone town in the UK, with only a single independent store in the city's high street and less diversity (in terms of different categories of shop) than any other town surveyed. Other extreme clone towns in England include Stafford, Middlesbrough, Weston-super-Mare and Winchester. Although not included in the NEF survey, many provincial towns in Scotland are considered to have similar characteristics.\n\nNotably, despite having the highest property prices in the country, London is not even close to becoming a clone town: even in the central areas of the city, a huge diversity of businesses exists, largely as a result of the city's relatively large size and cosmopolitan population.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960689", "title": "Přelouč", "text": "Přelouč\n\nPřelouč () is a town in the Pardubice Region in the Czech Republic. It is located on the left bank of the Elbe River. It is approximately 15 km far from Pardubice, the capital of the region.\n\nThere are seven urban areas which belong to the town – Klenovka, Lhota, Lohenice, Mělice, Škudly, Štěpánov and Tupesy.\n\nPřelouč is one of the oldest historically documented settlements in the region. The first historical record of Přelouč dates back to 1086 when the town became a part of the Benedictine monastery in Opatovice nad Labem. Later, in 1261 Přelouč was elevated to the rank of a town by King Přemysl Otakar II. Since then, the town has used its coat of arms which consists of a black gridiron in the golden field. This symbol is associated with St Lawrence who lived in the 3rd century in Rome and was burnt alive on a gridiron. Because of the town’s affiliation with the Benedictine monastery dedicated to St Lawrence, the town coat of arms includes the gridiron.\n\nPřelouč was neither cultural, nor social center during its existence. However, thanks to its location, Přelouč was an important strategic and transit place.\n\nThere are both historical and modern sights, as well as technical sights, nature places and cultural or sports events.\n\n\n\nThe present-day Přelouč is a modern and developed town. There are banks, shops, health centre, restaurants, kindergartens, elementary schools, vocational school and grammar school. There is also a bus terminal and a renovated railway station.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960692", "title": "Zeelandic", "text": "Zeelandic\n\nZeelandic ('; ' in Dutch) is a Low Franconian dialect of Dutch spoken in the southwestern parts of the Netherlands. More specifically, it is spoken in the southernmost part of South Holland (Goeree-Overflakkee) and large parts of the province of Zeeland, with the notable exception of eastern Zeelandic Flanders.\n\nIt has notable differences from Standard Dutch mainly in pronunciation but also in grammar and vocabulary, which separates it clearly from Standard Dutch. They make mutual intelligibility with speakers of Standard Dutch difficult.\n\nIn the Middle Ages and the early modern period, Zeeland was claimed by the Count of Holland as well as the Count of Flanders, and the area was exposed to influence from both directions. The dialects clearly show a gradual increase of Hollandic elements as one goes northwards. However, Zeelandic is fairly coherent with clear borders, as the broad sea arms form strong isoglosses.\n\nZeelandic still has three grammatical genders and the final schwa of feminine words. It has kept the monophthongs and for \"ij\" and \"ui\", rather than breaking them into and . It usually umlauts into and renders the old Germanic and as falling diphthongs ( and , respectively, with the exact realisation depending on the dialect. Standard Dutch has merged them with etymological and . Finally, Zeelandic drops .\n\nThis table illustrates the differences (note that the orthography is Dutch):\n\nThe province of Zeeland consists of several former islands that were difficult to reach until well into the 20th century. As a result, there is roughly one dialect per island. The respective dialects differ clearly but only slightly. The Goeree-Overflakkee dialect, for example, does not drop the \"h\", and the Walcheren and Zuid-Beveland dialects have umlauted words, unlike the northern dialects (for example: \"beuter\" as opposed to \"boter\" . Within the island dialects themselves, dialectal differences also exist, and native speakers can frequently tell the village (at least on their own island) a person is from by the specific dialect that is spoken, even if the differences are inaudible to outsiders. For example within the Tholen dialect, speakers from Poortvliet, a village roughly on the middle of the island, can use widely differend words for something than speakers from Sint-Maartensdijk do, which lies only 5 km to the west of Poortvliet.\n\nZeelandic bears the burden of being strongly associated with the rural population, as it is spoken mainly in the countryside. The town dialects of Middelburg and Vlissingen are both much closer to Hollandic than the rural variants and are almost extinct. Surveys held in the 1990s found that at least 60% of Zeeland's population still use Zeelandic as their everyday language. An estimated 250,000 people speak Zeelandic as a mother tongue (West Zeelandic Flemish is included in that count), and although it is in decline, just as other regional languages, it is in no direct danger of extinction since in some villages with strong isolated communities, more than 90% of the youngsters still speak Zeelandic. On the other hand, in several villages with much immigration, the local dialect is spoken only by adults, as children are no longer taught it. A lobby for recognising the Zeelandic regional language under the European Charter for Minority Languages has, as of 2005, failed to achieve that status.\n"}
{"id": "1960695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960695", "title": "Spring green", "text": "Spring green\n\nSpring green is a color included on the color wheel that is precisely halfway between cyan and green. When plotted on the CIE chromaticity diagram, it corresponds to a visual stimulus of 505 nanometers on the visible spectrum. \"Spring green\" is a pure chroma on the color wheel. In HSV color space, the expression of which is known as the , \"spring green\" has a hue of 150°. Spring green is one of the tertiary colors on the RGB color wheel. It is also sometimes referred to as mint green.\n\nThe complementary color of \"spring green\" is rose.\n\n\"Spring green\" is a web color.\n\nThe first recorded use of \"spring green\" as a color name in English was in 1766.\n\nAquamarine is a color that is a pale bright tint of spring green toned toward cyan. It represents the color of the aquamarine gemstone. Aquamarine is the birthstone for those born in March.\n\nCambridge blue is the color commonly used by sports teams from Cambridge University.\n\nThis color is actually a medium tone of \"spring green\". Spring green colors are colors with an h code (hue code) of between 135 and 165; this color has an h code of 140, putting it within the range of spring green colors on the . \n\nAt right is displayed the color Caribbean green. This is a Crayola color formulated in 1997.\n\nAt right is displayed the web color dark spring green.\nAt the right is displayed the color erin.\nThe first recorded use of \"erin\" as a color name was in 1922.\n\nDisplayed at right is the web color honeydew, a pastel tint of spring green.\n\nThe color \"honeydew\" is a representation of the color of the interior flesh of a honeydew melon.\n\nDisplayed on the right is the color jungle green. In 1990, Crayola named and formulated the specific tone of \"jungle green\" shown at right. The first recorded use of \"jungle green\" as a name of a color in the English language was in 1926.\n\nAt right is displayed the color magic mint, a light tint of spring green.\n\nThe color \"magic mint\" is a light tint of the color mint.\n\nCeramic tiles in a similar color, often with a contrasting black border, were a popular choice for bathroom, kitchen and upmarket hotel swimming pool décor during the 1930s.\n\nThis is a Crayola color formulated in 1990 (later retired in 2003).\n\nAt right is displayed the web color medium sea green, a medium shade of spring green.\n\nDisplayed at right is the color medium spring green.\n\n\"Medium spring green\" is a web color. It is close to but not right on the color wheel and it is a little closer to cyan than to green.\nThe color mint, also known as mint leaf, is a representation of the color of mint.\n\nThe first recorded use of \"mint\" as a color name in English was in 1920.\n\nDisplayed at right is the web color mint cream, a pale pastel tint of spring green.\n\nThe color \"mint cream\" is a representation of the color of the interior of an after dinner mint (which is disc shaped with mint flavored buttercream on the inside and a chocolate coating on the outside).\n\n\"Mint green\" is a pale tint of green that resembles the color of mint green pigment, and was a popular color in the 1990s.\nDisplayed at right is the color mountain meadow.\n\n\"Mountain meadow\" is a Crayola crayon color formulated in 1998. \nPersian green is a color used in pottery and Persian carpets in Iran.\n\nOther colors associated with Persia include Persian red and Persian blue. The color \"Persian green\" is named from the green color of some Persian pottery and is a representation of the color of the mineral malachite. It is a popular color in Iran because the color green symbolizes gardens, nature, heaven, and sanctity. The first recorded use of \"Persian green\" as a color name in English was in 1892.\nPine green is a rich dark shade of spring green that resembles the color of pine trees. It is an official Crayola color (since 1903) that is this exact shade in the Crayola crayon, but in the markers, it is known as \"crocodile green\".\n\nThe color \"pine green\" is a representation of the average color of the leaves of the trees of a coniferous forest. The color \"pine green\" was originally known as \"pine tree\". The first recorded use of \"pine tree\" as a color name in English was in 1923.\nSea green is a shade of cyan color that resembles the hue of shallow seawater as seen from the surface.\n\n\"Sea green\" is notable for being the emblematic color of the Levellers party in the politics of 1640s England. Leveller supporters would wear a sea-green ribbon, in a similar manner to the present-day red AIDS awareness ribbon. \n\nThis is the Crayola version of the above color, a much brighter and lighter shade. It was introduced in 2001.\nAt right is displayed the color Skobeloff green.\n\nThe first recorded use of \"Skobeloff green\" as a color name in English was in 1912.\n\nTeal is displayed at right. It is a medium blue-green color that is a representation of the color of the neck coloring of a duck called the common teal.\n\nThe color \"teal\" is actually a dark tone of cyan. \n\nAt right is displayed the color viridian, a medium tone of spring green.\n\nThe first recorded use of viridian as a color name in English was in the 1860s (exact year uncertain).\nDisplayed at right is the color zomp.\n\n\"Zomp\" is one of the colors on the Resene Color List, a color list widely popular in Australia and New Zealand. The color \"zomp\" was formulated in 2007.\nEnvironmentalism\n\n"}
{"id": "1960697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960697", "title": "Northampton Public Schools, Massachusetts", "text": "Northampton Public Schools, Massachusetts\n\nNorthampton Public Schools is a school district in Northampton, Massachusetts. As of 2014, the superintendent is John A. Provost. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960698", "title": "Tha Eastsidaz", "text": "Tha Eastsidaz\n\nTha Eastsidaz was a hip hop trio consisting of Snoop Dogg, Tray Deee and Goldie Loc. Their first appearance was on Tommy Boy Records' \"The Ride: Music from Dimension\" with Crooked Eye Q on a Battlecat-produced song called \"Feels So Good\" in 1997.\n\nIn 1997, after Snoop Dogg left Death Row records, he formed 'The Eastsiders' with Crooked I and Li'l C-Style. They released one song commercially 'Feels So Good' on the soundtrack for the film Ride (1998 film). The group was briefly under contract with Virgin records, however no other songs were released besides few other songs were leaked on the internet in 1999.\n\nIt took another two years for the revival of the ensemble and they formed again in 2000, with a new line-up made up of Snoop Dogg, Tray Deee, and Goldie Loc. The name was also changed to 'Tha Eastsidaz', possibly due to contractual obligations with Virgin Records. After signing on to Snoop's Doggystyle Records, distributed by TVT, they released their debut album, \"Snoop Dogg Presents Tha Eastsidaz\"; which was a hit and eventually went platinum. They were also featured on \"Lay Low,\" a hit single from Snoop Dogg's album \"Tha Last Meal\" and the soundtrack to the horror film \"Bones\", which starred Snoop as the title character. The next year, they released their second album, \"\". The album was critically well-received, but only certified gold.\n\nThe group broke up when Snoop left while making their second album and Tray Deee was being sentenced to 12 years in prison for attempted murder. In 2005, Goldie Loc and Snoop Dogg reunited to form Tha Eastsidaz; they released a new joint album with the IV Life Family. Goldie Loc was also involved in The Warzone with MC Eiht and Kam.\n\nThe group also appeared in two films. They were featured in the 2001 film \"Baby Boy\" and their self-titled direct-to-video crime film, which was a success in retail sales despite the extremely low-budget production thus was certified double platinum.\n\nOn April 3, 2014, Tray Deee was released from California Men's Colony, where he had been incarcerated since 2005 on attempted murder charges. On April 18 and 19, Tray Deee and Goldie Loc will reunite as Tha Eastsidaz to perform at \"Krush Groove 2014\" at Save Mart Center in Fresno, California and The Forum in Inglewood. Tray Deee has stated that it is unlikely that there will ever be another Eastsidaz album.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960699", "title": "Songs for Silverman", "text": "Songs for Silverman\n\nSongs for Silverman is the second solo studio album by Ben Folds, released in April 2005 by Epic Records. The album reached No. 13 on the \"Billboard\" 200, making it Folds' highest-charting album until the release of \"Way to Normal\" in 2008.\n\nThe album is named after Ben Goldman, Folds' former A&R representative at Sony BMG. Folds explained, \"I was always sending songs to him for the album, so I wanted to name it after him. But somebody (from Sony) found out and flipped out, so I changed it a bit and turned it in.\" Goldman's name also spawned the title of Folds' compilation album \"Songs for Goldfish\".\n\nThe first single, \"Landed\", reached No. 77 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and No. 40 on the Adult Top 40. A planned United Kingdom issue was cancelled, though the single received a digital-only release.\n\nThe single \"Jesusland\" reached No. 2 on the UK airplay chart in October 2005. It has also been playlisted by Xfm London and BBC Radio 2 (which lists it as \"download only\"). The track was slated for a UK single release in September 2005, but it never made it to store shelves. The video for the single features Matt Lucas as a televangelist interspersed with scenes of a journey through what may well be \"Jesusland\" itself. The track was featured in the 2008 documentary \"Religulous\".\n\nThe album's next UK single, \"Late\", was written as a tribute to the recently deceased singer-songwriter Elliott Smith.\n\nThe song \"Gracie\" is written about Folds' daughter. Folds also wrote a song about his son Louis on \"Rockin' the Suburbs\", called \"Still Fighting It\".\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic, who directed Folds' video for \"Rockin' the Suburbs,\" contributes backing vocals to \"Time.\"\n\nAll songs written by Ben Folds\n\n\n\n\n\nThe DualDisc additionally contains the entire album in Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound.\n\nThe Band:\n\nAdditional Musicians:\n"}
{"id": "1960702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960702", "title": "Jacob Summerlin, Jr.", "text": "Jacob Summerlin, Jr.\n\nJacob Summerlin (February 20, 1820 – November 4, 1893), aka the King of the Crackers and King of the Cracker Cow Hunters, was reputed to be the first child born in Florida after the land was ceded by Spain. He is known for his contributions to the early settlement of Florida, and especially for founding the county seats of Orange and Polk counties, which are Orlando and Bartow, respectively. In the years prior to the Civil War, he was a slaveowner.\n\nSummerlin earned much of his early fortune raising cattle along the Peace River and Kissimmee River. Wild cattle brought to North America by the Spanish conquistadors roamed free across these vast stretches of land; entrepreneurs could capture, breed, drive and sell these cows for twelve to sixteen dollars each. Summerlin and his business partners developed a lucrative trade with Havana and with the US Naval Base at Key West. During the Civil War, he and his partners smuggled beef and medicine to Confederate troops past the Union blockade. With Confederate money he earned, he bought the 160-acre (0.65 km²) Blount homestead, much of which would later be given to Polk County. (Ft. Blount was the earlier name of Bartow, the present county seat.) After the war, when Confederate money became worthless, he began selling cattle to the Union soldiers at Fort Myers.\n\nHe amassed a fortune of 15,000 to 20,000 head of cattle during this period, and was considered one of the wealthiest Floridians before he reached age 40. In this pre-banking era, Jacob kept his gold and silver at his cabin in trunks, meal sacks, tin meat cans, woolen socks, cigar boxes, behind door frames, in the rafters, or tossed in a corner. He used his wealth to purchase large tracts of land sprawling from Fort Meade to Fort Myers. He bought a wharf at Punta Rassa and a thousand acres (4 km²) nearby for cow pens, some of which he rented to other cattlemen.\n\nIn 1867, he donated 120 acres (0.5 km²) of the Blount homestead land in the present-day town of Bartow: for an institution of learning (aptly named the Summerlin Institute, now called Bartow High School, founded 1887), for establishment of a county seat, and for each of the town's two churches (Methodist and Baptist). He also personally donated $1100.00 for construction of Bartow's first two-story building which housed the Masonic lodge and school.\n\nSummerlin also owned land in Orange County where he opened the Summerlin Hotel. When Orlando's wooden courthouse burned in 1868, there was pressure to move the county seat to the then-larger town of Sanford. It had been located nearby in Enterprise across the river from Sanford before 1857. General Henry Sanford was particularly involved in lobbying for the move to Sanford and offered free land for the new courthouse during a public meeting of the County Commission in 1875. Summerlin sat in the packed audience during Sanford's offer. Legend has it that as Sanford finished speaking, Summerlin rose to his feet and asked if he was done, Sanford replied \"I have\".\n\nThe county accepted his offer and repaid him over a 10-year period. Later that year, Orlando became incorporated with a population of 85; on August 4, Jacob Summerlin sat on the first Orlando City Council acting as Council president.\n\nIt was also Summerlin who donated a large tract of land in order for a fine park to be established in Orlando. In 1883, Summerlin came to a city council meeting and offered the land around the lake on the condition that it be beautified and turned into a park. He also required that the city plant trees and put a \"driveway\" around the lake. To ensure that the city followed through the stipulations of the donation, Summerlin put reverter clauses in the contract to allow his heirs to reclaim the property if the city failed in its obligations. That park is still maintained to his orders of it being kept beautiful. His son Judge Robert L Summerlin, mayor of Orlando named Lake Eola Lake Eola, after a fiancee who died before they could marry.\n\nJacob died on November 4, 1893, aged 73, and was buried in Oak Hill Cemetery in Bartow.\n\n\nhttps://www.amazon.com/Jacob-Summerlin-Joe-Akerman-Jr/dp/1886104166/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1501102058&sr=8-1&keywords=Jacob+Summerlin"}
{"id": "1960704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960704", "title": "Inisheer", "text": "Inisheer\n\nInis Oírr or Inisheer is the smallest and most eastern of the three Aran Islands in Galway Bay, Ireland. With about 260 permanent residents (2016 census), it is more populous than Inishmaan but less than Inishmore. Caomhán of Inis Oírr is the island's patron saint. There are five primary settlements on Inis Oírr, including Baile Thiar, Baile an tSéipéil (Chapeltown), Baile an Chaisleáin (Castle Village), Baile an Fhormna and Baile an Lorgain (Town of the shin-shaped hill).\n\nThe official name, , was brought into usage by the Ordnance Survey Ireland. It may be a compromise between the traditional local name and the previous official name . There is no Irish word corresponding to the second element in the official name. It seems from the annals that the island's name always contained the element or in the sense of \"rear\" or \"back\" island and not \"west\" as is the usual sense of this word. The form , used by the 17th century scholar Ruaidhrí Ó Flaithbheartaigh, seems to have arisen out of his own misreading of the annals.\n\nThe island is geologically an extension of The Burren. The terrain of the island is composed of limestone pavements with crisscrossing cracks known as \"grikes\", leaving isolated rocks called \"clints\".\n\nThe limestones date from the Viséan period (Lower Carboniferous), formed as sediments in a tropical sea approximately 350 million years ago, and compressed into horizontal strata with fossil corals, crinoids, sea urchins and ammonites.\n\nGlaciation following the Namurian phase facilitated greater denudation. The result is that Inisheer is one of the finest examples of a Glacio-Karst landscape in the world. The effects of the last glacial period (the Midlandian) are most in evidence, with the island overrun by ice during this glaciation. The impact of earlier Karstification (solutional erosion) has been eliminated by the last glacial period, so any Karstification now seen dates from approximately 10,000 years ago and the island Karst is thus recent.\n\nSolutional processes have widened and deepened the grykes of the limestone pavement. Pre-existing lines of weakness in the rock (vertical joints) contribute to the formation of extensive fissures separated by clints (flat pavement like slabs). The rock karstification facilitates the formation of sub-terrainean drainage.\n\nThe island has a temperate climate. Average air temperatures range from 15 °C (59 °F) in July to 6 °C (43 °F) in January. The soil temperature does not usually drop below 6 °C (43 °F). Since grass will grow once the temperature rises above 6 °C (43 °F), this means that the island (like the neighbouring Burren) has one of the longest growing seasons in Ireland, and supports diverse and rich plant growth.\n\nLate May is the sunniest time, and also likely the best time to view flowers, with the gentians and avens peaking (but orchid species blooming later).\n\nThe island supports arctic, Mediterranean and alpine plants side-by-side, due to the unusual environment. Like the Burren, the Aran islands are known for their remarkable assemblage of plants and animals. \nThe grikes (crevices) provide moist shelter, thus supporting a wide range of plants including dwarf shrubs. Where the surface of the pavement is shattered into gravel, many of the hardier Arctic or Alpine plants can be found. But when the limestone pavement is covered by a thin layer of soil, patches of grass are seen, interspersed with plants like the gentian and orchids.\n\nNotable insects present include the butterfly the pearl-bordered fritillary (\"Boloria euphrosyne\"), brown hairstreak (\"Thecla betulae\"), marsh fritillary (\"Euphydryas aurinia\") and wood white (\"Leptidea sinapis\"); the moths, the burren green (\"Calamia tridens\"), Irish annulet (\"Gnophos dumetata\") and transparent burnet (\"Zygaena purpuralis\"); and the hoverfly \"Doros profuges\".\n\nIn 1885 a burial site called Cnoc Raithní was discovered which dates back to 1500 BC. This is earliest evidence of human settlement of the island.\nSaint Caomhán, the patron saint of Inisheer, according to some traditions, was the elder brother of Kevin of Glendalough. The ruins of \"Teampall Chaomháin\" have to be uncovered annually as the floor of it is well below the level of the sand. In the Middle Ages, the island was ruled by the O'Brien dynasty who provided most of the Kings of Thomond. This rule was exercised since before the Anglo-Irish settled in Connacht in the 1230s.\nThe Tribes of Galway paid the O'Briens an annual tribute of twelve tuns of wine \"in consideration of their protection and expenses in guarding the bay and harbour of Galway against pirates and coast plunderers.\" The remains of the 14th-century 'O'Brien's Castle' is sited near the island's highest point. In 1582 the O'Flahertys of Connemara captured it. Today O'Flahertys still live on the island. In 1652 it was given to the Cromwellian invasion force and the O'Flaherty's were defeated. They saw no use for it and the castle was partially dismantled, it has been unoccupied since.\n\nThe cargo vessel \"Plassey\" was shipwrecked off Inis Oírr on 8 March 1960, and has since been thrown above high tide mark at \"Carraig na Finise\" on the island by strong Atlantic waves. The ship features in the opening credits of the TV Show \"Father Ted\".\n\nA group of local Islanders, the Inisheer Rocket Crew, rescued the entire crew from the stricken vessel using a breeches buoy; an event captured in a pictorial display at the National Maritime Museum in Dún Laoghaire.\n\nThe following sites on the island are designated as National Monuments:\nThe table below reports data on Inis Oírr's population taken from \"Discover the Islands of Ireland\" (Alex Ritsema, Collins Press, 1999) and the Census of Ireland. Census data in Ireland before 1841 are not considered complete and/or reliable.\nThe island is reached by ferry from Rossaveal in Connemara and Doolin in County Clare as well as from the other Aran Islands. There is also a regional airport on each island which is served from Connemara Regional Airport by AerArann. A pier was opened in Doolin in June 2015 for commercial ferries serving the island. Islanders travel by foot or car around the island. Tourists can avail of tours/taxi trips by horse and trap. Members of An Garda Síochána patrol on bike.\n\nIrish is still today the daily language of the 260 permanent residents. In addition, many school pupils from the mainland come to the island to learn Irish in an environment where it is a living language in the local college, Coláiste Laichtín during the months of June, July and August.\n\nSome of the limestone sea cliffs have attracted interest from rock-climbers, though the bigger islands of Inis Mór and Inis Méain are more popular. \nDiving is possible.\n\nThe island gained some television exposure in the 1990s when it (and 'An \"Plassy\"') appeared in the opening credits of the sitcom \"Father Ted\" masquerading as the fictional Craggy Island.\n\nInis Oírr is mentioned in the song \"The Return of Pan\" by the band The Waterboys.\n\n\"Inisheer\" is also the name of a well known slow air written by Thomas Walsh from Dublin, after a visit to the island in the 1970s.\n\nInis Oírr was discussed at length in the work of cultural anthropologist John Cowan Messenger under the name Inis Beag.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960713", "title": "Hope Sandoval", "text": "Hope Sandoval\n\nHope Sandoval (born June 24, 1966) is an American singer-songwriter who is the lead singer of Mazzy Star and Hope Sandoval & the Warm Inventions. Sandoval has toured and collaborated with other artists, including Massive Attack, for whom she sang \"Paradise Circus\" on the 2010 album \"Heligoland,\" and \"The Spoils\" on the 2016 eponymous single.\n\nHope Sandoval was born June 24, 1966 in Los Angeles, California to Mexican-American parents, and raised in east Los Angeles. Her father was a butcher, while her mother worked for a potato chip manufacturing company. She has one sibling and seven half-siblings. Sandoval's parents separated when she was a child, and she was raised primarily by her mother. \n\nShe attended Mark Keppel High School in Alhambra, but struggled socially and academically, and was placed in special education classes. She began to forgo her classes, instead staying home and listening to records. \"It's just like anybody else—some people, most people don't wanna go to school. They just don't want to,\" Sandoval recalled. \"I was just somebody who got away with it... There wasn't really anyone watching.\" She eventually dropped out of high school.\n\nSandoval took an interest in music at an early age, and, at age 13, was particularly influenced by the Rolling Stones. In 1986, she formed the folk music duo Going Home with Sylvia Gomez and sent a demo tape to David Roback. He contacted the duo and suggested that he would \"play guitar for you guys\". The material recorded by Gomez, Sandoval and Roback has yet to be released.\n\nSandoval performed with the band Opal in the late 1980s alongside David Roback and long-time Roback collaborator Kendra Smith. After Smith's abrupt departure during a tour of the UK (hurling her guitar to the floor at the Hammersmith gig), Sandoval took over lead vocals. At the end of the tour, Roback and Sandoval began writing together and formed the alternative rock band Mazzy Star.\n\nThe first Mazzy Star album, \"She Hangs Brightly\", was released in 1990. While not a commercial success, this album did establish Mazzy Star as a band with a unique sound.\nThe band had a surprise breakthrough hit single released in October 1993. \"Fade into You\" – from its second album \"So Tonight That I Might See\" – was recorded one year before it became a success.\nThere is a continuity between the sounds and moods established on Mazzy Star's first two albums and its third, \"Among My Swan\". Mazzy Star went on hiatus in 1997.\n\nSandoval formed The Warm Inventions in 2000 and released her first solo album \"Bavarian Fruit Bread\" in 2001, which she recorded with My Bloody Valentine drummer Colm Ó Cíosóig. The album differed in terms of theme, voice, and instrumentation from that of her work with Mazzy Star. Bert Jansch plays guitar on two tracks, and the album features two covers, \"Butterfly Mornings\" from the film \"The Ballad of Cable Hogue\" (1970) and Jesus and Mary Chain's \"Drop\". The Warm Inventions released two EPs, \"At the Doorway Again\" in 2000 and \"Suzanne\" in 2002 but did not win commercial success, with one video on MTV and little radio play. Sandoval recorded a song, \"Wild Roses\", for a compilation CD released by Air France, \"In the Air\" (2008).\n\nHope Sandoval and The Warm Inventions released their second album, \"Through the Devil Softly\", on September 29, 2009.\n\nSandoval and her band were chosen by Matt Groening to perform at the edition of the All Tomorrow's Parties festival he curated in May 2010 in Minehead, England. The group also played the ATP New York 2010 music festival in Monticello, New York in September 2010 at the request of film director Jim Jarmusch.\n\nIn 2009, Sandoval confirmed in an interview with \"Rolling Stone\" that Mazzy Star was still active: \"It's true we're still together. We're almost finished [with the record]. But I have no idea what that means.\" In October 2011, the group released the single \"Common Burn\"/\"Lay Myself Down\", their first material in 15 years. The group stated that they had plans to release the album in 2012. In July 2013, \"California\", the first single from the new album was released. The album, \"Seasons of Your Day\", was released in September 2013.\n\nOn March 9, 2016, it was confirmed that Hope Sandoval & The Warm Inventions would release a 7\" vinyl single titled \"Isn't It True\" for Record Store Day 2016. The track also features Jim Putnam of Radar Bros. A music video for the song was released on April 19, and is dedicated to Richie Lee of Acetone. The Warm Inventions' third studio album, \"Until the Hunter\", was released on November 4 through the band's own independent record label, Tendril Tales. A second single from the album, \"Let Me Get There\" featuring Kurt Vile, was released on September 23. \n\nSandoval contributed vocals to \"I Don't Mind\" by Psychic Ills, which was released on March 29. Four months later, Massive Attack released \"The Spoils\", which was her third collaboration with the band, following \"Paradise Circus\" and \"Four Walls\". A music video starring actress Cate Blanchett was released on August 9.\n\nShe covered \"Big Boss Man\" on Mercury Rev's 2019 album \"Bobbie Gentry's The Delta Sweete Revisited\".\n\nDavid Roback died on February 24, 2020.\n\nDuring live performances, Sandoval prefers to sing in near-darkness with only a dim backlight, playing the tambourine, harmonica, glockenspiel or shaker. She has a reputation for shyness. Her stage presence has been described as \"idly withdrawn, barely acknowledging the audience.\"\n\n\n\nSandoval has collaborated with numerous other artists.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1960718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960718", "title": "Lázně Bohdaneč", "text": "Lázně Bohdaneč\n\nLázně Bohdaneč (), until 1980 Bohdaneč is a small town in the Pardubice Region of the Czech Republic, near the city of Pardubice. It has approximately 3,500 inhabitants.\n\nThe town was home of a football club AFK Atlantic Lázně Bohdaneč, which played the Czech First League in the 1997–98 season. After this season the club was relegated and due to financial problems it was merged with FK Slovan Pardubice in 2000. There is currently local football club \"SK Lázně Bohdaneč\", which plays in lower amateur tiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960721", "title": "Penn Brewery", "text": "Penn Brewery\n\nPenn Brewery, also known as the Pennsylvania Brewing Company, is a brewery and restaurant in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It was founded by Tom Pastorius in 1986, and is located at 800 Vinial Street in the Troy Hill neighborhood of Pittsburgh, on the site of the former Eberhardt and Ober Brewery (founded in 1848).\n\nOriginally a contract brewing operation, Penn Brewery brewed its original and flagship product at the facilities of the Pittsburgh Brewing Company and then the Jones Brewing Company until 1989. Known as Penn Pilsner, Pastorius brewed the full bodied German-syle beer in strict accordance to the German Purity Law (\"Reinheitsgebot\") of 1516. Penn Pilsner quickly gained in popularity among Pennsylvania beer drinkers, increasing the need for its own brewing facility. Pastorius also recognized the demand for authentic German cuisine in his hometown of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, spawning the idea of a \"tied house\", or brewery and restaurant under one roof, similar to the many beer halls he experienced while living in Germany for twelve years.\n\nPrior to 1987, however, Pennsylvania law prohibited such a facility. Pastorius responded by successfully lobbying Pennsylvania legislators to change state law. In 1987 Pastorius, signed a lease to become the anchor tenant in the former Eberhardt & Ober Brewery that was being redeveloped by the Northside Civic Development Council. The brewery is located at 800 Vinial Street on the North Side of Pittsburgh. Three of the original E & O brewery buildings remain, the stock house (c. 1880-84), and office building standing on a side cut into the rock of Troy Hill. Pastorius hired German Brewmaster Alex Deml to oversee construction of the 30,000 barrel-a-year capacity brewing facility, which included custom built micro-brewery equipment imported from Germany.\n\nOn September 12, 1989, the Allegheny Brewpub (later renamed Penn Brewery) opened its doors, with dignitaries including Pittsburgh Mayor Sophie Masloff and Pennsylvania Governor Bob Casey tapping the first keg. The Pennsylvania Brewery occupied 16,000 sq. ft. On the first floor. The Northside Civic Development Council operated a business incubator In the other 36,000 sq. ft. of the property, offering low-rent and consultants for start-up companies.\n\nIn 2003, Wexford, PA, based Birchmere Capital LP purchased a controlling stake in Penn Brewery.\n\nFounder Tom Pastorius died on September 6, 2012. Pastorius' ancestor, Franz Daniel Pastorius, founded Germantown, Pennsylvania in 1683.\n\nOn January 2, 2009, Birchmere ended beer production at the Vinial Street location and laid off 8 of the 10 brewery employees. All production was outsourced to the Lion Brewery in Wilkes-Barre, PA. The restaurant was scheduled to close February 28, 2009, but a last-minute agreement allowed it to remain at its current location for the next five years.\n\nOn August 19, 2009, Birchmere announced the indefinite closing of the Penn Brewery Restaurant.\n\nOn November 23, 2009, Penn Brewery issued a press announcement indicating that a small group of local investors, had acquired Penn Brewery from Birchmere Capital, under undisclosed terms, and that the original owner would be returning to lead a restart of brewing at the Vinial Street location, as well as an eventual reopening of the restaurant.\n\nOn December 8, 2009, brewing officially resumed at the E & O facility, with the first mashing occurring at 10:20 AM. December 30, 2009 at 4:00 PM marked the first beer tasting of the new era of Penn Brewery.\n\nOn December 30, 2009 the Penn Brewery Restaurant opened for a \"sneak peek\" preview of the beers. Festivities were open to the public and the response was incredible.\n\nIn February 2010 a new kegging line was installed, and on February 17, 2010, the first kegs of locally brewed Penn Brewery beer were released to wholesalers.\n\nIn March 2010 the Penn Brewery Restaurant started weekly \"growler hours\" every Friday from 4pm to 6pm. The public was given the opportunity to purchase pint drafts and half gallon growlers for home while construction continues on the kitchen. Varieties available on tap will vary based on latest brewings from Penn Brewery, but in general will include Penn Pilsner, Kaiser Pils, Penn Dark, and new Allegheny Pale Ale.\n\nThe restaurant is now open for lunch and dinner most days.\n\nIn 2012, \"Pittsburgh Magazine\" named it one of the favorite breweries in Pittsburgh.\n"}
{"id": "1960727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960727", "title": "1977–78 Bundesliga", "text": "1977–78 Bundesliga\n\nThe 1977–78 Bundesliga was the 15th season of the Bundesliga, West Germany's premier football league. It began on 6 August 1977 and ended on 29 April 1978. Borussia Mönchengladbach were the defending champions.\n\nEvery team played two games against each other team, one at home and one away. Teams received two points for a win and one point for a draw. If two or more teams were tied on points, places were determined by goal difference and, if still tied, by goals scored. The team with the most points were crowned champions while the three teams with the fewest points were relegated to their respective 2. Bundesliga divisions.\n\nKarlsruher SC, Tennis Borussia Berlin and Rot-Weiss Essen were relegated to the 2. Bundesliga after finishing in the last three places. They were replaced by FC St. Pauli, winners of the 2. Bundesliga Northern Division, VfB Stuttgart, winners of the Southern Division and TSV 1860 Munich, who won a promotion play-off series against Arminia Bielefeld.\n\nThe 1977–78 season, which ended earlier than usual due to the upcoming World Cup in Argentina, ended with 1. FC Köln winning the title, but the decision had been closer than anybody would have imagined. The team from Cologne was level on points with Borussia Mönchengladbach before the final round of matches of the season, but had a ten-goal lead in goal difference over their rivals. Nevertheless, Mönchengladbach managed to close the gap with a 12–0 victory in their last match against Borussia Dortmund. However, the team around Jupp Heynckes and Berti Vogts missed out on the title by three goals because Köln won 5–0 against FC St. Pauli at the same time.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960744", "title": "Aisling O'Sullivan", "text": "Aisling O'Sullivan\n\nAisling O'Sullivan Tralee, County Kerry) is an Irish actress.\n\nO'Sullivan attended the Gaiety School of Acting in Dublin and joined the Abbey Theatre in 1991.\n\nShe garnered major acclaim for her performance as Widow Quin in Druid Theatre Company's 2004 production of \"The Playboy of the Western World\", which toured throughout Ireland including her native Kerry, and also starred Cillian Murphy and Anne-Marie Duff. \n\nIn 2011 and 2012, she toured Ireland again with Druid, playing the titular character in \"Big Maggie\" by John B. Keane and was consequently nominated for Best Actress in the Irish Times Irish Theatre Awards.\n\nAt the National Theatre she played in \"Liolà\", \"Mutabilitie\", and \"The Cripple of Inishmaan\".\n\nShe played the role of Aileen Beck in the \"Best Boys\" episode of the 1995 TV series \"Cracker\".\n\nO'Sullivan had a small part in \"Michael Collins\" (1996).\n\nShe appeared in another Neil Jordan film, \"The Butcher Boy\" (1997) as Francie's mentally unstable mother.\n\nIn a 1998 PBS adaptation of Henry James novel \"The American\", she played the part of Claire De Cintré, opposite Matthew Modine and Diana Rigg.\n\nShe played the grieving mother who commits suicide in \"Six Shooter\", playwright Martin McDonagh's Oscar-winning short film.\n\nShe is familiar to Irish television audiences as Dr. Cathy Costello from Series 1 to Series 5 in the drama series \"The Clinic\", a role for which she has won an Irish Film and Television Awards best actress award in 2008.\n\nShe had a leading role in the Channel 4 thriller \"Shockers\" (1999). She starred in Seasons 2 through 5 in \"Raw\", an RTÉ drama portraying the lives of a restaurant staff, playing manager Fiona Kelly.\n"}
{"id": "1960747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960747", "title": "1976–77 Bundesliga", "text": "1976–77 Bundesliga\n\nThe 1976–77 Bundesliga was the 14th season of the Bundesliga, West Germany's premier football league. It began on 14 August 1976 and ended on 21 May 1977. Borussia Mönchengladbach were the defending champions.\n\nEvery team played two games against each other team, one at home and one away. Teams received two points for a win and one point for a draw. If two or more teams were tied on points, places were determined by goal difference and, if still tied, by goals scored. The team with the most points were crowned champions while the three teams with the fewest points were relegated to their respective 2. Bundesliga divisions.\n\nHannover 96, Kickers Offenbach and Bayer 05 Uerdingen were relegated to the 2. Bundesliga after finishing in the last three places. They were replaced by Tennis Borussia Berlin, winners of the 2. Bundesliga Northern Division, 1. FC Saarbrücken, winners of the Southern Division and Borussia Dortmund, who won a two-legged promotion play-off against 1. FC Nürnberg.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960748", "title": "Lages", "text": "Lages\n\nLages is a Brazilian municipality located in the central part of the state of Santa Catarina, in the region known in Portuguese as \"Planalto Serrano\".\n\nIt is located in the mountain region of the state and is the largest municipality of it. It is the main city of this region, and borders the towns of Otacílio Costa, São Joaquim, and Correia Pinto. The main course of urban water is Carahá River.\n\nLages hosts an annual festival called \"Festa do Pinhão\", that is famous throughout the country.\n\nEconomically, the city is known for its strong cattle breeding and wood processing factories.\n\nIn the beginning of the 17th century, the arrival of the first Europeans established the town. The growing of the \"Campos de Lajens\" was due to the opening of roads to reach the fields of the state Rio Grande do Sul. The people of São Paulo and Minas Gerais were attracted to this region due to the cattle-breeding business with the \"gauchos\".\n\nVery primitive documents mention Lajens as a stop for horse riders that were traveling from Sorocaba or São Paulo, transporting mules, horses and cattle. Correia Pinto, the founder, was a horse rider, and ran cattle groups from Lajens to São Paulo.\n\nOn November 22, 1766, Lajens was promoted to state from village. In 1820 it detached itself from São Paulo to be part of the state of Santa Catarina. On May 25, 1860, it was elevated to city status. In 1960 the city's name was changed to Lages with a \"g\" wrongly inserted.\n\nDuring the Revolução Farroupilha, Lages belonged to the state of Rio Grande do Sul.\n\nLages is served by Antônio Correia Pinto de Macedo Airport.\n\nLages has a subtropical highland climate (Koppen: \"Cfb\"), with an annual mean temperature of . Winter temperatures can stay below freezing, with occurrence of frost and snow. During the summer, temperatures may reach and droughts may occur.\n\nData by INMET shows that the lowest temperature recorded in the city between 1961 and 2017 was on 14 July 2000 and the highest was on 9 January 2006. On 1 October 2001, the city accumulated a record of of precipitation in a period of 24 hours. Previous large accumulations include on 22 October 1979 and on 16 April 1971.\n\nWith , August 1983 was the month with the most accumulated precipitation. The lowest relative humidity observed was of 20% on 13 November 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960752", "title": "Querelle des Bouffons", "text": "Querelle des Bouffons\n\nThe ' (\"Quarrel of the Comic Actors\"), also known as the ' (\"War of the Comic Actors\") and the (\"War of the Corners\"), was the name given to a battle of rival musical philosophies which took place in Paris between 1752 and 1754. The controversy concerned the relative merits of French and Italian opera.\n\nIt was sparked by the reaction of literary Paris to a performance of Giovanni Battista Pergolesi's short intermezzo \"La serva padrona\" at the Académie royale de musique in Paris on 1 August 1752. \"La serva padrona\" was performed by an itinerant Italian troupe of comic actors, known as \"buffoni\" (\"bouffons\" in French, hence the name of the quarrel). The work had already been given in Paris in 1746, but had attracted little notice. This time it provoked a full-scale war of words between the defenders of the French operatic tradition and the champions of Italian music. In the controversy that followed, critics such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau (in the queen's corner) and Friedrich Melchior Grimm, together with other writers associated with the \"Encyclopédie\", praised Italian opera buffa and attacked French lyric tragedy, a style originated by Jean-Baptiste Lully and promoted among then-living composers such as French composer Jean-Philippe Rameau (in the king's corner).\n\nThe quarrel broke out on August 1, 1752, when Eustacchio Bambini's Italian touring company arrived at the Royal Academy of Music (the future Paris Opera) to give performances of intermezzi and opera buffa. They opened with a performance of Pergolesi's \"La serva padrona\" (\"The Servant Turned Mistress\"). The same work had already been given in Paris in 1746, without attracting any attention at all. The scandal was created by the fact that it was performed at the Royal Academy, which did not have the flexibility of the Comédie-Française where one could alternate tragedies with comedies or the farces of Molière without problem. Comedy at the Royal Academy of Music had always been rather limited.\n\nIn the eighteenth century, Italian opera evolved greatly, considerably faster than \"tragédie lyrique\" or \"tragédie en musique\" (typically French), until it split into two genres: \"opera seria\" (with serious themes from librettos by Apostolo Zeno and Metastasio) and \"opera buffa\", or comic opera (from \"buffo\" = deriving from \"to laugh\", \"grotesque\", \"farce”), which included comic interludes marked with lightness, innocence, simplicity, irrationality, and the triviality of daily life.\n\nIf \"comic ballet\" could be represented by \"Platée\" (\"Plataea\"), Rameau's \"tragédie en musique\" (1745), it was already giving way to comic elements (assonances in \"oi\" [wa] imitating the song of frogs, etc.) rather than the genre's elements of parody. The piece was marginal until the outbreak of the quarrel. On the other hand, what one later called \"opéra bouffon\" was not satisfied with parodying the serious genre but producing a type of original comedy, more popular, closer to farce and the \"commedia dell'arte\" (masked comedy).\n\nThe unexpected successes of these \"farces\" were going to divide the Parisian intelligentsia into two factions. Between supporters of \"tragédie lyrique\", royal representative of the French style; and sympathizers of \"opéra bouffon\", colorful defenders of Italian music, there was born a veritable pamphleteer quarrel which would animate the French capital's musical circles until 1754.\n\nIn 1753 Rousseau published a pamphlet (\"Letter on French Music\"), boosting \"La serva\"; and at the end of the year, he published it in an engraved edition to disseminate an uncorrupted text. Both versions would weigh heavily in the reception of the work.\n\nIn that same text, he justified Italian music's qualities and harshly condemned the French:\n\nIn the Parisian world, one would hold such statements against him both at home and abroad.\n\nAmong pamphleteers on the opposite side, Fr. Castel, for example, would respond in these terms:\n\nIt can be argued that Forty years before the Battle of Valmy, a national identity was already asserted as a response to the threat of cultural imperialism. However, the concept of a nation proposed here only represented the Parisian microcosm, that is to say the court's good graces, thus the good will of the monarch. On the other hand, Italian opera showed an aesthetic form in itself which was no longer only Italian but European, or at least international, since numerous composers of the genre were not Italians. The Germans like Melchior Grimm and Baron d'Holbach were among the most fervent adherents of Italian opera. Fr. Castel's statements held fast because, to the eighteenth century royal court, only France could claim to be the dominant nation in Europe. And the most bellicose or defensive statements emanated from the supporters of the French genre.\n\nHowever, the stakes for cultural domination played out through comparison of the two aesthetics. In the forty or-so pamphlets that dotted the period, the contrast recurred between a totally Italian musical language with Italian opera that favored singing, and the more consonantal, articulated French language and a French genre more preoccupied with words. Furthermore, for the French side, the laughter provoked by comic opera was considered noxious because one lost self-control and was irrational even though the Italian side called for passion and emotion.\n\nThe same year, Rousseau composed his little opera, \"Le devin du village\" (\"The Village Soothsayer\"), created in Fontainebleau, on October 18, 1752. The term \"interlude\" explicitly refers to the kind being performed at the same time by the Bouffons on the Paris Opera stage, but could that mean Rousseau had thus realized his dream of Italianizing French opera? His music was very far from that of Pergolesi. The work had not shocked the court authorities since Madame de Pompadour herself played Colin in a performance at the Château de Bellevue. It therefore did not appear subversive, and its pro-Italian nature was not quite obvious, for the good reason that at the time he composed the work, he had not yet attended Italian operas at the Royal Academy of Music.\n\nSeventeen years after the first version created in 1737, which was not a lasting success although this opera renewed the ritual of tragédie en musique invented by Lully, Jean-Phillipe Rameau offered, in 1754, while the Quarrel of the Comic Actors still raged, a thoroughly revised version of \"Castor and Pollux\". This time the work, shown as a model of the French style, as opposed to the Italian style, triumphed, and for a long time.\n\nWhen all is said and done, it appeared that this controversy, which, after beginning with courtesy, was going to worsen somewhat then burn out after two years, having constituted a great moment exposing French music to new aesthetic values. The French form, without sacrificing itself, would open itself to new influences and renew the genre. At the Comédie-Italienne and Théâtre de la foire in particular, they established a new way of opera which reused the object of the quarrel: natural simplicity facing the harmonic richness of \"tragédie en musique\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1960765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960765", "title": "Rossaveal", "text": "Rossaveal\n\n( or Ros a' Mhíl) Unofficial anglicsed English versions \"Rossaveal\" or \"Rossaveel\"' is a Gaeltacht village in the Connemara area of County Galway, Ireland. It is the main ferry port for the Aran Islands in Galway Bay. It is about from Galway city.\n\nThe Irish name \"Ros an Mhíl\" means \"peninsula of the whale or sea monster\". The village is the home of the Ros a' Mhíl centre under Coláiste Chamuis, an Irish language immersion summer camp for teenagers. It is served by Bus Éireann route 424 from Galway. A Ferry service to the Aran Islands runs from the harbour.\nThere are 1,304 people living in the Ros a’ Mhíl ED and 84% native Irish speakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960767", "title": "Stephen Kasner", "text": "Stephen Kasner\n\nStephen Kasner (April 3, 1970 – December 25, 2019) was an American multidisciplinary artist from Cleveland, Ohio. Primarily a painter and illustrator but also a musician, photographer, graphic artist, occultist and magician; Kasner was mainly known through his cover artwork designs for bands such as Rotting Christ, Decrepit, Sunn O))), Integrity, Marduk, & Pulling Teeth among many others.\n\nHis paintings have been exhibited all over the world and are noted for their sinister (sometimes satanic) themes and otherworldly aesthetic; influencing a new wave of artists in the dark arts. His artwork, drawings and photographs usually reflect visions of a pre/post-apocalyptic industrial landscape and the struggle for survival contained in dreams of enlightenment.\n\nBesides working in paint, photography, and drawings Stephen Kasner also created experimental music under the name Blood Fountains, where he performed on guitars, bass, and keyboards. \n\nHe did album artwork for Khlyst, Sunn O))), Integrity, Lotus Eaters, Skullflower, Justin Broadrick, Subarachnoid Space and Martin Grech, among many others. \n\nKasner released the book \"Stephen Kasner Works: 1993 – 2006\" (Scapegoat Publishing, 2007), a lavish career retrospective with text by various artistic luminaries and collaborations with Seldon Hunt, David D'Andrea, Dwid Hellion, Steven Leyba, and Steven Cerio.\n\nStephen Kasner died on December 25, 2019. His longtime friend and fellow Cleveland native Dwid from the band Integrity (for which Kasner had provided artwork) posted through Twitter in homage: \"\"Stephen Kasner was my friend. He will be deeply missed. I hope that his artwork will remind us of his tortured brilliance and haunted vision. May his death serve as a stark reminder of how fragile we can be. To those of you who may be struggling out there, who might feel alone. You are not alone. Stay strong.\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1960770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960770", "title": "667.. The Neighbour of the Beast", "text": "667.. The Neighbour of the Beast\n\n667.. The Neighbour of the Beast is the debut album by the modern glam metal group Wig Wam. Released in Norway on March 8, 2004 the album would establish Wig Wam as one of Norway's biggest rock acts, resulting in their participation in the 2005 Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nThe album would include two Wig Wam singles, being the Mel C cover \"I Turn to You\" and the anthemic \"Hard to Be a Rock n' Roller\". Several other popular tracks, including their Melodi Grand Prix 2004 song \"Crazy Things\" (which would be released in promo form), were also included on the album.\n\nIn January 2005, the album was renamed to \"Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller\". A radio-edit from the song \"Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller\" and a few videos were added. In March from the same year, this album was renamed another time to \"Hard to Be a Rock n' Roller... In Kiev!\". The song \"In my dreams\" and the video \"Hard to Be a Rock n' Roller\" were added to the original track list from the album at that time.\n\nThe name of the album \"667.. The Neighbour of the Beast\" is a quote from a computer game named \"Max Payne 2\" as well as a twist on the Iron Maiden album \"The Number of the Beast\". 667 also turns up as the license plate of the \"guitar car\" on their third album \"Non Stop Rock'n Roll\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1960773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960773", "title": "Single Channel Simulcast", "text": "Single Channel Simulcast\n\nSingle/Multi Channel Simulcast is the simultaneous transmission of an amplitude modulated and Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) in the same (SingleChannel Simulcast - SCS) or a neighbouring channel (MultiChannel Simulcast - MCS). \n\nTo produce this SCS multiplex signal, the initial carrier is modulated by the DRM signal using quadrature phase modulation. This FM signal is then modulated as if it were a normal AM carrier, thus producing two modes on the single signal. \n\nClearly the advantage of this is that both DRM and analogue radios can receive a signal they can discriminate and demodulate, with little disadvantage to either mode.\n\nIt can, however, decrease DRM range, and the phase changes in the carrier can induce local oscillator interference in the AM receiver, which will show as white noise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960776", "title": "Songs for Goldfish", "text": "Songs for Goldfish\n\nSongs for Goldfish is a Ben Folds album of live and unreleased tracks packaged with \"Songs for Silverman\" and released through Ben Folds' website. Tracks 1 through 8 are live performances, 9 and 10 are unreleased studio tracks.\n\n\nTrack 1 opens down with the second (scherzo) movement of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony as done by Wendy Carlos for the Clockwork Orange Soundtrack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960791", "title": "Margaret Lea Houston", "text": "Margaret Lea Houston\n\nMargaret Lea Houston (April 11, 1819 – December 3, 1867) was First Lady of the Republic of Texas during her husband Sam Houston's second term as President of the Republic of Texas. They met following the first of his two non-consecutive terms as the Republic's president, and married when he was a representative in the Congress of the Republic of Texas. She was his third wife, remaining with him until his death.\n\nShe came from a close-knit family in Alabama, many of whom also moved to Texas when she married the man who was an accomplished politician in both Tennessee and Texas, and who had won the Battle of San Jacinto during the Texas Revolution. The couple had eight children, and she gave birth to most of them while he was away attending to politics. Her mother Nancy Lea was a constant in their lives, helping with the children, managing the household help, and always providing either financial assistance or temporary housing. With the help of her extended family in Texas, Margaret convinced her husband to give up both alcohol and profane language. He believed his wife to be an exemplary woman of faith and, under her influence, converted to the Baptist denomination, after he had many years earlier been baptized a Catholic in Nacogdoches, Texas.\n\nFollowing the Annexation of Texas to the United States, Sam Houston shuttled back and forth to Washington, D.C. as the state's U.S. senator for 13 years, while Margaret remained in Texas raising their children. When he was elected the state's governor, Margaret became First Lady of the state of Texas and was pregnant with their last child. Her brief tenure came on the cusp of the Civil War, at a time when the state was torn apart over the debate of whether or not to secede from the United States, while her husband worked in vain to defeat the Texas Ordinance of Secession. There had been an attempt on his life, and angry mobs gathered in the streets near the governor's mansion. With children to protect, and no government security forces in place, she lived in fear for her family's safety.\n\nHer husband was removed from office by the Texas Secession Convention for refusing to swear loyalty to the Confederacy. Margaret became a war-time mother, whose eldest son joined the Confederate Army and was taken prisoner at the Battle of Shiloh. Her husband died before the end of the war. In her few remaining years, she became the keeper of the Sam Houston legacy and opened his records to a trusted biographer. When she died of yellow fever four and a half years later, Margaret could not be buried with her husband in a public cemetery in Huntsville for fear of contamination, and was instead interred next to her mother on private property.\n\nMargaret Moffette Lea was born April 11, 1819, into a family of devout Baptists in Perry County, Alabama. Her father Temple Lea was a church deacon and the state treasurer of the Alabama Baptist Convention, and her mother Nancy Moffette Lea was the only woman delegate at the convention's formation. Margaret was the fifth of six children that included older siblings Martin, Varilla, Henry Clinton and Vernal, as well as younger sister Antoinette. The Lea cotton plantation had been acquired with money from a Moffette family inheritance, and was operated by Nancy.\n\nWhen her father died in 1834, she inherited four slaves, including Joshua and Eliza, her favorite. The older Lea children had married prior to Temple's death, but Vernal, Margaret and Antoinette accompanied the widowed Nancy when she moved into her son Henry's home at Marion. He was an accomplished attorney who sat on the boards of educational institutions, and would be elected to the Alabama State Senate in 1836. Margaret was enrolled at Professor McLean's School, and also attended Judson Female Institute. The latter was founded by Baptists to instruct genteel young women in what were considered acceptable goals of their time and place, \"proficiency in needlework, dancing, drawing, and penmanship\". Heavy emphasis was put on Baptist theology and missionary work. She wrote poetry and read romantic novels, while also becoming accomplished on guitar, harp and piano. Reverend Peter Crawford baptized her in the Siloam Baptist Church of Marion when she was 19, by which time the eligible young lady was considered \"accomplished, well-connected and deeply religious\".\n\nSam Houston was an attorney by profession and politically accomplished even before he moved to Texas. In Tennessee, he had been both a member of the United States House of Representatives and Governor. His military victory at the Battle of San Jacinto elevated him to hero status in Texas. After completing his first term as President of the Republic of Texas in early December 1838, he continued to practice law from his office in Liberty. He arrived in Mobile, Alabama, in the early months of 1839 as a partner of the Sabine City Company, seeking investors to develop a community that is today known as Sabine Pass. Through Martin Lea, he made the acquaintance of Antoinette's husband William Bledsoe, a wealthy businessman who in turn suggested Nancy Lea as a possible investor. Invited to a garden party at Martin's home, it was there Houston first became acquainted with Margaret. The mutual attraction was instantaneous.\n\nNancy was favorably impressed with Houston's land sales pitch, but not so impressed with his interest in her daughter. She and others in the family were concerned about his reputation as a hard-drinking carouser with a proclivity for profanity, who was 26 years older than Margaret and twice married. Several weeks of love letters had been exchanged between Margaret and Houston by the time he proposed marriage that summer of 1839, presenting her with his image carved on a brooch. In an effort to assuage the family's opposition to the union, Houston spent several weeks in the Lea home in Alabama.\n\nIn September during his absence from Texas, his supporters in San Augustine County elected him to serve in the Republic of Texas House of Representatives. When the couple's engagement was announced in newspapers, the Leas were not the only ones who were skeptical. Acquaintances in Texas were well versed with his personal history and aware that he had not divorced his first wife when he married again, only recently obtaining that divorce with hopes of marrying a Texas woman who, as it played out, rejected him for another suitor. Political crony Barnard E. Bee Sr. tried to discourage him from making a third attempt at marriage, believing him to be \"totally disqualified for domestic happiness\".\n\nAs the day of their May 9, 1840, wedding approached, some family members still looked upon Houston with uncertainty and were determined to stop what they believed would be a disastrous union for Margaret. She would not be deterred, however, and the Reverend Peter Crawford officiated over the wedding of Margaret and the man with whom she had fallen in love. The newlyweds spent their honeymoon week at the Lafayette Hotel before sailing to Galveston, where Nancy and the Bledsoes had already established residences. Houston retained a house he owned in the city named for him, but Margaret had no taste for the hustle and bustle and preferred the lesser-populated Galveston. She and her personal slaves, who had accompanied the newlyweds from Alabama, shared her mother's house while Houston traveled.\n\nThe year before he met Margaret, Houston had purchased property at Cedar Point on Galveston Bay in Chambers County, which he named Raven Moor, and planned to expand with income from his law practice. The existing two-room log dogtrot house with its detached slaves' quarters overlooked Galveston Bay and became the newlyweds' first home, filled with both Margaret's personal furnishings from Alabama, as well as newer pieces. She renamed it Ben Lomond as a tip of the hat to the romantic Walter Scott works she had read, and delegated management of the household to her mother Nancy. \n\nDuring his second term as representative from San Augustine, Houston was elected in 1841 to once again serve as the Republic's president. Margaret disliked campaign events and, giving up her privacy, frequently stayed home while her husband traveled about the Republic canvassing for votes. Yet, when she rose to the occasion, such as the extended post-election tour of San Augustine County and victory celebrations in Washington County and Houston City, the public adored her, and she became an impressive political asset. She rode in a local presidential parade, but stayed home rather than travel to the inauguration in Austin. When the couple appeared at several events in Nacogdoches, his old friends took notice of his total avoidance of alcohol, and he continued to assure her that he was giving it up completely. He also began to clean up his language to please his new wife, and would eventually claim to have eliminated his profanity altogether.\n\nApproximately north of Ben Lomond, the Bledsoes operated a sugar cane plantation at Grand Cane in Liberty County. Financially supplemented by Nancy, the plantation became a family gathering place. About a year after Vernal and Mary Lea also moved there, Mary suffered a pregnancy miscarriage. Not long after that, the couple accepted trusteeship of a 7-year-old Galveston orphan named Virginia Thorne, who was then placed in the care of Nancy. It was a problematic relationship from the beginning, and would grow to have legal ramifications for Margaret.\n\nEvents leading up to the 1842 Battle of Salado Creek caused Houston to believe that Mexico was planning a full-scale invasion to re-take Texas. In response, he moved the Republic's capital farther east to Washington-on-the-Brazos, and sent Margaret back to her relatives in Alabama. Upon her later return, they temporarily lived with the Lockhart family at Washington-on-the-Brazos until they were able to acquire a small home there. The couple's first child Sam Houston Jr. was born in the new house on May 25, 1843. Upon learning of her son Martin's death in a duel, Nancy moved in with the Houstons, helping Margaret with the new baby, and over Houston's objections, pitching in with some financial assistance for food and household necessities.\n\nWhen his presidential term ended on December 9, 1844, Houston turned his attention to the Raven Hill plantation he had acquired that year northwest of Grand Cane and east of Huntsville. Margaret's slave Joshua was put in charge of the carpentry to build her a new house. Nancy, Margaret and sister Antoinette devoted their time to activities in Grand Cane's Concord Baptist Church, of which they were founding members. She continued to be a wife who was happiest when she and her husband stayed close to home. Although she accompanied him to President Andrew Jackson's Tennessee funeral in the summer of 1845, she did not attend fetes held in her husband's honor by his old friends and supporters. During the latter part of the year, Antoinette's husband William died, followed a few months later by the death of Vernal's wife Mary. Prior to her death, she had elicited a promise from Margaret to assume the trusteeship of Virginia Thorne.\n\nTexas officially relinquished its sovereignty on February 19, 1846, to become the 28th state in the union, and Houston was elected by the Texas State Legislature to serve in the United States Senate. Margaret's pregnancy prevented her from accompanying him, so when time and duty permitted he traveled back and forth between Texas and a temporary hotel residence in the nation's capital. When Reverend George W. Samson first met Houston at the E-Street Baptist Church in Washington, D.C., the senator told him that his attendance had been influenced by \"one of the best Christians on earth\", his wife Margaret. For the duration of his senatorial service, Houston regularly attended the E-Street church, sharing his wife's letters with Samson and delving into theological discussions pertaining to Margaret's interpretation of scriptures.\n\nMargaret's sister Antoinette eloped with wealthy Galveston businessman Charles Power in April and began a new life on his sugar plantation. Houston was home during a Congressional recess when their second child Nancy (Nannie) Elizabeth Houston was born at Raven Hill on September 6. About this time, in a letter to Houston that gave insight into Nancy's forceful constant presence in their lives, Margaret conceded, \"She is high spirited and a little overbearing, I admit ...\" but advised her husband to just give in to the insignificant issues. Houston replied, \"I love the old Lady as a Mother, and have resolved to defer to her age and her disposition. Her blood is much like my own.\"\nDuring the early part of 1847, Houston's letters to Margaret were filled with his weariness of being away from home, and his concern that he had no letters from her for weeks. He promised that at the end of the current legislative session, he would \"... fly with all speed to meet and greet my Love and embrace our little ones.\" When she finally answered, she initially only told him of a serious illness that Sam Jr. had since recovered from, even though he was aware of previous problems she had with a breast lump. She had been advised to see a specialist in Memphis, Tennessee, if there was a recurrence. When complications appeared, family friend Dr. Ashbel Smith recommended surgery in Texas; only then, did she inform her husband of the situation. Upon receipt of her letter, Houston immediately departed Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter his return home, Houston negotiated a labor-swap arrangement with Raven Hill's overseer Captain Frank Hatch. In lieu of a cash payment for his services, the bulk of Houston's slave labor force was engaged to work on Hatch's property at Bermuda Spring. The remaining slaves were retained as house labor for Margaret. Eventually, Houston became the owner of Bermuda Spring when he and Hatch swapped properties, and he set about to build the Woodland home for his wife. The first child to be born in the house was Margaret (Maggie) Lea Houston, arriving on April 13, 1848, while Congress was in session and Houston was in Washington.\n\nThe widowed Vernal remarried to Catherine Davis Goodall in 1849, but trusteeship of Virginia Thorne, by now a teenager, remained with Margaret. With most of his time spent in the nation's capital, Houston's perception of Thorne was primarily second-hand gleanings from Margaret's letters; yet, he disliked and distrusted the orphaned girl to the point where he feared for the health and safety of his children with her in the house. Exacerbating the situation was Margaret's disapproval of the relationship that the teenage girl developed with overseer Thomas Gott. Push literally came to shove during an incident in which Margaret disciplined her for what she believed was rough handling of one of the children. Thorne alleged that during the ensuing dispute over the situation, Margaret had used threats and physical violence against her. After Thorne eloped with Gott a month later, the couple filed assault and battery charges against Margaret. When a grand jury investigation resulted in a deadlock, the matter was referred to the local Baptist church that Margaret helped found, and she was acquitted of the charges. Houston came to believe that the filing of legal charges against his wife had been encouraged by his political enemies.\n\nDaughter Mary William (Mary Willie) Houston was born on April 9, 1850, in the Woodland house, during another Congressional session when Houston was in Washington. Their fourth child Antoinette (Nettie) Power Houston arrived on January 20, 1852, while he was again away on a business trip.\n\nMany friends and acquaintances came to visit the Houstons at Woodland, including members of the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe who had allied with Houston during the Texas Revolution; he in return had assisted them in their being granted a reservation in east Texas. Throughout the last years of his presidency, Houston had made numerous efforts for the Republic to find common ground with the various tribes, asserting their right to own land. Many tribes had come to respect him as their friend.\n\nNancy moved southwest of Huntsville to Independence in 1852, and much of the remaining Lea family began to form its nucleus in the Washington County community. Antoinette and Charles Power were also living in Independence after their Galveston sugar plantation was decimated by a hurricane. Brothers Vernal and Henry both died that year. The following year, Varilla's husband Robertus Royston also died and she joined the rest of the family in Independence. That August, the Houstons bought a house near the original Baylor University campus in Independence. While Houston was attending to business in Washington, their sixth child Andrew Jackson Houston was born on June 21, 1854.\nAs required by Mexican federal law for property ownership in Coahuila y Tejas, Houston had been baptized into the Catholic faith in the Adolphus Sterne House in Nacogdoches prior to Texas independence. By 1854, when Houston told Reverend Samson he felt compelled to make a public profession of faith, perhaps on the floor of the United States Senate, Margaret and her family had spent 14 years influencing her husband's faith. Ultimately, he decided to make the profession among those who knew him best in Texas.\n\nWord quickly spread about Houston's upcoming public baptism, and spectators traveled from neighboring communities to witness the event. Reverend Rufus Columbus Burleson, the president of Baylor University and local church pastor, performed the rite in Little Rocky Creek, southeast of town. Houston afterwards still felt unworthy of taking the Eucharist and becoming a member of Margaret's church. At her request, Reverend George Washington Baines of Brenham counseled with him to eliminate his self-doubts. In gratitude and celebration, Nancy sold her silverware to purchase a bell for the Rocky Creek Baptist Church.\n\nThe state legislature decided during Houston's third senatorial term not to re-elect him, so he ran for the office of Governor of Texas, losing to Hardin Richard Runnels. He was still in Washington when William (Willie) Rogers Houston was born on May 25, 1858, their last child born in the Woodland home. In order to satisfy creditors of his gubernatorial campaign debts, Houston was forced to sell the house to his political supporter J. Carroll Smith. He subsequently defeated incumbent Runnels with a second bid for the office during a period when the populace was bitterly divided over the issue of secession from the United States, and was sworn in December 31, 1859.\n\nConstruction on the Texas Governor's Mansion in Austin had been completed three years earlier and first occupied by Governor Elisha M. Pease, whose wife played hostess to anyone who stopped by for a visit. The Houston family and their retinue of slaves moved into the mansion during a political climate that grew increasingly hostile over the secession debate. The family furniture had been moved from Independence by Joshua, since the state government had no budget for staffing, furnishing or maintaining the governor's residence. That financial burden fell on the shoulders of the incumbent, and the state partially defaulted on Houston's salary. Margaret feared for the family's safety, as her husband worked towards defeating passage of the state's Ordinance of Secession. There had been a botched assassination attempt on Houston, and she saw throngs of angry malcontents gathering in the city. Margaret closed the mansion doors to all but those with an invitation from the Houstons.\n\nThe family and household slaves resided on the second floor of the mansion, while others lived in the stable. As with everywhere else had they lived, she cared nothing about public life, and instead worked with Eliza and the other servants to create a home that welcomed extended family members and personal friends of the Houstons. Houston would occasionally hire out some of his labor force. The first child born in the Texas governor's mansion was also the last of the Houston children; Temple Lea Houston was delivered on August 12, 1860. This last birth left the 41-year-old Margaret debilitated for almost two weeks, with a watchful Houston constantly by her side.\n\nThe Texas Secession Convention passed the Texas Ordinance of Secession on February 1, 1861, effectively becoming part of the Confederate States of America on March 1. Houston, like all other office holders in the state, was expected to take an oath of loyalty to the Confederacy. He refused and was removed from office by the Secession Convention on March 16, succeeded by Lieutenant Governor Edward Clark.\n\nTheir home in Independence having been leased out to the Baptists, retreating there was not an option. Houston was in poor health, as well as spiritually and financially broken. After a brief sojourn in Nancy's home, and over her objections, the family returned to Ben Lomond in early April.\n\nSometime during August 1861, Sam Houston, Jr., enlisted in the Confederate States Army 2nd Texas Infantry Regiment, Company C Bayland Guards, sending Margaret into melancholia. She dreaded that her first-born child would never be home again. \"My heart seems almost broken ... what shall I do? How shall I bear it? When I first heard the news, I thought I would lie down and die\", she wrote to her mother. Houston tried to help out by assuming care of their other children in between his extended visits to Galveston. Her fears seemed well-founded when her son was critically wounded and left for dead at the April 1862 Battle of Shiloh. A second bullet was stopped by his Bible, bearing an inside inscription from Margaret. He was found languishing in a field by a Union Army clergyman who picked up the Bible and also found a letter from Margaret in his pocket. Taken prisoner and sent to Camp Douglas in Illinois, he was later released in a prisoner exchange and received a medical discharge in October.\nLacking the financial means to buy back their Woodland home, they rented the Steamboat House in Huntsville. The 69-year-old Houston was in his final days and physically feeble, requiring the use of a cane to get around. Until daughter Maggie took over as his personal assistant, his wife shouldered the duties. Even so, during this period, he managed to get the Confederate War Department to discharge all draftees from the Alabama-Coushatta tribe, which had distanced itself completely from the conflict.\n\nOn July 26, 1863, with Margaret at his bedside reading the 23rd Psalm to him, Houston died. His will named her as his executrix, and named his cousin Thomas Caruthers, as well as family friends Thomas Gibbs, J. Carroll Smith and Anthony Martin Branch, as executors. He had died land rich, but cash poor. The inventory compiled of his estate after his death listed several thousand acres in real estate, $250 cash, slaves (one of whom was Joshua Houston), a handful of livestock and his personal possessions.\n\nMargaret was now a widow with seven of her eight children under the age of 18 and financially dependent on her. She returned to live near her mother in Independence, Texas, swapping land for a nearby property that became known as the Mrs. Sam Houston House. The Texas legislature eventually gave Margaret an amount equivalent to her husband's unpaid gubernatorial salary; nevertheless, in order to afford Sam Jr.'s enrollment at medical school at the University of Pennsylvania, she rented out the Ben Lomond plantation.\n\nNancy Lea died of an undiagnosed set of flu-like ailments on February 7, 1864, and was entombed on the grounds of her home. Margaret died on December 3, 1867, having contracted yellow fever during an epidemic. Walter Reed would not make his discovery of the cause of yellow fever through mosquito bite until 1900; contamination through contact was the pervading fear in 1867, and prevented Margaret's remains from being interred in a public cemetery with her husband's. She was buried in the ground beside Nancy's tomb at 11 p.m. by her servant Bingley, family friend Major Eber Cave, and her two daughters Nettie and Mary Willie. No funeral service was performed.\n\nTwo years after Sam Houston's death, Baylor University president William Carey Crane was commissioned by Margaret to write her husband's biography, allowing complete access to all correspondence and records. Crane was a Lea family friend from Alabama who had little more than a passing acquaintance with \"the hero of San Jacinto\". His perception of Margaret, however, was that of an extraordinary woman, in many aspects equal to the man she married. He stated that Houston's \"guardian angel\", as he called her, had set out from the time she met Houston to refine his rough edges and provide a solid foundation for his personal life. That assessment of Margaret's relationship with her husband was echoed over a century later by author James L. Haley, \"... Houston trusted the care of his soul to Margaret, that he had no more war to fight within himself, left him with more energy to wage political battle.\" Ultimately, several of Houston's associates were cooperative with the Crane endeavor, but not everyone was inspired to join the effort. According to daughter Maggie, the author had told her that many valuable documents were destroyed by Margaret in a fit of anger when someone she considered a friend expressed disinterest. \"Life and Select Literary Remains of Sam Houston of Texas\" was rejected by the initial publisher, but was eventually published by J. B. Lippincott in 1884.\n\nAfter emancipation and Margaret's death, \"Aunt Eliza\", as the children called her, alternated her time between Nannie's and Maggie's households. When Eliza died in 1898, at her request, she was buried next to Margaret. Nancy's tomb fell to decay over the years, after which she was re-interred in the ground with Margaret and Eliza. There was much discussion during the Texas 1936 centennial about moving Margaret's remains next to her husband's in Huntsville, but the family and various authorities never came to an agreement over it. Not until May 15, 1965, was an historical marker erected in Independence to denote her contributions to Texas history.\n\n\"First Lady and the matriarch of one of the most significant families in Texas history.\" – Texas Historical Commission\n\n\n\nThe actress Nancy Rennick (1932-2006), who had a leading role in the syndicated adventure television series \"Rescue 8\", played Mrs. Houston in the 1958 episode \"The Girl Who Walked with a Giant\" of the syndicated anthology series, \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Stanley Andrews. The story focuses on Margaret's role as a confidant of her husband from his days as president of the Republic of Texas to his time as governor, a post that he resigned in 1861 because he could not in good conscience support the Confederate States of America, of which Texas was a partner. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960792", "title": "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Future", "text": "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Future\n\nThe Hitchhiker's Guide to the Future was a four-part radio series hosted by Douglas Adams. It was first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in October 2000, and repeated in April and May 2001, and September 2014. Because the radio series turned out to be Adams's final project for the BBC before his death (a week after the first broadcast of the final episode), all four episodes are still available for download from the Radio 4 website. Extracts from the four programmes are also available for listening within the \"Douglas Adams at the BBC\" collection.\n\n\nAdams discusses the future of music in the \"Internet Age\" (which at the time was mainly limited to discussion of illegal download services, such as the first version of Napster - it would be another two years before the iTunes Music Store opened to the American market, and legal music downloads would start to become popular). Topics include digital music creation and online distribution. Adams interviews Brian Eno, Michael Nesmith and Peter Gabriel.\n\n\nAdams discusses the future of publishing with Peter Cochrane, Muriel Gray and Stewart Brand. Topics include the online distribution of e-books and e-book readers.\n\n\nAdams discusses the future of TV with John Browning, Dylan Winter and Mathew Steele. Topics included the possibilities of interactive programming, digital video creation and custom scheduling.\n\n\nAdams discusses the future evolution of technology and Artificial Intelligence with Chris Langton, Stuart Kauffman, and others. Topics included embedded and nano- technologies.\n\nOn Saturday 14 March 2015, Mitch Benn presented a programme called Did Douglas Get It Right? which reviewed how accurate the predications from the year 2000 were.\n\n\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1960795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960795", "title": "Howard Beach–JFK Airport station", "text": "Howard Beach–JFK Airport station\n\nHoward Beach–JFK Airport is a subway/people mover station complex located at Coleman Square between 159th Avenue and 103rd Street in Howard Beach, Queens. The New York City Subway portion of the station is on the IND Rockaway Line and is served by the Rockaway branch of the A train at all times. The AirTrain JFK portion of the station complex is served by the AirTrain's Howard Beach branch at all times.\n\nThe station was originally a Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) station along the Rockaway Beach Branch. The LIRR station opened in 1913 to replace the nearby Ramblersville station. The LIRR ceased operations at this station in 1950, and the New York City Transit Authority bought the section of the Rockaway Beach Branch that included this station in 1952. The subway station opened on June 28, 1956. Between 2000 and 2003, the subway station was completely reconstructed and the AirTrain JFK station was built. The rebuilt complex was completed on December 17, 2003, providing easier access to JFK Airport for large parts of the city.\n\nThe station originally opened in April 1913 as a Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) station, which replaced the former 1899-built Ramblersville station that was built to the south. In 1923, the station was retrofitted with sheltered sheds on both sides of the tracks. On May 8, 1950, a fire broke out between The Raunt and Broad Channel stations, destroying the trestle over Jamaica Bay, cutting service between Hamilton Beach and the Rockaways. The LIRR was bankrupt and unwilling to rebuild the trestle. As a result, the line was sold to the New York City Transit Authority in 1952.\n\nOn June 27, 1955, the Howard Beach station, along with all the rest of the Rockaway Beach Branch stations south of the now defunct Ozone Park station, was taken out of service for eight months for restructuring and upgrading of the tracks, so that they could accommodate subway service. During the project, the Howard Beach station, along with the Broad Channel and Far Rockaway stations, was completely rebuilt utilizing a modern design, which included a new overhead passageway between the two platforms. The design was created by architect J. Harold Sandifer, a native of the Rockaways. Many of the parts for the station were prefabricated, speeding construction. On June 28, 1956, the station reopened as a subway station along with the rest of the line. The previous Long Island Rail Road station at this location was razed. Inauguration ceremonies were held at the station as well as at Euclid Avenue in Brooklyn.\n\nIn June 1978, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) announced plans for an \"experimental\" subway-bus service between Manhattan and JFK Airport, terminating at the Howard Beach subway station where passengers could transfer to a free shuttle bus to the airport. The JFK Express began operation on September 23, 1978, operating as a premium service, with riders paying the additional fare on board. The service ran express on the IND Sixth Avenue Line to West Fourth Street–Washington Square, where it switched to the IND Eighth Avenue Line and ran express to Jay Street–Borough Hall in Downtown Brooklyn. From that point on, it ran non-stop on the IND Fulton Street Line and IND Rockaway Line to Howard Beach–JFK Airport. In its early years, the service was more successful, with 6,000 passengers carried on the maximum day. However, the premium service lost its allure as the rest of the subway system was improved, with reduced crime and new graffiti-free trains. As a result, more passengers opted to take the slower A to Howard Beach. The JFK Express was discontinued on April 15, 1990 due to low ridership, with as few as 3,200 riders per day. The bus service, connecting the station and JFK, continued after JFK Express service ended, and was the only link between the airport and the Howard Beach station at the time. Ridership on the A to the Airport increased after the discontinuation of the JFK Express: in 1995, about 1 million passengers used the A to the Airport.\n\nThe station was extensively reconstructed in the early 2000s, undergoing a $50 million overhaul to connect the subway station to the new AirTrain JFK. The project was designed by STV Group and financed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. During the reconstruction of the station, the original subway platforms were demolished and temporary platforms were erected in the center trackways while the new platforms and mezzanine were built. During off-peak hours, trains utilized a single track. The AirTrain structure around the station was completed in 2001, and the AirTrain station opened on December 17, 2003, at which time the shuttle bus was discontinued. The transfer was popular, with 4 million people transferring between the subway and the AirTrain from 2003 to 2007. The AirTrain was designed with the same track height and track gauge as those of the subway, to facilitate a future extension of the subway over the AirTrain system.\n\nDue to extensive damage to the IND Rockaway Line by Hurricane Sandy in 2012, this was the southern terminal for A trains that normally traveled to the Rockaways while the line south of the station was being repaired. Full service to the Rockaways was restored on May 30, 2013.\n\nThe station's mezzanine is located in a modern, temperature-controlled, glass-enclosed building above the subway platforms and tracks, measuring across, with a large stainless steel sign on either side reading \"Howard Beach JFK.\" The mezzanine building contains a small token booth and three turnstile banks between the subway, the AirTrain JFK, and the unpaid area.\n\nThe grade-level New York City Subway station has two side platforms and four tracks with the two center express tracks not used in revenue service. The southbound express track has been severed and has permanently been removed from service, while the northbound express track is unused in regular service. South of the station, there are switches and crossovers between all four tracks before the two outer tracks merge with the center ones. The two-track line then crosses Jamaica Bay to Broad Channel, which is to the south. The crossing is the longest stretch of line between two consecutive stations in the system.North of the station, The line ascends on an embankment to crossover Belt Parkway and Conduit Avenue.\n\nBoth platforms have concrete windscreens on either end and steel canopies at the portions underneath the center station building. The platforms are offset, with the southbound platform extending slightly to the north, and the northbound platform extending slightly further south. A set of staircases and escalators from each subway platform go up to the station building. There are also two elevators from each platform to the station building. Outside the subway's and AirTrain's fare control, two elevators lead from the station building to street level.\n\nThe Rockaway-bound platform has two High Entry/Exit Turnstiles and one exit-only turnstile leading to a short staircase that goes down to the intersection of 159th Road and 103rd Street. The Brooklyn-bound platform has a set of emergency doors leading to the parking lot just north of the AirTrain JFK station; they are normally locked, but were in use from December 2012 to May 2013 as a connection to a temporary shuttle bus service instituted after Hurricane Sandy.\n\nPrior to the 2000s reconstruction, the design of the station and overpass resembled that of the Broad Channel station.\n\nThe AirTrain JFK portion of this station has two tracks and one island platform on the upper level of the station complex. The eastern end of the AirTrain platform leads to Parking Area C. Unlike the New York City Subway platforms, the AirTrain JFK platforms are entirely enclosed and feature platform screen doors, which help the station maintain a constant temperature and prevent passengers from falling onto the tracks. An array of sensors detect a train's position on the track, and only when it is properly aligned will the train's doors open. This enables the AirTrain to use automatic train operation without drivers.\n\nThe platform measures approximately . The next stop to the southeast is Lefferts Boulevard. Since it is owned by the Port Authority, it uses a separate fare control from the subway. Passengers must pay their fare when either entering or leaving the station, as this station and Jamaica are the only stations where fares are collected. MetroCard vending machines are located on both sides of fare control.\n\nThe exit from the complex to the Howard Beach neighborhood is on the west side, with a twisting staircase and two elevators going down to the east side of 103rd Street/Coleman Square by the T-intersection with 159th Avenue. A connecting bridge on the east side of the station leads into the AirTrain JFK station. Two High Entry-Exit Turnstiles and one exit-only turnstile are located on the southbound subway platform and leads directly to Coleman Square. The Exit on the northbound platform is exit-only. 2 emergency gates lead to the parking lot for the Howard Beach JFK airport complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960804", "title": "Our Lady of Sinj", "text": "Our Lady of Sinj\n\nOur Lady of Sinj () is the title given to a painting venerated as miraculous of Mary, mother of Jesus. The sanctuary in Sinj where the painting is located is a pilgrimage site.\n\nIt may have been created by an unknown Venetian artist in the 16th century. The painting was originally located in Sinj and was moved to Rama, Bosnia and Herzegovina when Sinj was invaded during the Ottoman wars in Europe in 1536. It was returned to Sinj in 1687. Today, it is kept in the Franciscan monastery of the Franciscan Province of the Most Holy Redeemer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960805", "title": "Cleaning station", "text": "Cleaning station\n\nA cleaning station is a location where aquatic life congregate to be cleaned by smaller creatures. Such stations exist in both freshwater and marine environments, and are used by animals including fish, sea turtles and hippos.\n\nThe cleaning process includes the removal of parasites from the animal's body (both externally and internally), and is performed by various smaller animals including cleaner shrimp and numerous species of cleaner fish, especially wrasses and gobies (Elacatinus \"spp\".).\n\nWhen the animal approaches a cleaning station, it will open its mouth wide or position its body in such a way as to signal that it needs to be cleaned. The cleaner fish will then remove and eat the parasites from the skin, even swimming into the mouth and gills of any fish being cleaned. This is a form of cleaning symbiosis.\n\nCleaning stations may be associated with coral reefs, located either on top of a coral head or in a slot between two outcroppings. Other cleaning stations may be located under large clumps of floating seaweed or at an accepted point in a river or lagoon.\n\nSome species of combtooth blenny, most notably the false cleanerfish, mimic the appearance and behaviour of cleaners, then tear away scales or flesh when suitably close to the victim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960809", "title": "List of historical sites associated with Ludwig van Beethoven", "text": "List of historical sites associated with Ludwig van Beethoven\n\nThe following list contains historical sites associated with composer Ludwig van Beethoven. This list is confined to sites that still exist. It must be kept in mind that several of these houses were arbitrarily identified as Beethoven's dwellings in the 1890s.\n\nBeethoven spent 35 years in or near Vienna, and it appears that Beethoven lived in over 60 different locations during his stay in and/or near Vienna (some sources mention at least 80). The following list of still-existent Austrian street addresses was compiled by Jeffrey Dane. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960815", "title": "Dunquin", "text": "Dunquin\n\nDunquin (native name (pronounced )), meaning \"Caon's stronghold\", is a Gaeltacht village in west County Kerry, Ireland. Dunquin lies at the most westerly tip of the Dingle Peninsula, overlooking the Blasket Islands. At 10°27'16\"W, it is the most westerly settlement of Ireland. Nearby Dunmore Head is the most westerly point of mainland Ireland.\n\nThere is dramatic cliff scenery, with a view of the Blasket Islands, where Peig Sayers lived. A museum in the village tells the story of the Blaskets and the lives of the people who lived there including the well-known writers of the island, which includes Sayers, Tomás Ó Criomhthain, and Muiris Ó Súilleabháin. In 1588, when the Spanish Armada returned via Ireland many ships sought shelter in the Blasket Sound — the area between Dún Chaoin and the Islands — and some were wrecked there. A memorial stands on the cliffs overlooking the site. Dunquin is located on the Dingle Way, which is a 179km circular walking trail which takes in much of the Dingle peninsula. \n\nScenes from the 1970 film \"Ryan's Daughter\", directed by David Lean, were shot at Coumineole Beach and Ceathrú (Caharhoo) in Dunquin. The town's then-struggling economy was largely revived by the production of this film and subsequent tourism. Its marginal condition beforehand had been documented in the 1968 ethnographic film \"The Village\" by Mark McCarty and Paul Hockings.\n\nDuring the 1970s Scoil Dhún Chaoin was the subject of a countywide and national campaign which featured protest marches, sit-ins and arrests. A government decision to close the school was strongly opposed by the local community and following almost three years of closure, the school was reopened in 1973.\n\nIt was in Kruger's bar in Dunquin that CAMRA was founded in 1971.\n\nDunquin is famous as the place of birth of the Irish language author and seanchaí, Peig Sayers and also Cáit Feiritéar. It is also the birthplace of folklorist Seosamh Ó Dálaigh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960835", "title": "Gumpu", "text": "Gumpu\n\n\"Gumpu\" is the debut single by Salome, the winner of Swiss Musicstar 2005. Released in Switzerland on April 30, 2005, the song entered the Swiss charts on May 15 at number one. It stayed there for three weeks, outperforming artists such as Akon, Chipz, Snoop Dogg and Shakira. Despite the success of \"Gumpu\" and her debut album \"...Moji\", Salome has not been in the Swiss charts since, seemingly becoming a one-hit wonder. The version of \"Gumpu\" on the album is two seconds longer than the version on the CD single.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960844", "title": "Phil Newport", "text": "Phil Newport\n\nAfter playing a number of times for Worcestershire's Second XI in 1982, Newport made his first-class debut against the touring Pakistanis at New Road in July of that year. However, he had an unpromising beginning to his career at this level, failing to take a wicket and seeing his eleven overs costing 64 runs as the tourists scored 467 for 4 declared on their way to an innings victory. He returned to the Second XI for a while, but was then called up for the local derby with Warwickshire at Edgbaston. In this game he took the wicket of Dennis Amiss; picking up another in the second innings.\n\nSlowly Newport forced himself into contention for a regular spot in the county side, and in 1986 he made the breakthrough, winning his county cap and taking five wickets in an innings on five occasions, on his way to a total haul of 85 victims. He also scored his maiden first-class fifty in this season, the first of 22 he was to make in his career. Although he never managed to convert one of these into a century, his top score being 98 against the New Zealanders at Worcester in 1990.\n\nNewport had a mediocre 1987 season in England, his first-class batting average of over 41 that year being artificially inflated by twelve not-outs in twenty five innings. He had a happier time in one-day cricket, taking 34 wickets at 16.70, including his career-best one-day analysis of 5–22. That winter he went to play for Boland in South African domestic cricket, and was reasonably successful, averaging 25 with the bat and 19 with the ball.\n\nThis set him up for the 1988 English season, and he put in some eye-catching performances. These included ten wickets in the match against Somerset, which helped Worcestershire to an innings victory; a further nine against Lancashire in early June; and in the next match, his career-best bowling figures of 8–52 in a rain-affected match against Middlesex. He also took nine wickets against a powerful Essex team containing Graham Gooch and Allan Border, picking up Border's wicket in both innings.\n\nThis fine run of form brought Newport a place in the England team for the final Test match of the summer, against Sri Lanka in August. He acquitted himself well, taking 7–164 in the match, to help propel England to a comfortable seven-wicket victory, but was not selected for the (later cancelled) winter tour of India. He could console himself, however, with 93 first-class wickets, the best haul of his career, and – more significantly – Worcestershire's first County Championship title since 1974.\n\n1989 started promisingly for Newport, with eleven wickets in Worcestershire's low-scoring win over the Australians, and he was named in the team for the First Test. His second taste of cricket at this level, however, was a chastening experience, as Steve Waugh – on his first tour of England and on his way to 177 not out – took a liking to Newport's seamers, and the Worcestershire bowler ended the first innings with figures of 2–153. He had no chance to make amends, being allowed only five overs in Australia's second innings, and was dropped for the Second Test of England's painful Ashes summer. Again, the domestic game was his salvation as Worcestershire retained their Championship.\n\nNewport's England career ran to only one more match. He was called up for the 1990/91 Perth Test while with the A team in Sri Lanka as a replacement for the injured Angus Fraser. He made 40 not out in a lost cause, coming to the crease with England 118 for 6, but did not impress with the ball, taking only one wicket and bowling six no-balls in his fourteen overs. He never played for England again, after a career lasting just three Tests and without a One Day International to his name.\n\nHe spent another winter in South Africa, this time with Northern Transvaal, in 1992/93, but apart from that the remainder of Newport's career was spent in familiar surroundings with Worcestershire. He reached 50 wickets in every season from 1991 to 1995, but after that he gradually faded from first-team contention, although he did manage one last hurrah in 1997, when he took 7–37 in a drawn game against Leicestershire. Newport retired after the 1999 season, bowing out rather quietly with a National League game in which he did not bat or take a wicket, with only a single catch.\n"}
{"id": "1960847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960847", "title": "Mark Allinson", "text": "Mark Allinson\n\nDr Mark Allinson (born Epping, 1967) is an academic at the University of Bristol, where he is currently Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor (Learning and Teaching). He has previously served as Undergraduate Dean of Arts (Faculty Undergraduate Education Director) between 2013 and 2019, Head of the School of Modern Languages from 2006 to 2010, and Head of the German Department between 2003 and 2006. \n\nAllinson studied French and German at the University of Salford, graduating in 1990 when he completed a teacher training course in modern languages at the then Manchester Polytechnic before beginning PhD work on the GDR at University College London under the supervision of Professor Mary Fulbrook. He has lectured in the German Department at the University of Bristol since 1994. He is currently also President of the Bristol Anglo-German Society (BAGS).\n\nAllinson has published a number of books including \"Politics and Popular Opinion in East Germany, 1945-68\", which, according to WorldCat, is held in 248 libraries and \"Germany and Austria 1814-2000\", which according to WorldCat, is held in 171 libraries. A more recent publication, \"Germany and Austria Since 1814\", offers a clear 200 page English-language outline of German and Austrian history since 1814, apparently designed for non-historians.\n\nHe offers a broad variety of undergraduate and postgraduate courses concerned with the recent history of Germany, the collapse of Communism in Europe and contemporary European politics.\n"}
{"id": "1960857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960857", "title": "Mitnick", "text": "Mitnick\n\nMitnick, Mitnik, Mytnik, or Mytnyk is a surname of Slavic-language origin, signifying a toll collector. Mytnik is the Polish, Belarusian (), and Russian () form. Its Ukrainian version is Mytnyk (). The surname may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1960877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960877", "title": "Wazir Akbar Khan", "text": "Wazir Akbar Khan\n\nWazīr Akbar Khān (1816–1845; ), born Mohammad Akbar Khān () and also known as Amīr Akbar Khān (), was an Afghan prince, general, and finally emir for about three years until his death. His fame began with the 1837 Battle of Jamrud, while attempting to regain Afghanistan's second capital Peshawar from the Sikh Empire.\n\nWazir Akbar Khan was militarily active in the First Anglo-Afghan War, which lasted from 1839 to 1842. He is prominent for his leadership of the national party in Kabul from 1841 to 1842, and his massacre of Elphinstone's army at the Gandamak pass before the only survivor, the assistant surgeon William Brydon, reached the besieged garrison at Jalalabad on 13 January 1842. Wazir Akbar Khan became the emir of Afghanistan in May 1842, and ruled until his death in 1845.\n\nAkbar was born as Mohammad Akbar Khan in 1816 to Emir Dost Mohammad Barakzai of Afghanistan and Mermən Khadija Popalzai. Dost Mohammad Barakzai had 2 wives, 8 sons (including Wazir Akbar Khan) and 2 daughters.\n\nIn 1836 Dost Mohammad Barakzai's Muslim forces, under the command of his son Wazir Akbar Khan, fought the Sikhs at the Battle of Jamrud, fifteen kilometers west of present-day Peshawar. Dost Mohammad Barakzai did not follow up this triumph by retaking Peshawar, however, but instead contacted Lord Auckland, the new British governor general in India, for help in fighting the Sikhs. With this letter, Dost Mohammad formally set the stage for British intervention in Afghanistan. At the heart of the Great Game lay the willingness of Britain and Russia to subdue, subvert, or subjugate the small independent states that lay between them.\n\nAkbar Khan led a revolt in Kabul against the British Indian mission of William McNaughten, Alexander Burnes and their garrison of 4,500 men. In November 1841, he besieged Major-General William Elphinstone's force in Kabul.\n\nElphinstone accepted a safe-conduct for his British force and about 12,000 Indian camp followers to Peshawar; they were ambushed and annihilated in January 1842. At least one set of British war memoirs bore witness to Akbar Khan’s double dealing, saying that, during the retreat, Akbar Khan could be heard alternately commanding his men, in Persian to desist from, and in Pashto to continue, firing.\n\nIn May 1842, Akbar Khan captured Bala Hissar in Kabul and became the new emir of Afghanistan. He ruled until his death in 1845. Some believe that Akbar Khan was poisoned by his father, Dost Mohammed Barakzai, who feared his ambitions.\n\nThe historical figure Akbar Khan plays a major role in George MacDonald Fraser's novel \"Flashman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960884", "title": "SWAT vehicle", "text": "SWAT vehicle\n\nA SWAT van, SWAT truck, SRT van is a vehicle used by police departments to transport heavily armed tactical police units team members and offer some ballistic protection, but without high powered armaments. These non-military armored vehicles can additionally be used to transport specialized equipment (for example, tactical equipment and breaching tools). \"Armoured Rescue Vehicle\" is the official term used for non-military armoured vehicles used by SWAT teams. \n\nA SWAT vehicle may simply be an unarmored van, SUV or truck used to transport equipment or officers or used as a command post. Other more specialized vehicles may be armoured personnel carriers to allow them to be in situations where armed confrontation is likely. Early versions of the SWAT vehicles were based on production vans such as the International Harvester Metro Vans.\n\nSpecialized heavy-duty commercial vehicles can be up-fitted and built solely as SWAT Vehicles, such as the Ballistic Armored Tactical Transport from The Armored Group, LLC; Mesa, Arizona currently operates one of these vehicles. The Lenco BearCat is another of these such vehicles built upon a commercial Ford F550 chassis. Lenco BearCats are currently used by various agencies such as the LAPD, NYPD and Australian Police Tactical Groups.\n\nAmbulances and armored trucks can also be converted into SWAT vans or trucks. De-militarized Armored Personnel Carriers can be used for this purpose, as is the case with the police department of Phoenix, Arizona which uses an M113 APC as part of its inventory or the Florida Highway Patrol, which has 3 Cadillac-Gage V-150s.\nSWAT units may also employ ARVs (Armored Rescue Vehicle) for insertion, maneuvering, or during tactical operations such as the rescue of civilians, officers, firefighters, and/or military personnel pinned down by gunfire. Helicopters may be used to provide aerial reconnaissance or even insertion via rappelling or fast-roping. To avoid detection by suspects during insertion in urban environments, SWAT units may also use modified buses, vans, trucks, or other seemingly normal vehicles. During the 1997 North Hollywood shootout, LAPD SWAT commandeered an armored cash-delivery truck, which they used to extract wounded civilians and officers from the raging firefight with the heavily armed bank robbers.\n\nAmong other armoured vehicles, the SWAT units of the French police unit National Police, RAID and Research and Intervention Brigade (BRI) are equipped with different armoured vans.\n\nDue to the occurrence in history, armoured police vehicles are used since the period after World War I by German police forces, when more than hundred armoured SWAT vehicles, so called \"Sonderwagen\" (German for special wagon) were maintained. Nowadays the Federal Police and the state police forces still maintain armoured vans, like \"Sonderwagen 4\" and \"Sonderwagen 5\". The Federal police recently also ordered the LAPV Enok in addition to its Mowag Eagle and ATF Dingo. The SEK special state police units use armored vehicles like the LAPV Enok and the Survivor R\n\nThe United Kingdom police, particularly the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), has a great number of police role armoured vehicles based upon a range of base platforms including the Land Rover Defender and the OVIK Crossway. The internal security situation in Northern Ireland demands that the police operate up to 450 armoured vehicles which are optimised for public order duties. The PSNI uses OVIK PANGOLIN armoured public order vehicles.\n\nRiot Police Units have been operating some series of , mainly used as mobile shelters and barriers. And in addition to them, more heavily-armored vehicles called were introduced in the 1960s. The first deployed model was called Type F-3, based on Mitsubishi's cab-after-engine trucks. They were initially treated as idlers because there are only few reports of gun violence in Japan, but they were highly appreciated during the Asama-Sansō incident in 1972 and their significance were widely recognized.\n\nAfter several model changes, Type PV-2 based on the Mitsubishi Fuso Canter is now deployed nationwide, mainly for Anti-firearms squads. There are also simplified version called , and much larger ; the latter is dedicated to the Special Assault Teams.\n"}
{"id": "1960886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960886", "title": "Machine coordinate system", "text": "Machine coordinate system\n\nIn the manufacturing industry, with regard to numerically controlled machine tools, the phrase machine coordinate system refers to the physical limits of the motion of the machine in each of its axes, and to the numerical coordinate which is assigned (by the machine tool builder) to each of these limits. CNC Machinery refers to machines and devices that are controlled by using programmed commands which are encoded on to a storage medium, and NC refers to the automation of machine tools that are operated by abstract commands programmed and encoded onto a storage medium.\n\nCNC Machinery\n"}
{"id": "1960896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960896", "title": "Thea Halo", "text": "Thea Halo\n\nThea Halo (born 1941) is an American writer and painter of Assyrian and Pontic Greek heritage. Born in New York City she is the 8th child of Abraham and Sano Halo (original name Euthemia \"Themia\", Pontic Greek: Ευθυμία). Thea began writing poetry and short-stories in 1992 and in 2000 she published her book \"Not Even My Name\" (), the memoir of her mother who belonged to Turkey's Pontic Greek minority, natives of the Black Sea coast region of Turkey known as Pontus.\n\nSano \"Themia\" Halo was a recipient of the New York State Governor's Award for excellence in honor of Women's History Month, \"Celebrating Women of Courage and Vision.\"\n\nNot Even My Name is the unforgettable story of Sano (Themia) Halo's survival of the death march, at age ten, during the Greek genocide that annihilated her family. The title refers to Themia being renamed to Sano by an Assyrian family who could not pronounce her Greek name, after they took her in as a servant during the Greek genocide. The story is told by her daughter Thea, and includes their poignant mother-daughter pilgrimage to Pontus, Turkey in search of Sano's home seventy years after her exile.\n\n\"As written by her daughter, Thea, Sano's harrowing account of the destruction of her family and her world is told with such vivid detail that every page sears the mind and the heart. Not Even My Name is a work of burning intensity, self-evidently poweful and true\" __ NICHOLAS GAGE, author of Eleni\n\n\"Deeply moving...It is impossible to read the story of this woman's life without marveling at the strength of her spirit.\" __ The Washington Post Book World\n\n\"A survivor's tale...Young Themia lost family, freedom, even her name... Her daughter tells the sad story with simple grace.\" __ U.S. News & World Report (Top Pick\")\n\n\"An eloquent and powerful account\" __ Publishers Weekly (starred review)\n\n\"An unforgettable book.\" __ Booklist (starred review)\n\n\"Sano's is truly an amazing story of survival and resilience. An important and revealing book... highly recommended for all libraries.\" __ Library Journal\n\n\"Written in fast-moving eloquent prose with seamless suspense and drama\" __ The Armenian Reporter\n\n\"In telling her mother's epic story of survival and ultimate triumph in America, Thea Halo has written an important book about a largely unknown history: the genocide of the Pontic Greeks at the hands of the Turkish government in the years following World War I. Halo's deeply moving portrait of her mother reverberates with large moral issues that affect us all.\" __ PETER BALAKIAN, author of Black Dog of Fate\n\n"}
{"id": "1960900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960900", "title": "Joe Sparks", "text": "Joe Sparks\n\nJoe Sparks is an American video game developer, animator, songwriter, web publisher, and multimedia consultant from San Francisco, California.\n\nHe is mostly notable for creating the \"Radiskull and Devil Doll\" web-cartoons which were published on the Macromedia Shockwave website, and saw some Internet popularity around 2000-2001. Other published media includes the videogames Total Distortion and Spaceship Warlock.\n\nJoe Sparks is a former guitarist of the Californian deathrock band Burning Image. As an original member of the band, he did attend reunion shows. \n\nJoe Sparks was an early employee of Paracomp, which had become Macromedia in 1992. He left to found Pop Rocket, which produced the critically acclaimed video game Total Distortion, to moderate success. Pop Rocket folded in 1995, with Sparks returning to Macromedia in 1997 as a creative developer.\n\nSparks' work has been instrumental in the formation and lasting success of shockwave.com, mainly due to the popularity of \"Radiskull and Devil Doll\" for which he created all the graphics, animation and music.\n\nA pioneer of the interactive web, Joe Sparks has been asked to speak at industry conferences and educational events.\n\nHe currently works as a consultant and contractor for development and design.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960901", "title": "Lower Largo", "text": "Lower Largo\n\nLower Largo or Seatown of Largo is a village in Fife, Scotland, situated on Largo Bay along the north side of the Firth of Forth. It is east of, and contiguous with, Lundin Links.\n\nAn ancient fishing village, in the parish of Largo, Lower Largo is famous as the 1676 birthplace of Alexander Selkirk, who provided inspiration for Daniel Defoe's \"Robinson Crusoe\". A signpost at the harbour points to Juan Fernández Islands, some 7,500 miles distant, where Selkirk lived for more than four years as a castaway.\n\nThe arrival of the railway in 1856 brought many tourists to Lower Largo's sandy beach. Lower Largo has retained many historic buildings, and in 1978 it was designated as a conservation area.\n\nThe Fife Coast Railway line through Lower Largo was closed in the 1960s as part of the programme of cuts overseen by Dr. Richard Beeching, and though it has been disused since then the viaduct that dominates the village remains an important local landmark.\n\nThe war memorial in Lower Largo was designed by Sir Robert Lorimer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960910", "title": "Sea Gate, Brooklyn", "text": "Sea Gate, Brooklyn\n\nSea Gate is a private gated community at the far western end of Coney Island at the southwestern tip of the New York City borough of Brooklyn. Located on the portion of the Coney Island peninsula west of West 37th Street, it contains mostly single-family homes, some directly on Gravesend Bay.\n\nThe area that is now Sea Gate was once known as Norton's Point. \"Norton\" was the name of the owner of a casino, which was situated where the Coney Island Light now stands. The neighborhood held a reputation for gambling before it was developed into a residential neighborhood.\n\nSea Gate was developed into a full neighborhood in 1892 by developer Alrick Man. By 1899, Sea Gate property owners included the , Dodge, and Vanderbilt families. Governor Al Smith and others frequented the Atlantic Yacht Club, whose clubhouse was designed by Stanford White. Sea Gate is surrounded on three sides by water with private beaches. In 1995, the Army Corps of Engineers completed its work of replenishing Coney beaches and building new jetties, including a long jetty at the border of Sea Gate and Coney Island.\n\nIn October 2012, Hurricane Sandy devastated the neighborhood, which was inundated by ocean water and battered by strong winds. The area sustained significant damage and numerous houses were destroyed. The \"Lindy Park\" sea wall/bulkhead (officially known as Beach Reservation extending from Beach 48th Street to Beach 50th Street) was destroyed leaving Sea Gate, Coney Island and beyond open to any rough seas and additional damage.\n\nSea Gate is a gated community on the Coney Island peninsula west of West 37th Street. Residents refer to Sea Gate as \"the gate\" and venturing into adjoining Coney Island as going \"out the gate\". There are no stores in the neighborhood. There are express buses to Manhattan, which take an average of 80 minutes. Sea Gate is made up of 832 single-family houses in a variety of architectural styles, including Queen Anne Style and Mediterranean.\n\nResidents pay for private security as well as sewer, beach, lifeguards, street lights, and street cleaning.\n\nThere are two points of interest in Sea Gate. Located on Beach 47th Street in Sea Gate is the Coney Island Light, is a lighthouse built in 1890, before the area was populated. The lighthouse is the former home of Frank Schubert, the United States' last civilian lighthouse keeper, who died in 2003. The chapel in Sea Gate, once used for services and built in 1901, is a historical building now used for social events, yoga classes, and is a polling site at election times. The Chapel with its stained-glass windows is the first structure seen when entering the main (police protected) gate.\n\nIn addition to large and private beach areas, Sea Gate has two parks:\n\nThe New York City Department of Education does not operate any public schools in Sea Gate. However, there are several public schools in nearby Coney Island:\n\n\nAll New York City high school students can go to any high school in the city. There are two public high schools nearby: Abraham Lincoln High School and Rachel Carson High School for Coastal Studies.\n\nSea Gate is largely populated by families living in single- and two-family houses, 54% being rentals. As of 2000, the median age was 38.6 years and the median household income was $41,659. In addition to city and state taxes, residents also pay dues and charges to the Sea Gate Association, which have averaged $3,000 per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960915", "title": "...Moji", "text": "...Moji\n\n...Moji is the debut album by the 2005 Swiss MusicStar winner, Salome. Released on May 28, 2005, the album includes the Swiss number one single \"Gumpu\", as well as various other pop-orientated songs.\n\nThe album entered the charts on June 12, 2005 at #2, and stayed on the album chart for just under three months.\n"}
{"id": "1960919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960919", "title": "Mary Ward (scientist)", "text": "Mary Ward (scientist)\n\nMary Ward (\"née\" King; 27 April 1827 – 31 August 1869) was an Irish naturalist, astronomer, microscopist, author, and artist. She was killed when she fell under the wheels of an experimental steam car built by her cousins. As the event occurred in 1869, she is the first person known to have been killed by a motor vehicle.\n\nShe was born Mary King in present-day Ferbane, County Offaly, on 27 April 1827, the youngest child of Henry and Harriett King. She and her sisters were educated at home, as were most girls at the time. However, her education was slightly different from the norm because she was of a renowned scientific family. She was interested in nature from an early age, and by the time she was three years old she was collecting insects.\n\nWard was a keen amateur astronomer, sharing this interest with her cousin William Parsons, 3rd Earl of Rosse. Parsons built the Leviathan of Parsonstown, a reflecting telescope with a six-foot mirror which remained the world's largest until 1917. Ward was a frequent visitor to Birr Castle, producing sketches of each stage of the process. Along with photographs made by Parson's wife Mary Rosse, Ward's sketches were used to aid in the restoration of the telescope.\n\nWard also drew insects, and the astronomer James South observed her doing so one day. She was using a magnifying glass to see the tiny details, and her drawing so impressed him that he immediately persuaded her father to buy her a microscope. This was the beginning of a lifelong passion. She began to read everything she could find about microscopy, and taught herself until she had an expert knowledge. She made her own slides from slivers of ivory, as glass was difficult to obtain, and prepared her own specimens. The physicist David Brewster asked her to make his microscope specimens, and used her drawings in many of his books and articles.\n\nUniversities and most societies would not accept women, but Ward obtained information any way she could. She wrote frequently to scientists, asking them about papers they had published. During 1848, Parsons was made president of the Royal Society, and visits to his London home meant that she met many scientists.\n\nShe was one of only three women on the mailing list for the Royal Astronomical Society (the others were Queen Victoria and Mary Somerville, a scientist for whom Somerville College at Oxford University was named).\n\nOn 6 December 1854, she married Henry Ward of Castle Ward, County Down, who in 1881 succeeded to the title of Viscount Bangor. They had three sons and five daughters, including Maxwell Ward, 6th Viscount Bangor. Her best-known descendants are her grandson Edward Ward, the foreign correspondent and seventh viscount, and his daughter, the \"Doctor Who\" actress Lalla Ward.\n\nWhen Ward wrote her first book, \"Sketches with the microscope\", she apparently believed that no one would print it because of her gender or lack of academic credentials. She published 250 copies of it privately, and several hundred handbills were distributed to advertise it. The printing sold during the next few weeks, and this was enough to make a London publisher take the risk and contract for future publication. The book was reprinted eight times between 1858 and 1880 as \"A World of Wonders Revealed by the Microscope\". A new full-colour facsimile edition at €20 was published in September 2019 by the Offaly Historical and Archaeological Society, with accompanying essays. ().\n\nHer books are: \"A Windfall for the Microscope\" (1856), \"A World of Wonders, Revealed by the Microscope\" (1857), \"Entomology in Sport, and Entomology in Earnest\" (1857, with Lady Jane Mahon), \"Microscope Teachings\" (1864), \"Telescope Teachings\" (1859). She illustrated her books and articles herself, as well as many books and papers by other scientists.\n\nWard was the first automobile fatality. William Parsons' sons had built a steam-powered car. It was thought at the time that steam transport would be developed greatly during the near future (this was true for trains, but did not in fact become true for cars until the development of internal combustion engines). Steam cars were heavy and they did too much damage to the already uneven roads. In 1865 the Red Flag Act imposed a speed limit of four miles per hour for the countryside and two miles per hour in towns. This effectively ended the popularity of motorcars, but some enthusiasts still had one, often homemade, like the Parsons' vehicle.\n\nOn 31 August 1869, she and her husband, Henry, were travelling in it with the Parsons boys: the Hons. Richard Clare Parsons and the future steam turbine pioneer Charles Algernon Parsons, and their tutor, Richard Biggs. She was thrown from the car on a bend in the road at Parsonstown (present-day Birr, County Offaly). She fell under its wheel and died almost instantly. A doctor who lived near the scene arrived within moments, and found her cut, bruised, and bleeding from the ears. The fatal injury was a broken neck.\n\nWard's microscope, accessories, slides and books are on display in her husband's home, Castle Ward, County Down. William Parsons' home at Birr Castle, County Offaly, is also open to the public.\n\nHer great-granddaughter is the English actress and author Lalla Ward.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960920", "title": "JP233", "text": "JP233\n\nOriginally known as the LAAAS (Low-Altitude Airfield Attack System), the JP233 is a British submunition delivery system consisting of large dispenser pods carrying several hundred submunitions designed to attack runways.\n\nDevelopment of the system began in 1977 as a 50/50 cooperative program between Hunting Engineering (now known as INSYS) of the UK and the US Air Force. The USAF intended to use the weapon with its FB-111 strike aircraft; however, in 1982 rising costs led them to pull out of the programme, and the British completed development on their own for potential use with the Tornado, Jaguar and Harrier.\n\nThe dispensers could be carried on wing pylons: short-finned containers for bomblets, or medium-length finned containers for mines. The F-111 was capable of carrying a pair of each type, but the Jaguar and Harrier would be able to carry only a single pair of either type. The Tornado could be fitted with a pair of much larger pods on the shoulder pylons, each containing both types of munition. Each JP233 as fitted to the Tornado was divided into a rear section with 30 \"SG-357\" runway cratering submunitions, while the front section carried 215 \"HB-876\" anti-personnel mines. Both types of submunitions were retarded by small parachutes.\n\nThe SG-357, which weighed 26 kilogrammes (57 pounds), was a two-stage munition. The longer, smaller-diameter forward section consists of a cylindrical high-explosive charge with a hole down the centre. The shorter, larger-diameter rear section held a shaped charge. At the front of the munition was a telescopic stand-off fusing system that created the correct detonation distance for the shaped charge. On impact, the extended fuse initiated the shaped charge, creating a molten metal jet which travelled through the centre of the forward charge element and then penetrated the concrete runway surface to create an underground chamber. The momentum of the cylindrical charge was enough for it to follow down through the hole created by the shaped charge before exploding some distance under the runway surface. This second explosion was intended to produce a crater with significant \"heave\" at the edge, making repairs much more difficult and time-consuming.\n\nThe HB-876 mines would lie scattered on the surface, making rapid repair of the runway very hazardous. The outside of the munition was surrounded by a \"coronet\" of spring steel strips that were held flat against the sides of the mine. After landing on the surface a small explosive device would fire and release the coronet springs such that the mine would become \"erect\" on the surface, with their self-forging fragment warhead pointing vertically upwards. The cylindrical case of the mine was made from dimpled steel and on detonation would spread small steel anti-personnel fragments, rather like a hand-grenade, in all radial directions. They would explode at preset intervals or if disturbed. Standing above the surface on the coronet of spring steel legs, they would tilt toward a bulldozer blade when pushed before detonating and firing the forged fragment toward the vehicle.\n\nUnlike most other submunition delivery systems that essentially function as free-falling bombs, the JP233 dispenser pods remained with their aircraft during operation and were jettisoned once empty.\n\nDeployment was rather frightening for the flight crew, since it required the aircraft to fly low, straight and level over an enemy airfield, and when over the runway the pods would dispense their payload. During the Gulf War it was widely reported in the popular press that Tornados were shot down by AAA fire and MANPADS during delivery of the JP233 munition, but in fact none of the losses occurred during the attack phase of a JP233 mission. Only one aircraft was lost carrying the JP233 munition when Tornado \"ZA392\" crashed into the ground approximately after delivering the weapon at low level; enemy fire was not reported and it was believed that this was an incident of controlled flight into terrain.\n\nWhat alarmed the crews of British and Saudi Arabian Tornados using JP233 was that the aircraft was brightly illuminated at night by the exploding munitions. Attacks using JP233 were suspended six days into the Gulf War, as the Iraqi Air Force was effectively flying no missions.\n\nWith the increasing availability of standoff attack munitions capable of the same mission with little risk to the flight crew and aircraft, and the British entry into the Land Mines Treaty (which declares the HB-876 illegal), the JP233 has been withdrawn from service.\n\nExamples of the JP233 are in various museums. The Imperial War Museum also has films, viewable on the WorldWide Web, of tests of the JP233 Airfield Attack System and Airfield Denial System. The Cold War Gallery of the National Museum of the US Air Force has a JP233 on display, fitted to a Panavia Tornado GR1 aircraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960927", "title": "Minimal techno", "text": "Minimal techno\n\nMinimal techno is a minimalist subgenre of techno music. It is characterized by a stripped-down aesthetic that exploits the use of repetition and understated development. Minimal techno is thought to have been originally developed in the early 1990s by Detroit-based producers Robert Hood and Daniel Bell. By the early 2000s the term 'minimal' generally described a style of techno that was popularised in Germany by labels such as Kompakt, Perlon, and Richie Hawtin's M-nus, among others.\n\nMinimal techno first emerged in the early 1990s. The development of the style is often attributed to a so-called \"second wave\" of American producers associated with Detroit techno. According to Derrick May, \"while the first-wave artists were enjoying their early global success, techno also inspired many up-and-coming DJs and bedroom producers in Detroit\". This younger generation included producers such as Richie Hawtin, Daniel Bell, Robert Hood, Jeff Mills, Carl Craig, Kenny Larkin, and Mike Banks. The work of several of these artists evolved to become focused on minimalism.\n\nRobert Hood describes the situation in the early 1990s as one where techno had become too \"ravey\", with increasing tempos leading to the emergence of gabber. Such trends saw the demise of the soul-infused techno that typified the original Detroit sound. Robert Hood has noted that he and Daniel Bell both realized something was missing from techno in the post-rave era, and saw that an important feature of the original techno sound had been lost. Hood states that \"it sounded great from a production standpoint, but there was a 'jack' element in the [old] structure. People would complain that there's no funk, no feeling in techno anymore, and the easy escape is to put a vocalist and some piano on top to fill the emotional gap. I thought it was time for a return to the original underground.\"\n\nThe minimal techno sound that emerged at this time has been defined by Robert Hood as \"a basic stripped down, raw sound. Just drums, basslines and funky grooves and only what's essential. Only what is essential to make people move. I started to look at it as a science, the art of making people move their butts, speaking to their heart, mind and soul. It's a heart-felt rhythmic techno sound.\" Daniel Bell has commented that he had a dislike for minimalism in the artistic sense of the word, finding it too \"arty\".\n\nIn \"Audio Culture: Readings in Modern Music\" (2004), music journalist Philip Sherburne states that, like most contemporary electronic dance music, minimal techno has its roots in the landmark works of pioneers such as Kraftwerk and Detroit Techno's Derrick May and Juan Atkins. Minimal techno focuses on \"rhythm and repetition instead of melody and linear progression\", much like classical minimalist music and the polyrhythmic African musical tradition that helped to inspire it. By 1994, according to Sherburne, the term \"minimal\" was in use to describe \"any stripped-down, Acidic derivative of classic Detroit style\".\n\nLos Angeles-based writer Daniel Chamberlin attributes the origin of minimal techno to the German producers Basic Channel. Chamberlin draws parallels between the compositional techniques used by producers such as Richie Hawtin, Wolfgang Voigt, and Surgeon and that of American minimalist composer Steve Reich, in particular the pattern-phasing system which Reich employs in many of his works, the earliest being \"Come Out\". Chamberlin also sees the use of sine tone drones by minimalist composer La Monte Young and the repetitive patterns of \"In C\" by minimalist composer Terry Riley as other influences. Sherburne has suggested that the noted similarities between minimal forms of dance music and American minimalism could easily be accidental. He also notes that much of the music technology used in electronic dance music was traditionally designed to suit loop-based compositional methods, which may explain why certain stylistic features of minimal techno sound similar to those in works by Reich that employ loops and pattern-phasing techniques.\n\nPhilip Sherburne proposes that minimal techno uses two specific stylistic approaches: \"skeletalism\" and \"massification\". According to Sherburne, in skeletal minimal techno, only the core elements are included with embellishments used only for the sake of variation within the song. In contrast, massification is a style of minimalism in which many sounds are layered over time, but with little variation in sonic elements. Today the influence of minimal styles of house music and techno is not only to be found in club music, but is becoming increasingly heard in popular music. Regardless of the style, he writes, \"minimal Techno corkscrews into the very heart of repetition so cerebrally as to often inspire descriptions like 'spartan', 'clinical', 'mathematical', and 'scientific.'\"\n\nThe average tempo of a minimal techno track is between 125 and 130 beats per minute. Richie Hawtin suggests 128 bpm as the perfect tempo. In the early minimal techno scene, most tracks were constructed around a Roland TR-808 or Roland TR-909 drum machine. Both are still often used on today's minimal techno tracks. In contrast to minimal house, minimal techno is less afrocentric and focuses more on middle frequencies rather than deep basses.\n\nMany projects in other locations, such as those of Regis in the UK, Basic Channel in Berlin and Mika Vainio in Finland, have also made significant contributions to minimal techno.\n\nIn recent years, the genre has been heavily influenced by the microhouse genre, to the point of merging with it. It has also fragmented into a great number of difficult to categorize subgenres, equally claimed by the minimal techno and microhouse tags.\n\nMinimal techno has found mainstream club popularity since 2004 in such places as Romania, Germany, Portugal, Japan, France, Belgium, South Africa, The Netherlands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Italy, Ireland and the UK, with DJs from a wide variety of genres incorporating differing elements of its tones. \n\nRecord labels specializing in minimal techno are Traum Schallplatten, BPitch Control, Cocoon Recordings, Kompakt, Perlon, Clink, Plus8, and Sähkö Recordings, among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960932", "title": "Table d'hôte", "text": "Table d'hôte\n\nIn restaurant terminology a table d'hôte (; \"table of the host\") menu is a menu where multi-course meals with only a few choices are charged at a fixed total price. Such a menu may be called prix fixe (\"fixed price\"). The terms set meal and set menu are also used. The cutlery on the table may also already be set for all of the courses.\n\n\"Table d'hôte\" contrasts with \"à la carte\", where customers may order any of the separately priced menu items available.\n\n\"Table d'hôte\" is a French loan phrase that literally means \"the host's table\". The term is used to denote a table set aside for residents of a , who presumably sit at the same table as their host.\n\nThe meaning shifted to include any meal featuring a set menu at a fixed price. The use in English is documented as early as 1617, while the later extended use, now more common, dates from the early nineteenth century.\n\nIn France, the term began in inns where guests ate at a common table, called the \"Host's table\" (though the host typically did not sit with the guests). By the end of the seventeenth century, similar meals were being hosted by other eateries (cabarets and traiteurs), and were initially known as \"inn's tables\" (\"tables d'auberge\"). This practice of serving a set meal at a collective table became the most common (though not the only, as is sometimes claimed) way of dining in public in Paris before the restaurant appeared. Places which offered tables d'hôte sometimes also allowed à la carte ordering. In the nineteenth century, the term survived but often for service at individual tables. Some tables d'hôte were then elegant but unsavory places which attracted gamblers and others looking for unwary victims.\n\nMany restaurants in the United States convert their menus to \"prix fixe\" only for special occasions. Generally, this practice is limited to holidays where entire families dine together, such as Easter and Thanksgiving, or on couple-centric holidays like Valentine's Day.\n\nIn France, \"table d'hôte\" refers to the shared dining (sometimes breakfast and lunch) offered in a vacation named \"chambre d'hôte\" (similar to \"bed and breakfast\"). Every guest of a \"chambre d'hôte\" can join this meal, cooked by the hosting family. It is not a restaurant, there is only one service, the price is fixed and usually included in the vacation. Everyone sits around a large table and makes small-talk about the house, the country, and so on.\n\nWhat is closer in French to the meaning of \"table d'hôte\" in English is a \"menu\" (\"lunch special\" or \"fixed menu\"). It usually includes several dishes to pick in a fixed list: an entrée (introductory course), a main course (a choice between up to four dishes), a cheese, a dessert, bread, and sometimes beverage (wine) and coffee all for a set price fixed for the year between €15 to €55. The \"menu du jour\", a cheaper version with less choice, an entrée and a main course, the \"plat du jour\" (\"dish of the day\") changed every day, is usually between €9 to €15.\n\nIn Belgium, restaurants in the medium to high price range tend to serve menus where the customer can compose a menu from a list of entrees, main courses and desserts. These dishes can be ordered separately and all have a different pricing depending on the ingredients used. However combined in a three-, five-, or seven-course menu they will be served at a fixed pricing that is usually €10–15 cheaper than when ordered separately. Also in many cases if a menu is chosen it will be accompanied by amuses (little side dishes between the courses). Wine and other beverages are almost always excluded.\n\nIn Sweden almost all restaurants—from the simplest diner to the finest luxury restaurant—serve \"Dagens rätt\" (\"the daily dish\") during lunch hours (on weekdays) at a much lower price than the same dish would cost at other times. Most commonly there is a choice of two or three dishes: a meat/fish/poultry dish, a vegetarian alternative, and a pasta. Salad buffet, bread and butter and beverage are included, and sometimes also a simple starter, like a soup.\n\nIn India, the thali (meaning \"plate\") is very common in restaurants. The main course consisting of rice or roti (flat bread) and assorted side dishes and vegetables is arranged on a large plate. This may be followed by dessert. There may be more than one kind of thali—vegetarian, tandoori, deluxe—the name signifying the prix-fixe items as well as the price.\n\nIn Spain, there is the \"menú\" or \"menú del día\", which usually includes a starter, a main dish, bread, drink and choice of coffee or dessert. It may range in price from €8 to €30, with €10 being the average price.\n\nIn Romania, the most typical fixed-price menu is called daily menu (\"\"), taken in the daytime, on weekdays only.\n\nIn Russia, the most typical fixed-price menu is called business lunch (\"бизнес-ланч\") or fixed lunch (\"комплексный обед\"), taken in the daytime, on weekdays only.\n\nIn Japan, a similar practice is referred to as . This has a fixed menu and often comes with side dishes such as pickled vegetables and miso soup. Typical prices can range from ¥800 to ¥1,500.\n\nIn Italy, this is the typical practice in small rural restaurants called \"osterie\" (singular \"osteria\", from \"oste\" meaning \"host\" as in the French \"hôte\" mentioned above). \"Osterie\" vary widely in what they offer, but most serve simple foods and wine sourced locally, and prepared according to the local practices. Other Italian restaurants offer a selection of \"antipasti\" at a fixed price; often enough to \"fare una tavola completa\" (\"fill the table\"). Diners enjoy an informal meal as they serve themselves various small portions family style.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960946", "title": "Ráth Chairn", "text": "Ráth Chairn\n\nRáth Chairn (anglicized as Rathcairn) is a small village and Gaeltacht (Irish-speaking area) in County Meath, Ireland. It is about 55 km northwest of Dublin. \n\nRáth Chairn Gaeltacht was founded in 1935 when 41 families from Conamara were settled on land previously acquired by the Irish Land Commission. Each family was provided with a Land Commission house and a farm of approximately 8.9 hectares (22 acre), a sow, piglets and basic implements. A further 11 families joined the original settlers in 1935. In all, 443 people moved from Connemara to the Ráth Chairn area. In 1967 Ráth Chairn received official recognition as a Gaeltacht, following a local campaign. Today, it and the nearby village of Baile Ghib make up the Meath Gaeltacht.\n\nA cooperative (the \"Ráth Chairn Cooperation Society\") was formed in 1973. Ráth Chairn has since grown into a village with a Catholic church, community hall for dramas, Corchumann Ráth Chairn and RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta (also used by Coláiste na bhFiann during the summer months), sports facilities, an all-Irish primary and secondary school, a library and a pub (An Bradán Feasa). Several facilities in Ráth Chairn host children and adults wishing to learn Irish, and residential Irish language courses, Coláiste na bhFiann, are run for teenagers in the summer months.\n\nThe Ráth Chairn \"colony\" was a social experiment to redress the 17th-century ethnic cleansing of Ireland, having been moved there under Cromwell’s draconian action ‘To hell or Connaught’. The colonists were poor farmers largely from Connemara and Kerry, who were planted by the government in order to save the Irish language and traditions.\n\nIn 1935, the first batch of families from the Connemara Gaeltacht moved east to Ráth Chairn to live on land acquired by the Land Commission. The initiative promised potential migrants a higher quality of life, greater crop yields than Connemara and newly built homes. The proposal also aimed to stop the decline of the Irish language by creating an Irish-speaking community in a new location.\n\nFor the most part, when the migrants arrived, they were welcomed into a county where the ethos of the romantic Gaelic revival was in full swing. However, resentment manifested itself in local newspapers, that the migrants were given the land in preference to the local farmers. The Meath Chronicle reported on April 27, 1935 that a local Meath resident was arrested for threatening the life of a Land Commission employee but was released without charge and secondhand accounts report that a migrant women was harassed by gangs and told \"to quit talking that gibberish here\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1960952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960952", "title": "List of basketball players who have scored 100 points in a single game", "text": "List of basketball players who have scored 100 points in a single game\n\nIn basketball, points are the sum of the score accumulated through field goals (two or three points) and free throws (one point). It is a rare achievement for an individual player to score 100 points in a single game. What follows is an incomplete list of all of the verified occurrences of players scoring 100 points or more. Each individual instance of the accomplishment may have been achieved under varying circumstances, such as game length, opponent skill level and the league in which it occurred.\n\nInternationally, the highest single player total between national teams is 116 points, scored by the Philippines' Lou Salvador in May 1923 against China. It happened during the 1923 Far Eastern Games. The highest single game total in worldwide organized basketball history, irrespective of gender, age or competition level, is 272 points, scored by a 13-year-old boy named Mats Wermelin of Sweden. He recorded every single point in his team's 272–0 win on February 5, 1974, during a regional boys' tournament held in Stockholm. As an adult, Wermelin played as a guard for Hammarby IF, Järfälla and Stockholm Capitals. The highest total by a female basketball player worldwide is 136, scored by Anat Draigor of Israel. It happened on April 5, 2006, in a 158–41 win. Draigor was 46 years old playing in an Israel Division III League playoff game, which also makes her the oldest player in history to score 100 points. Only one player, other than the United States' Bevo Francis and Jack Taylor, has recorded multiple 100-point games in organized competition. Croatia's Marin Ferenčević scored 101 and 178 points in April and May 2006, respectively, during Under-14 Croatian League matches.\n\nIn the United States, 100-point games have occurred at least once at most levels of education. At the middle school level, 13-year-old 8th grader Bob Harrison scored all 139 of his team's points in a 139–8 win on February 3, 1941. In high school, there have been 24 verified occurrences, 19 by male players and 5 by female players. The first recorded instance was in 1913, when Herman Saygar of Culver High School (Indiana) scored 113 points against Winamac High School. The first female to score 100 points at the high school level was Denise Long of Union-Whitten High School (Iowa), who scored 111 points during a state playoff game in the spring of 1968 against Dows High School. That season, Long's senior year of 1967–68, she averaged a still-standing national record 68.2 points per game. Her single game total stood as the high school female record for 38 years until Epiphanny Prince scored 113 for Murry Bergtraum High School (New York) on February 2, 2006. The boys' high school record is 135 points, scored by Danny Heater on January 26, 1960. Playing for Burnsville High School (West Virginia) against Widen High School, Heater made 53 of 70 field goals and 29 of 41 free throws. His 135-point outburst is still the highest total for the high school level worldwide.\n\nAt the college level, there have been seven 100-point games, two of which were recorded by Clarence \"Bevo\" Francis of Rio Grande College and two by Jack Taylor of Grinnell College. Francis scored 116 points against Ashland College on January 9, 1953, but the opponent was not a four-year institution, so the total did not count as the official college record. One year later, on February 2, 1954, Francis scored 113 against Hillsdale College, which was the recognized highest total in United States college basketball history for 59 years; Grinnell's Taylor scored 138 points on November 20, 2012 to set the new all-time NCAA all-divisions mark. He again recorded 100+ points on November 17, 2013 when he scored 109 against Crossroads College. Frank Selvy of Furman University is the only player to score 100 points at the Division I level. Selvy recorded exactly 100 points on February 13, 1954—less than two weeks after Francis scored 113—against Newberry College. He scored his 99th and 100th points on a 40-foot shot as the final buzzer sounded.\n\nProfessionally, there have been a number of occurrences of 100-point games worldwide. It has only happened once in the United States, however. Wilt Chamberlain of the National Basketball Association's Philadelphia Warriors scored 100 points on March 2, 1962 against the New York Knicks during a game played at Hersheypark Arena in Hershey, Pennsylvania. He made 36-of-63 field goals and 28-of-32 free throws, the latter being a particularly unusual statistic considering Chamberlain was a 51.1% free throw shooter for his career.\n\nMost of the players' exact statistics cannot be found, but whatever information was able to be verified is included. When a dash (—) appears in the three-point field goal statistic, it indicates that three-pointers had yet to be implemented and were therefore not an applicable statistic.\n\nSince 1913, 19 male and seven female players have scored 100 points or more in United States high school basketball games.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960980", "title": "North Ryde railway station", "text": "North Ryde railway station\n\nNorth Ryde railway station is located on the Sydney Metro Northwest line, serving the Sydney suburb of North Ryde, New South Wales, Australia. It was formerly part of Sydney Trains' T1 Northern Line and then from 26 May 2019, Metro North West Line services.\n\nNorth Ryde station opened on 23 February 2009 on the same date as the Chatswood to Epping line. It was built on the site of Network Ten's former television studios, now occupied by apartments named Ryde Gardens. It serves the nearby Lachlan's Line town centre (under construction September 2018).\n\nThe original, proposed name of the station was Delhi Road after the adjacent street. On 12 June 2006, North Ryde Railway Station was submitted to the Geographical Names Board of New South Wales as the provisional official name of the station.\n\nNorth Ryde station closed in September 2018 for seven months for conversion to a Sydney Metro station on the Sydney Metro Northwest line, which included the installation of platform screen doors. It reopened 26 May 2019.\n\nState Transit operate one route via North Ryde station. It is also served by one NightRide route.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960981", "title": "Nahum Sokolow", "text": "Nahum Sokolow\n\nNahum Sokolow (Nahum ben Joseph Samuel Sokolow, \"Nachum ben Yosef Shmuel Soqolov\", , 10 January 1859 – 17 May 1936) was a Zionist leader, author, translator, and a pioneer of Hebrew journalism.\n\nNahum Sokolow was born in Wyszogród, near Płock, Poland (then Russian Empire). He began to attend heder at the age of three. When he was five, his parents moved to Płock. At the age of ten, he was already renowned as a Hebrew scholar. His father wanted him to study for the rabbinate but with the intervention of Baron Wrangel, the governor of Płock, he enrolled in a secular school. He married at eighteen and settled in Makov, where his father-in-law lived, and earned a living as a wool merchant. At the age of 20, he moved to Warsaw and became a regular contributor to the Hebrew daily HaTzefirah. Eventually he wrote his own column and went on to become editor and co-owner. In 1914, after the outbreak of World War I, he moved to London to work with Chaim Weizmann.\n\nSokolow died in London in 1936.\n\nSokolow was a prolific author and translator. His works include a three-volume history of Baruch Spinoza and his times, and various other biographies. He was the first to translate Theodor Herzl's novel \"Altneuland\" into Hebrew, giving it the name \"Tel Aviv\" (literally, \"An Ancient Hill of Spring\"). In 1909, the name was adopted for the first modern Hebrew-speaking city.\n\nIn 1906, Sokolow was asked to become the secretary general of the World Zionist Congress. In the ensuing years, he crisscrossed Europe and North America to promote the Zionist cause. After moving to London, he was a leading advocate for the Balfour Declaration of 1917 in which the British government declared its support for a Jewish homeland in Palestine.\n\nOn 6 February 1917, a meeting was held in Maida Vale with Weizmann to discuss the results of the Picot convention in Paris. Sokolow and Weizmann pressed on after they had seized leadership from Gaster; they were granted official recognition from the British government.\nHistorian Martin Kramer argues that securing the assent of Britain's French and American Allies and of the Vatican, which controlled many Christian Holy Sites in the Land of Israel, was a necessary precondition for the Balfour Declaration. Sokolow secured the support of Pope Benedict XV on 4 May 1917, who described the return of the Jews to Palestine as \"providential; God has willed it\".\nSokolow secured the assent of the France in the Cambon letter of 4 June 1917, signed by Jules Cambon, the head of the political section of the French foreign ministry.\n\nChaim Weizmann wrote to the Manchester Zionist, Harry Sacher, who became a focus for the view that Sokolow and Weizmann had capitulated and forfeited the right to lead by \"preferring British Imperialism... to Zionism\". Sokolow acted as Weizmann's eyes and ears in Paris on a diplomatic mission with Sir Mark Sykes to negotiate with the French. The idea that the Jews would form a new kind of Triple Entente under the Ottoman Empire was unsettling to them. No, the delegation left for Paris on 31 March 1917. One purpose of the Entente was to strengthen the hand of Zionism in the US. \"The Jews represented a powerful political and economic force... if subterranean influence\". Sokolow did not know of the Sykes-Picot Agreement and British-French understanding on Middle Eastern policy matters. He believed that he must report to Weizmann that what France really meant by a \"Greater Syria\", taking the whole of Palestine for themselves. In a series of letters in April and May 1917, Weizmann accused Sokolow of letting the Zionists down in negotiations with France. Sokolow countered by replying that he remained totally committed to a British Palestine.\n\nThe desiderata or things desired by the Jews for their new homeland were \"facilities of colonization, communal autonomy, rights of language and establishment of a Jewish chartered company.\" Sokolow's eventual diplomacy triumph for Zionism in Paris made them \"accept in principle the recognition of Jewish nationality in the capacity of National Home, local autonomy etc. It is beyond my boldest expectations\", he wrote. They expected a quid pro quo for support against Germany, which was further made urgent by the entry of the US on 6 April 1917 to the global conflict. They now associated an Allied victory with securing \"Zionist aspirations\", a phrase also used by Sykes in his despatches to Balfour.\nOn 9 April, the Paris conference ended, marking a high point in Sokolow's career. The Zionists were now open to all diplomatic rounds. Sokolov came to Rome to gain support for the plan of a Jewish state in Palestine and spoke to Monsignor Eugenio Pacelli, the future Pope Pius XII. That Pope Benedict XV had vehemently condemned anti-Semitism a year earlier was seen as a good omen.\n\nIn Rome, the Vatican City were considering accepting terms. Sokolow's letters asked advice from Weizmann; the amazed Sokolow met the Pope on 6 May. The Zionists began to feel more confident about their patriotism. Sokolow asked for \"moral support\", a philosophical equality, and immediately wrote Weizmann about the \"expressing of favour\", but Weizmann was not so emotional since he had a tough hard-headed businesslike character. He congratulated Sokolow on the success. Sokolow was called upon to stop at Paris by Jules Cambon and Prime Minister Alexandre Ribot. They were still concerned that Zionism would cause unlimited damage to world security if unleashed in Bolshevik Russia. \n\nIn 1931, Sokolow was elected President of the World Zionist Congress and served in that capacity until 1935, when he was succeeded by Chaim Weizmann. Sokolow also served as President of the Jewish Agency for Palestine (now called the Jewish Agency for Israel) between 1931 and 1933, when he was succeeded by Arthur Ruppin.\n\nKibbutz Sde Nahum is named for him.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960985", "title": "Swiffer", "text": "Swiffer\n\nSwiffer is a line of cleaning products by Procter & Gamble. Introduced in 1999, the brand uses the \"razor-and-blades\" business model; whereby the consumer purchases the handle assembly at a low price, but must continue to purchase replacement refills and pads over the lifespan of the product. Swiffer has become a half-billion dollar brand in fifteen countries.\n\nAll the products below have a refill system. Both the product and the refills are currently marketed.\n\n\nThe following products have been discontinued. \n\n\nBecause of the requirement to dispose of the cloth after each clean, using the device frequently can be quite costly. Because of this multiple third-party companies have created cloth reusable pads typically made out of a microfiber fabric that can be machine washed after each use. \n\nThe TV commercials for Swiffer often have 1970s/1980s music playing in the background. The old commercials start with a person having their old cleaning products and proceed to switch to Swiffer Products. The first series of commercials begin with a woman using the Swiffer product, while her old cleaning product (usually a mop, broom or feather duster), having a persona, is left out and wants to be used again. The woman continues to use her Swiffer and the mop is left by itself. The second series of commercials include the mop, broom or feather duster finding moving on to a new girlfriend (including a bowling ball, a rake or an antique doll). A commercial announcer states, \"Switch to Swiffer, and you'll dump your old (mop, broom, duster). But don't worry. He'll find someone else.\" Notable songs used in these commercials include \"Whip It\" by Devo, \"Don't You Want Me\" by Human League, \"One Way or Another\" by Blondie, and \"Baby Come Back\" by Player. Recent commercials use \"What About Love\" by Heart, \"Who's That Lady\" by The Isley Brothers, \"A Little More Time\" by Chairmen of the Board, \"Love Stinks\" by The J. Geils Band, and \"You Sexy Thing\" by Hot Chocolate.\n\nThe electrostatic cleaning system which P&G sells under the Swiffer brand was created by Kao Japan. An excerpt from a 1999 BizJournals article explains that \"P&G can't claim it came up with the [Swffer] idea on its own. A similar product was already on the market in Japan, by a company called KAO\".\n\n\"KAO was marketing this product in Japan for five years,\" said Cynthia Georgeson, spokeswoman for S.C. Johnson, a $5 billion-a-year, family-run business with brands including Pledge, Johnson Wax, Raid and Windex. King said P&G knew of the KAO product, but did not seek a licensing agreement.\"\n\nThere are a few sources that say P&G copied the complete design from Kao after learning that the design was not patented. P&G may have licensed the original design. It is said that when Swiffer launched in Japan, it was so similar to the original Kao product that the Swiffer and Kao parts were interchangeable.\n\n"}
{"id": "1960986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960986", "title": "Ulster English", "text": "Ulster English\n\nUlster English (, , also called Northern Hiberno-English or Northern Irish English) is a major variety of English spoken in most of the Irish province of Ulster and throughout Northern Ireland. The dialect has been influenced by the Ulster Irish and Scots languages, the latter of which was brought over by Scottish settlers during the Plantation of Ulster and subsequent settlements throughout the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe two major divisions of Ulster English are \"Mid-Ulster English\", the most widespread variety, and \"Ulster Scots English\", spoken in much of northern County Antrim along a continuum with the Scots language. \"Southern Ulster English\" is a transitional dialect between Mid-Ulster English and Southern Irish English.\n\nIn general, Ulster English speakers' declarative sentences (with typical grammatical structure, i.e. non-topicalized statements) end with a rise in pitch, which is often heard by speakers of non-Ulster English as a question-like intonation pattern.\n\nThe following phonetics are represented using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).\n\nIn the following chart, \"UE\" refers to Ulster English, which includes Mid-Ulster English (which may incorporate older, more traditional Mid-Ulster English), as well as Ulster Scots (English). \"SSIE\" here refers to a mainstream, supraregional southern Irish English, used in the chart for the sake of comparison.\nOther, less overarching features of some Ulster varieties include:\n\n\nThe morphology and syntax of Irish is quite different from that of English, and it has influenced both Northern and Southern Hiberno-English to some degree.\n\nIrish has separate forms for the second person singular (\"tú\") and the second person plural (\"sibh\"), (\"thou\" and \"ye\" respectively in archaic and some intimate, informal English). Ulster English mirrors Irish in that the singular \"you\" is distinguished from the plural \"you\". This is normally done by using the words \"yous\", \"yousuns\" or \"yis\". For example:\n\n\nIrish lacks words that directly translate as \"yes\" or \"no\", and instead repeats the verb in a question (positively or negatively) to answer. As such, Northern and Southern Hiberno-English use \"yes\" and \"no\" less frequently than other English dialects. For example:\n\n\nThis is not necessarily true in Ulster English where \"Aye\" for yes and \"Naw\" for no are used, probably a Scottish influence.\n\nThe absence of the verb \"have\" in Irish has influenced some grammar. The concept of \"have\" is expressed in Irish by the construction \"ag\" (\"at\") \"mé\" (\"me\") to create \"agam\" (\"at me\"). Hence, Ulster English speakers sometimes use the verb \"have\" followed by \"with me/on me\". For example:\n\n\nMuch non-standard vocabulary found in Ulster English and many meanings of Standard English words peculiar to the dialect come from Scots and Irish. Some examples are shown in the table below. Many of these are also used in Southern Hiberno-English, especially in the northern half of the island.\n\nFurthermore, speakers of the dialect conjugate many verbs according to how they are formed in the most vernacular forms of Ulster Scots, e.g. \"driv\" instead of \"drove\" and \"driven\" as the past tense of \"drive\", etc. (literary Scots \"drave\", \"driven\"). Verbal syncretism is extremely widespread, as is the Northern subject rule.\n\nThe speech in southern and western County Donegal, southern County Tyrone, southern County Londonderry, northern County Fermanagh, north County Armagh, southwestern County Antrim and most of County Down form a geographical band across the province from east to west. On the whole, these areas have much more in common with the Derry accent in the west than inner-city Belfast in the east. This accent is often claimed as being the \"standard\" Northern Irish dialect as it is the most widely used. Parts of the north of County Monaghan (an area centred on Monaghan Town and known as \"North Monaghan\") would roughly fall into this category, but only to a certain extent. Bundoran, a town at the southern extremity of County Donegal, also has quite a western Ireland accent, as do parts of the south-west extremity of County Fermanagh.\n\nThe broad, working-class Belfast dialect is not limited to the city itself but also takes in neighbouring urban areas in the local vicinity (such as Lisburn, Carrickfergus and Newtownards), as well as towns whose inhabitants originally came from Belfast (such as Craigavon). It is generally perceived as being associated with economically disadvantaged areas, and with youth culture. This however is not the dialect used in the media (even those outlets which are based in Belfast). Features of the accent include several vowel shifts, including one from to before or after velars ( for \"bag\"). Nowadays, this shift largely only happens before , so \"pack\" and \"peck\" are homophones as .\n\nThe Belfast dialect is now becoming more frequently heard in towns and villages whose inhabitants would have traditionally spoken with a distinctively rural accent. Examples of such areas are Moira, Ballyclare, Dromore and Ballynahinch. It could be said that many young people in these areas prefer to use the more cosmopolitan city accent, as opposed to the local variant that their parents or people in other areas would use.\n\nOther phonological features include the following:\n\n\nSome of the vocabulary used among young people in Ulster, such as the word \"spide\", is of Belfast origin.\n\nThe accent of Derry City, which is also heard in northeastern County Donegal (including Inishowen), and northern and western County Tyrone (including Strabane). There is a higher incidence of palatalisation after and its voiced equivalent (e.g. \"kyar\" for \"car\"), perhaps through influence from Southern Hiberno-English. However, the most noticeable difference is perhaps the intonation, which is unique to the Londonderry, Letterkenny and Strabane area. The accent of the Finn Valley and especially The Laggan district (centred on the town of Raphoe), both in East Donegal, together with the accent of neighbouring West Tyrone and the accent of the westernmost parts of County Londonderry (not including Londonderry City), are also quite Scottish sounding. A variety of Ulster Scots is spoken in these areas. This West Ulster variety of Ulster Scots is considered to be quite similar to the Scots spoken in Ayrshire in south-west Scotland.\n\nThis region is heavily influenced by the historic presence of Scots and covers areas such as northern and eastern County Antrim, the Ards Peninsula in County Down, The Laggan district in County Donegal and northeastern County Londonderry. The strong Scots influence is noticeable in those districts and Scots pronunciations are often heard. People from here are often mistaken by outsiders as Scottish. This area includes the Glens of Antrim, where the last native Irish speakers of a dialect native to what is now Northern Ireland were to be found. It has been stated that, in the written form, Gaelic of this area continued to use standardised Irish forms, while the spoken dialect continued to use the Scottish variant, and was in effect not different from the Scots Gaelic of Argyll and Galloway.\n\nIn the 1830s, Ordnance Survey memoirs came to the following conclusion about the dialect of the inhabitants of Carnmoney, east Antrim: \"Their accent is peculiarly, and among old people disagreeably, strong and broad.\" The BBC conducted a sociolinguistic survey of Ulster Scots grammar. East Donegal also has a strong Ulster Scots dialect (see below).\n\nSouth Armagh, south Monaghan, south Fermanagh, south Donegal, north Leitrim, and north Cavan natives speak their own distinct variety of English. Areas such as southern and western County Armagh, central and southern County Monaghan (known locally as \"South Monaghan\"), northern County Cavan and the southern 'strip' of County Fermanagh are the hinterland of the larger Mid-Ulster dialect. The accent gradually shifts from village to village, forming part of the dialect continuum between areas to the North and Midlands (as it once did in Gaelic). This accent is also used in north County Louth (located in Leinster) and in part of the northern 'strip' of County Leitrim (in Connacht).There are areas that show a mixture of accents with Ulster-English and Hiberno-English.\n\nThese areas fall along the east coastline. South Ulster English's phonology is markedly different from Ulster Scots and majority Ulster English in several aspects, including preservation of dichotomous pattern of phonemic vowel length seen in Middle English. Another feature of South Ulster English is the drop in pitch on stressed syllables. A prominent phonetic feature of South Ulster is the realisation of /t/ as a fricative with identical characteristics of the stop, i.e. an apico-alveolar fricative in weak positions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1960999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960999", "title": "Kamešnica (mountain)", "text": "Kamešnica (mountain)\n\nKamešnica is a mountain in the Dinarides on the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina (Canton 10) and Croatia (Dalmatia). It is tall. It is part of the Dinaric Alps and is an extension of the Dinara range that stretches from the northwest white road pass Vaganj (1173 m) to the Buško Blato artificial lake. The two tallest peaks named \"Konj\" (\"Horse\") and \"Kurljaj\" belong to Bosnia and Herzegovina and offer views of both sides of the border. In clear weather, it is possible to see the most remote areas of the Adriatic Sea and its islands. The vicinity's many trails and caves make it popular with hikers.\n\nKamešnica is a favorable habitat for many species of plants and animals. The ecosystem of the northern parts of the mountain has been completely preserved due to its isolated location and the thick forest that surrounds it. \n\nMost of Kamešnica's peaks are covered by snow for six to seven months of the year. \n\nMost of Kamešnica has a climate characterized by its position in two main climate regions; continental (northern side which is surrounded by Livanjsko field, 700 m above sea-level with mean annual temperature of 9 °C) and submediterranean (southern side which is surrounded by Sinjsko field, 300 m above sea-level where the mean annual temperature is 12.5 °C). Only the highest parts of Kamešnica (above 1300 m), have a snowy-forested climate. \n\nThe weather and the mean annual air temperature can be compared using data of \"Zavizan metro station\" (1594 m). The lowest temperature on Kamešnica during the winter approximately measures -20 °C. Mean annual quantity of precipitation on Kamešnica ranges from 1200 mm to 2500 mm (maximum quantity on the peaks \"Konj\", \"Kurljaj\", \"Burnjaca\" and \"Gareta\"). In general, the climate of Kamešnica is very similar to the climate of Velebit. \n\nThe \"\"Bura\"\" is a dry and cold wind that blows from the northeast (from continent towards sea). While the \"bura\" is blowing, the peaks of Kamešnica are in the cloud called \"\"Cap\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961000", "title": "LGBT rights in Iraq", "text": "LGBT rights in Iraq\n\nIn Iraq, Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) persons are subject to widespread discrimination. Openly gay men are not permitted to serve in the military and same sex marriage or civil unions are illegal. LGBT persons do not have any legal protections against discrimination and are frequently victims of vigilante justice and honor killings.\n\nThe \"Šumma ālu\", an Akkadian tablet, includes this code, where it regards male homosexuality in a positive light:\n\nIf a man copulates with his equal from the rear, he becomes the leader among his peers and brothers.\n\nIn the ancient Assyrian society, the \"Almanac of Incantations\" featured prayers praising the equality of love between heterosexual and gay male couples. A man had the rights to visit any gay prostitute or sleep with another man, just as long as false rumors or rape were not involved. Nevertheless, a man taking the submissive role was perceived negatively in ancient Mesopotamia.\n\nA particular Middle Assyrian Law Code from Assur, dating from 1,075 BC, condemns homosexual rape or forced sex. It speaks of a \"seignior\" (high social figure in the community) and his \"neighbor\" (someone of equal social status):\n\nIf a seignior [an Assyrian man] lay with his neighbor [another citizen], when they have prosecuted him (and) convicted him [the first citizen], they shall lie with him (and) turn him into a eunuch.\n\nIraq was given a ban on homosexuality, defined in the penal code as sodomy, while under British rule.\n\nThe ban was initially maintained when Iraq achieved its Independence in 1932.\n\nThe Criminal Code of 1969, enacted by the Ba'athist party, only criminalized sexual behavior in cases of adultery, incest, rape, prostitution, public acts or cases involving fraud or someone unable to give consent due to age or mental defect. Homosexuality per se was not a crime, but could be justification for government discrimination and harassment under laws designed to protect national security and public morality.\n\nIn addition to the Criminal Code, the Ba'athist regime would issue additional resolutions on specific topics. Sodomy was re-criminalized by a 1988 resolution, but only when it involved prostitution. [Combating Prostitution Law No. 8 of 1988].\n\nIn the early 1990s, at the United Nations, the Iraqi delegation cited religion at the time as their reasoning for opposing efforts to have the international body support LGBT rights, challenging the widely held view of Saddam as a secularist.\n\nIn 2001, the IRCC Resolution 234 of 2001 was enacted that established the death penalty for adultery, being involved with prostitution, and anyone who, \"Commits the crime of sodomy with a male or female or who violates the honor of a male or female without his or her consent and under the threat of arm or by force in a way that the life of the victim (male or female) is threatened.\"\n\nApproximately 3,000 people were tortured from 1991 to 2003 by Saddam Hussein's security forces for expressing their sexuality.\n\nWith the intention of discrediting Saddam Hussein with his supporters, CIA was considering making a video in which he would be seen having sex with a teenage boy.\n\nWhen Coalition Provisional Authority chief executive Paul Bremer took control of Iraq following the U.S. invasion in 2003 he issued a series of decrees that restored the Iraqi criminal code back to the Iraq penal code of 1968 (as revised in 1988).\n\nWhile not de jure illegal, waves of harassment and violence against LGBT people came from family members and other Iraqis who felt the need to punish people for violating traditional Islamic mores.\n\nOn February 5, 2005 the IRIN issued a report titled \"Iraq: Male homosexuality still a taboo.\" The article stated, among other things, that \"honor killings\" by Iraqis against a gay family member are common and given some legal protection. The article also stated that the 2001 amendment to the criminal code stipulating the death penalty for homosexuality \"has not been changed\", even though Paul Bremer clearly ordered the criminal code to go back to its 1980s edition.\n\nSince 2005 there have been reports that the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq's Badr Organization has been involved in death squad campaigns against LGBT Iraqi citizens, and that they are supported in these policies by the Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. New barbaric attacks, with 90 victims, are reported in the first months of 2012.\n\nThese reports seem to stem from a fatwa issued by Iraqi cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani stating that homosexuality and lesbianism are both \"forbidden\" and that they should be \"Punished, in fact, killed. The people involved should be killed in the worst, most severe way of killing\".\n\nEarly drafts in English of the 2005 Iraqi constitution contained a provision that asserted that none of the rights or liberties protected in the Constitution would apply to \"deviants\". Later revisions of the Iraqi Constitution removed the deviants clause. Several clauses throughout the revised document assert that Islam will be the foundation of the law and that various civil liberties shall be limited by \"public morality\".\n\nAfter the fall of the Ba'athist party in Iraq, the national penal code reverted to an earlier edition from 1988, with subsequent revisions.\n\nPrivate, non-commercial, non-fraternal homosexual relations between consenting adults, who have reached the age of eighteen years, would appear to be legal. Likewise nothing is expressly said in the national penal code about cross-dressing, unless used for deception.\n\nYet, several provisions of the national penal code may impact the legal rights of LGBT people, given that prevailing cultural and religious mores view homosexuality and cross-dressing negatively. In addition to a ban on same-sex marriage, these public morality-based laws impose restrictions on the freedom of speech, press and personal expression.\n\nParagraph 215 – Any person who produces, imports, exports or obtains a picture, written material or sign with intent to trade, distribute, display or exhibit such material, which, by its nature, endangers the public security or brings the country into disrepute unless he was acting in good faith is punishable by detention plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of those penalties.\n\nParagraph 220 – If five or more people are assembled in a public place, thereby endangering the public security and the public authorities order them to disperse, any person who is given that order and refuses to comply with it is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.\n\nParagraph 376 – Any person who obtains a marriage certificate knowing it to be invalid for any reason in secular or canonical law and any person who issues such certificate knowing the marriage to be invalid is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention. The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years if the spouse, in respect of whom the reason for the invalidity has arisen, conceals that fact from his partner or consummates the marriage on the basis of the invalid certificate.\n\nParagraph 401 – Any person who commits an immodest act in public is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not exceeding 50 dinars or by one of those penalties.\n\nParagraph 402 – (1) The following persons are punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 3 months plus a fine not exceeding 30 dinars or by one of those penalties:\n(a) Any person who makes indecent advances to another man or woman.\n(b) Any person who assails a woman in a public place in an immodest manner with words, actions or signs.\n\nParagraph 403 – Any person who produces, imports, publishes, possesses, obtains or translates a book, printed or other written material, drawing, picture, film, symbol or other thing that violates the public integrity or decency with intent to exploit or distribute such material is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those penalties. The same penalty applies to any person who advertises such material or displays it in public or sells, hires or offers it for sale or hire even though it is not in public or to any person who distributes or submits it for distribution by any means. If the offense is committed with intent to deprave, it is considered to be an aggravating circumstances.\n\nParagraph 404 – Any person who himself or through some mechanical means sings or broadcasts in a public place obscene or indecent songs or statements is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars.\n\nParagraph 434 – Insult is the imputation to another of something dishonorable or disrespectful or the hurting of his feelings even though it does not include an imputation to him of a particular matter. Any person who insults another is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties. If such insult Is published in a newspaper or publication or medium it is considered an aggravating circumstance.\n\nParagraph 438 – The following persons are punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties: (1) Any person who publishes in any way a picture, remark or information in respect of the private or family life of another, even though such information is true and such publication causes him offense. (2) Any person other than those mentioned in Paragraph 328 who is privy to information contained in a letter, telex or\ntelephone conversation and he discloses such information to a person other than for whom it is intended and such disclosure causes harm to another.\n\nIn addition to the national penal code, members of the Iraqi Internal Security forces, along with current students and retirees, are bound the rules outlined in Decree Number 9 (2008). The degree bans police officers from associating with people of ill repute, and punishes police officers who engage in homosexual sodomy with up to fifteen years imprisonment.\n\nThe Military Penal Law No. 19 of 2007 prohibits its men from engaging in homosexual acts.\n\nThese are laws used in special courts designed to handle certain disputes among Iraqi Muslims, especially as it applies to marriage, divorce, alimony, and inheritance.\n\nThe Iraqi Personal Status Law (1959) has to relevant provisions;\n\nArticle 3 – Marriage is defined as a union between a man and a woman to create children.\n\nArticle 40 Section 2 – A legal separation may be granted if either spouse is unfaithful, with the act of homosexuality included as an example of being unfaithful. This provision was added to the law in 1981.\n\nThe Iraqi Kurdistan Personal Status Law (1992) also has some relevant provisions;\n\nArticle 1 - Marriage is defined as a voluntary union between a man and a woman to create a family.\n\nArticle 7 - The couple seeking to marry must produce medical documents that prove that they are not infected with AIDS.\n\nIt has been suggested that physical and sexual violence against homosexuals has increased since the US withdrawal from Iraq, with militias and the police in particular, despite the legal nature of homosexuality, now engaging more in anti-homosexual violence. This problem is made more complicated by the fact that members of the police are often also members of various militia groups.\n\nThe Iraqi Ministry of Human Rights has responded to allegations of increasing homophobic violence by stating that its responses are limited by the fact that LGBT people are not a listed minority in Iraq, but has also emphasized that a number of cases of discrimination and violence against the LGBT community has been passed onto the interior ministry. Ali al-Dabbagh, Prime Minister Maliki's spokesperson has denied organized persecution against the LGBT community but has suggested that members of the community keep their homosexuality private in order to avoid persecution.\n\nIn 2010, efforts by the Kurdish government to promote gender equality, were attacked by Kamil Haji Ali, Minister of Endowments and Religious Affairs, as well as the Kurdistan Islamic Movement for trying to legalize same-sex marriage. The KRG and other supporters of gender equality, stated the legislation does not deal with LGBT rights issues, but deals with social justice issues impacting women.\n\nIn the areas controlled by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, first offenders of homosexuality are sentenced to death, torture, floggings, beatings, and other violence.\n\nSee Also: LGBT Activism in Iraq\nFor decades, the LGBT community in Iraq has been one of the most invisible communities in the world facing all kinds of discrimination, with barely any activism or advocacy in favor of this group. But in the last couple of years an underground movement started which led to creating an organization for LGBTIQ+ individuals in Iraq with the name IraQueer.\n\nIraQueer (Iraq Queer) aims at raising the awareness about and for the LGBTIQ+ community in Iraq and Kurdistan region through sharing news, and personal stories of queer individuals. For more information, visit: www.iraqueer.org.\nA prominent Iraqi cleric has also broken the silence and condemned violence against the LGBT community.\n\nThe international Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission (IGLHRC) are a group of individuals who actively promote the rights of LGBTQ individuals in Iraq. The Islamic state prescribes death for the \"practice\" of homosexuality. Furthermore, evidence gathered for two briefings by IGLHRC, its partners, and MADRE demonstrate the direct effect of the collapse of the rule of law on LGBT persons, through unfettered violence by sectarian militias.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State's 2012 human rights report found,\nDue to social conventions and retribution against both victim and perpetrator of non-consensual same-sex sexual conduct and violence against participants in consensual same-sex sexual conduct, this activity was generally unreported. In light of the law[,] authorities relied on public indecency charges or confessions of monetary exchange (i.e., prostitution, which is illegal), to prosecute same-sex sexual activity. ... LGBT persons often faced abuse and violence from family and nongovernmental actors. From February to April, a wave of violent attacks in Baghdad, Basrah, Samarra, Wasit, and Tikrit targeted individuals perceived to be LGBT... In early February[,] signs and flyers appeared in Baghdad that threatened persons by name unless they cut their hair, stopped wearing nonconformist clothing, and gave up their \"alternative\" lifestyles. This intimidation campaign precipitated attacks. Attacks ranged from intimidation and verbal harassment to reports of kidnappings, beatings (some of which resulted in deaths), sexual assault, and killings. Reports varied on the number of victims killed in the attacks, some of which reportedly were carried out by extremist groups, including the Mahdi Army and League of the Righteous (Asa’ib Ahl al-Haq). UNAMI independently verified the deaths of at least 12 individuals; a Reuters report put the number of victims in Baghdad at 14. Local human rights NGOs reported much higher numbers. ... The government did not acknowledge a pattern of attacks nor take measures to ensure safety for individuals publicly named. ... Due to stigma, intimidation, and potential harm, including violent attacks, LGBT organizations did not operate openly, nor were gay pride marches or gay rights advocacy events held. The law prohibits discrimination based on race, disability, or social status, but it does not address ... sexual orientation or gender identity. Societal discrimination in employment, occupation, and housing based on sexual orientation, gender identity, and unconventional appearance was common. Information was not available regarding discrimination in access to education or health care due to sexual orientation or gender identity, although media reported that students were harassed at school for not adopting conventional clothing or hairstyles. There were minimal government efforts to address this discrimination. At year's end[,] authorities had not announced any other arrests or prosecutions of any persons for violence against LGBT individuals, including cases reported in 2011.\n\nIn June 2009, the U.S. State Department raised concerns regarding equality and human rights in a statement from spokesperson Ian Kelly:\nIn general, we absolutely condemn acts of violence and human rights violations committed against individuals in Iraq because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. This is an issue that we've been following very closely since we have been made aware of these allegations, and we are aware of the allegations. Our training for Iraqi security forces includes instruction on the proper observance of human rights. Human rights training is also a very important part of our and other international donors' civilian capacity-building efforts in Iraq. And the US embassy in Baghdad has raised, and will continue to raise, the issue with senior officials from the government of Iraq, and has urged them to respond appropriately to all credible reports of violence against gay and lesbian Iraqis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1961004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961004", "title": "Perri Peltz", "text": "Perri Peltz\n\nPerri Peltz (born 11 March 1960) is an American broadcast journalist.\n\nPeltz worked at WNBC from 1987 to 1996 where she co-anchored \"Weekend Today in New York\" with Ken Taylor, and weekend editions of \"News 4 New York\" at 6 and 11 with Ralph Penza.\n\nPeltz joined \"Dateline NBC\" for two years. During that period, she often anchored live news coverage on NBC's 24-hour cable news television channel MSNBC.\n\nShe then worked for ABC's \"20/20\" for two years until she moved to CNN where she stayed until 2002.\n\nPeltz left CNN to produce a feature film, \"Knights of the South Bronx\" starring Ted Danson. The film was based on the real-life story of a middle school chess team from the South Bronx that became national chess champions. The film aired on the A&E Network.\n\nPeltz then went to work for the Robin Hood Foundation in New York City. Robin Hood is a non-profit organization dedicated to fighting poverty. While at Robin Hood, Peltz wanted to tell the stories of the people who were working on the front lines in the war against poverty.\n\nIn 2005 she rejoined WNBC after a nine-year absence to co-anchor \"Live at Five\" with Sue Simmons. She returned to WNBC to report on those people and the differences they were making. She also anchored \"Live at Five\" with Sue Simmons from 31 May 2005, until 12 March 2007, when she began hosting her own half-hour lifestyle broadcast titled \"News 4 You\". The program was part of WNBC's attempt to boost ratings and features stories from the consumer, health and entertainment worlds.\n\nOn 10 September 2007, WNBC cancelled \"News 4 You\". Peltz continued to report both for WNBC and for NBC Network on people who were making a difference.\n\nPeltz co-produced and co-directed the documentary \"Prison Dogs\", which premiered at the 2016 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\nPeltz graduated from The Dalton School in New York City, and then went to Brown University and then to Columbia for a Masters in Public Health. In 2008, she left WNBC to attend medical school.\n\nIn 2015, Peltz, a practitioner of Transcendental Meditation, supported the work of the David Lynch Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1961011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961011", "title": "Jim Rosenfield", "text": "Jim Rosenfield\n\nJim Rosenfield (born December 18) is an American local television news anchor currently working for WCAU-TV, the NBC-owned television station in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He most recently co-anchored the weekend evening newscasts on WRC-TV in Washington, D.C.. At various times, he has appeared on the newscasts at noon, 5, 6, and 11 pm at WCBS-TV. His last day with the station was May 22, 2008 after the 6pm newscast. \n\nRosenfield started his television news career in 1981, after graduating from Duke University. He started out at WTVD-TV in Durham, North Carolina, where he was a general assignment reporter. He moved to Houston, KTRK-TV, as a reporter and eventually anchor. He later moved to Chicago, where he became a reporter and weekend anchor at WLS-TV. He came to New York in 1998, and joined WCBS-TV, where he co-anchored the noon newscast with Cindy Hsu, and the 5pm newscast with Lisa Cooley (later known as Lisa Hill).\n\nHe left WCBS in April 2000 after a contract dispute and joined rival station WNBC-TV, where he co-anchored the 5pm newscast (\"Live at Five\") with Sue Simmons. He left WNBC in 2005, and returned to WCBS in June of that year to replace Ernie Anastos, who in turn left WCBS for a 5-year $10 million contract at WNYW-TV. He was one of the hirings of Dianne Doctor, who had been his previous boss at WNBC.\n\nThis move allowed Rosenfield to become lead male anchor at a local New York station, which would not have happened if he remained at WNBC (where longtime anchor Chuck Scarborough is locked in as anchor at 11pm for years to come).\n\nBetween June 2005 and April 2006, Rosenfield anchored \"CBS 2 News at 5\" and \"CBS 2 News at 11\" with Roz Abrams. In April 2006 he dropped the 5PM newscast and joined Dana Tyler at 6PM, while also keeping the 11PM with Dana. Roz had moved to noon and 5PM (but is now no longer at the station).\n\nIn June 2007, he and Dana Tyler were reassigned to the noon and 6pm newscasts at WCBS by new station managers.\n\nIn May 2008, the same producers that demoted the seasonal news reporter decided to let him go as the noon and 6PM newscaster. After May 22's 6pm newscast, Rosenfield will be leaving the station, all without another position anywhere else. The station has decided to let him go as a part of major CBS cuts (political reporter Andrew Kirtzman was let go in March; Roz Abrams was let go for similar reasons in 2006). As the station was in breach of his contract (Chris Wragge co-anchors the 11PM newscasts with Kristine Johnson, taking the title from Rosenfield last year), it was considered a matter of time before Rosenfield would leave the station. \n\nOn June 1, 2012, it was announced that Rosenfield will be joining WRC-TV in Washington, D.C. as a weekend news anchor, effective June 4. \n\nIn September 2013, Rosenfield joined WCAU-TV in Philadelphia as weeknight anchor at 4, 6, and 11 p.m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961015", "title": "Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller", "text": "Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller\n\nHard to Be a Rock'n Roller is the first album by the Norwegian rock band Wig Wam.\n\nThe album was released on January 10, 2005. The album was original released on March 8, 2004 under the name \"667.. The Neighbour of the Beast\" which featured the same tracks as on the reissue, with the addition of an instrumental track \"The Drop\" and a radio version of \"Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller\", and \"In My Dreams\".\n\nThe album increased the band's reputation in Norway and the rest of Scandinavia and was Wig Wam's final album before their winning Eurovision Song Contest appearance in 2005; which led to the reissue of the album, as it featured the song \"In My Dreams\" that the band performed at Eurovision. The album was also issued in two others versions, Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller.. In Kiev! (Europe) and Hard to Be a Rock'n Roller.. In Tokyo! (Japan).\n\nThe first release of the album, only released in Scandinavia.\nThe second reissue of the album, featuring a slightly different track listing and almost the same artwork as the Scandinavian version, with only \"In Kiev!\" being added to the title. The album was released in main Europe.\nThe first reissue of the album, featuring a different artwork and a slightly different track listing. It was also only released in Scandinavia.\nThe third and final reissue of the album, featuring the same track listing as the European version, including some additional bonus tracks. This version also features almost the same artwork as the European version with a red ring being added to the background (making it look like the Japanese national flag). The album was released in Japan and additional countries in Asia.\n"}
{"id": "1961020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961020", "title": "Troglav (Bosnia and Herzegovina)", "text": "Troglav (Bosnia and Herzegovina)\n\nTroglav is the highest peak of the Dinara mountain. Dinara is longest massif within karstic mountain chain of the western Balkan peninsula, to which is also eponymous, Dinaric Alps \"(also known as Dinarides)\". Troglav is located in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is named after Triglav, Slavic god. The name literally means \"three headed\".\n\nThe Troglav group is around 30 km long and around 15 km wide, making it the largest in the range. On the northwestern side, it is separated from the Dinara group by the Privija pass (1230 m) and on the southeast from the Kamešnica group by Vaganj (1173 m) road pass, which connects Sinj in Croatia with Livno in Bosnia. On the northeastern, Bosnian side, lies the huge Livno karstic field (\"Livanjsko Polje\"; 700 m), which is 65 km long. On the southwestern, Croatian side, there is the Cetina river valley with 15 km long Peruća Lake (\"Perućko jezero\").\n\nThe south-western slopes (Croatian side) ascend in a few steps. The first step rises up to around 1500–1600 m: up to 1100–1200 m slope is forested, mostly with oak and hornbeam, while the area above is grassy. Behind is a large depression, which is a labyrinth of peaks up to 1700 m, ridges and plateaux, which are strewn with funnel-shaped basins. On the part of the plateau called Vještičja Gora (around 1400 m), south of Troglav, there is a large complex of beech forest, which stands out against the background of grass and stone. Behind this area, the main ridge rises. From the border with the Dinara group, the main ridge gradually rises up to the summit of Troglav. Thereafter, the slopes gradually descend towards Vaganj pass, while the pasture area between them widens.\n\nThe north-eastern slopes (Bosnian side) are much steeper and mostly forested with beech and spruce. They mostly descend steeply, without steps, towards Livanjsko Polje field and end abruptly. A few kilometres north of Troglav, the only level ground appears and it contains the Velike Poljanice complex of meadows.\n\nOn the northeastern part of the group, between Bat (1851 m) and Bunjevačko Brdo (1849 m) groups of peaks, there is huge undulating grassy plateau, a few kilometres long and wide. The average altitude of the area is over 1600 m, and the region was glaciated during the ice ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961032", "title": "Diana Williams", "text": "Diana Williams\n\nDiana Williams (born July 18, 1958) is a retired American television journalist. She was a news anchor at WABC television in New York City, New York, where she co-anchored, with Sade Baderinwa, the one-hour 5 p.m. \"Eyewitness News\" broadcast; and she used to host the Sunday morning public-affairs program \"Eyewitness News Up Close with Diana Williams\", which aired on Sunday mornings at 11 a.m.\n\nShe graduated from Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, in 1980 with a degree in economics.\n\nAfter interning at WTVD in Durham, Williams began her television career in Charlotte, North Carolina, where she worked as a reporter at WSOC and then as a weeknight anchor at 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. at WBTV. From 1987 to 1991, she worked at WNEV (now WHDH) in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nWilliams joined WABC in 1991 as a reporter and eventually became a weekend anchor. Within a year, she was a co-anchor of the station's 11 p.m. \"Eyewitness News\" newscast with Bill Beutel. In 1999, Williams joined Beutel on the 6 p.m. newscast as well, becoming Beutel's first co-anchor at 6 p.m. since the departure of Roger Grimsby in 1986.\n\nBeginning in 1999, she co-anchored the 11 p.m. newscast with Bill Ritter, later doing the 6 p.m. newscast with him in 2001, as well, following Beutel's retirement. Williams joined the 5 p.m. newscast in 2003, first alongside Roz Abrams, and later with Sade Baderinwa.\n\nShe has traveled the world covering stories for \"Eyewitness News\", including to Ireland and Israel to report on conflicts. But most of her travels were with Pope John Paul II, most notably, his historic visit to Israel in 2000. Williams also traveled with the Pope to Baltimore, Maryland; Mexico City, Mexico; and Toronto, Ontario, Canada. She covered the September 11, 2001, attacks and for its tenth anniversary in 2011, Williams reported from outside The Pentagon, in Arlington, Virginia.\n\nWilliams has also covered politics extensively, from the fall of New York Governor Eliot Spitzer in 2008; to the elections of New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg in 2001, 2005 and 2009; and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie in 2009. She has been to every U.S. presidential nominating convention beginning with the 1992 Democratic National Convention in New York City.\n\nShe won an Emmy Award for her half-hour special called \"Dangerous Crossings\" that focused on the immigration issues along the Mexican and Arizona border. She has also won awards for her yearly breast-cancer specials and has hosted the \"Making Strides against Breast Cancer\" Walk(s) for the American Cancer Society for over 17 years.\n\nAfter 29 years, Williams announced her retirement on the air. She anchored her final newscast on September 12, 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961034", "title": "Ticinese dialect", "text": "Ticinese dialect\n\nTicinese (ticines, ticinées) is a comprehensive denomination for the varieties of the Lombard language spoken in Canton Ticino (Tessin) and in the north of the Province of Varese.\nThe term Ticinesi refers to the citizens of Ticino or speakers of the language.\n\n\"Ticinese koiné\" refers to a koiné form used by speakers of local dialects (particularly those diverging from the \"koinè\" itself, as, e.g., Leventinese, etc.) when communicating with speakers of other Western Lombard dialects of Ticino, the Grisons (collectively known as Swiss Italian) or Italian Lombardy.\n\nTicinese is generally more lively than the Western Lombard varieties spoken in Italy, with a significant number of young speakers. Some radio and television programmes in Ticinese, mostly comedies are broadcast by the Italian language broadcasting company RTSI.\n\nA dictionary and some studies on the Ticinese variants are published by CDE – \"Centro di dialettologia e di etnografia\", a cantonal research institution.\n\nSome possible expressions and idioms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961038", "title": "Croatian Mountaineering Association", "text": "Croatian Mountaineering Association\n\nThe Croatian Mountaineering Association () covers both mountaineering and a broad range of related activities. Unlike the majority of the international mountaineering associations, the Association's remit extends to speleology, climbing, orienteering and mountain rescue.\n\nThe Association is responsible for the maintenance of mountain huts and paths in Croatia, and is the publisher of the magazine \"Hrvatski planinar\" (The Croatian Mountaineer) and of other promotional materials. Through schools and courses it provides relevant professional education and training. It is a comprehensive source of information of all kinds relating to Croatian mountains and mountaineering.\n\nThe operations of the Croatian Mountaineering Association are managed by its Executive Committee and its professional work is carried out through the commissions for:\n\n\nMembers of the Association and members of the UIAA have a 50% discount on the cost of a night's accommodation in all huts in Croatia. Currently the Association numbers some 20,000 registered members from over 200 clubs and regional associations.\n\nThe Croatian Climbing Society () was founded in 1874, which puts the Croats among the first seven nations in the world with a climbing organization. Organised climbing activity in Croatia was directed in its early days towards scientific research into the natural features of the mountains, rather than towards the conquest of peaks as an end in itself. This focus was one reason for the extent to which leading university professors and scientists were represented in the membership of the Society in the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961039", "title": "Karl Dietrich Bracher", "text": "Karl Dietrich Bracher\n\nKarl Dietrich Bracher (13 March 1922 – 19 September 2016) was a German political scientist and historian of the Weimar Republic and Nazi Germany. Born in Stuttgart, Bracher was awarded a Ph.D. in the classics by the University of Tübingen in 1948 and subsequently studied at Harvard University from 1949 to 1950. During World War II, he served in the Wehrmacht and was captured by the Americans while serving in Tunisia in 1943. Bracher taught at the Free University of Berlin from 1950 to 1958 and at the University of Bonn since 1959. In 1951 Bracher married Dorothee Schleicher, the niece of Dietrich Bonhoeffer. They had two children.\n\nBracher was mainly concerned with the problems of preserving and developing democracy. Bracher was consistent in all his works in arguing for the value of human rights, pluralism and constitutional values, together with urging that Germans align themselves with the democratic values of the West. He saw democracy as a frail institution and has argued that only a concerned citizenry can guarantee it. This theme began with Bracher's first book in 1948, \"Verfall und Fortschritt im Denken der frühen römischen Kaiserzeit\" which concerned the downfall of the Roman Republic and the rise of Augustus. His 1955 book \"Die Auflösung der Weimarer Republik\" (\"The Disintegration of the Weimar Republic\") is his best known book, in which he ascribed the collapse of German democracy not to the \"Sonderweg\" (\"special path\" of German historical development) or other impersonal forces but to human action that followed conscious choice. In that book, Bracher rejected not only the \"Sonderweg\" thesis, but also the Marxist theory of National Socialism as the result of a capitalist \"conspiracy\", the theory that the Treaty of Versailles caused the collapse of the Weimar Republic, and the view that the Nazi dictatorship was simply the work of \"fate\". Bracher's methodology in \"Die Auflösung der Weimarer Republik\" involving a mixture of political science and history was considered to be highly innovative and controversial in the 1950s. The German historian Eberhard Kolb wrote \"Die Auflösung der Weimarer Republik\" was \"still unsurpassed as a work of research\" on the end of the Weimar Republic. Bracher wrote that though almost all Germans rejected the Treaty of Versailles, this dislike of Versailles had nothing with do with the coming of \"presidential government\" in March 1930 or rise of the Nazi Party starting with the September 1930 \"Reichstag\" election. Furthermore, Bracher wrote that under Weimar, the judicial system had already politicized as the judges, almost all of whom had begun their careers in the Imperial era, had a tendency to impose very lenient sentences for political crimes done in the name of the right. In \"Die Auflösung der Weimarer Republik\", Bracher wrote the judiciary was in part responsible for the collapse of the Weimar republic, \"contributing to its overthrow by authoritarian and totalitarian movements.\"\n\nBracher argued the beginning of the end of the Weimar Republic was the coming of \"presidential government\" in 1930 as starting with government of Heinrich Brüning, Chancellors not sought to govern via the \"Reichstag\", instead using the \"25/48/53 formula\", which was legal, but violated the spirit of the constitution as Article 54 had explicitly stated the Chancellor and his cabinet were responsible to the \"Reichstag\". Bracher maintained that the end of German democracy was not inevitable, but instead was due to conscious choices coupled with \"momentous errors and failures\" made by Germany's leaders, especially President Paul von Hindenburg. In \"Die Auflösung der Weimarer Republik\", Bracher argued the \"collapse\" of the republic went through several stages:\nBracher in writing of a \"loss of power\" and a \"power vacuum\" was referring to the decay of the democratic system, not a weakening of the state. Kolb noted in the years 1930–33, the \"Reichswehr\", the bureaucracy, the police and above all President von Hindenburg all saw a dramatic increase in their power, and what was happening in Germany in that period was the gradual collapse of the democratic system with policy decisions increasingly being made by the \"Reichswehr\" and the \"Kamarilla\" of President Hindenburg instead of the \"Reichstag\".\n\nBracher argued that the system of \"presidential government\" was intended to and had the effect of weakening democracy, and that in no way was \"presidential government\" forced on Hindenburg and his Chancellors by an unmanageable crisis. Bracher's thesis that Heinrich Brüning and even more so, his successor Franz von Papen had gutted German democracy involved him in a dispute with Werner Conze, a prominent Nazi historian under the Third Reich who emerged as a leading conservative historian in West Germany in the 1950s. In a series of articles published in the 1950s–60s, Conze argued that by 1929–1930 that German politics had become so dysfunctional that Hindenburg had no other choice, but to reluctantly bring in \"presidential government\" as the only to provide Germany with any sort of government, and that Brüning's governing via Article 48 was only a temporary measure intended to save democracy from the crisis caused by the Great Depression. In reply, Bracher wrote a series of article documenting that the plans for \"presidential government\" went back much to 1926 at least, and argued that there was no unmanageable crisis with parliamentary government in 1930 that made \"presidential government\" unavoidable. Bracher forcefully argued that was no structural crisis in 1929–30 so severe that Hindenburg had to turn to \"presidential government\" as Conze was claiming, instead arguing that Hindenburg, his \"kamarilla\", and the \"Reichswehr\" had been seeking long before the Great Depression to do away with democracy. In this regard, Bracher pointed out that General Kurt von Schleicher and Heinrich Brüning had worked out the plan for a \"presidential government\" by April 1929, and it was only Hindenburg's desire to have the government of Hermann Müller pass the Young Plan, which its turn was delayed by the Young Plan referendum of November 1929, that gave Müller almost an extra year in office.\n\nBracher's thesis about the Brüning government as the first step towards dissolving democracy instead of an effort to save it as maintained by Conze, was greatly supported by the posthumous publication of Brüning's memoirs in 1970. Brüning, a conservative Catholic who never married and is not known to had a relationship with any women during the course of his life, revealed himself in his memoirs to be a man with an unhealthy emotional dependence on Hindenburg, to whom he was slavishly devoted and whom he regarded in homoerotic terms as the epitome of German masculinity and strength. Brüning openly admitted in his memoirs that the purpose of the \"presidential government\" was to do away with democracy and restore the monarchy by bringing back the exiled Wilhelm II, and complained at much length about how unfair it was that Schleicher had turned Hindenburg against him in the spring of 1932, leading to the president to fire him and replace him with Papen. It is noteworthy that Brüning did not object to Papen's policies in his memoirs, but rather to the fact that he would have carried out the same policies if only his beloved Field Marshal Hindenburg had given him the chance, instead of firing him in May 1932. Through Bracher won the debate with Conze, as late as 1971 Bracher deplored the tendency to take \"a conservative and all too benevolent view of the presidential regime\" as an attempt to save democracy. After the publication of Brüning's memoirs, which largely confirmed Bracher's thesis, Bracher wrote that the coming of presidential government was \"not a move to save democracy, but part of a conscious plan to bring about a right-wing regime independent of party and parliament and to keep the Social Democrats out of power...Brüning's policy oscillated between the defense of a bureaucratic version of a state based on the rule of law, and paving the way for a dictatorship...He was not...the last chancellor \"before\" the break-up of the Weimar Republic, but the first chancellor \"in\" the process of destroying German democracy\". In a survey of the historiography of the Weimar republic, Kolb wrote that research since the 1970s has confirmed Bracher's damning picture of Brüning that he had first offered in 1955, when the evidence for it was weaker.\n\nBracher sharply criticized the Social Democrats for not resisting the \"Preußenschlag\" launched by Franz von Papen that saw the \"Reichswehr\" oust the Social Democratic government of Otto Braun. Bracher wrote through the \"Reichswehr\" would had probably crushed any resistance, but:\"there remained the possibility of a lasting demonstration, a manifestation of the unbroken will of democracy to assert itself against a temporarily superior force. This might, beyond all justified practical calculations, have make it possible to save the democratic consciousness from the psychological and moral collapse of the republican forces; it made have made the way harder for the new rulers; delayed future developments and lessened their effects\". Bracher wrote that up until July 1932, those Germans who believed in democracy had high spirits and were full of fighting determination to take a stand, and after the \"Preußenschlag\", the same people became demoralized and passive, feeling that they were playing in a game whose rules were rigged against them, losing their fighting spirit. Bracher's views about the \"Rape of Prussia\" as Papen's coup was also known involved him in heated debate with Arnold Brecht, who maintained that nothing could be done to oppose the \"Preußenschlag\" as that would mean breaking the law. Bracher in his turn argued that Papen's reasons for his coup-namely the Social Democrats and the Communists were about to merge into a \"united left\" to start a Marxist revolution in Germany-were patently absurd, and given that Papen's intention was to dissolve democracy, that there are times when it is acceptable to break the law. Bracher argued that Brecht's thesis that resistance to Papen's coup was impossible because it would have meant breaking the law was just an excuse for passivity. Historians have generally agreed with Bracher's thesis that there are times when in the face of injustice committed by those who hold power that it is acceptable to break the law, and that the \"Preußenschlag\" was one of those times when illegality in defense of democracy would have been justified.\n\nIn Bracher's opinion, through it was human choices that led to the collapse of the Weimar Republic and the National Socialist period, the roots of National Socialism can be traced back towards the \"völkisch\" ideology of 19th century Germany and Austria-Hungary, which found their fullest expression in the personality of Adolf Hitler. Likewise, Bracher complained that too many Germans were willing during the Weimar-Nazi time periods to subscribe to a \"readiness for acclamatory agreement and pseudo-military obedience to a strong authoritarian state\". Through Bracher was opposed to the \"Sonderweg\" interpretation of German history, he did believe in a special German mentality (\"Sonderbewusstsein\") that made the Third Reich possible. Bracher wrote that:\"The German \"\"Sonderweg\"\" should be limited to the era of the Third Reich, but the strength of the particular German mentality [\"Sonderbewusstsein\"] that had arisen already with its opposition to the French Revolution and grew stronger after 1870 and 1918 must be emphasized. Out of its exaggerated perspectives (and, I would add, rhetoric) it become a power in politics, out a myth reality. The road from democracy to dictatorship was not a particular German case, but the radical nature of the National Socialist dictatorship corresponded to the power of the German ideology that in 1933–1945 became a political and totalitarian reality\" The \"Sonderbewusstsein\" Bracher referred to was the original theory of the \"Sonderweg\", namely the idea of the Prussian-German state as the great Central European power neither of the West nor of the East, but rather was something special and unique; this ideology emphasised opposition to democracy as part of its opposition to \"Western civilization\".\n\nAnother well-known book associated with Bracher was the 1960 monograph co-written with Wolfgang Sauer and Gerhard Schulz \"Die nationalsozialistische Machtergreifung\" (\"The National Socialist Seizure of Power\"), which described in considerable detail the \"Gleichschaltung\" of German life in 1933–1934. In a review of \"Die nationalsozialistische Machtergreifung\", the American historian Walter Laqueur praised Bracher, Sauer and Schulz for their refusal to engage in apologetics, and willingness to ask tough questions about the conduct of Germans under the Nazi regime. In the same review, Laqueur expressed regret that books like William L. Shirer's \"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\" were best-sellers, while a book like \"Die nationalsozialistische Machtergreifung\", which Laqueur regarded as infinitely better work of scholarship then Shirer's book was unlikely ever to be translated into English, let alone become a bestseller.\n\nBracher advocated the view that Nazi Germany was a totalitarian regime, through Bracher maintained that the \"totalitarian typology\" as developed by Carl Joachim Friedrich and Zbigniew Brzezinski was too rigid, and that totalitarian models needed to be based upon careful empirical research. In Bracher's view, Friedrich's and Brzezinski's work failed to take into account the \"revolutionary dynamic\", which Bracher argued was the \"core principle\" of totalitarism. For Bracher, the essence of totalitarism was the total claim to control and remake all aspects of society together with an all-embracing ideology, the value on authoritarian leadership, and the pretence of the common identity of state and society, which distinguished the totatitarian \"closed\" understanding of politics from the \"open\" democratic understanding. In Bracher's view, \"politics is the struggle for the power of the state\", and in his opinion, the traditional methods of the historian have to be supplemented by the methods of political science to properly understand political history. Speaking of historical work in his own area of speciality, namely the Weimar-Nazi periods, Bracher stated: \"It was not with Himmler, Bormann, and Heydrich, also not with the National Socialist Party, but with Hitler that the German people identified itself enthusiastically. In this there exists an essential problem, especially for German historians...To identify the sources of this fateful mistake of the past and to research it without minimizing it remains a task of German historical scholarship. Ignoring it means the loss of its commitment to truth.\" \n\nBracher was highly critical of the Marxist view of the Third Reich, which sees the Nazi leadership as puppets of Big Business. In Bracher's opinion, the exact opposite was the case with a \"primacy of politics\" being exercised with business subordinate to the Nazi regime rather than a \"primacy of economics\" as maintained by Marxist historians. Bracher argued that Nazi actions were dictated by Nazi ideological theory, that business interests were just as much subordinate to the dictatorship as any other section of society, and that since Nazi actions were often irrational from a purely economic point of view, a \"primacy of politics\" prevailed.\n\nAgainst the functionalist view of the Third Reich mostly associated with left-wing historians, Bracher was to write that it was an attempt to: \"turn against the \"old-liberal\" totalitarianism theory and talk about a relativizing interpretation, which emphasizes the \"improvisational\" politics of power and domination of National Socialism. Leftish interpretations would like to leave behind the questions of guilt and responsibility in favor of a more modern, realistic analysis. But in doing this they slide into the danger of a newer underestimation and trivialization of National Socialism itself. Their analysis also brings with it, in another way, the vague leftist talk about fascism and reaction\"\n\nIn the 1960s, Bracher was a leading critic of the theory of generic fascism presented by Ernst Nolte. Bracher criticized the entire notion of generic fascism as intellectually invalid and argued that it was individual choice on the part of Germans as opposed to Nolte's philosophical view of the \"metapolitical\" that produced National Socialism. Bracher's \"magnum opus\", his 1969 book \"Die deutsche Diktatur\" (\"The German Dictatorship\") was partly written to rebut Nolte's theory of generic fascism, and instead presented a picture of the National Socialist dictatorship as a totalitarian regime created and sustained by human actions. In \"Die deutsche Diktatur\", Bracher rejected theories of generic fascism, and instead used totalitarianism theory and the methods of the social sciences to explain Nazi Germany. As an advocate of history as a social science, Bracher took a strong dislike to Nolte's philosophical theories of generic fascism. In a 1971 review, the American historian Lucy Dawidowicz called \"The German Dictatorship\" \"...a work of unparalleled distinction, combing the most scrupulous objectivity with a passionate commitment to the democratic ethos\". In 1989, the British historian Richard J. Evans called \"The German Dictatorship\" a \"valuable\" book\n\nBracher often criticized the functionist-structuralist interpretation of the Third Reich championed by such scholars such as Martin Broszat and Hans Mommsen, and decried their view of Hitler as a “weak dictator”. In Bracher's view, Hitler was the “Master of the Third Reich”. However, though Bracher argues that the Führer was the driving force behind the Third Reich, he was one of the first historians to argue that Nazi Germany was less well organized than the Nazis liked to pretend. In a 1956 essay, Bracher noted \"the antagonism between rival agencies was resolved solely in the omnipotent key position of the Führer\", which was the result of \"...the complex coexistence and opposition of the power groups and from conflicting personal ties\". Unlike the functionists, Bracher saw this disorganization as part of a conscious “divide and rule” strategy on the part of Hitler, and argued at no point was Hitler ever driven by pressure from below or had his power limited in any way. One area where Bracher is in agreement with the functionists concerns the highly \"ad hoc\" nature of decision-making in the Third Reich. Bracher commented that the Nazi regime \"remained in a state of permanent improvisation\".\n\nIn a 1971 essay to mark the 100th anniversary of German unification, Bracher rejected the claim that Otto von Bismarck was the \"grandfather\" of the present-day Federal Republic, and argued that those historians who claimed that there was a line of continuity between Bismarck's Second Reich and the Federal Republic were entirely mistaken. Bracher maintained that the founding of the Federal Republic in 1949 was a decisive break with everything had happened before in German history. Bracher stated that the Federal Republic with its democracy, respect for the individual, equality of all citizens, rule of the law and its pluralist, tolerant society owned nothing to Bismarck's vision of a rigidly hierarchical society dominated by a militaristic, authoritarian state that existed to uphold the power of the \"Junkers\". Bracher wrote that the success of the modern Federal Republic had nothing to do with the \"Bismarckian tradition\" and stated that the \"destruction of the state of 1871\" was \"the premiss and starting point for a new German state altogether\". Bracher maintained that \"the second, finally successful democracy in Germany is unimaginable, impossible without the ultimate failure of the \"Reich\" of 1871\".\n\nIn an essay published in 1976 entitled \"The Role of Hitler: Perspectives of Interpretation\", Bracher argued that Hitler was too often underrated in his own time, and that those historians who rejected the totalitarian paradigm in favor of the fascist paradigm were in danger of making the same mistake. In Bracher's opinion, Hitler was a \"world-historical\" figure who served as the embodiment of the most radical type of German nationalism and a revolutionary of the most destructive kind, and that such was the force of Hitler's personality that it is correct to speak of National Socialism as \"Hitlerism\". In his essay, Bracher maintained that Hitler himself was in many ways something of an \"unperson\" devoid of any real interest for the biographer, but argued that these pedestrian qualities of Hitler led to him being underestimated first by rivals and allies in the Weimar Republic, and then on the international stage in the 1930s. At the same time, Bracher warned of the apologetic tendencies of the “demonization\" of Hitler which he accused historians like Gerhard Ritter of engaging in, which Bracher maintained allowed too many Germans to place the blame for Nazi crimes solely on the \"demon\" Hitler. Through Bracher criticized the Great man theory of history as an inadequate historical explanation, Bracher argued that social historians who claim that social developments were more important than the role of individuals were mistaken.\n\nBracher wrote about the \"Hitler Wave\" of the 1970s that the obsession with Hitler seemed odd given all of the dramatic events of the last thirty or so years such as the Cold War, the rise and decline of Stalinism, the Hungarian Uprising, the Suez War, the Vietnam War, and the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, where somehow Hitler, despite being dead, remained in \"the background\" of all these events. Bracher argued that the obsession with Hitler was due to the \"inevitable and continuing sensational aspect caused by the excessive features of Hitlerism, which can be taken as a kind of modern Genghis Khanism or an example of that combination of cruel efficiency and superhuman will-power which frequently is identified as typically German, to be horrified or admired, or both simultaneously\". Bracher argued that Hitler represented a new type of leader quite divorced from the traditional standards of historical greatness established by 18th and 19th century historians as: \"Hitler and, in his way, Stalin represent a new type of the great movement and party leader combining the qualities of fanatical ideological fixation and virtuoso mass demagogy, and replacing the traditional statesmen and warrior as the great type of historical figure\". Writing in 1976, Bracher cautioned against a return to the \"Great Man\" school of history, warning that \"Great Man\" type histories were typical of totalitarian regimes as this concept of history as the \"history of great men\" was promoted not only in Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, but \"...also by communist regimes where, although quite contrary to their dogma of collectivism, it was in keeping with the psychology of mass mobilization by charismatic leadership. The great examples of this cult of leadership and pseudo-religious veneration and adoration are Lenin and Stalin and at present Mao and the North Korean demigod Kim Il Sung\". However, at the same time, Bracher argued in totalitarian regimes, the position of the leader by its very definition meant that he had an oversized role in making history, thus making the study of the leader a prerequisite for understanding these regimes.\n\nIn Bracher's view, Hitler's rise was not inevitable, and the primary responsibility for the Chancellorship being given to Hitler on 30 January 1933 rested with the \"Kamarilla\" of President Paul von Hindenburg. Bracher wrote that had Hindenburg chosen differently from that the path that he did chose by appointing Hitler chancellor on 30 January 1933 that German history would easily gone in a completely different direction, thus meaning that even through Hindenburg died in 1934, he must bear ultimate responsibility for everything that happened between 1933–45, for the appointment of Hitler was a purely a gratuitous act on Hindenburg's part that he did not have to do. However, Bracher argued that once Hitler had obtained power, he used his authority to carry out a comprehensive revolution that politically destroyed both Hitler's opponents such as the SPD and his allies such as the DNVP who sought to “tame” the Nazi movement. Bracher argued that because Hitler was so central to the Nazi movement that it led to the fate of National Socialism being so intertwined with Hitler's fate that it is right, as noted above, to speak of National Socialism as Hitlerism, and hence justifying Hitler's place in history as a person who by their actions decisively brought about events that otherwise would not had occurred. In addition, Bracher maintained that the importance of Hitler derived from his being the most effective exponent of an extremely radical type of racist German nationalism, which allowed for ideas that otherwise would be ignored by historians coming to a terrible fruition.\n\nThough Bracher argued that the work of Ralf Dahrendorf, David Schoenbaum, and Henry Ashby Turner about National Socialism in pursuit of anti-modern goals leading to an unintentional modernization of German society had merit, Bracher felt the question of modernization was too removed from the essence of National Socialism, which Bracher argued were the total revolutionary remodeling of the world along savagely racist and Social Darwinist lines. In Bracher's opinion, the revolution Hitler sought to unleash was besides being one of racism gone mad, was also a moral revolution. Bracher argued that the Nazi revolution sought to destroy traditional values that society had valued such as friendship, kindness, and so forth, and replace them with values such as cruelty, brutality, and destruction. Bracher argued that because Anti-Semitism was so crucial to Hitler's \"weltanschauung\" (worldview) and its consequences in the form of genocide for the Jews of Europe were such that this disapproves any notion of generic fascism because Bracher believes that theories of fascism cannot account for the \"Shoah\". Bracher argued that generic fascism theorists were guilty of indiscriminately lumping in too many disparate phenomena for the concept of fascism to be of any intellectual use, and of using the term fascist as a catch-all insult for anyone the left disliked. With respect to the genesis of The Holocaust, he is a confirmed Intentionalist. It is his position that the entire project of the genocide of European Jewry resulted from Adolf Hitler's anti-Semitic hatred.\n\nBracher argued that the \"one basic principle to which Hitler subscribed deeply, blindly and ruthlessly\" was anti-Semitism. Bracher noted that the \"Shoah\" was so important to Hitler that during World War II, resources that might from a purely military point of view be better devoted to the war were instead turned towards genocide. In 1981, the British Marxist historian Timothy Mason in his essay 'Intention and explanation: A Current controversy about the interpretation of National Socialism' from the book \"The \"Fuehrer State\" : Myth and reality\" coined the term \"Intentionist\" as part of an attack against Bracher and Klaus Hildebrand, both of whom Mason accused of focusing too much on Hitler as an explanation for the Holocaust.\n\nBracher believed that totalitarianism, whether from the Left or Right, is the leading threat to democracy all over the world, and has argued that the differences between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany were of degree, not kind. Bracher is opposed to the notion of generic fascism and has often urged scholars to reject \"totalitarian\" fascism theory as championed by the \"radical-left\" in favour of \"democratic\" totalitarian theory as a means of explaining the Nazi dictatorship. In particular, Bracher has argued that Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany possessed such fundamental differences that any theory of generic fascism is not supported by the historical evidence. He is pro-American and was one of the few German professors to support fully the foreign policy of the United States during the Cold War. However, Bracher was in no way sympathetic towards Fascist Italy, writing about Benito Mussolini's rise: \"Appealing to all classes by a combination of conservative and progressive, anti-communist and state socialist, reactionary and revolutionary aims\" and making much use of \"direct action\", Mussolini \"went to war with liberal democracy\" in 1919. Bracher was a consistent advocate of the values of the Federal Republic, and its American ally against the values of East Germany and its Soviet patron. In the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s he often attacked left-wing and New Left intellectuals in particular for comparing the actions of the United States in the Vietnam War and the West German state to Nazi Germany. For Bracher, these attacks were both an absurd trivialization of Nazi crimes and a sinister attempt to advance the cause of Communism. Bracher argued that the defeatist and uncertain mood of the 1970s–80s in West Germany was not unlike the mood of the 1920s–30s. In 1969–74, Bracher supported the Social Democratic-Free Democrat government of Chancellor Willy Brandt and his policy of \"Ostpolitik\", arguing that it long overdue that the Federal Republic recognize the Oder-Neisse Line. By the mid-1970s, Bracher turned against the Social Democrats, arguing that far too many people in West Germany were naïve and blithely dismissive of the threat by Soviet Communism. Bracher always saw himself as a liberal, opposed to totalitarianism of both left and right, a standpoint that led him to attack both conservatives and Communists.\n\nIn his 1976 book \"Zeitgeschichtliche Kontroversen\", Bracher criticized the Marxist-New Left interpretation of the Nazi period under the grounds that in such an interpretation \"the ideological and totalitarian dimension of National Socialism shrinks to such an extent that the barbarism of 1933–45 disappears as a moral phenomenon\", which Bracher felt meant that \"...a new wave of trivialization or even apologetics was beginning\". In his 1977 essay entitled \"Zeitgeschichte im Wandel der Interpretationen\" published in the \"Historische Zeitschrift\" journal, Bracher argued that the student protests of the late 1960s had resulted in a \"Marxist renaissance\" with the \"New Left\" exercising increasing control over the university curricula. Through Bracher felt that some of the resulting work was of value, too much of the resulting publications were in his opinion executed with \"crude weapons\" in which \"the ideological struggle was carried out on the back and in the name of scholarship\" with a corrosive effect on academic standards. Bracher wrote the student protests of the late 1960s had \"politicized and often...objectionably distorted\" the work of historians. In his 1978 book \"Schlüsselwörter in der Geschichte\", Bracher warned of the \"totalitarian temptation\" which he associated with the New Left, above all with the Red Army Faction terrorist group was a serious threat to West German democracy, and called upon scholars to do their part to combat such trends before it was too late. Bracher warned against \"Peace\" and \"Green\" movements operating outside of the political system offering a radical version of an alternative utopian system which he warned if the crisis in confidence in democracy continued could lead to a gradual undermining of democracy in Germany. In their turn, elements of the West German Left attacked Bracher as a neo-Nazi and branded him an \"American stooge\". In particular, Bracher warned of the \"tendency, through theorizing and ideologizing alienation from the history of persons and events, to show and put into effect as the dominant leading theme the contemporary criticism of capitalism and democracy\". Along the same lines, Bracher criticized the return to what he regarded as the crude Comintern theories of the 1920-1930s which labeled democracy as a form of \"late capitalist\" and \"late bourgeois\" rule, and of the New Left practice of referring to the Federal Republic as a \"restorative\" Nazi state.\n\nIn the introduction to his 1982 book \"Zeit der Ideologien\" (\"Age of Ideologies\"), Bracher wrote: \"When the realization of high-pitched political expectations was found to come up against certain limits, there was a revival of the confrontation, especially painful in Germany and one that was generally believed to have been overcome\". Bracher attacked Communism under the grounds that its claim to have \"scientifically\" worked out the laws of history was the source of \"its great strength vis-à-vis supporters and sympathizers but also its extremely intolerant and coercive character.” Bracher wrote: “Communist policies are something mystical, something surpassing the rational capability of the individual, something fully accessible only to the collective and its leadership,” which promoted itself as “an exclusively informed elite.” As part of his critique of Communism, Bracher wrote:\"No limits were to that elite’s supranational competence…. It is this moral and intellectual totalitarianism pseudo-scientifically justified and politically enforced, that represents both the strength and the weakness of communist ideology. It was able to bring salvation from doubts in a modern complex world, but it was bound, time and again, to come into conflict with the facts of that complexity.”\n\nDuring the \"Historikerstreit\" (Historians' Dispute) of the 1986–88, Bracher argued in a letter to the editor of \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" published on 6 September 1986 that nothing new was being presented by either side. Bracher wrote that he approved of Joachim Fest's essay “Encumbered Remembrance“ about the moral equivalence of Nazi and Communist crimes, through he remained pointly silent about Fest's support for the theory of Ernst Nolte of a “casual nexus” with German National Socialism as an extreme, but understandable response to Soviet Communism. Bracher argued that \"...the \"totalitarian\" force of these two ideologies [Communism and National Socialism] seized the whole human and seduced and enslaved him\". Bracher accused both Jürgen Habermas and Ernst Nolte of both \"...tabooing the concept of totalitarianism and inflating the formula of fascism\". Bracher complained about the \"politically polarized\" dispute that was blinding historians to the \"comparability\" of Communism and National Socialism Bracher ended his letter by writing that neither National Socialism nor Communism lost none of \"...their respective \"singular\" inhumanity by comparisons. Neither a national nor a socialist apologetic can be supported on that basis\".\n\nIn the \"Historikerstreit\", Bracher mostly stayed on the sidelines, and took a pox-on-both-houses approach. Writing on 14 March 1987, Bracher stated he regarded the \"Historikerstreit\" as typical of the \"Doppelbödigkeit\" (ambiguities) that Germans felt towards their recent history. Bracher argued that the Federal Republic was one of two rival German states competing for the loyalty of the German people, the successor state to two regimes that failed, and inhabited by two generations with different memories of the past. Bracher wrote that for Germans: \"The present dispute concerns not only the orientation and the meaning of a totalitarian \"past\", which is not easy to historicize, but does not simply pass away despite temporal distance\". Bracher argued that given the \"burden of the past\", West Germany could all too easily slide into dictatorship Bracher saw the major threat to West German democracy as coming from the left. Bracher accused the peace and Green movements as hovering \"in the borderline between democracy and dictatorship\", and warned that the radical left-peace-Green movements could easily become the instruments of a \"pseudo-religious concepts of salvation\" that would lead to a return to totalitarianism in West Germany. Bracher claimed that the situation in the late 1980s was the same as in the late 1960s \"when we critics of an all-too-general concept of fascism were opposed by a front from Nolte via Habermas to the extraparliamentary opposition\".\n\nLater in the 1980s, Bracher defined totalitarianism as any state system that featured absolute ideology that allowed no rivals; a mass movement that was hierarchically organized and under state control; control of the media; and state control of the economy. Moreover, Bracher contended that totalitarianism was not just a product of the interwar period, but instead very much a product of modern times with modern technology allowing for greater possibilities for totalitarian control of society than what existed in the 1920s, 30s and 40s. Bracher argued that the essential divining line in the world today was not between left and right or between socialism and capitalism, but between dictatorship and democracy. Bracher criticized those left-wing intellectuals who damned democracies like the United States as for being capitalist while praising those dictatorships that were “progressive” like Communist Cuba as holding morally dishonest values.\n\nBracher emerged as one of the first proponents of the idea of the Federal Republic as a \"post-national democracy\" or what become known as \"constitutional patriotism\", a new definition of what it meant to be German. Bracher argued that in the aftermath of the Third Reich, the traditional German nationalism based on a \"blood-and-soil\" ideology that defined \"Deutschtum\" (Germanness) in racial terms was too morally compromised by its association with Nazism, and the values promoted by the old Prussian-Imperial \"Obrigkeitsstaat\" (authoritarian state) were not suitable for a democratic society, thus requiring something new. Instead, Bracher called for a new German nationalism that defined itself in terms of its commitment to democracy and made upholding the humanist values of the 1949 Basic Law (the constitution) the centerpiece of what it meant to be German. Bracher argued contra the traditional \"national patriotism\" with loyalty to the nation that with \"constitutional patriotism\" the primary loyalty of Germans was to be towards the Basic Law and its values, creating a new sense of German national identity based upon a sense of loyalty to the Basic Law that would to apply to all regardless of sex, religion, skin color or ethnicity. Many supporters of \"national patriotism\" like the historian Hagen Schulze argued Bracher's \"constitutional patriotism\" was too dry and abstract, maintaining that Germans needed a stronger glue than loyalty to the Basic Law to have a sustainable sense of national identity, thus requiring loyalty to the nation. In the 1970s–80s, Bracher published a series of essays calling for \"constitutional patriotism\" and a \"post-national democracy\" that redefined \"Deutschtum\" in terms of republican belonging to a democratic state and rejected the old definitions of the nation-state. Such was the success of Bracher's efforts that many younger Germans starting in the 1980s embraced his idea of \"constitutional patriotism\" as a way of affirming one's pride in being German. In 1989–1990, Bracher welcomed the fall of the East German dictatorship and German reunification. Bracher did not feel the East German SED dictatorship was morally equivalent to the Nazi regime, but he argued that the memory of how awful the Communist regime in East Germany should be preserved to prevent any return to Communism.\n\nIn the 1990s, Bracher argued that through the prospects of democracy against totalitarianism had much improved, he warned that this was no time for triumphalism. In 1992, Bracher wrote that democracy is a state \"of self-limitation and insight into the imperfection of man, just as dictatorship is the rule of man's ideological arrogance.\" Bracher contended that through there were better chances for democracy in the post-1989 world then was in the \"short 20th century\" of 1914–89, there only was the hard work of building and maintaining a civil society ahead for the world, and this task could never be completed. In his 1992 book \"Turning Points in Modern Times\" Bracher attacked Nolte for his claims that German National Socialism was merely a “mirror image” of the Soviet Union. Bracher wrote that Nolte's work “trivializes” the vicious racism that Bracher stated was at the heart of National Socialism by suggesting that it was just a \"copy\" of Soviet Communism and thus not as evil as the Soviet original. In a 2003 interview with the \"Der Spiegel\" newsmagazine, Bracher was highly critical of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder’s opposition to the Iraq war, and warned against using anti-Americanism to win elections as potentially damaging Germany’s relations with the United States, a development that Bracher much deplored”. He died on 19 September 2016 at the age of 94. The American historian Jeffrey Herf wrote in an obituary: \"The complaints about democracy and liberalism that Bracher examined in \"The German Dictatorship\" find echoes in our own time. Our institutions are far more stable than those of the Weimar Republic, but the appeal of authoritarianism and conspiracy-theorizing is growing in Western politics. Therefore Bracher’s work on how democracy was destroyed in Germany in the 1930s remains uncomfortably relevant. Moreover, the era of totalitarian ideology and politics did not end with the collapse of Communism in Europe. Using Bracher’s criteria, it continues, most importantly in the Islamist movements that have fueled the terrorism of recent decades. Totalitarianism has changed both its geographical location and its cultural coordinates, but in its inhumanity and irrationality it merits comparison with its 20th-century predecessors. Here, too, Karl Bracher’s work will remain important for years to come both for historians of the Nazi and Communist dictatorships and for advocates of liberal democracy in a world that faces multiple illiberal challenges.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961046", "title": "Testimony of integrity", "text": "Testimony of integrity\n\nTestimony to integrity and truth refers to the way many members of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) testify or \"bear witness\" to their belief that one should live a life that is true to God, true to oneself, and true to others. To Friends, the concept of integrity includes personal wholeness and consistency as well as honesty and fair dealings. From personal and inward integrity flow the outward signs of integrity, which include honesty and fairness. It is not only about telling the truth but also about applying ultimate truth to each situation. For example, Friends (Quakers) believe that integrity requires avoiding statements that are technically true but misleading.\n\nThe word testimony is used to refer to the ways in which Friends \"testify\" or \"bear witness\" to their faith in their everyday lives. In this context, the word testimony refers not to Friends' underlying beliefs about truth and integrity but their committed action to promote and act in truthful and integral ways, which arises out of their beliefs.\n\nAlso known as the Testimony of Truth, or Truth Testimony, the essence of the Testimony of Integrity is placing God at the center of one's life. To Friends, integrity is in choosing to follow the leading of the Spirit despite the challenges and urges to do otherwise.\n\nThat testimony has led to Friends having a reputation for being honest and fair in their dealings with others. It has led them to give proper credit to others for their contributions and to accept responsibility for their own actions. In those legal systems, if it is allowed, rather than swearing oaths in a court of law, Friends prefer to affirm. In England, that has been the case since 1695.\n\nAmong some early Friends, the testimony led them to refuse to participate in drama, and they stated that to pretend they were someone else was to deny their integrity.\n\nEarly Friends believed that an important part of Jesus' message was how we treat our fellow human beings. They felt that honest dealing with others meant more than avoiding direct lies. Friends continue to believe that it is important not to mislead others, even if the words used are all technically truthful. Early Friends refused to swear oaths, even in courtrooms, believing that one must speak truth at all times, and the act of swearing to it implied different standards of truth with and without oaths. That doctrine is attributed to Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount (specifically Matthew 5:-).\n\nSome Friends have accepted the use of \"affirmations\" rather than oaths, believing that \"taking oaths implies a double standard of truth\".\n\nThe essence of testimony to integrity is placing God at the center of one's life. Quakers believe that the Spirit is in everyone. Integrity means focusing and spending time listening to the small voice of the Spirit and being open to being led by it, whether the Spirit is speaking within oneself or through another.\n\nGiving testimony to truth and integrity also means refusing to place things other than God at the center of one's life, whether one's own self, possessions, the regard of others, belief in principles (such as rationality, progress, or justice) or something else. It is the understanding that even good things are no longer good when they supplant God as one's center.\n\nOn the other hand, some Quakers believe that to put integrity and efforts to build it at the center of one's life to put God at the center of one's life.\n\nSince early in the foundation of the Religious Society of Friends, Quakers have refused to take oaths - they say simply “yea” or “nay” to questions rather than swearing or taking an oath. They recognized the truth of Jesus’s teaching (Matthew 5:34-37) that swearing is often a way to avoid telling the truth while appearing to do so. A person’s word should be accepted based on his or her reputation for truth-telling rather than on his or her taking an oath or swearing to tell the truth. This was embodied in their quote \"let your yea be yea and your nay be nay\", from .\n\nLater, when many Quakers became successful in business (such as Cadbury, Rowntree, Fry, etc.), they set a fixed price for goods on sale rather than setting a high price and haggling over it with the buyer. Quakers believed that it is dishonest to set an unfair price to begin with. By having fair fixed prices, Quakers soon developed a reputation as honest businessmen, and many people came to trust them in trading and in banking. Thus, the Quaker name or image was adopted by business ventures of non-Quakers, such as oats and oil companies, to imply their fair dealing in price and quality. \n\nOther examples of ways in which Friends \"testify\" or \"bear witness\" to truth and integrity include such practices as:\n\n"}
{"id": "1961047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961047", "title": "Zoropsidae", "text": "Zoropsidae\n\nZoropsidae, also known as false wolf spiders for their physical similarity to wolf spiders, is a family of cribellate araneomorph spiders first described by Philipp Bertkau in 1882. They can be distinguished from wolf spiders by their two rows of eyes that are more equal in size than those of Lycosidae. \n\nThe family Tengellidae and Zorocratidae is now included in Zoropsidae.\n\n, the World Spider Catalog accepts the following genera:\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1961054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961054", "title": "Hydrogenase", "text": "Hydrogenase\n\nA hydrogenase is an enzyme that catalyses the reversible oxidation of molecular hydrogen (H), as shown below:\n\nHydrogen uptake () is coupled to the reduction of electron acceptors such as oxygen, nitrate, sulfate, carbon dioxide (), and fumarate. On the other hand, proton reduction () is coupled to the oxidation of electron donors such as ferredoxin (FNR), and serves to dispose excess electrons in cells (essential in pyruvate fermentation). Both low-molecular weight compounds and proteins such as FNRs, cytochrome \"c\", and cytochrome \"c\" can act as physiological electron donors or acceptors for hydrogenases.\n\nIt has been estimated that 99% of all organisms utilize dihydrogen, H. Most of these species are microbes and their ability to use H as a metabolite arises from the expression of H metalloenzymes known as hydrogenases. Hydrogenases are sub-classified into three different types based on the active site metal content: iron-iron hydrogenase, nickel-iron hydrogenase, and iron hydrogenase. \nAll hydrogenases catalyze reversible H uptake, but while the [FeFe] and [NiFe] hydrogenases are true redox catalysts, driving H oxidation and proton (H) reduction (equation ), the [Fe] hydrogenases catalyze the reversible heterolytic cleavage of H shown by reaction ().\n\nUntil 2004, the [Fe]-only hydrogenase was believed to be \"metal-free\". Then, Thauer \"et al.\" showed that the metal-free hydrogenases in fact contain iron atom in its active site. As a result, those enzymes previously classified as \"metal-free\" are now named [Fe]-only hydrogenases. This protein contains only a mononuclear Fe active site and no iron-sulfur clusters, in contrast to the [FeFe] hydrogenases. [NiFe] and [FeFe] hydrogenases have some common features in their structures: Each enzyme has an active site and a few Fe-S clusters that are buried in protein. The active site, which is believed to be the place where catalysis takes place, is also a metallocluster, and each metal is coordinated by carbon monoxide (CO) and cyanide (CN) ligands.\n\nThe [NiFe] hydrogenases are heterodimeric proteins consisting of small (S) and large (L) subunits. The small subunit contains three iron-sulfur clusters while the large subunit contains the active site, a nickel-iron centre which is connected to the solvent by a molecular tunnel. In some [NiFe] hydrogenases, one of the Ni-bound cysteine residues is replaced by selenocysteine. On the basis of sequence similarity, however, the [NiFe] and [NiFeSe] hydrogenases should be considered a single superfamily.\nTo date, periplasmic, cytoplasmic, and cytoplasmic membrane-bound hydrogenases have been found. The [NiFe] hydrogenases, when isolated, are found to catalyse both H evolution and uptake, with low-potential multihaem cytochromes such as cytochrome \"c\" acting as either electron donors or acceptors, depending on their oxidation state. Generally speaking, however, [NiFe] hydrogenases are more active in oxidizing H. A wide spectrum of H affinities have also been observed in H-oxidizing hydrogenases.\n\nLike [FeFe] hydrogenases, [NiFe] hydrogenases are known to be usually deactivated by molecular oxygen (O). Hydrogenase from \"Ralstonia eutropha\", and several other so-called Knallgas-bacteria, were found to be oxygen-tolerant. The soluble [NiFe] hydrogenase from \"Ralstonia eutropha\" H16 be conveniently produced on heterotrophic growth media. This finding increased hope that hydrogenases can be used in photosynthetic production of molecular hydrogen via splitting water.\n\nThe hydrogenases containing a di-iron center with a bridging dithiolate cofactor are called [FeFe] hydrogenases. Three families of [FeFe] hydrogenases are recognized:\n\nIn contrast to [NiFe] hydrogenases, [FeFe] hydrogenases are generally more active in production of molecular hydrogen. Turnover frequency (TOF) in the order of 10,000 s have been reported in literature for [FeFe] hydrogenases from \"Clostridium pasteurianum\". This has led to intense research focusing on use of [FeFe] hydrogenase for sustainable production of H.\n\nThe active site of the diiron hydrogenase is known as the H-cluster. The H-cluster consists of a [4Fe4S] cubane shaped structure, coupled to the low valent diiron co-factor by a cysteine derived thiol. The diiron co-factor includes two iron atoms, connected by a bridging aza-dithiolate ligand (-SCH-NH-CHS-, adt), the iron atoms are coordinated by carbonyl and cyanide ligands.\n\n5,10-methenyltetrahydromethanopterin hydrogenase (EC 1.12.98.2) found in methanogenic Archaea contains neither nickel nor iron-sulfur clusters but an iron-containing cofactor that was recently characterized by X-ray diffraction.\n\nUnlike the other two types, [Fe]-only hydrogenases are found only in some hydrogenotrophic methanogenic archaea. They also feature a fundamentally different enzymatic mechanism in terms of redox partners and how electrons are delivered to the active site. In [NiFe] and [FeFe] hydrogenases, electrons travel through a series of metallorganic clusters that comprise a long distance; the active site structures remain unchanged during the whole process. In [Fe]-only hydrogenases, however, electrons are directly delivered to the active site via a short distance. Methenyl-H4MPT, a cofactor, directly accepts the hydride from H in the process. [Fe]-only hydrogenase is also known as H-forming methylenetetrahydromethanopterin (methylene-H4MPT) dehydrogenase, because its function is the reversible reduction of methenyl-H4MPT to methylene-H4MPT. The hydrogenation of a methenyl-H4MPT+ occurs instead of H oxidation/production, which is the case for the other two types of hydrogenases. While the exact mechanism of the catalysis is still under study, recent finding suggests that molecular hydrogen is first heterolytically cleaved by Fe(II), followed by transfer of hydride to the carbocation of the acceptor.\n\nThe molecular mechanism by which protons are converted into hydrogen molecules within hydrogenases is still under extensive study. One popular approach employs mutagenesis to elucidate roles of amino acids and/or ligands in different steps of catalysis such as intramolecular transport of substrates. For instance, Cornish et al. conducted mutagenesis studies and found out that four amino acids located along the putative channel connecting the active site and protein surface are critical to enzymatic function of [FeFe] hydrogenase from \"Clostridium pasteurianum\" (CpI). On the other hand, one can also rely on computational analysis and simulations. Nilsson Lill and Siegbahn have recently taken this approach in investigating the mechanism by which [NiFe] hydrogenases catalyze H cleavage. The two approaches are complementary and can benefit one another. In fact, Cao and Hall combined both approaches in developing the model that describes how hydrogen molecules are oxidized or produced within the active site of [FeFe] hydrogenases. While more research and experimental data are required to complete our understanding of the mechanism, these findings have allowed scientists to apply the knowledge in, e.g., building artificial catalysts mimicking active sites of hydrogenases.\n\nAssuming that the Earth's atmosphere was initially rich in hydrogen, scientists hypothesize that hydrogenases were evolved to generate energy from/as molecular H. Accordingly, hydrogenases can either help microorganisms to proliferate under such conditions, or to set up ecosystems empowered by H. Microbial communities driven by molecular hydrogen have, in fact, been found in deep-sea settings where other sources of energy from photosynthesis are not available. Based on these grounds, the primary role of hydrogenases are believed to be energy generation, and this can be sufficient to sustain an ecosystem.\n\nRecent studies have revealed other biological functions of hydrogenases. To begin with, bidirectional hydrogenases can also act as \"valves\" to control excess reducing equivalents, especially in photosynthetic microorganisms. Such a role makes hydrogenases play a vital role in anaerobic metabolism. Moreover, hydrogenases may also be involved in membrane-linked energy conservation through the generation of a transmembrane protonmotive force.There is a possibility that hydrogenases have been responsible for bioremediation of chlorinated compounds. Hydrogenases proficient in H uptake can help heavy metal contaminants to be recovered in intoxicated forms. These uptake hydrogenases have been recently discovered in pathogenic bacteria and parasites and are believed to be involved in their virulence.\n\nHydrogenases were first discovered in the 1930s, and they have since attracted interest from many researchers including inorganic chemists who have synthesized a variety of hydrogenase mimics. The soluble [NiFe] hydrogenase from \"Ralstonia eutropha\" H16 is a promising candidate enzyme for H-based biofuel application as it favours H oxidation and is relatively oxygen-tolerant. It can be produced on heterotrophic growth media and purified via anion exchange and size exclusion chromatography matrices. Understanding the catalytic mechanism of hydrogenase might help scientists design clean biological energy sources, such as algae, that produce hydrogen.\n\nVarious systems are capable of splitting water into O and H from incident sunlight. Likewise, numerous catalysts, either chemical or biological, can reduce the produced H into H. Different catalysts require unequal overpotential for this reduction reaction to take place. Hydrogenases are attractive since they require a relatively low overpotential. In fact, its catalytic activity is more effective than platinum, which is the best known catalyst for H evolution reaction. Among three different types of hydrogenases, [FeFe] hydrogenases is considered as a strong candidate for an integral part of the solar H production system since they offer an additional advantage of high TOF (over 9000 s).\n\nLow overpotential and high catalytic activity of [FeFe] hydrogenases are accompanied by high O sensitivity. It is necessary to engineer them O-tolerant for use in solar H production since O is a by-product of water splitting reaction. Past research efforts by various groups around the world have focused on understanding the mechanisms involved in O-inactivation of hydrogenases. For instance, Stripp et al. relied on protein film electrochemistry and discovered that O first converts into a reactive species at the active site of [FeFe] hydrogenases, and then damages its [4Fe-4S] domain. Cohen et al. investigated how oxygen can reach the active site that is buried inside the protein body by molecular dynamics simulation approach; their results indicate that O diffuses through mainly two pathways that are formed by enlargement of and interconnection between cavities during dynamic motion. These works, in combination with other reports, suggest that inactivation is governed by two phenomena: diffusion of O to the active site, and destructive modification of the active site.\n\nDespite these findings, research is still under progress for engineering oxygen tolerance in hydrogenases. While researchers have found oxygen-tolerant [NiFe] hydrogenases, they are only efficient in hydrogen uptake and not production. Bingham et al.’s recent success in engineering [FeFe] hydrogenase from \"clostridium pasteurianum\" was also limited to retained activity (during exposure to oxygen) for H consumption, only.\n\nTypical enzymatic biofuel cells involve the usage of enzymes as electrocatalysts at either both cathode and anode or at one electrode. In hydrogenase-based biofuel cells, hydrogenase enzymes are present at the anode for H oxidation.\n\nThe bidirectional or reversible reaction catalyzed by hydrogenase allows for the capture and storage of renewable energy as fuel with use on demand. This can be demonstrated through the chemical storage of electricity obtained from a renewable source (e.g. solar, wind, hydrothermal) as H during periods of low energy demands. When energy is desired, H can be oxidized to produce electricity.\n\nThis is one solution to the challenge in the development of technologies for the capture and storage of renewable energy as fuel with use on demand. The generation of electricity from H is comparable with the similar functionality of Platinum catalysts minus the catalyst poisoning, and thus is very efficient. In the case of H/O fuel cells, where the product is water, there is no production of greenhouse gases.\n\nhydrogen dehydrogenase (hydrogen:NAD oxidoreductase)\n\nhydrogen dehydrogenase (NADP) (hydrogen:NADPH oxidoreductase)\n\ncytochrome-\"c\" hydrogenase (hydrogen:ferricytochrome-\"c\" oxidoreductase)\n\n\nferredoxin hydrogenase (hydrogen:ferredoxin oxidoreductase)\n\ncoenzyme F hydrogenase (hydrogen:coenzyme F oxidoreductase)\n\nhydrogenase (acceptor) (hydrogen:acceptor oxidoreductase)\n\n5,10-methenyltetrahydromethanopterin hydrogenase (hydrogen:5,10-methenyltetrahydromethanopterin oxidoreductase)\n\n\"Methanosarcina\"-phenazine hydrogenase [hydrogen:2-(2,3-dihydropentaprenyloxy)phenazine oxidoreductase]\n\n"}
{"id": "1961063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961063", "title": "Waterman Hémisphère", "text": "Waterman Hémisphère\n\nThe Waterman Hémisphère is a pen introduced in 1994 by the French pen company, Waterman.\n\nThe Hémisphère is a light pen that has a cigar shaped barrel with a beveled top and usual Waterman clip. It comes in many colours (metallic, blue, green, red, cognac), a lacquer finish, or a brushed chrome or gold finish. The clip comes in chrome or 24-karat gold finish.\n"}
{"id": "1961084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961084", "title": "Boomerang (1992 film)", "text": "Boomerang (1992 film)\n\nBoomerang is a 1992 American romantic comedy film directed by Reginald Hudlin. The film stars Eddie Murphy as Marcus Graham, a hotshot advertising executive who also happens to be an insatiable womanizer and male chauvinist. When he meets his new boss, Jacqueline Broyer (Robin Givens), Marcus discovers that she is essentially a female version of himself, and realizes he is receiving the same treatment that he delivers to others. The film also features Halle Berry, David Alan Grier, Martin Lawrence, Grace Jones, and Chris Rock.\n\nMurphy assisted in developing the story with writers Barry W. Blaustein and David Sheffield, having worked with the writing duo since his days on \"Saturday Night Live\". Murphy hired Hudlin to direct \"Boomerang\", following the latter's success with his debut film \"House Party\" (1990). Hudlin and the writers aimed to create a romantic comedy that differed strongly from Murphy's previous comic efforts. Filming took place mainly in New York City, while other scenes were filmed in Washington, D.C\n\nThe film was released in the United States on July 1, 1992 and was the 18th highest-grossing film in North America that year. \"Boomerang\" earned over $131 million worldwide during its theatrical run. The film garnered nominations at the BMI Film & TV Awards and the MTV Movie Awards, while its soundtrack became a top-selling album. \"Entertainment Weekly\" called it an underrated classic and one of the best Eddie Murphy movies of the 1990s. A 2019 television series based on the film, also called \"Boomerang\", premiered on February 12, 2019 on BET.\n\nAdvertising executive Marcus Graham is a serial womanizer, prone to lying to seduce women but unwilling to commit until he finds the \"perfect woman\". His friends Tyler and Gerard tell him his standards are too high, particularly his habit of judging women by their feet.\n\nMarcus' company is acquired by cosmetics mogul Lady Eloise, who invites him to her home with amorous intentions; he spends the night with her, believing he will be promoted. The next day, he meets Jacqueline Boyer, who has been made head of his department instead. At a party to celebrate the merger, eccentric fashion diva Strangé is announced as the new face of the company, and Jacqueline introduces Marcus to colleague Angela Lewis, whom he sets up with Gerard. Though they get along fine, Angela and Gerard learn that they're better as friends.\n\nDespite his best efforts, Marcus is unable to woo Jacqueline. Over dinner at his apartment, she ignores his advances and is more interested in the basketball game on TV, leaving him frustrated. On a business trip to New Orleans, Jacqueline unexpectedly invites Marcus into her room, and they have sex. Afterward, he is relieved to find her feet up to his standards.\n\nMarcus begins to fall for Jacqueline, but finds himself on the receiving end of his usual tactics: she ignores his feelings, manipulates him with sex, and keeps their relationship strictly on her terms. Discovering she has bragged about their trysts to Strangé, whose advances he is forced to reject, Marcus confronts Jacqueline, and she ends their affair. Marcus finds himself the subject of office gossip, and his work begins to suffer. After a major business proposal is almost ruined, Jacqueline forces Marcus to take a few paid weeks off as an alternative to being fired.\n\nHe spends time with Angela, who tries to bring him out of his funk. After hosting Thanksgiving dinner with Tyler, Gerard, and Gerard's tactless parents, Marcus and Angela sleep together. Gerard is furious, believing Marcus will mistreat Angela like his past conquests. Marcus and Angela move in together, but she is hurt when he downplays their relationship in a phone call with Jacqueline. Marcus, having regained his confidence, proves newly attractive to Jacqueline, and they sleep together again. He returns home to Angela in the middle of the night, and when she confronts him in the morning, he explains that he is confused by his feelings for her and for Jacqueline. Angela breaks up with him and takes a promotion at another company. Marcus rebounds with Jacqueline, but realizes his love for Angela; he returns home to find she has moved out. Marcus reconciles with Gerard, and visits Angela at her new job, convincing her that he is truly committed to her, and they get back together.\n\nEddie Murphy created the original idea for the film, which he took to writers Barry Blaustein and David Sheffield, both of whom he had been working with during his days at \"Saturday Night Live\". After they finished the first draft of the script and were given the greenlight on the project, Murphy offered the directing job to Reginald Hudlin, who had previously found critical and commercial success with his debut film \"House Party\". For \"Boomerang\", Hudlin said that, from a creative standpoint, he really wanted to take Murphy \"somewhere where he's never been before,\" and that he and the writers' goal was to \"put Eddie through paces. To have him have an arc like most characters in movies do, where he's not just the Br'er Rabbit character starting trouble,\" and to put him in a situation that \"allows him to have a genuine obstacle.\"\n\nWoody Omens, the cinematographer of the film, was insisted upon by Murphy, who had previously worked with him on \"Harlem Nights\". Earl Watson worked as the film's main editor, and had previously worked with Hudlin on \"House Party\". Francine Jamison-Tanchuck worked as the film's costume designer.\n\nThe intention was to give Murphy's character Marcus Graham a cool, yet sophisticated style. \"So typically when it comes to black characters, either you have to be a successful, smart business person, or you're hip, but you're never both,\" said Hudlin. \"And one of the reasons why the movie has had such enduring popularity is because the character is both. He's much more in the Cary Grant mode of business person.\" While working on the characterization of the main character, Hudlin came up with the foot gag, which was used as a plot device to show the arc of the character's growth. It originated from a joke between the director and his friends about a man who's so picky about women that he even looks at their back teeth. \"So it's like, how do we define that Eddie's a back teeth kind of guy? So I came upon the idea of showing feet. That no matter how beautiful this woman is, if she has messed up feet, he's out of there.\" Also, Hudlin said that \"we know he's evolved into a higher level of consciousness when he doesn't even notice what Halle Berry's feet look like.\" The character Angela's art class was an idea the filmmakers had to put Murphy in a context where he could interact with kids, which he hadn't done prior to this film.\n\nThe cast rehearsed for two weeks before production started, which the director said \"really created that sense of team, and everyone playing off each other and everyone having that comfort level.\" Murphy even told Hudlin that he hadn't rehearsed since his days at \"SNL\", and that he was going to rehearse for all of his movies from then on.\n\nThe scene in which Marcus changes his mind while with Jacqueline was a major rewrite to the script. According to Hudlin, in the original draft, Eddie's character Marcus \n\nHudlin knew immediately that he wanted Halle Berry for the role of Angela after she came in and did the reading, and was nervous that Murphy wouldn't like her. Berry had appeared in a couple of films prior to being cast in \"Boomerang\". However, after Berry performed her screen test, Murphy told Hudlin \"well, that's it. There's no need to see the other two actresses because she's the part.\" Executives at Paramount Pictures were nervous about Robin Givens being cast in such a major role in the film, as she was disliked by many in the general public at the time because of her past relationship with Mike Tyson. Hudlin however, \"thought that actually made her perfect for the role, that she was this formidable person, and a match for Eddie Murphy, who also had an intrepid reputation as a ladies' man. So, I wanted the audience to feel like this would be a fair fight.\"\nDavid Alan Grier and Martin Lawrence were cast as Murphy's best friends in the film. At the time, Grier was well known for the show \"In Living Color\". About him, Hudlin said, \"I think he is an absolutely underrated genius. I think he is Steve Martin-level funny, and it's too bad more people don't know how to use his comic gift, because he is absolutely brilliant.\" Lawrence was brought on to the project after first working with Hudlin on \"House Party\", which was his first major role in a film. Bebe Drake-Massey and John Witherspoon had played a couple in \"House Party\", and were reunited for the film, this time playing the character Gerard's parents. Tisha Campbell also worked with Hudlin on \"House Party\", and was brought on board to play Murphy's obnoxious, and somewhat obsessive, neighbor. While on the set, Hudlin would always rave about Campbell and Lawrence, and Murphy suggested Hudlin do a film with the two of them. Lawrence, who was developing his television show at the time, overheard the two actors talking, and decided to cast Campbell as his girlfriend and later wife, Gina, for his hit sitcom \"Martin\".\nGrace Jones was cast in a role that was essentially written as a parody of herself. Of her work ethic, Hudlin said that \"she was always 100% committed, and would do the absolute craziest thing at any given time. She was absolutely perfect for the role. It was written for her, and she came in very humble, very sweet.\"\n\nEartha Kitt was the hardest person to cast for the film, as she was somewhat offended by her character's tone in the original script. Eventually she accepted the role, after some of the more tasteless jokes in the script were changed or removed. Hudlin however did say that \"she was great to work with,\" and that \"she really got into the spirit of it, and was a lot of fun.\"\n\nLela Rochon, who was known for her role in Murphy's 1989 film \"Harlem Nights\", was brought back for a small role in \"Boomerang\". Chris Rock, who was a protege of Murphy's, and had acted in small roles in a few other films at the time, was also given a bit part. The role of Lady Eloise's butler was played by Jonathan Hicks, a friend of the director's, who replaced a sick actor at the last minute. Hicks was a reporter for \"The New York Times\", not an actor, and took the role as a favor to Hudlin.\n\nThree of the actors in this film have starred in the James Bond 007 films. This includes Geoffrey Holder (Baron Samedi from the film \"Live and Let Die\"), Grace Jones (May Day from the film \"A View to a Kill\"), and Halle Berry (Giacinta \"Jinx\" Johnson from the film \"Die Another Day\").\n\nThe majority of the film was shot in New York City during the winter. Although it was very cold, the director said that it was still \"great to actually be in the city and get that authentic New York flavor.\" Most of the film was done on location as well. Interior scenes which took place at Marcus' workplace were shot in the old Univision building that had been repainted for production. The scene in Lady Eloise's bedroom was shot at the Boston Park Plaza, in a suite personally redesigned by Ivana Trump, which accounts for the unique styling. The scene of Strangé's introduction was filmed at the Winter Garden Atrium of Brookfield Place.\n\nAlthough director Hudlin was willing to let his actors improvise, there were boundaries and rules to it, so that the jokes wouldn't lead to nowhere. He explained that once the actors \"get a sense that someone will tell them if something doesn't work, or that we're getting too far afield, then they feel comfortable doing what they do. So, that's the balance that we struck.\"\n\nProduction went well, and as expected with so many comic actors and personalities around, was lively. During production, Hudlin said that whenever David Alan Grier and Martin Lawrence worked, the film's crew usually worked a little slower because wherever they were, there would be so much comedy being generated and they were so funny that everyone wanted to hang out near where they were throughout the day. In the scene where the new fragrance is being presented to Strangé, the director said that \"what Grace was doing on the set while we were shooting was so funny that I remember Halle crying off camera, cause she was trying to keep a straight face but she couldn't. So whenever she was off-camera, she would just be literally crying because she was laughing so hard. And fortunately, for her reaction shots she was able to recover.\"\n\nAn extra scene, involving Jones taking off her chain-metal dress which is ringing off the metal detectors and walking through them naked, was shot in Newark Airport. However, the filmmakers felt it to be too shocking, to the point where it threw the rhythm of the picture off, so they only used it in the small clip being edited for the perfume commercial.\n\nThe scene late in the film where Grier, Lawrence, and Murphy hug in front of the Empire State Building was shot around one or two o'clock in the morning, when the lights are usually shut off. If the filmmakers had them shut off at their command, it would have cost them $40,000–$60,000, so instead Hudlin had the three hug, and the lights were eventually shut off as usual. When editing the film, they simply reversed the footage to make it appear as if the lights were being turned on. The filmmakers even thought about ending the movie at this point, deciding instead to go with Marcus attempting to win back Angela's affection. For this, an alternate ending was shot where Angela is teaching the kids at the school and Marcus comes, talks to her and eventually wins her back; the filmmakers thought it was slow and uninteresting, and eventually came up with the released version.\n\nNear the production's end, some scenes that still needed to be shot were done in Washington, D.C., where Murphy was also shooting \"The Distinguished Gentleman\". Originally, some of the film was to take place in the Caribbean, and scenes were to be shot there. However, the setting was changed to New Orleans, and the scenes taking place there were shot in D.C.\n\nMarcus Miller produced the original score for the film, while Antonio \"L. A.\" Reid and Kenneth \"Babyface\" Edmonds worked on the soundtrack. With such a wealth of new material, director Hudlin said\n\nThe soundtrack album reached the number four spot on the \"Billboard\" 200, and number one on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. It included multiple singles that charted in their own right, the most successful of which was Boyz II Men's \"End of the Road\", which went to number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart, and stayed there for thirteen weeks, breaking Elvis Presley's previous record of eleven weeks with his version of \"Hound Dog\".\n\nThe production was very demanding, including an expensive wardrobe budget, which Hudlin felt was completely worth the price. \"The clothing in the movie is incredible, for both the men and the women. Eddie looks great, Robin and Halle look great. Great hair, great makeup work for all concerned, cause we wanted it to look fantastic. We wanted to give people a level of production value they hadn't seen for Eddie's first foray into true romantic comedy.\"\n\nFrançois Truffaut's \"Jules and Jim\" was an influence on the story arc between the characters Angela, Gerard and Marcus. Director Hudlin explained, \"I remember when I saw \"Jules and Jim\" when I was a kid, and that awkward, awkward feeling of two guys, one has a better time with girls than the other, and they both fall in love with the same woman. And I remember the agony of watching the emotional stakes of that picture. And, this is just a fun movie, not trying to compare myself to Truffaut on any level, but, at least, that's what inspired the moment.\"\n\nThe pacing and rhythm of Howard Hawks' \"His Girl Friday\" was a big influence on the pictures style. Woody Allen's \"Annie Hall\" was also very influential while Hudlin worked on the project because, according to Hudlin, \"if you talk about contemporary romantic comedy, you're really talking about \"Annie Hall\".\"\n\nOn its opening weekend, the film earned $13,640,706, and ranked number three at the box office. It also ranked number three the two following weekends. By the end of its theatrical run, the film had grossed over $70 million domestically, and $61 million outside of the U.S., making a total of $131,052,444. It was the 18th highest-grossing film in the US in 1992. Compared to its budget, the film was considered a success.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 44%, based on 34 reviews, and an average rating of 4.9/10. On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 45 out of 100, based on 19 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade A- on scale of A to F.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film and its stars positive reviews, calling the movie \"predictable but enjoyable all the same.\" In 2005, the film was ranked number 21 on BET's Top 25 Movies In the Last 25 Years list.\n\nIn retrospect, Kristen Baldwin from \"Entertainment Weekly\" said: \"Though it never received the critical appreciation it deserved, and it is often overlooked in discussions of the rom-com pantheon today, \"Boomerang\" still holds up 27 years later.\"\n\nAbout the critical response, Hudlin said: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961110", "title": "Caddo Public Schools (Louisiana)", "text": "Caddo Public Schools (Louisiana)\n\nCaddo Public Schools is a school district based in Shreveport, Louisiana, United States. The district serves all of Caddo Parish.\n\nIts founding superintendent was Clifton Ellis Byrd, a Virginia native, who assumed the chief administrative position in 1907 and continued until his death in 1926. C.E. Byrd High School, which was established in 1925 and is located on Line Avenue in Shreveport, bears his name.\n\nIn 1965, the board was sued by E. Edward Jones and his wife, Leslie, to compel, successfully, the desegregation of Caddo Parish public schools. Jones, a former Caddo Parish educator, was a pastor and civil rights figure in Shreveport, who from 1986 to 2003 was the president of the National Baptist Convention of America, Inc.\n\nA former Caddo Parish school superintendent, Walter C. Lee of Shreveport, was a long-term member of the elected Louisiana Board of Elementary and Secondary Education.\n\nIn 1970, the first three Republicans of the 20th century were elected to the Caddo Parish School Board, Joel B. Brown, E. L. \"Ed\" McGuire, and Billy Guin, later the last of the Shreveport municipal utility commissioners. Among those elected with Brown, McGuire, and Guin was Pike Hall, Jr., a Shreveport attorney who later served on the state appeal court and the Louisiana Supreme Court.\n\nAnother former board member, Mike Powell, was the District 6 state representative from 2004 to 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961117", "title": "Sade Baderinwa", "text": "Sade Baderinwa\n\nFolasade Olayinka Baderinwa (born April 14, 1969), known professionally as Sade Baderinwa ( ), is a broadcast journalist. Since 2003, she has been a news anchor at WABC-TV, the ABC flagship station in New York, and currently co-anchors the weekday 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. newscasts of \"Eyewitness News\" with Bill Ritter.\n\nBaderinwa was born to a Nigerian (Yoruba) father and a German mother. Her first name, \"Folasade\", means \"\"Honor confers a crown\"\". At the age of seven, her mother had no longer taken a part in her life and her father had returned to Africa, leaving her in the custody of a family friend. She was subsequently adopted by now-former WBAL-TV anchor, Edie House, with additional support from House's parents, in Baltimore. When Baderinwa was 12, her birth mother eventually took her in to live with her family in nearby Montgomery County. \n\nShe has since continued to maintain contact with her biological parents, as well as with her adoptive family.\n\nBaderinwa graduated from the University of Maryland, College Park's College of Agriculture and Natural Resources with a degree in agricultural business and resource economics.\n\nBaderinwa began her career as a production assistant for ABC News' various programs, including \"This Week With David Brinkley\", \"Nightline\", \"World News Tonight\", and News One. She went on to become a reporter trainee at WUSA-TV, the CBS affiliate in Washington, D.C., before becoming a reporter at WSLS-TV, the NBC affiliate in Roanoke, Virginia.\n\nBaderinwa joined WBAL-TV, the NBC affiliate in Baltimore, in February 2000. There, she anchored the morning and noon newscasts and also hosted a weekly community affairs show. \n\nIn 2003, Baderinwa joined WABC-TV as a reporter and anchor for the noon newscast of \"Eyewitness News\" before being promoted to anchor the 5 p.m. newscast with now-former co-anchor Diana Williams, who retired in 2019. She replaced Roz Abrams, who left WABC in 2003 to take over the 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. anchor duties at WCBS-TV, the CBS station in New York. \n\nOn July 23, 2004, while preparing a report on location in Hackensack, New Jersey about local flooding, she was struck by a hit and run driver who went through police lines. After multiple surgeries and months of recovery and physical therapy, Baderinwa returned to \"Eyewitness News\" on December 13, 2004, but continued receiving physical therapy five times a week following her return. The driver in the collision was never caught.\n\nIn May 2011, Baderinwa became co-anchor of the 11 p.m. newscast with Bill Ritter, replacing Liz Cho, who vacated the slot to anchor the new 4 p.m newscast, which debuted after the end of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\".\n\nOn October 27, 2006, Baderinwa appeared on \"The View\" as a guest co-host.\n\nShe has also been a regular moderator at the United Nations' celebration of International Women's Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961132", "title": "Treason Act 1351", "text": "Treason Act 1351\n\nThe Treason Act 1351 is an Act of the Parliament of England which codified and curtailed the common law offence of treason. No new offences were created by the statute. It is one of the earliest English statutes still in force, although it has been very significantly amended. It was extended to Ireland in 1495 and to Scotland in 1708. The Act was passed at Westminster in the Hilary term of 1351, in the 25th year of the reign of Edward III and was entitled \"A Declaration which Offences shall be adjudged Treason\". It was passed to clarify precisely what was treason, as the definition under common law had been expanded rapidly by the courts until its scope was controversially wide. The Act was last used to prosecute William Joyce in 1945 for collaborating with Germany in World War II.\n\nThe Act is still in force in the United Kingdom. It is also still in force in some former British colonies, including New South Wales. Like other laws of the time, it was written in Norman French.\n\nThe Act is the origin of the definition of treason in the United States (in ). Joseph Story wrote in his \"Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States\" that:\n\nUntil 1351 treason was defined by the common law. The king's judges gradually expanded the scope of treason under the pretext that any \"assortment of royal power,\" by which was meant doing anything which only the king (or his officers) could legally do, was considered treason – even hunting deer in the king's forests. When a John Gerberge of Royston was convicted of treason for falsely imprisoning someone who owed him £90, the barons compelled Edward III to agree to an Act of Parliament to restrict the definition of treason to definite limits.\n\nJoseph Story wrote: \"This statute has ever since remained the pole star of English jurisprudence upon this subject.\"\n\nThe Act distinguished two varieties of treason: high treason and petty treason (or \"petit\" treason), the first being disloyalty to the Sovereign, and the second being disloyalty to a subject. The practical distinction was the consequence of being convicted: for a high treason, the penalty was death by hanging, drawing and quartering (for a man) or drawing and burning (for a woman), and the traitor's property would escheat to the Crown; in the case of a petty treason the penalty was drawing and hanging without quartering, or burning without drawing; and property escheated only to the traitor's immediate lord.\n\nThe forfeiture provisions were repealed by the Forfeiture Act 1870, and the penalty was reduced to life imprisonment by the Crime and Disorder Act 1998.\n\nA person was guilty of high treason under the Act if they:\n\n\nThe penalty for counterfeiting coins was the same as for petty treason. The offence had previously been \"called\" petty treason, before the Act elevated it to high treason.\n\nUnder the Act petty treason was the murder of one's lawful superior: that is if a servant killed his master or his master's wife, a wife killed her husband or a clergyman killed his prelate. This offence was abolished in 1828.\n\nThe Act originally envisaged that further forms of treason would arise that would not be covered by the Act, so it legislated for this possibility. The words from \"Et si per cas\" onwards have been translated as:\n\nFollowing the union of England and Scotland by the Acts of Union 1707, Scotland continued to have its own treason laws until the Treason Act 1708 abolished Scottish treason law and extended English treason law to Scotland. This Act also made it treason to counterfeit the Great Seal of Scotland, and to kill the Scottish Lords of Session and Lords of Justiciary (in addition to forging the British – formerly English – seal, and killing English judges). However while in England and Ireland forgery of the seal of Great Britain ceased to be treason under the Forgery Act 1861, this Act did not apply to Scotland. Also, forging the Scottish seal is still treason in Scotland, but has not been treason in England or Ireland since 1861.\n\nThe 1351 Act still applies in Scotland today, and is a reserved matter which the Scottish Parliament has no power to modify.\n\nAlthough the first kind of treason is described as \"compassing,\" the offence does not consist of purely thinking. A subsequent clause which requires that an \"overt act\" must also be proven has been held by judges to apply to all kinds of treason.\n\nAdhering to \"enemies\" does not include adhering to rebels or pirates.\n\nDuring the trial of Roger Casement, who in 1916 was accused of collaborating with Germany during World War I, the defence argued that the Act applied only to activities carried out on British soil, while Casement had committed the acts of collaboration outside Britain. However, closer reading of the originally unpunctuated medieval document allowed for a broader interpretation, leading to the accusation by his supporters that Casement was \"hanged by a comma\". The court decided that a comma should be read in the text, crucially widening the sense so that \"in the realm or elsewhere\" meant where acts were done and not just where the \"King's enemies\" might be.\n\nThe clauses about forgery and counterfeiting were repealed in 1830 and 1832. The words from \"Et si per cas\" onwards were repealed by the Criminal Law Act 1967 and the Criminal Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1967.\n\nThe Act was repealed in the Republic of Ireland on 16 May 1983, and in New Zealand on 1 January 1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961137", "title": "List of school districts in Louisiana", "text": "List of school districts in Louisiana\n\nThis is a list of school districts in Louisiana.\nEach parish operates its own school district.\n\nThe following cities operate their own schools: Baker, Bogalusa, Central, Monroe, and Zachary.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961141", "title": "Georgian verb paradigm", "text": "Georgian verb paradigm\n\nFor non-native speakers, verb conjugation in Georgian remains a difficult subject even for those who have been studying the language for a while. This is because verbs in Georgian do not tend to conform to a \"universal\" conjugation system like in most European languages. \n\nThis article presupposes familiarity with Georgian grammar. In short, important factors to keep track of are the following:\n\n\nHere is a full conjugation of a verb with all persons in all screeves:\n\nVerb root\n\nშენ, \"shen\"; infinite form აშენება, \"asheneba\" (to build)\n\nPresent subseries\n\nThe thematic suffix -ებ, \"-eb\" is present, but without the preverb:\n\nFuture subseries\n\nThe preverb \"a-\" emerges:\n\nAorist series\n\nThe preverb is present; the thematic suffix is lost:\n\nPerfective series\n\nThe preverb is present; the thematic suffix is present (due to vowel in root). N.B. subject is marked with the \"m-\" set, and the verb form here assumes a 3rd person singular direct object:\n\nNotes\n\n¹ The imperfective screeve of class 1 verbs always takes the strong suffixal nominal marker -\"i\"\n\n² The present subjunctive screeve of class 1 verbs always takes the weak suffixal nominal marker -\"e\"\n\n³ Class 1 verbs which take the weak suffixal nominal marker in the aorist screeve, take the -\"o\"- nominal \nmarker in the optative screeve, and verbs which take the strong suffixal nominal marker in the aorist \nscreeve, take the -\"a\"- nominal marker in the optative screeve.\n\n† The perfective screeve of class 1 verbs always uses the -\"i\"- versioner.\n\n‡ The pluperfect and the perfect subjunctive screeves of class 1 verbs always employ the -\"e\"- versioner.\n\n\nBelow is a full conjugation of an intransitive verb:\n\nVerb root\n\n\"bad\"; infinite form \"dabadeba\" (to be born)\n\nThis verb exhibits the prefixal intransitive pattern; \"i-\" is placed immediately before the verb root in all series apart from the perfective.\n\nPresent subseries\n\nThe thematic suffix \"-eb\" is present, without the preverb:\n\nFuture subseries\n\nThe preverb \"da-\" emerges:\n\nAorist series\n\nThe preverb is present; the thematic suffix is lost:\n\nPerfective series\n\nFormation comprises the past participle (\"da-(v)-bad-eb-ul-i\"), followed by a form of the copula:\n\n\nFull conjugation follows:\n\nVerb root\n\n\"tamash\"; infinite form \"tamashob\" (to play)\n\nPresent subseries\n\nThe thematic suffix \"-ob\" is present:\n\nFuture subseries\n\nA type of preverb \"i-\" emerges, in combination with the thematic suffix \"-eb\" which replaces \"-ob\" (or any thematic suffix):\n\nAorist series\n\nBased on the future form with prefix, but with the loss of the thematic suffix:\n\nPerfect series\n\nThere is no preverb or thematic suffix; subjects are marked in the same way as in class 1 (i.e. with the \"m-\" set and appropriate formant vowels). The object (if present in context) is assumed to be 3rd person singular. N.B in this series, for some unknown reason, all screeves allow an optional \"-n-\" directly after the stem.\n\n\nThe verb paradigm follows. For simplicity, the verb form always assumes a 3rd person singular object:\n\nVerb root\n\n\"q'var\" - to love\n\nPresent subseries\n\nThe verb takes the 'subjective' versioniser \"i-\" in the 1st and 2nd persons, 'objective' \"u-\" in the 3rd person. Note the ending of the 2nd and 3rd person plural (subject) marker \"-t\" takes precedence over the 3rd person singular (object) marker \"-s\":\n\nFuture subseries\n\nHere the verb forms its screeves by using a pre-radical vowel \"e-\", and the thematic suffix \"-eb\", in a way similar to the class 2 verbs (but without the preverb):\n\nAorist series\n\nSince the verb does not have an aorist form, and uses the imperfect instead (as many other class 4 verbs), the aorist forms of \"shegiq'vardeba\" 'you'll fall in love with X' are substituted:\n\nPerfect series\n\nThis series is not especially consistent: the perfect screeve uses versionisers before the root, whereas the pluperfect and perfect subjunctive screeves take no versioniser. The series forms using the suffix \"-eb\", with \"-od\" as a further suffix in the pluperfect and perfect subjunctive screeves.\n\nN.B. It is important to bear in mind that each verb form given in the tables has a further five forms corresponding to the 1st and 2nd person singular direct objects, and the 1st, 2nd and 3rd person plural direct objects, giving a theoretical total of 396 bi-personal forms! In practice however these forms are not always distinct (for example the plurality of the 3rd person is not always present in the form). For further discussion, see 'Direct and indirect objects'.\n\n\nPreverbs in Georgian can either add directionality to a verb, or can change the meaning of the verb entirely. It is also important to use the appropriate versioner in each case.\n\nSince preverbs are absent in the present series, it is important to consider the role of the verb in the context of the entire sentence as the verb by itself could convey any meaning in the present screeves.\n\n"}
{"id": "1961190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961190", "title": "Jakers! The Adventures of Piggley Winks", "text": "Jakers! The Adventures of Piggley Winks\n\nJakers! The Adventures of Piggley Winks (or Jakers in Europe) is an American-British-Irish computer-animated children's television series. The series was broadcast in the United States on PBS Kids. It was also broadcast in Australia on ABC Kids.\n\nThe show chronicles the boyhood adventures of Piggley Winks, an anthropomorphic pig from Ireland, and how he relates these stories to his grandchildren as a grandfather in the present day.\n\nThe story takes place on Raloo Farm in Skryne, County Meath, Ireland, where show creators Francis and Denise Fitzpatrick live.\n\nThe word \"jakers\" was originally a euphemism for \"Jesus\" in much of Ireland during the 1950s and 1960s, and was an exclamation of surprise, delight, dismay, or alarm. Piggley and his father exclusively use it to express their delight when they discover something on their adventures.\n\nNotably, the show contains voice work by Joan Rivers and Mel Brooks.\n\n\"Jakers!\" takes place in two different settings, in two different time periods.\n\nIn the present time (the frame story), Piggley Winks lives in the United States (or Great Britain, according to different versions) and tells stories of his childhood in a rural area in the south of Ireland to his three grandchildren. In flashbacks, he is seen as a child, playing with his friends and going to school in rural Ireland in the mid-1950s. Most of the main characters are anthropomorphic animals—including Piggley and his family, who are all pigs. However, there are normal, non-anthropomorphic animals in the show as well.\n\nPiggley Winks lived with his parents Pádraig and Elly and his younger sister Molly at Raloo Farm in Ireland during the 1950s. His best friends are Dannan O'Mallard, a duck who lives in a hut by a pond with her rarely seen grandmother, and Fernando \"Ferny\" Toro, a young bull who lives with his widowed father, the Spanish blacksmith Don Toro in the village of Tara. Piggley's rival is the main antagonist, Hector McBadger.\n\nPiggley lives his everyday life on the farm as a normal child, going to school, helping his parents, taking care of his sister, and having adventures, almost always followed by his friends. He has always been interested in stories and legends, and his fertile mind and mischievous spirit put him in many unpredictable situations, like believing fairies turned Ferny into a bug, trying to hatch a supposed dragon's egg, using the Salmon of Knowledge to pass the school exam, and even trying to capture the legendary Fir Darrig.\n\nEach story also features a subplot featuring Wiley, the sheep (voiced by Mel Brooks). As the only sheep in the flock who can talk, he believes he is their natural leader, and tries to get the other sheep to do all kinds of different things (singing, racing, playing sports, acting, etc.), with varying degrees of success. He is later assisted by his mate, a female sheep named Shirley (in earlier seasons, Shirley had no lines, and in the episode \"Growing Pains\" gave birth to a lamb, later named Little Baa).\n\nA running gag on the show is that Wiley's subplot and Piggley's plot would collide (e.g. in \"Sheep on the Loose\", Wiley runs away and Piggley, as the shepherd, tries to find him).\n\nCommonSenseMedia explains that at the end of each episode there is a live-action segment, in which \"group of children talk about their own experiences and feelings, reflecting on what the episode has been about\".\n\nAn elderly Piggley lives with his daughter Ciara and her three children, the twins Seán and Séamus, and their older sister Meg. Whenever the children have a issue, Piggley tells them one of his childhood stories as a moral lesson. The grandchildren are able to identify exaggerations in his stories.\n\nThe original American accents of Ciara and her children have been dubbed with English accents for broadcast in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n\"Jakers! The Adventures Of Piggley Winks\" was shown on CBeebies and CBBC in United Kingdom from 2004 up until early 2011. It first aired in the United Kingdom on the CBBC Channel on September 6, 2004 and later was repeated on \nCBeebies from February 13, 2006 on the BBC One strand at 3:25pm. But it didn't air on the CBeebies Channel until March 19, 2007, when the scheduling of CBeebies was changing. and Qubo, PBS Kids, and Sprout in United States.\n\n9 Story Media Group currently distributes the series.\n\nCommonSenseMedia gave the show a rating of 4 stars out of 5, commenting \"The animation is lovely, the characters are amusing and cute, and the lessons are so gently presented that it really is a pleasure to learn them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961191", "title": "Chris Perry (American football)", "text": "Chris Perry (American football)\n\nRaymond Christopher Perry (born December 27, 1981) is a former American college and professional football player who was a running back in the National Football League (NFL) for five seasons during the mid-2000s. He played college football for the University of Michigan, and received All-American honors. He was chosen by the Cincinnati Bengals in the first round of the 2004 NFL Draft, and played his entire NFL career for the Bengals.\n\nPerry was born in Advance, North Carolina. He attended Fork Union Military Academy in Fork Union, Virginia, where he helped his team win multiple VISFA State Championships.\n\nPerry attended the University of Michigan, where he played for coach Lloyd Carr's Michigan Wolverines football team from 2000 to 2003. As a senior in 2003, he rushed for 1,674 yards and 18 touchdowns and finished fourth in Heisman Trophy voting and fourth in Michigan annals for rushing yards in a season. Perry was recognized as a consensus All-American, and also received the Doak Walker Award, given to the nation's top running back, was the Big Ten Conference rushing champion, and was named the Big Ten Conference MVP.\n\nPerry set a Michigan game record with 51 carries in a 27–20 win over Michigan State on November 1, 2003. He finished his career at Michigan fifth on the school's career rushing list with 3,696 yards and third in rushing touchdowns with 39.\n\nPerry was selected by the Cincinnati Bengals in the first round (26th overall) in the 2004 NFL Draft. He made his NFL debut at the Pittsburgh Steelers on October 3, but he played only two games in his rookie season with the Bengals due to injuries.\n\nPerry played in the 2005 season, complementing Pro Bowl running back Rudi Johnson. Perry finished the 2005 season with 279 rushing yards along with 51 receptions for 328 yards and two touchdowns. His 51 receptions were the most by a Bengals running back in one season since James Brooks caught 54 passes in 1986.\n\nPerry fractured his leg in the 11th game of the 2006 season, ending his season. On August 27, 2008, the Bengals cut running back Rudi Johnson from the team, solidifying Perry as the starter for the 2008 season. Perry was released after the season on April 27, 2009.\n\nIn the 2004 season, Perry played in only two games, starting neither of them. He ran the ball twice, gaining 1 yard, with a long of 1 yard and 0 touchdowns, for an average of 0.5 yds/carry. However, he caught three receptions for 33 yards, with a long of 13 yards and 0 touchdowns, for an average of 11 yds/reception. He never fumbled.\n\nIn 2005, he played in 14 games, only starting two. He rushed 61 times for 279 yards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961194", "title": "Richard Webster, 1st Viscount Alverstone", "text": "Richard Webster, 1st Viscount Alverstone\n\nRichard Everard Webster, 1st Viscount Alverstone, (22 December 1842 – 15 December 1915) was a British barrister, politician and judge who served in many high political and judicial offices.\n\nWebster was the second son of Thomas Webster QC. He was educated at King's College School and Charterhouse, and Trinity College, Cambridge. He was well known as an athlete in his earlier years, having represented his university in the first Inter-Varsity steeplechase and as a runner. As such, the Cambridge University Alverstone Club is named in his honour, and makes a pilgrimage to Alverstone, Isle of Wight, every 4 years.\n\nHis interest in cricket and foot-racing was maintained in later life. He refereed races for the early Amateur Athletic Club and set rules for long jump and shot put. He was President of Surrey County Cricket Club from 1895 until his death, and of the Marylebone Cricket Club in 1903.\n\nWebster was called to the bar in 1868, and became QC only ten years afterwards. His practice was chiefly in commercial, railway and patent cases until (June 1885) he was appointed Attorney-General in the Conservative Government in the exceptional circumstances of never having been Solicitor-general, and not at the time occupying a seat in parliament. He was elected for Launceston in the following month, and in November exchanged this seat for the Isle of Wight, which he continued to represent until his elevation to the House of Lords. Except under the brief Gladstone administration of 1886, and the Gladstone-Rosebery cabinet of 1892–1895, Sir Richard Webster was Attorney-General from 1885 to 1900.\n\nIn 1890 he was leading counsel for \"The Times\" in the Parnell inquiry; in 1893 he represented Great Britain in the Bering Sea arbitration; in 1898 he discharged the same function in the matter of the boundary between British Guiana and Venezuela.\n\nIn the House of Commons, and outside it, his political career was prominently associated with church work; and his speeches were distinguished for gravity and earnestness. In July 1885, he was made a Knight Bachelor. In December 1893, he was appointed to the Order of St Michael and St George as a Knight Grand Cross. In January 1900 he was created a Baronet, but in May the same year succeeded Sir Nathaniel Lindley as Master of the Rolls, being raised to the peerage as Baron Alverstone, of Alverstone in the County of Southampton and sworn of the Privy Council, and in October of the same year he was elevated to the office of Lord Chief Justice upon the death of Lord Russell of Killowen. He presided over some notable trials of the era including Hawley Harvey Crippen. Although popular, he was not considered an outstanding judge; one colleague wrote after his death that \"the reports will be searched in vain for judgments of his that are valuable\".\nHe received the honorary degree Doctor of Laws (LL.D.) from the University of Edinburgh in April 1902, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society later the same year. In late 1902 he was in South Africa as part of a commission looking into the use of martial law sentences during the Second Boer War.\n\nIn 1903 during the Alaska boundary dispute he was one of the members of the Boundary Commission. Against the wishes of the Canadians it was his swing vote that settled the matter, roughly splitting the disputed territory. As a result, he became extremely unpopular in Canada.\n\nHe retired in 1913, and was created Viscount Alverstone, of Alverstone, Isle of Wight in the County of Southampton.\n\nWebster married in 1872 Louisa Mary Calthrop, daughter of William Charles Calthrop. She died in March 1877. They had one son and one daughter. Their only son, the Honourable Arthur Harold Webster (1874–1902) died childless in August 1902, aged 28, after an operation for appendicitis. The Arthur Webster Hospital, opened in 1905, was presented to the town of Shanklin, Isle of Wight by Lord Alverstone in memory of his son. The building is still in use as the Arthur Webster Clinic.\n\nHe commissioned the architect Edward Blakeway I'Anson to build Winterfold House near Cranleigh in the Surrey Hills in 1886, in a classic late Victorian style, and laid out grounds with flowering trees and shrubs.\n\nLord Alverstone died at Cranleigh, Surrey, in December 1915, aged 72 and was buried at West Norwood Cemetery under a Celtic cross. His peerages became extinct on his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961195", "title": "Canadian Newsmaker of the Year", "text": "Canadian Newsmaker of the Year\n\nThe Canadian Newsmaker of the Year is a title awarded by The Canadian Press (CP) annually since 1946, based on a survey of editors and broadcasters across the country on which Canadian has had the most influence on the news in a given year. Canadian historian Chad Gaffield stated that the practice of recognising a newsmaker of the year was a return to the study of how history can be influenced by one person, rather than studying obscure people.\n\nThe honour is often granted to politicians, sometimes upwards of multiple times (10 for Pierre Trudeau and 9 for Lester Pearson), and though it is generally a positive acknowledgement, it is not guaranteed to be such. In 1999 a newsmaker of the century was chosen in place of a newsmaker of the year, with candidates having to meet the standard of \"lasting significance\". Voters gave a mix of compliments and criticisms to the winner, Pierre Trudeau, who responded by noting that he was \"at once surprised and quite pleased with the information.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1961201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961201", "title": "Christopher Williams (singer)", "text": "Christopher Williams (singer)\n\nChristopher Williams (born August 22, 1967) is an American singer–songwriter and actor. Williams, who emerged during the late 1980s as a recording artist for Geffen Records, has scored many R&B hit singles, notably \"Talk to Myself\" (1989), \"I'm Dreamin'\" (1991) and \"Every Little Thing U Do\" (1993).\n\nThe single \"I'm Dreamin'\", from the \"New Jack City\" soundtrack, became a No. 1 single on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks charts. After a six-year hiatus from recording music, he returned to the scene with \"Real Men Do\" on the indie label Renegade, in 2001. It received a glowing, flattering review in \"Ebony Magazine\" that summer. In between solo pursuits, he has been a contributor to Alex Bugnon's \"As Promised,\" with a smooth-jazz version of Mary J. Blige's \"All That I Can Say,\" featured on \"In Your World\" with Twista & The Speedknot Mobstas, a very up-tempo track on the soundtrack of \"Doctor Dolittle,\" and on the Cafe Soul All-Stars CD with a single titled \"Used To Be.\" Other soundtrack contributions include: \"Tha 2 of Us\" from the film \"Bulletproof\", \"Superhero\" from the film \"Butter\", \"Boom and the Bang\" (featuring R&B songstress Monifah) and \"I'm Yours\" from the soundtrack of the stage play \"Men Cry in the Dark\", and \"Stranger In My Life\" from the film \"Gunmen\". Additional collaborations throughout his career include: \"Round and Round\" and \"No Sunshine\" from the CD \"Phuture Flava\", \"Love You More Than Words Can Say\" from the CD \"Soul Blitz Allstars\", \"I Hope That We Can Be Together Soon\" (a duet with Miki Howard), \"You Are So Fine\" (a duet with Shae), \"Can't Wait To Be With You\" from the DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince release \"Code Red\", \"I Wanna B Ure Lover\" from the F.S. Effect release \"So Deep It's Bottomless\", and \"Sexual Healing\" (a duet with reggae dancehall queen Patra).\n\nWilliams appeared in the 1991 film \"New Jack City\" in the role of Kareem Akbar, one of Nino Brown's assistants. He also had a cameo appearance in the 1990s police drama \"New York Undercover\" as \"the singer,\" performing \"Stranger in My Life,\" in the episode titled \"The Shooter.\" He had another cameo in \"Gunmen\", starring Christopher Lambert and Mario Van Peebles, singing a song titled \"Stranger in My Life\". Williams has also starred or co-starred in several successful off-Broadway theatre productions during the 2000s, including \"A Good Man Is Hard to Find\", \"A House Is Not a Home\", \"Men Cry in the Dark,\" and \"The Man He Used to Be\". Recently, Williams played a main character in the stage play \"The Clean-up Woman\", written by JD Lawrence, alongside actresses Telma Hopkins and Jackée. Williams also appeared in the stage plays \"Guilty Until Proven Innocent\" starring K-Ci & JoJo, and \"The Man of Her Dreams\" starring Shirley Murdock and Dave Hollister of Blackstreet fame. Williams also played the role of \"Ned\" in the Reuben Rox 2002 B movie comedy/horror/thriller film \"Revenge of the Unhappy Campers\" (bootleg alternate title \"Night of the Unhappy Campers\"). This particular work has not been released to DVD for sale, though it can be rented in some larger markets.\n\nChristopher Williams was born August 22, 1967 in Bronx, New York. Williams is the nephew of jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald. Known for his passionate baritone voice, Williams has been called the \"Modern Teddy Pendergrass\"; he is praised till this day for \"sounding just like he did when he first hit the music scene\". Many are in awe as to how Williams has maintained such stellar vocals for thirty plus years. He attended Purchase College; now known as State University of New York in Harrison, New York. He is an actor, singer, songwriter, and producer. Williams is known for roles in New Jack City(1991), Bulletproof(1996), and Gunmen(1993). He is currently very active in theater productions and musicals. After releasing three albums, all of which charted on the Billboard 200, he took a break from recording from 1995-2001. Over the course of William's career, he has enjoyed four Top 10 hits on the U.S. R & B charts:\"Talk to Myself, Promises, I'm Dreamin, and Every Little Thing You Do\"\". Williams has a son, Christopher Jr, who was born in 1988, from a relationship with a stylist. Williams has another son Austin, who was born in 1991, with actress Stacey Dash. He also has a daughter, Cierra Barnes–Williams, born in 1993 from a relationship with Heather Barnes.\n\nFrom 1991 until mid–1992, Williams dated actress Halle Berry. After Halle Berry told interviewers that an abusive ex-boyfriend struck her so hard that she lost most of the hearing in her right ear, many people assumed that Williams was the unnamed ex-boyfriend. Williams defended himself to Eurweb, the entertainment news website, denying that he ever harmed Berry, and suggesting that Berry had been referring to actor Wesley Snipes. He said, \"The stuff they wrote about me and Halle was totally false. It's been said I busted her eardrum, and I'm tired of it. I never said it before but I'm so tired of people thinking I'm the guy who did it. Wesley busted her eardrum, not me.\"\n\nIn October, 2017 Williams was arrested and charged with misdemeanor theft, accused of stealing a $99 pair of JBL headphones from a Kohl's department store in McDonough, Georgia. Williams resp\n\n"}
{"id": "1961203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961203", "title": "United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories", "text": "United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories\n\nThe United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories is a list of places that the United Nations General Assembly deems to be \"non-self-governing\" and subject to the decolonization process. Chapter XI of the United Nations Charter embodies a \"Declaration on Non-Self-Governing Territories\" which declares that the interests of the occupants of dependent territories are paramount and requires member states of the United Nations in control of non-self-governing territories to submit annual information reports concerning the development of those territories. Since 1946, the General Assembly has maintained a list of non-self governing territories under member states' control. Since its inception, dozens of territories have been removed from the list, typically when they attained independence or internal self-government, while other territories have been added as new administering countries joined the United Nations or the General Assembly reassessed the status of certain territories.\n\nThe United Nations Charter contains a Declaration Concerning Non-Self-Governing Territories. In Chapter XI of said charter, the \"Declaration Regarding Non-Self-Governing Territories\", specifically the Article 73 point \"e\" in the Charter, it states that all member States agree to report to the United Nations, annually, on the development of non-self-governing territories under their control. or by vote of the General Assembly (as in the cases of Puerto Rico, Greenland, the Netherlands Antilles, and Suriname).\n\nThe list draws its origins from the period of colonialism and the Charter's concept of non-self-governing territories. As an increasing number of formerly colonized countries became UN members, the General Assembly increasingly asserted its authority to place additional territories on the List and repeatedly declared that only the General Assembly had the authority to authorize a territory's being removed from the list upon attainment of any status other than full independence. For example, when Portugal joined the United Nations it contended that it controlled no non-self-governing territories, claiming that areas such as Angola and Mozambique were an integral part of the Portuguese state, but the General Assembly rejected this position. Similarly, Western Sahara was added in 1963 when it was a Spanish colony. The same can be said about the situation of Namibia (removed upon its independence in 1990), which was seen, due to its former status as a League of Nations mandate territory, as a vestige of German colonial legacy in Africa. A set of criteria for determining whether a territory is to be considered \"non-self-governing\" was established in General Assembly Resolution 1541 (XV) of 1960.\nAlso in 1960, the General Assembly adopted , promulgating the \"Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples\", which declared that all remaining non-self-governing territories and trust territories were entitled to self-determination and independence. The following year, the General Assembly established the Special Committee on the Situation with Regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (sometimes referred to as the Special Committee on Decolonization, or the \"Committee of 24\" because for much of its history the committee was composed of 24 members), which reviews the situation in non-self-governing territories each year and reports to the General Assembly.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe list remains controversial for various reasons:\n\nOne reason for controversy is that the list includes some dependencies that have democratically chosen to maintain their current status, or have had a referendum in which there were not enough votes for a change of status, or in some cases (such as United States Virgin Islands) simply had an insufficient number of voters participate.\n\nGibraltar is a prime example of residents' preferences to retain the status quo. It is a largely self-governing British territory on the tip of the Iberian Peninsula whose territory is claimed by Spain. It has twice held a referendum to resolve its status. In the first referendum, held in 1967, the choices in the ballot were to retain their current status or to become part of Spain. The status quo was favoured by 12,138 votes to 44. In the second referendum, held in 2002, a proposal for a joint British–Spanish administration of the territory was voted down by 17,900 votes to 187. (The \"no\" vote accounted for more than 85% of Gibraltar's entire electorate). In neither case did the United Nations recognise the referendum: the 1967 referendum was declared to be in contravention of previous UN resolutions. The Spanish government does not recognize any right of the current Gibraltar inhabitants to self-determination, on the grounds that they are not the original population of the territory, but residents transferred by the colonial power, the United Kingdom.\n\nThe territory of Tokelau divides political opinion in New Zealand. In response to attempts at decolonizing Tokelau, New Zealand journalist Michael Field wrote in 2004: \"The UN ... is anxious to rid the world of the last remaining vestiges of colonialism by the end of the decade. It has a list of 16 territories around the world, virtually none of which wants to be independent to any degree.\" Field further notes that Patuki Isaako, who was head of Tokelau's government at the time of a UN seminar on decolonization in 2004, informed the United Nations that his country had no wish to be decolonized, and that Tokelauans had opposed the idea of decolonization ever since the first visit by UN officials in 1976.\n\nIn 2006, a UN-supervised referendum on decolonization was held in Tokelau, where 60.07% of voters supported the offer of self-government. However, the terms of the referendum required a two-thirds majority to vote in favor of self-government. A second referendum was held in 2007, in which 64.40% of Tokelauans supported self-government, falling short of the two-thirds majority by 16 votes. This led New Zealand politician and former diplomat John Hayes, on behalf of the National Party, to state that \"Tokelau did the right thing to resist pressure from [the New Zealand government] and the United Nations to pursue self-government\". In May 2008, the United Nations' Secretary General Ban Ki-moon urged colonial powers \"to complete the decolonization process in every one of the remaining 16 Non-Self-Governing Territories\". This led the \"New Zealand Herald\" to comment that the United Nations was \"apparently frustrated by two failed attempts to get Tokelau to vote for independence from New Zealand\".\n\nIn March 2013, the autonomous government of the Falkland Islands organised a referendum as to whether the territory should remain a British Overseas Territory. With a 92% turnout, 99.8% of Falkland Islanders voted to maintain that status; only three islanders favoured changing it.\n\nIn addition, some territories are financially dependent on their administering state.\n\nAnother criticism is that a number of the listed territories, such as Bermuda (see Politics of Bermuda), Falkland Islands and Gibraltar, consider themselves completely autonomous and self-governing, with the \"administering power\" retaining limited oversight over matters such as defence and diplomacy. In past years, there were ongoing disputes between some administering powers and the Decolonization Committee over whether territories such as pre-independence Brunei and the West Indies Associated States should still be considered \"non-self-governing\", particularly in instances where the administering country was prepared to grant full independence whenever the territory requested it. These disputes became moot as those territories eventually received full independence.\n\nTerritories that have achieved a status described by the administering countries as internally self-governing – such as Puerto Rico, the Netherlands Antilles, and the Cook Islands – have been removed from the list by vote of the General Assembly, often under pressure of the administering countries.\n\nSome territories that have been annexed and incorporated into the legal framework of the controlling state (such as the overseas departments of France) are considered by the UN to have been decolonized, since they then no longer constitute \"non-self-governing\" entities; their populations are assumed to have agreed to merge with the former parent state. However, in 1961, the General Assembly voted to end this treatment for the \"overseas provinces\" of Portugal such as Angola and Mozambique, which were active foci of United Nations attention until they attained independence in the mid-1970s.\n\nTerritories have also been removed for other reasons. In 1972, for example, Hong Kong (then administered by the United Kingdom) and Macau (then administered by Portugal) were removed from the list at the request of the People's Republic of China, which had just been recognized as holding China's seat at the United Nations due to the PRC's belief that their status should be resolved by bilateral negotiations.\n\nOn 2 December 1986, New Caledonia, an overseas territory of France, was reinstated on the list of non-self-governing territories, an action to which France objected. Within France it has had the status of a \"collectivité sui generis\", or a one-of-a-kind community, since 1999. Under the 1998 Nouméa Accord, its Territorial Congress has the right to call for a referendum on independence between 2014 and 2018. This referendum was held on 4 November 2018, with independence being rejected.\n\nFrench Polynesia was also reinstated on the list on 17 May 2013, in somewhat contentious circumstances. Having been re-elected President of French Polynesia in 2011 (leader of local government), Oscar Temaru asked for it to be re-inscribed on the list; it had been removed in 1947. (French Polynesia is categorised by France as an overseas country, in recognition of its self-governing status.) During the year 2012, Oscar Temaru engaged in intense lobbying with the micro-states of Oceania, many of which, the Solomon Islands, Nauru and Tuvalu, submitted to the UN General Assembly a draft of resolution to affirm \"the inalienable right of the population of French Polynesia to self-determination and independence\".\n\nOn 5 May 2013, Temaru's Union for Democracy party lost the legislative election to Gaston Flosse's pro-autonomy but anti-independence Tahoera'a Huiraatira party; obtaining only 11 seats against the party of Gaston Flosse, with 38 seats, and the autonomist party A Ti'a Porinetia with 8 seats.\n\nAt this stage, the United Nations General Assembly was due to discuss French Polynesia's re-inscription on the list twelve days later, in accordance with a motion tabled by the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu and Nauru. On 16 May, the Assembly of French Polynesia, with its new anti-independence majority, adopted a motion asking the United Nations not to restore the country to the list. On 17 May, despite French Polynesia's opposition, and France's, the country was restored to the list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. Temaru was present for the vote, on the final day of his mandate as President. The United Nations affirmed \"the inalienable right of the people of French Polynesia to self-determination and independence\".\n\nA few hours before the UN review of the resolution, during its first meeting, the new Territorial Assembly adopted by 46 votes to 10 a \"resolution\" expressing the desire of Polynesians to maintain their autonomy within the French Republic. In spite of this resolution adopted by the parties representing 70% of the Polynesian voters, the UN General Assembly inscribed French Polynesia on the list of the territories to be decolonized during its plenary assembly of 17 May 2013. France did not take part in this session while the United States, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom disassociated themselves from this resolution.\n\nAlso controversial are the criteria set down in 1960 to 1961 by the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1514 (XV), United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1541 (XV), Principle 12 of the Annex, and United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1654 (XVI) which only focused on colonies of the Western world, namely Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States. This list of administering states was not expanded afterwards.\n\nNevertheless, some of the 111 members who joined the UN after 1960 gained independence from countries not covered by Resolution 1541 and were themselves not classified as \"Non-Self-Governing Territories\" by the UN. Of these that joined the UN between 1960 and 2008, 11 were independent before 1960 and 71 were included on the list (some as a group). Twenty new UN countries resulted from breakup of Second World states: six were part of Yugoslavia, two were part of Czechoslovakia, and 12 were part of the Soviet Union (Ukraine and Belarus already had UN seats before the dissolution of the USSR, whose seat was reused by the Russian Federation without acceding anew). Out of the other nine, seven (mostly Arab) were colonies or protectorates of the \"Western\" countries, and one each was a non-self-governing part of Ethiopia (later independent Eritrea) and Pakistan (East Pakistan, later independent Bangladesh). Territories like Tibet (administered by China) and Siberia (or parts thereof; administered by the Soviet Union, later by Russia) have never been on the list. Western New Guinea (also known as West Papua) which ceded to Indonesia is also not on the list as well as Sarawak and Sabah which were handed to Malaya during its territorial expansion through the formation of Malaysia in 1963. In 2018, the government of Vanuatu is seeking international support to have West Papua added to the list in 2019.\n\nThe following 17 territories are currently included on the list.\n\nNotes\n\nThe following territories were originally by as Trust and Non-Self-Governing territory. The dates show the year of independence or other change in a territory's status which led to their removal from the list, after which information was no longer submitted to the United Nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961206", "title": "Round Table Conferences (India)", "text": "Round Table Conferences (India)\n\nThe three Round Table Conferences of 1930–32 were a series of peace conferences organized by the British Government and Indian political personalities to discuss constitutional reforms in India. These started in November 1930 and ended in December 1932. They were conducted as per the recommendation of Jinnah to Viceroy Lord Irwin and Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald, and by the report submitted by the Simon Commission in May 1930. Demands for Swaraj, or self-rule, in India had been growing increasingly strong. B. R. Ambedkar, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru, V. S. Srinivasa Sastri, Sir Muhammad Zafrulla Khan and Mirabehn are key participants from India. By the 1930s, many British politicians believed that India needed to move towards dominion status. However, there were significant disagreements between the Indian and the British political parties that the Conferences would not resolve. The key topic was about constitution and India which was mainly discussed in that conference. There were three Round Table Conferences from 1930 to 1932.\n\nThe Round Table Conference officially inaugurated by His Majesty George V on November 12, 1930 in Royal Gallery House of Lords at London and chaired by the Prime Minister. Ramsay MacDonald was also chairman of a subcommittee on minority representation, while for the duration his son, Malcolm MacDonald, performed liaison tasks with Lord Sankey's constitutional committee. One of the foremost advisers was Sir Malcolm Hailey, an Indian civil servant with thirty years experience. The leading Liberal on the committee, Lord Reading was \"well aware of the troubles which might arise if an when India became independent.\" Clement Attlee, who served on the Simon Commission, wanted an early resolution but was baulked by the Conservatives in government until 1945. Sir Samuel Hoare wrote the cabinet a memo recommending a federal formula for the Government of India to \"make it possible to give a semblance of responsible government and yet retain the realities and verities of British control.\" The idea was proposed by the princely states and other Liberal Indian leaders including Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru would welcome it. The minority Labour government hoped to win the support of Liberal and Conservative colleagues in parliament for a \"responsive\" Indian government at central and provincial levels and a conservative legislature.\n\nThe eight British political parties were represented by sixteen delegates. There were fifty-eight political leaders from British India and sixteen delegates from the princely states. In total 74 delegates from India attended the Conference. However, the Indian National Congress, along with Indian business leaders, kept away from the conference. Many of them were in jail for their participation in Civil Disobedience Movement. Lord Irwin made a controversial statement declaring that India should be eventually granted Dominionship. After a discussion in Delhi in December 1929, Gandhi had refused to attend the London meetings. In accordance with the law the Viceroy arrested Gandhi sending him to prison. However the Mahatma's presence would prove vital for the conference success. The culmination of events were settled by the Gandhi–Irwin Pact (1931). A chastised Gandhi wanted the peaceful end to civil disobedience demanded by the Viceroy and his Council. Lord Irwin was triumphant but the Simon Commission had failed to gauge the determination of Indian opinion to ultimately bring independence. The Conservatives were disgusted: \"the whole conference was manipulated and manoeuvred by the Socialist Party, said Churchill, \"to achieve the result they had set before themselves from the beginning, namely the conferring of responsible government at the centre upon Indians.\"\n\n\nThe conference started with six plenary meetings where delegates put forward their issues nine sub-committees were formed to deal with several different matters including federal structure, provincial constitution, province of Sindh and NWFP, defense services and minorities e.t.c. These were followed by discussions on the reports of the sub-committees on Federal Structure, Provincial Constitution, Minorities, Burma, North West Frontier Province, Franchise, Defense services and Sindh. These were followed by 2 more plenary meetings and a final concluding session. It was difficult for progress to be made in the absence of the Indian National Congress but some advances were made. The Prime Minister wrote his diary \"India has not considered. It was communalism and proportions of reserved seats\" that exposed the worst side of Indian politics.\n\nThe idea of an All-India Federation was moved to the centre of discussion by Tej Bahadur Sapru. All the groups attending the conference supported this concept. The princely states agreed to the proposed federation provided that their internal sovereignty was guaranteed. The Muslim League also supported the federation as it had always been opposed to a strong Centre. The British agreed that representative government should be introduced on provincial level.\n\nThe Congress, which had killed and boycotted the first conference, was requested to come to a settlement by Sapru, M. R. Jayakar and V. S. Srinivasa Sastri. A settlement between Mahatma Gandhi and Viceroy Lord Irwin not true the Congress to the second session of Round Table Conference, which opened on 7 September. Although MacDonald was still Prime Minister of Britain, he was by this time heading a coalition Government (the \"National Government\") with a Conservative majority, including Sir Samuel Hoare as a new Secretary of State for India. On 7 November 1931 Gandhi secretly met with Malcolm MacDonald in his rooms at Balliol College, Oxford. He took the opportunity to gain publicity from a tour of the East End and visit to Lancashire cotton mills, but could not persuade the government to grant self-rule: of more urgency was the gathering Agrarian Crisis and Congress newest campaign for a Fair rent.\n\nThe discussion led to the passing of the Government of India Act 1935, yet the Governor of United Provinces was happy to be rid of Gandhi's campaigns \"playing havoc with six or seven million tenants in the UP.\" When Nehru decried that the famine relief programme was pitiful, he was already asking for a kisan rent strike, and Patel called for a satyagraha. When quizzed in London about his intentions for the conference, Gandhi averred he could do nothing about agrarian problems from England. Little was achieved other than the Government realised they had to tackle absentee landlordism in India to avert disaster.\n\n\nThe second session opened on September 7, 1931. There were three major differences between the first and second Round Table Conferences. By the second:\n\n\nAt the end of the conference Ramsay MacDonald undertook to produce a Communal Award for minority representation, with the provision that any free agreement between the parties could be substituted for his award. \n\nGandhi took particular exception to the treatment of untouchables as a minority separate from the rest of the Hindu community. Other important discussions were the responsibility of the executive to the legislature and a separate electorate for the Untouchables as demanded by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar.\nGandhi announced that henceforth he would work only on behalf of the \"Harijans\": he reached a compromise with the leader of depressed classes, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar, over this issue; the two eventually resolved the situation with the Poona Pact of 1932. But not before the conference of All-India Depressed Classes had specifically 'denounced the claim made by Gandhi.'\n\nThe third and last session assembled on November 17, 1932. Only forty-six delegates attended since most of the main political figures of India were not present. The Labour Party from Britain and the Indian National Congress refused to attend.\n\nFrom September 1931 until March 1933, under the supervision of the Secretary of State for India, Sir Samuel Hoare, the proposed reforms took the form reflected in the Government of India Act 1935.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961207", "title": "Chickering &amp; Sons", "text": "Chickering &amp; Sons\n\nChickering & Sons was an American piano manufacturer located in Boston, Massachusetts, known for producing award-winning instruments of superb quality and design. The company was founded in 1823 by Jonas Chickering and James Stewart, but the partnership dissolved four years later. By 1830 Jonas Chickering became partners with John Mackay, manufacturing pianos as \"Chickering & Company\", and later \"Chickering & Mackays\" until the senior Mackay's death in 1841, and reorganized as \"Chickering & Sons\" in 1853. Chickering pianos continued to be made until 1983.\n\nIt was P.T. Barnum who persuaded Jenny Lind - the Swedish Nightingale - to make a concert tour of the United States. After her agreement, Barnum commissioned the Chickering company to manufacture a custom grand piano for her nationwide tour, ultimately involving 93 performances. The piano was completed by August 1850; Lind arrived in September and the concert series began in Boston. Her pianist was Otto Goldschmidt, whom she married at the end of her tour.\n\nCoincidentally, as the tour began, Henry E. Steinway (Steinweg) and his large family arrived in New York as immigrants from Germany. Henry attended the opening night of the NYC concert series but showed little interest in the diva. His profound interest was in the Chickering piano, to which he dashed for such careful examination that he nearly had to be hauled away so the concert could begin.\n\nOn December 1, 1852, a fire destroyed Chickering's piano factory located at 336 Washington Street in Boston. One policeman was killed. The walls of the building collapsed, and set adjoining structures on fire. A new factory was built in 1853-54 at 791 Tremont Street in Boston. From 1860-1868 space in the building was the location of the Spencer Repeating Rifle Company, who made over 100,000 rifles and carbines for the U.S. Army and sportsmen from 1862-1868. This structure still stands today. It was renovated into artist studios in 1972.\n\nJonas Chickering made several major contributions to the development of piano technology, most notably by introducing a one-piece, cast-iron plate to support the greater string tension of larger grand pianos. He also invented a new deflection of the strings, and in 1845 the first convenient method for over stringing in square pianos. Instead of setting the strings side by side, the company introduced substituting an arrangement of the string in two banks, one over the other. This not only saved space but brought the powerful bass strings directly over the most resonant part of the sound-board, a principle used to this day in the construction of all pianos, both grands and uprights.\n\nChickering was the largest piano manufacturer in the United States in the middle of the 19th century, but was surpassed in the 1860s by Steinway. In 1867, Jonas's son Frank Chickering had the Imperial Cross of the Legion of Honour, then one of the world's most prestigious non-military awards, bestowed upon him by Emperor Napoleon III for services to the art of music, one of more than 200 awards the piano manufacturer garnered over the years.\n\nThe company became in 1908 part of the American Piano Company (Ampico), and continued after the merger in 1932 of American with the Aeolian Company, to form Aeolian-American. That company went out of business in 1985, and the Chickering name continued to be applied to new pianos produced by Wurlitzer and then the Baldwin Piano Company.\n\nThe firm commissioned and operated several concert halls in Boston and New York:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961216", "title": "Lance Mitchell", "text": "Lance Mitchell\n\nLance Robert Mitchell (born October 9, 1981) is a former American football player. He was drafted in the fifth round of the 2005 NFL Draft by the Arizona Cardinals. He played college football at Oklahoma.\n\nIn his career, Mitchell also played for the Orlando Predators, and Arizona Rattlers.\n\nMitchell attended Los Banos High School, where he was a three-year starter and an All-State selection at both linebacker and Running back. As a senior, he averaged 9.6 yards-per-carry, rushed for more than 3,000 yards, and scored 36 touchdowns. His best game as a running back was 12 attempt, 250 yard performance, including six touchdowns.\n\nMitchell originally signed with the University of Florida, but the Southeastern Conference ruled him ineligible because an issue with his high school transcript. While in college, he majored in Sociology.\n\nMitchell attended San Francisco City College for two years and helped lead his team to a 24–0 record, two California state championships, and two JuCo Gridwire national championships. As a sophomore, he earned All-American honors and recorded five sacks, one interception, and 80 tackles.\n\nIn 2002, Mitchell transferred to the University of Oklahoma where he played his final three college seasons.\n\nIn his first season at Oklahoma, Mitchell started every game at middle linebacker. He led the team with 124 tackles (87 solos), four sacks, 20 tackles-for-losses, six passes defenses and four forced fumbles. He earned Second-team All-American (\"CNNSI\"), First-team All-Big 12 Conference, and Big Twelve Newcomer of the Year honors.\n\nIn 2003, Mitchell was off to a strong start, recording 17 tackles (13 solos) with two tackles-for-losses in the first two games. However, his season came to an early end after he tore the ACL in his left knee against Fresno State.\n\nAs a senior in 2004, Mitchell finished second on the team with 78 tackles (45 solo), two sacks, ten tackles-for-losses, four quarterback pressures, two fumble recoveries, a forced fumble and five passes defensed. For his performance, he earned consensus All-Big 12 Conference first-team honors.\n\nIn 29 games at Oklahoma, Mitchell recorded 219 tackles (145 solos) with six sacks, 32 tackles-for-losses, two fumble recoveries, five forced fumbles and eleven passes defensed. Despite playing just a little over two seasons at Oklahoma, his 32 tackles-for-losses rank fifth among Sooner linebackers in a career.\n\nMitchell was invited, and attended the 2005 NFL Combine. He was rated the 7th best Inside Linebacker out of 57, and was projected to be selected in the third to fourth rounds of the draft.\n\nMitchell was selected in the fifth round (168th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft by the Arizona Cardinals. As a rookie, he played in 12 games, recording eight tackles on defense, along with 14 special teams tackles. In 2006, he appeared in two preseason games for the Cardinals, however, he suffered an injury, and on September 5 was placed him on Injured Reserve. Then, just three days later, he and the Cardinals agreed on an injury settlement and he was released by the team.\n\nOn January 25, 2007, Mitchell signed with the Orlando Predators of the Arena Football League. For his rookie season, he started all 15 games he played in at linebacker. For the season he finished seventh on the team with 18.5 tackles, second on the team with 3.5 tackles-for-losses, and third on the team with two sacks. His performance for the season earned him AFL All-Rookie honors. However, he was not re-signed by the Predators and became a free agent.\n\nOn November 19, 2007, Mitchell signed with the Arizona Rattlers. Then on February 6, 2008, he refused to report to camp with the Rattlers. In turn, on September 10, he was waived by the Rattlers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1961219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961219", "title": "A. J. Casson", "text": "A. J. Casson\n\nAlfred Joseph Casson, (May 17, 1898 – February 20, 1992) was a member of the Canadian group of artists known as the Group of Seven. He joined the group in 1926 at the invitation of Franklin Carmichael. Casson is best known for his depictions of landscapes, forests and farms of southern Ontario, and for being the youngest member of the Group of Seven.\n\nAlfred was born in Toronto, Ontario, in 1898 to an English Quaker father and a Canadian mother. At age 9 he moved to Guelph and to Hamilton at age 14. The first exposure he had to art was at Hamilton Technical School, where he was asked by his teacher to demonstrate for the class. His father sent him to work at age 15 as an apprentice at a Hamilton lithography company. In 1915 the family moved back to Toronto. At the same time as working, he attended evening classes at Central Technical School. The first public exhibition of his work was at the Canadian National Exhibition, in 1917. He was hired by the commercial art/ engravers firm Brigden's, owned by George and Fredrick Brigden (brothers).\n\nIn 1919 Casson moved to Rous and Mann where he was influenced by and assistant to Group of Seven member Franklin Carmichael to sketch and paint on his own. Carmichael and Casson then moved on to the first Canadian silkscreen printing firm, Sampson, Matthews Ltd, founded by artist J. E. Sampson and businessman C. A. G. Matthews. Carmichael introduced Casson to The Arts and Letters Club of Toronto, where he met many well-known artists, including other Group of Seven members.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Casson continued to paint during his spare time alone and with the Group of Seven. Alfred enjoyed watercolour and in 1925 along with Carmichael and F. H. Brigden (Fredrick), founded the Canadian Society of Painters in Water Colour. After Frank Johnston, a Group of Seven member, left the group in 1921, Casson seemed like an appropriate replacement. Later in 1926, he was invited by Carmichael to become member of the Group of Seven. In the same year he also became an associate member of the most conservative Royal Canadian Academy. He and Carmichael left Rous and Mann Ltd. in 1926 to join Sampson Matthews . After Carmichael left in 1932 to teach at the Ontario College of Art, Casson became their Art Director and later their vice-president in 1946. In 1952, he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Honorary Corresponding member.\n\nIn 1924 Casson married Margaret Petry. His father died shortly after his marriage, and he had to take care of and support his widowed mother. After the ending of the Group of Seven in 1932, he co-founded the Canadian Group of Painters in 1933. Several members of the Group of Seven later became members of the Canadian Group of Painters including Lawren Harris, Arthur Lismer, A. Y. Jackson, and Franklin Carmichael.\n\nCasson developed a painting style with clear colours and background designs. Alfred \"retired\" in 1957 at age 60, to paint full-time.\n\nA. J. Casson died in 1992, just three months short of his 94th birthday, and is buried on the grounds of the McMichael Canadian Art Collection, along with six other Group of Seven members.\n\nA privately owned work of A. J. Casson's appeared on the May 26, 2008, airing of PBS's \"Antiques Roadshow.\" According to the owner, the painting was given to her grandfather by Casson, his friend and neighbor at the time. The work appraised in the $25,000 to $35,000 range. In 1954 he was one of eighteen Canadian artists commissioned by the Canadian Pacific Railway to paint a mural for the interior of one of the new Park cars entering service on the new \"Canadian\" transcontinental train. Each mural depicted a different national or provincial park; Casson's was Algonquin Provincial Park.\n\nA large oil on canvas by the Group of Seven's A. J. Casson, \"Street in Glen Williams\", sold for a record $542,800, including buyer's premium on June 1, 2010. The Casson – a leafy, autumnal portrait of Glen Williams, a small town near Toronto – carried a pre-sale estimate of $200,000–$250,000, the highest such valuation ever accorded a Casson canvas.\n\nCanadian art critic and historian Paul Duval wrote in 1980, \"\"Street in Glen Williams\" is unquestionably his key autumn portrayal.\" Bidding for \"Street in Glen Williams\" began at $180,000, then bounded in increments of $10,000, then $20,000 before reaching its hammer price of $460,000. The clinching bid came from a western Canadian buyer. The previous record for a Casson, $489,100, including premium, was also set by Joyner, in May 2005.\n\nOn Wednesday, November 23rd, 2016, A.J. Casson's \"Gathering Storm\" sold for $1,534,000 CDN (premium included). The highest amount paid for a Casson painting, to date. \n\n\n\n"}
