{"id": "1985034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985034", "title": "Relational psychoanalysis", "text": "Relational psychoanalysis\n\nRelational psychoanalysis is a school of psychoanalysis in the United States that emphasizes the role of real and imagined relationships with others in mental disorder and psychotherapy. 'Relational psychoanalysis is a relatively new and evolving school of psychoanalytic thought considered by its founders to represent a \"paradigm shift\" in psychoanalysis'.\n\nRelational psychoanalysis began in the 1980s as an attempt to integrate interpersonal psychoanalysis's emphasis on the detailed exploration of interpersonal interactions with British object relations theory's ideas about the psychological importance of internalized relationships with other people. Relationalists argue that personality emerges from the matrix of early formative relationships with parents and other figures. Philosophically, relational psychoanalysis is closely allied with social constructionism.\n\nAn important difference between relational theory and traditional psychoanalytic thought is in its theory of motivation, which would 'assign primary importance to real interpersonal relations, rather than to instinctual drives'. Freudian theory, with a few exceptions, proposes that human beings are motivated by sexual and aggressive drives. These drives are biologically rooted and innate. They are ultimately not shaped by experience.\n\nRelationalists, on the other hand, argue that the primary motivation of the psyche is to be in relationships with others. As a consequence early relationships, usually with primary caregivers, shape one's expectations about the way in which one's needs are met. Therefore, desires and urges cannot be separated from the relational contexts in which they arise; motivation is then seen as being determined by the systemic interaction of a person and his or her relational world. Individuals attempt to re-create these early learned relationships in ongoing relationships that may have little or nothing to do with those early relationships. This re-creation of relational patterns serves to satisfy the individuals' needs in a way that conforms with what they learned as infants. This re-creation is called an enactment.\n\nWhen treating patients, relational psychoanalysts stress a mixture of waiting and authentic spontaneity. Some relationally oriented psychoanalysts eschew the traditional Freudian emphasis on interpretation and free association, instead emphazing the importance of creating a lively, genuine relationship with the patient. However, many others place a great deal of importance on the Winnicottian concept of \"holding\" and are far more restrained in their approach, generally giving weight to well formulated interpretations made at what seems to be the proper time. Overall, relational analysts feel that psychotherapy works best when the therapist focuses on establishing a healing relationship with the patient, in addition to focusing on facilitating insight. They believe that in doing so, therapists break patients out of the repetitive patterns of relating to others that they believe maintain psychopathology. Noteworthy too is 'the emphasis relational psychoanalysis places on the mutual construction of meaning in the analytic relationship'.\n\nStephen A. Mitchell has been described as the \"most influential relational psychoanalyst\". His 1983 book, co-written with Jay Greenberg and called \"Object Relations in Psychoanalytic Theory\" is considered to be the first major work of relational psychoanalysis. Prior work especially by Sabina Spielrein in the 1910s to 1930s is often cited, particularly by Adrienne Harris and others who connect feminism with the field, but as part of the prior Freud/Jung/Spielrein tradition.\n\nOther important relational authors include Neil Altman, Lewis Aron, Hugo Bleichmar, Philip Bromberg, Nancy Chodorow, Susan Coates, Jody Davies, Emmanuel Ghent, Adrienne Harris, Irwin Hirsch, Irwin Z. Hoffman, Karen Maroda, Stuart Pizer, Owen Renik, Ramón Riera, Daniel Schechter, Joyce Slochower, Martha Stark, Ruth Stein, Donnel Stern, Robert Stolorow, Jeremy D. Safran and Jessica Benjamin - the latter pursuing the 'goal of creating a genuinely feminist and philosophically informed relational psychoanalysis'. A significant historian and philosophical contributor is Philip Cushman.\n\nPsychoanalyst and philosopher Jon Mills has offered a number of substantial criticisms of the relational movement. Mills evidently thinks this \"paradigm shift\" to relational psychoanalysis is not exclusively due to theoretical differences with classical psychoanalysis but also arises from a certain group mentality and set of interests: \"Relational psychoanalysis is an American phenomenon, with a politically powerful and advantageous group of members advocating for conceptual and technical reform\" from a professional psychologist group perspective: \"most identified relational analysts are psychologists, as are the founding professionals associated with initiating the relational movement\".\n\nFrom a theoretical perspective, Mills appears to doubt that relational psychoanalysis is as radically new as it is touted to be. In its emphasis on the developmental importance of other people, according to Mills, \"relational theory is merely stating the obvious\" - picking up on \"a point that Freud made explicit throughout his theoretical corpus, which becomes further emphasized more significantly by early object relations therapists through to contemporary self psychologists.\" Mills also criticizes the diminishing or even the loss of the significance of the unconscious in relational psychoanalysis, a point he brings up in various parts of his book \"Conundrums\"\n\nPsychoanalyst and historian Henry Zvi Lothane has also criticized some of the central ideas of relational psychoanalysis, from both historical and psychoanalytic perspectives. Historically, Lothane believes relational theorists overstate the non-relational aspects of Freud as ignore its relational aspects. Lothane maintains that, though Freud's theory of disorder is \"monadic,\" i.e. focused more or less exclusively on the individual, Freud's psychoanalytic method and theory of clinical practice is consistently dyadic or relational. From a theoretical perspective, Lothane has criticized the term \"relational\" in favor of Harry Stack Sullivan's term \"interpersonal\". Lothane developed his concepts of \"reciprocal free association\" as well as \"dramatology\" as ways of understanding the interpersonal or relational dimension of psychoanalysis.\n\nPsychoanalyst and philosopher Aner Govrin examines the heavy price psychoanalysis paid for adopting postmodernism as their preferred epistemology. He posits that only analysts who thought they “know the truth,” created classical, interpersonal, self-psychology, ego psychology, Kleinian, Bionian, Fairbairnian, Winiccottian and other schools of thought. While the relational tradition had made extraordinary and positive contributions to psychoanalysis, and its postmodern epistemology is indeed moderate, as a political movement the American relational tradition had unwanted psychological and sociological effects on psychoanalysis. This led to a severe decline in the positive image of knowledge that is crucial for the building of new theories. Led by the relational movement, but influenced by a much broader movement in western philosophy and culture, this impact has greatly influenced international psychoanalysis. It has led not only to the disparagement of the school era but also to the devaluation of any attempt to know the truth. \n\nAdopting a more sympathetic line of criticism, Robin S. Brown suggests that while relational thinking has done much to challenge psychoanalytic dogmatism, excessively emphasizing the formative role of social relations can culminate in its own form of authoritarianism. Brown contends that the relational shift has insufficiently addressed the role of first principles, and that this tendency might be challenged by engaging analytical psychology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985036", "title": "Youth of the Rally of the Togolese People", "text": "Youth of the Rally of the Togolese People\n\nYouth of the Rally of the Togolese People (in French: \"Jeunesse du Rassemblement du Peuple Togolais\") was the youth wing of the dominant political party in Togo, the Rally of the Togolese People (RPT). JRPT was founded in 1972.\n"}
{"id": "1985050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985050", "title": "Rishi Valley School", "text": "Rishi Valley School\n\nRishi Valley School is an Indian boarding school, founded by the philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurti. The school has a holistic approach to education in the spirit of Krishnamurti's pedagogical vision. Community service and extracurricular activities are part of the students' schooling, as are discussions, assemblies and club meetings.\n\nRishi Valley is set in 375 acres of an independent valley, surrounded by ancient hills and tiny villages. It is located close to the town of Madanapalle, Krishnamurti's birthplace, in the south Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. Rishi Valley is two hours from Tirupati, two and a half-hours from Bangalore and five hours from Chennai.\n\nThe school accepts students from the fourth through the twelfth grade (ages nine–eighteen) and follows the ICSE board for the ninth and tenth grades and the ISC for the eleventh and twelfth grades. Twenty boarding houses accommodate students across the campus, with twenty students in each house. The school is divided into a junior (fourth through eighth) and a senior (ninth through twelfth) school.\nThe school is known for its Krishnamurti's teachings-inspired curricula, which includes developing an appreciation for the environment, art and music, and athletics in addition to traditional subjects. The school runs the Rishi Valley Institute for Educational Resources (RIVER) program, the Rural Education Centre and the Rural Health Centre.\n\nWith a large campus spread over in the Rayalseema area of southern Andhra Pradesh, Rishi Valley was chosen by Krishnamurti for its atmosphere of peace and serenity, centered around a large banyan tree which is one of the oldest in India. This tree fell down in 2016.\n\nRishi Valley is nestled in an ancient valley under the Rishikonda Hill where, as folklore has it, sages, or in Sanskrit 'rishis', used to meditate. The school derives its name from these legends. The Rishi River, a rain-fed stream, that flowed down a surrounding hill and through the school has long since dried up, but Jiddu Krishnamurti retained the name for his first school. Ancient granite hills with striking formations surround Rishi Valley on all sides.\n\nRajghat Besant School, Varanasi, India\n\nThe School KFI, Chennai, India\n\nSahyadri School, Sahyadri Hills, Pune, India\n\nThe Valley School, Bengaluru, India,\n\nPathashaala KFI, Kanchipuram district, Tamil Nadu, India\n\nOak Grove School (Ojai, California), USA\n\nBrockwood Park School, Bramdean, UK\n\nRishi Valley was born with the idea of starting a world university, conceptualized by Annie Besant, President of the Theosophical Society, in 1925. Three sites near Jiddu Krishnamurti's birthplace, Madanapalle were identified as possible locations for the school. At a site in Thettu Valley a big banyan tree attracted his notice and he built the school in the region surrounding the tree. \n\nIn 1926, Jiddu Krishnamurti's colleague C.S. Trilokikar on his request went from hamlet to hamlet by bullock cart, buying land until a 300-acre campus had been assembled. By 1929 most of the land for Rishi Valley had been acquired. Trilokikar named the whole basin Rishi Valley, a name derived from legends about rishis, who were rumoured to live in the hills surrounding the valley, thousands of years ago. However, before the land was completely assembled, Besant abandoned the idea of a world university because there were more pressing matters of national importance for her, such as India's Home Rule Movement.\n\nThe Guindy School was a school started by Besant in 1918 and was based in Madras. Its first headmaster, G.V. Subba Rao (GVS) was a young theosophist. Space in the Guindy School was limited, the neighbourhood was noisy and crowded and each year the torrential Northeast Monsoon would cause havoc, destroying the school's thatched roofs and blowing down its cottages. After a particularly bad cyclone in late 1930, which destroyed much of the Guindy School, Jiddu Krishnamurti met GVS, and it was decided that the Guindy School would be relocated to Rishi Valley.\n\nThe building of the structures was undertaken by the Theosophists who were drawn to Krishnamurti's teachings. Engineers were brought in to oversee construction work on campus, all of whom refused to accept pay. By September 1931, the structures were ready to accommodate the school. Shortly after this, Subba Rao relocated to their new campus with approximately ninety students and their teachers. Just as the move was completed, an unprecedented 50 inches of rainfall graced Rishi Valley's parched landscape and the area was inundated with water. The inhabitants of the surrounding villages thought the coming of the school was a blessing and a sign of prosperity.\n\nBy 1934, the basic structures in the school had been built including the Senior School building which is still used today. Oil and petromax lamps were used for lighting the buildings until 1937, after which two dynamos began to provide electricity during the day. Students and teachers also started planting trees in and around the campus during this period.\n\nSubba Rao's decade-long tenure (1931-1941) was a pioneering one, with some of the teaching methods carried over from his experiences at the Guindy School. When he shifted to Rishi Valley, GVS became the first headmaster of an Indian boarding school. At Guindy, Tamil was the medium of instruction; at Rishi Valley, Telugu was added as a language of instruction. GVS laid the groundwork for the school by practicing a simple lifestyle that included meditation, a quiet life, austerity with material possessions, and harmony with nature. The beautiful natural expanse of the valley provides for some quiet retreats for 'nature studies'-outdoor lessons which were a part of the timetable. On the sports field, GVS disallowed prize-giving ceremonies, as he felt it harboured unhealthy competition.\n\nAll senses of division were supposed to be eliminated: caste, gender, religion, and that of anything which might cause fractious relationships among students. This was important in a country on the brink of a new era in history—one in which the aim was secularism and social parity.\n\nOn 24 June 1941, a police raid was conducted on the school. Magazines and books elaborating communist ideals were seized because under the British these were banned books as they were thought to promote Indian independence. Many teachers were put under house-arrest, fined or were put under probation for three years. The Director of Public Instruction even forced two longstanding teachers to resign. As a result, Subbarao became 'dangerous' for proliferating such material during the heat of the freedom struggle and the wartime constraints Britain was facing at that time. This incident was later found to have been caused by a disaffected senior student who tipped off the police about the presence of communist literature on campus. This event ended GVS's tenure as principal.\n\nThe resignation of GVS had consequences that brought the school to a standstill: expenditures were cut back sharply, co-curricular activities were curtailed and some of the best teachers left. This was a period of transition at the school as several principals - Y.K. Shastri, K.A. Venkatagiri Iyer, Narayana Iyer and K. Srinivasa Raghavan came and departed.\n\nAt this time, Krishnamurti was in the United States and was only able to return to India in late 1947, after Indian independence. During this period Muriel Payne, an associate of Krishnamurti gave a new direction to the school. She came to Rishi Valley, influenced by Krishnamurti, in an attempt to revive it. Along with five others, she set up a group in 1948, which tried to gauge the situation and get the school back on track. This experiment ended abruptly, and in July 1949 Rishi Valley stopped functioning as an institution.\n\nMs. Payne's experiment might have failed, but her interest in the school had not waned. She was instrumental in restarting the school under a new administration with F. Gordon Pearce, a noted educator, at the helm. Krishnamurti took a renewed interest in the school. New people were getting involved and a new kind of school emerged.\n\nIn July 1950, the school was reopened, with 15 pupils. The fees were reduced to a low level to attract a wide range of students even though it put some pressure on the budget. To ensure a good start, the staff agreed to a lowered salary until the school became stabilized.It was up to Pearce to revitalize the school as its finances were low.\n\nWithin two years the school was running well with 110 fee-paying boarders as well as a waiting list for admissions. The student population was growing more diverse with 80% of students coming from northern, western and eastern India as well as some from overseas. Two of the best teachers at this time were David Horsburgh and Sardar Mohammad.\n\nA lot of practices were also introduced during this period that are still followed in the school. Students could learn classical North Indian and South Indian music. Local folk dancing was brought in by David Horsburgh. Hiking, trekking and camping were also encouraged and teachers would often accompany students. One of Pearce's long lasting innovations at Rishi Valley was his introduction of 'astachal'. Children would gather together every evening, to sit quietly while the sun was setting on the Astachal hill. It was a time which gave children the opportunity for quiet reflection.\n\nMr.Pearce resigned in October 1958 due to differences with the Rishi Valley Trust as well as Krishnamurti and went on to found two more schools in India - The Blue Mountain School in Ooty and the Sandur School. Sardar Mohammad joined Mr. Pearce in Blue Mountain School after he left Rishi Valley. David Horsburgh started his own school Neel Bagh in Kolar district - about 100 km outside Bangalore.\n\nS. Balasundaram was made a member of the Krishnamurti Foundation India in December 1955, and took charge of the Rishi Valley estate while simultaneously teaching at the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore. It was decided by Krishnamurti that Balasundaram should be made the new principal of the school, after Pearce resigned in October 1958. He was principal of the school for almost two decades, until March 1977.\n\nIt was during this period that Rishi Valley expanded in numerous ways. It was decided that Rishi Valley would be made a self-sufficient community in terms of food grains, fruit and vegetables, which would be grown on the agricultural land attached to the school, and also in terms of milk production through reorganizing the school's dairy. The administration felt that Rishi Valley should not live in isolation from neighboring communities, and that a Rural Centre be formed which would help the surrounding villages with housing, health, adult education and also provide schemes for them in agriculture and dairy farming. Other efforts were made to provide schooling even to those who could not pay school fees with the help of government schemes.\n\nInternational folk dancing was introduced to Rishi Valley in 1963 by David Young, a teacher from the Happy Valley School in California.\n\nIt was also during Balasundaram's tenure that Rishi Valley's fabled dance dramas in Sanskrit, Tamil and Telugu, were produced, year after year, for J. Krishnamurti, under the Banyan Tree, in the \nPandanallur style of Bharatanatyam. \n\nThere are traditions and cultures unique to Rishi Valley. Some practices that the school has maintained for over fifty years are the morning assembly, Asthachal and folk dancing. During the morning assembly, three times a week, the entire school gathers for singing. Children learn traditional chants, as well as songs by poets, ranging from Kabir to Rabindranath Tagore, often set in accompaniment to the traditional south Indian drum, the mridangam. The rest of the week, students, teachers, and visitors take turns speaking about various topics that interest them.\n\nF. Gordon Pearce, the principal of Rishi Valley School after the Second World War, came up with the idea of Asthachal (sunset point), a tradition which survives to this day. During Asthachal, children gather together on a cliff and sit quietly while the sun sets. It is a short but peaceful period of time, which gives children an opportunity for quiet reflection, observation of nature, daydreaming or watching their own thoughts.\n\nAn American teacher, David Young, introduced Western folk dancing to the school. Later, another teacher, David Horsburgh, introduced European and American folk dancing. Folk dancing, or 'folkie' as students call it, is held once a week. The senior students teach the dances to the junior students. Over the years, the dances have evolved and visiting alumni usually join in.\n\nReligious and cultural festivals and occasions are celebrated in Rishi Valley like Christmas, Ugadi, Shivaratri and Makara Sankranti (Pongal) when villagers come and perform for the children. During Makara Sankranti, there is a bull dance where all students dance along with the villagers and their decorated bulls. On such special occasions, students are treated to a special dinner.\n\nStudent cultural activities include: classical Indian dance (Bharatnatyam), Carnatic music, Mridangam, Violin, Tabla and Piano. Many important Indian artists have performed in Rishi Valley including M.L. Vasanthakumari (Carnatic musician), Amjad Ali Khan (Hindustani musician), Nikhil Banerjee (Sitar musician), Palghat Mani Iyer (Mridangam musician), and Bombay Jayashree (Carnatic musician). Renowned Odissi and Bharatanatyam choreographer and danseuse, Oopali Operajita, is a former Rishi Valley student where she studied Bharatanatyam and performed under the banyan tree in Rishi Valley's fabled dance dramas, for J. Krishnamurti. She was recently invited by Rishi Valley to choreograph a dance drama - The Rishi Valley Dance Drama (from Kalidasa's Kumarasambhavam) - for the school, reviving a Rishi Valley tradition which had lain dormant for 35 years.\n\nSports include football, cricket, athletics, basketball and volleyball, tennis and badminton. The surrounding wilderness area is an ideal terrain for rock climbers and recreational hikers. There is an annual Athletics Meet (\"Sports Day\") and seasonal football, cricket and basketball extramural matches (colloquially referred to as \"Externals\") between Rishi Valley and the neighboring teams. The RV Cup is an annual football tournament for the boys and a handball tournament for the girls.\n\nAn arts and crafts department teaches and engages students in carpentry, pottery, weaving, batik and fine art .\n\nRishi Valley is located in a drought-prone area of Andhra Pradesh, in Chittoor district. The region has witnessed erratic rainfall, which makes agriculture and farming difficult. There is as an abundance of granite rocks found across the Valley. Rishi Valley stands around 800 meters above sea level, and thus it experiences a pleasant climate, with temperatures rarely rising above 38 °C (100.4 °F) or falling below 10 °C (50 °F).\n\nThe soil type varies from black cotton soil, also known as vertisol, to red laterite soil. Though the humus content in the soil is low, it is able to support a variety of vegetational types, such as a small zone of wetlands, deciduous woodlands, dry scrublands and drylands. When the school was set up, open wells were the only source of water. By the 1960s, pipelines were laid from Horsley Hills to Rishi Valley. The open wells went dry for four years (1981-1985) due to extensive farming and channel irrigation. As soon as the open wells went dry, borewells were laid in order to satisfy the new water requirements of the school. The introduction of borewells led to groundwater depletion while the open wells were neglected. The introduction of borewells led to farmers changing their old agricultural patterns, shifting from dry land crops to more water-intense crops, causing the groundwater table to be further eroded.\n\nIn 1980, 150 acres of adjoining hillside were leased to Rishi Valley School by the government of Andhra Pradesh for reforestation. The aim of this lease was to grow an abundance of trees on the hills. As a first step, a fence was constructed around the South Hills, to keep away grazing sheep and cattle. An arrangement was reached with the surrounding villages, to take fodder from the hills. Despite this, relations with the surrounding villages remained tense for several years, during which time the reforestation drive on the South Hills began in earnest. Almost 20,000 trees and shrubs and thousands of seedlings were planted by students of the school during these years, although their efforts were thwarted to some extent by prolonged droughts in the region during the 1980s. In 1988, the state government of Andhra Pradesh helped the school finance a percolation tank on 20 acres of low-lying land on the campus of the school. The large basin was to collect rain water from surrounding hills and service through underground channels the dry wells throughout the valley and beyond.\n\nWork began on identifying and cataloguing bird species in the valley in 1990. Mr. Rangaswami, Bursar of Rishi Valley School from 1973–77, Honorary Chief Warden of the Rishi Valley Bird Preserve and a bird lover who popularized birdwatching among students had spent several years in Rishi Valley in the 1970s, when a checklist of local birds was first drawn up. In 1990, when a superficial survey of bird species in the valley was conducted, it was noted that the number of bird species had risen considerably. By March 1993, 170 bird species, which is approximately 40% of the bird species recorded in the state of Andhra Pradesh, were identified in Rishi Valley, including the rare and endemic yellow-throated bulbul (\"Pycnonotus xantholaemus\").\n\nPerhaps the most spectacular comeback has been that of the yellow-throated bulbul. Recorded from Rishi Valley in the early 1990s, this bird had not been seen on the campus, and its immediate vicinity, with certainty, ever since. The birds could however be regularly seen in the foothills of Horsley Hills, just three kilometers or so, at the western end of the valley. This event was reported to the International Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP), and as a result, Rishi Valley was included in the Biodiversity Map and Computerized Data Base maintained by the council at its headquarters in Cambridge, England, as one of the areas in the tropics for global conservation, whose response was: \"We have little recent published information on the distribution of this species in the ornithological literature, despite that fact that it is unique to India and apparently rather a scarce bird. Your record is therefore extremely valuable to the Biodiversity Project.\"\n\nIn 1997, Rishi Valley set up an Institute for Bird Studies and Natural History, which monitors bird populations in the vicinity and currently runs a Home Studies Course in Ornithology\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985053", "title": "Fyrkantserien", "text": "Fyrkantserien\n\nFyrkantserien (also Fyrväpplingstävlingen and Serien Stockholm-Göteborg) was an interim Swedish football league played 1918 and 1919 as Svenska Serien was not played. It featured four teams, two from Stockholm and two from Gothenburg.\n"}
{"id": "1985063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985063", "title": "Santo Tomás Hueyotlipan", "text": "Santo Tomás Hueyotlipan\n\nSanto Tomás Hueyotlipan is the municipal seat of Santo Tomás Hueyotlipan Municipality, Puebla, Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "1985070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985070", "title": "John Shurley", "text": "John Shurley\n\nSir John Shurley (died 3 August 1527) was an English noble who held the financial office of Cofferer to the King during the reign of Henry VIII. \n\nHe was married twice – to Parnell (or Petronella) Grandford and then to Margery Goring, and had at least five children, including Edward, his heir, John, William, Bridget and Joanne.\n\nThe surname seems to have come from Shurley Manor, which was located in Herefordshire, and the surname is commonly spelled \"Shirley\" today. He was the son of Roger Shurley of Presteign in Radnorshire, Wales. His mother was a daughter of William Walker, also of Presteign.\n\nEventually the Shurley family became chief residents of Isfield in East Sussex, and Sir John and many of his family are buried at Isfield Church. The inscription over his tomb describes Sir John as \"chef clerke of the kechen to our souayn kyng henry ye viii\".\n\nThere is a description of him performing his duties as cofferer in \"his own quaint way\". This included leaving Court for the summer months to repair to Isfield: \"a lamentable example to his staff\" said his critics.\n\nHe had two prominent great-grandsons: Sir John Shurley, the politician and MP, and his brother Sir George Shurley, Lord Chief Justice of Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985073", "title": "KRXI-TV", "text": "KRXI-TV\n\nKRXI-TV, virtual channel 11 (UHF digital channel 23), is a Fox-affiliated television station licensed to Reno, Nevada, United States. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, which also operates primary sports-formatted independent station and secondary MyNetworkTV affiliate KNSN-TV (channel 21, owned by Deerfield Media) and NBC affiliate KRNV-DT (channel 4, owned by Cunningham Broadcasting) through separate joint sales and shared services agreements (JSA/SSA). However, Sinclair effectively owns KRNV as the majority of Cunningham's stock is owned by the family of deceased group founder Julian Smith. The three stations share studios on Vassar Street in Reno; KRXI's transmitter is located on Peavine Peak. On cable, KRXI is available on Charter Spectrum channel 11 and in high definition on digital channel 781.\n\nThe station began operations on New Year's Day 1996, taking the Fox affiliation from KAME which was owned by a separate subsidiary of Cox Enterprises. KRXI-DT2 added RTV on January 7, 2008. The station was depicted in the episode \"Drive\" of \"The X-Files\" as part of a police chase that took place during the show.\n\nOn July 20, 2012, one day after Cox Media Group purchased four television stations in Jacksonville, Florida and Tulsa, Oklahoma from Newport Television, Cox put KRXI-TV (along with the LMA for KAME-TV) and sister stations in Steubenville, Ohio, Johnstown, Pennsylvania and El Paso, Texas (all in markets that are smaller than Tulsa), plus several radio stations in medium to small markets, on the selling block. On February 25, 2013, Cox announced that it would sell the four television stations and the LMA for KAME to Sinclair Broadcast Group. The sale was approved by the FCC on April 29, 2013. The sale was finalized on May 2, 2013. Sinclair would subsequently purchase the non-license assets of a third Reno station, KRNV-DT, on November 22, 2013. Sinclair could not buy KRNV-DT outright because Reno has only six full-power stations—three too few to legally permit a duopoly. With the sale of KRNV's license to Cunningham, Sinclair now controls half of those stations. The sale also created a situation in which a Fox affiliate is the nominal senior partner in a duopoly involving an NBC affiliate and a \"Big Three\" station.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKRXI-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 11, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 44. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 11.\n\nIn addition to the Fox network schedule, syndicated programs featured on KRXI-TV include \"Modern Family\", \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"Mike & Molly\", \"TMZ on TV\", and \"The Real\" among others.\n\nKRXI simulcasts newscasts from former sister station and current Fox owned-and-operated station KTVU in Oakland, California. It includes an hour-long prime time news (weeknights at 10:00 p.m.). All newscasts are presented in high definition from KTVU's studios at Jack London Square in Downtown Oakland. During the nightly news at 10:00 p.m., there were local weather cut-ins provided by AccuWeather meteorologists (weeknights at 10:40 p.m. and weekends at 10:40 p.m.). These forecast segments, taped in advance, originate from headquarters on Science Park Road in State College, Pennsylvania. Both of the weather cut-ins ended on June 17, 2014 (weeknights) and on June 20, 2014 (weekends), in favor of the local weather and news cut-ins provided by KRNV-DT.\n\nOn October 4, 2010, KRXI partnered with the Independent News Network (INN) to produce a weeknight newscast called \"Fox 11 News: Eleven at Eleven\", with the slogan \"Local News. Less Time.\" Initially it aired in an abbreviated format for fifteen minutes (including commercials). This was unlike traditional broadcasts seen in the time slot on Reno's big three stations. The newscast then changed to a half-hour format, in addition to altering the slogan to \"Local News. Your World.\" The newscast was taped in advance from INN's facilities on Tremont Avenue in Davenport, Iowa. The news anchors, meteorologist, and sports anchor were provided by the centralized news operation and other personnel from INN filled-in as needed. The newscast ended on April 4, 2014, in favor of the 11:00 p.m. newscast on KRNV-DT.\n\nKRXI maintained two local reporters based in Reno who contributed content to the show. This was the first time the station had ever had a news department of its own even though it was very small with a skeleton crew based out of the station's studios. \"Fox 11 News Eleven at Eleven\" was streamed live on KRXI's website and there was also on demand video of the weeknight broadcasts.\n\nFollowing the sale of KRXI to Sinclair and the company's subsequent acquisition of the non-license assets of KRNV-DT, Sinclair stated its intention to end KRXI's news share agreement with KTVU in favor of locally produced newscasts. However, Cox discontinued its agreement to air the morning and noon newscasts on May 14, 2014. The local morning newscast was added on August 25, 2014. The local noon newscast was moved from KRNV-DT to KRXI-TV on June 1, 2015 to comply with FCC rules stipulating that a company providing more than 15% of a station's programming per week would have an \"attributable interest\" in the station, thus counting as ownership.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985079", "title": "Farmers' Almanac", "text": "Farmers' Almanac\n\nFarmers' Almanac is an annual American periodical that has been in continuous publication since 1818. Published by Geiger of Lewiston, Maine, the \"Farmers' Almanac\" provides long-range weather predictions for both the U.S. and Canada. The periodical also provides calendars, and articles on topics such as: Full moon dates and lore, natural remedies, and the best days to do various outdoor activities.\n\nEach new year’s edition is released at the end of August of the previous year and contains 16 months of weather predictions broken into 7 zones for the continental US as well as seasonal weather maps for the winter and summer ahead. \n\nIn addition to the U.S. version, there is a Canadian \"Farmers’ Almanac\" and a Promotional Version that is sold to businesses as a marketing and public relations tool.\n\nFounded in 1818, the \"Farmers’ Almanac\" mixes a blend of long-range weather predictions, humor, fun facts, and advice on gardening, cooking, fishing, conservation, and other topics.\n\nThe \"Farmers’ Almanac\" has had seven editors. Poet, astronomer, and teacher David Young held the post for 34 years starting from when he and publisher Jacob Mann first founded The Almanac Publishing Company in Morristown, New Jersey. Following Young’s death in 1852, astronomer Samuel Hart Wright became editor.\n\nIn 1933 Ray Geiger took over as the sixth editor of the \"Farmers’ Almanac\" and began what became the longest-running editorship in \"Farmers’ Almanac\" history. \n\nIn 1994 Ray's son Peter became editor. Sandi Duncan is now Managing Editor with him. Sandi was the first female editor in 178 years to hold an editorial position.\n\nPredictions for each edition are made as far as two years in advance. The U.S. retail edition of the \"Farmers' Almanac\" contains weather predictions for 7 U.S. climatic zones, defined by the publishers, in the continental United States, broken into 3-day intervals. Seasonal maps and summaries for each season are also shared in each new edition, as are forecasts for annual sporting events. Predictions cover 16 months, from the previous September (through December of the publication year).\n\nThe \"Farmers' Almanac\" will only state publicly that their method is an “exclusive mathematical and astronomical formula, that relies on sunspot activity, tidal action, planetary position and many other factors.\" The Almanac's forecaster is referred to by the pseudonym Caleb Weatherbee. According to the publishers, the true identity of the forecaster is kept secret to prevent him or her from being \"badgered.\"\n\nPublishers point to the fact that \"many longtime Almanac followers claim that their forecasts are 80% to 85% accurate\" on their website. Their website also contains a list of the many more \"famous\" weather predictions they have accurately forewarned of and like to point out that they’ve been predicting the weather longer than the National Weather Service. \n\nMost scientific analyses of the accuracy of \"Farmers' Almanac\" forecasts have shown a 50% rate of accuracy, no greater than random chance, but higher than that of groundhog prognostication, another folklore method of forecasting. USA Today states that \"according to numerous media analyses neither the Old Farmer's Almanac nor the Farmers' Almanac gets it right.\"\n\nIn 1997, an online version was created at FarmersAlmanac.com. The Almanac has over 1.2 million followers on Facebook, and is also on Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest and other social media sites.\n\nMost editions of the \"Farmers' Almanac\" include a \"human crusade,\" advocating for a change in some accepted social practice or custom. Previous crusades have included: \"How Much Daylight Are We Really Saving,\" a recommendation for a revised Daylight Saving Time schedule (2007); \"Why is Good Service So Hard to Schedule,\" recommending that service providers offer more specific timeframes when scheduling home visits (2006); \"A Kinder, Gentler Nation,\" urging readers to exercise more common courtesy (2003); \"Saturday: The Trick to Making Halloween a Real Treat,\" advocating that the observance of Halloween be moved to the last Saturday in October (1999); \"A Cure for Doctors' Office Delays,\" demanding more prompt medical service and calling for a \"Patients' Bill of Rights\" (1996); and \"Pennies Make No Sense,\" which sought to eliminate the penny, and to permanently replace the dollar bill with less costly-to-produce dollar coins (1989).\n\nOther pieces that have attracted attention over the years include:\n"}
{"id": "1985106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985106", "title": "Tingo María", "text": "Tingo María\n\nTingo María is the capital of Leoncio Prado Province in the Huánuco Region in central Peru. It has a population of 46,191 inhabitants (2017 census).\n\nTingo María was considered unreachable until 1936, when the Montaña Road reached the settlement. It was then that the state run Estacion Experimental Agricola was established due to its \"comfortable\" elevation (2,204 ft). In 1942, the U.S. Government began adding more funding to the station, and by 1960 over 40,000 acres (160 km²) of land were under cultivation, especially along the Huallaga River valley where land was level. Coffee was a particularly valuable crop. The city nickname is \"the Door of the Amazonia.\"\n\nThe city is placed where two important rivers meet; the Monzón and the Huallaga river, a main contributor of the Marañón river. The city headquarters the National University of the Forest (UNAS-www.unas.edu.pe); it has 7 faculties, a botanical park, and first level facilities. Near the city there is the Tingo María National Park of 180 km² () that preserves nature and a limestone mountain range in the shape of a woman that sleeps. It is called \"La Bella Durmiente\" (Spanish for Sleeping Beauty) or Pumarinri (Quechua for \"cougar ear\"). A legend explains the form of the range. The main attraction is a cave named \"Cueva de las Lechuzas\" (Spanish for \"cave of the owls\") (named after a colony of the superficially owl-like Oilbird found in it), probably the most attractive and accessible cave of Peru, though it is not the longest and deepest.\n\nTingo María has an airport served daily by regional jets and turbo-prop airplanes. A well-paved main road, now called \"the Federico Basadre\" Highway crosses the city halfway from Lima to Pucallpa; 16 km going to the east it meets the Marginal Highway that follows the river to the north and arrives at Tarapoto. A main road that comes from Casma port, on the coast of Ancash department, is being worked now. This road reinforces the position of Tingo María as a regional and national hub.\n\nTingo María is where actor Eric Fleming, star of American TV show \"Rawhide\" with Clint Eastwood, died on September 28, 1966 while shooting a TV movie titled \"High Jungle\". His dugout canoe overturned in the Huallaga River. He was swept away by the current and drowned at age 41. \n\nThe mayor is Juan Picón Quedo, part of a local business family.\n\nA relevant industry working on Cacao is the Cooperativa Agroindustrial Naranjillo, that sells its products to foreign markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985107", "title": "Wolvey", "text": "Wolvey\n\nWolvey is a village and parish in Warwickshire, England. According to the 2001 census it had a population of 1,741, increasing to 1,942 at the 2011 Census.\n\nThe village is located on the Warwickshire/Leicestershire border in an outlying part of the borough of Rugby. The village is, however, more than north-west from the town of Rugby and closer to Hinckley (five miles to the north), Nuneaton (six miles to the north-west) and Coventry (ten miles south-west). The source of the River Anker is near the highest point in the parish, 130 metres. Originally on the main route between Leicester and Coventry, is now served by the B4065 and B4109 roads. The hamlet of Bramcote forms a western part of the parish, This was the site of a Second World War airfield, RAF Bramcote, subsequently used by the Royal Naval Air Service and renamed HMS Gamecock. Since 1959 it has been used by the army and is known as the Gamecock Barracks.\nDiscoveries of Neolithic flint tools and Bronze Age burial mounds suggest early occupation of the parish while a major Roman road, Watling Street, forms part of the parish boundary.The village certainly existed in Saxon times and the Domesday Survey, compiled in 1086, records 22 households with three further households at Bramcote. By the 12th century there was an additional township, which included a chapel, at the now deserted site of Little Copston (Copston Parva). At this time Wolvey was an important population centre for the area with a weekly market and an annual fair.\n\nThe village still retains some older buildings including the church of \"St John the Baptist\" with its Norman doorway and monumental tombs of Thomas de Wolvey (died 1311) and his wife Alice; also that of Thomas Astley and his wife, Catherine (died 1603). The South Aisle of the church was rebuilt by Thomas de Wolvey’s daughter as a memorial Chantry to her husband Sir Giles de Astley who died following the battle of Bannockburn in 1314. The church building has undergone considerable repair and alteration over the years. The chancel was rebuilt in the gothic style by Lord Overstone of Wolvey Grange in the mid-nineteenth century and the present porch to the south door added in 1909. The Millennium Building to the south of the church was built in 2000 to provide important support facilities.\n\nThe early village would have clustered around the market place (now The Square) but there is little evidence of it in today’s buildings.. A staircase dated 1677 in Wolvey Hall reflects the rebuilding of the original house but this was remodelled in 1889. Other late seventeenth century survivals, although modified, include Hollytree Cottage in Wolds Lane and probably 'The Blue Pig' public house with the village pump which will have served as a coaching inn for the Coventry – Leicester traffic in earlier times. The ‘Old Thatched Cottage’ on the edge of The Square dates to the later eighteenth century as does the Baptist Chapel, built in 1789.\n\nEssentially a farming community for most of its history, industrialization affected the village in the nineteenth century when knitting and weaving became important trades for a time. There is no evidence to support the popular view that it was a milling centre with 27 windmills. The well-known engraving of four windmills in Wolvey, published in 1854 by Thomas Dugdale, has been shown to be a forgery and was based on an earlier print of windmills on Montmartre, Paris. While rural industry continues, modern housing provides for a commuting population benefiting from the village’s proximity to major motorway and rail networks and urban centres.\n\nThe name Wolvey most probably came from the Anglo-Saxon \"wulf-hæg\" or \"wulf-heg e\" = \"wolf hedge\" = \"enclosure with a hedge to keep wolves out\".\n\nWolvey Hall is a Grade II listed 17th-century house remodelled in 1889 which stands in Hall Road, Wolvey. It is constructed of brick in two storeys with attics and a 6-bay frontage. A Roman Catholic chapel is attached and in the grounds is the ruined Jacobs Well, bearing a date of 1707.\n\nThe current house was rebuilt in 1889 using material from an earlier house built in 1677 and also includes fragments from an even earlier building. In the mid-1700s the house was owned by the Arnold family, who could trace family ownership of the manor of Wolvey back to Sir Thomas de Wolvey (died 1315). It has been owned by the Coape-Arnolds since Georgeana, daughter of George Henry Arnold, married James Coape of Goldhanger, Essex in 1840. In 1891 Henry Fraser James Coape-Arnold, a catholic convert, built the chapel at the Hall which served the Catholic residents of the area until the early 1920s.\n\nThe hall is currently in the possession of the Freeman family, with children Arabella and Theo by descent from Mary Freeman née Burbidge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985121", "title": "Grupo Niche", "text": "Grupo Niche\n\nGrupo Niche is a salsa group founded in 1978 in Cali, Colombia. Currently based in Cali, Colombia, it enjoys great popularity throughout Latin America. It was founded by and . Varela remained with the group throughout his life, serving as producer, director, songwriter, vocalist and guiro player. Alexis Lozano, trombone player and arranger later left to form . The group also included Nicolas Cristancho \"Macabi\" on the piano, Francisco Garcia \"Porky\" on the bass, Luis Pacheco, on the congas, and vocalists Jorge Bazán and Hector Viveros.\n\nGrupo Niche's first album, \"Al Pasito\", released in 1979, did little to challenge the dominating salsa band of Colombia at the time, Fruko y sus Tesos. Two years later, however, the group found success with their second album, \"Querer es Poder\", particularly with the single \"Buenaventura y Caney\".\n\nThe group relocated in 1982 to Cali where they have been based since. After recording two more albums, Grupo Niche released \"No Hay Quinto Malo\" in 1984, which featured their signature song, \"Cali Pachanguero\". The tribute hit single to the \"world salsa pito\" catapulted Niche as one of the top salsa bands of Colombia.\n\nIn 1986, the band incorporated Puerto Rican vocalist Tito Gomez, who had previously worked with the famous Puerto Rican salsa group, La Sonora Ponceña, and Ray Barretto, the Godfather of Latin Jazz. Later that year, Grupo Niche released \"Me Huele a Matrimonio\". Afterward, yet another Puerto Rican joined, the pianist Israel Tanenbaum, who would eventually leave the group to join a Niche spin-off band: Orquesta Guayacán.\n\nGrupo Niche is known for both its vigorous, uptempo dance music as well as slower-paced romantic numbers. Among its best known hits are \"Cali Aji\", \"Del Puente Pa'llá\", \"Sin Sentimientos\", \"Una Aventura\", \"Etnia\", \"Gotas de Lluvia\", \"Han Cogido la Cosa\", \"Mi Pueblo Natal\", \"Hagamos Lo Que Diga Corazón\", \"Duele Mas\", \"Nuestro Sueño\", and the famous cumbia \"Canoa Rancha\". In 2002 they recorded the album Control Absoluto in Miami Florida with the engineers Alex Arias and Jossel Calveiro.\n\nSome other singers from Niche throughout its history include Alvaro del Castillo, Floriza \"La Coco\" Lozano, Tuto Jiménez, Saulo Sanchez, Tito Gomez, Moncho Santana, Charlie Cardona as well as Willy Garcia and Javier Vasquez, now members of the group 'Son de Cali'. Most recently joined are the Puerto Ricans Oswaldo Roman and Julio Lopez and actual singer Elvis Magno from Buenaventura. They have been very successful, and some of their songs are considered Classics of Salsa Music. The group still enjoys some of its past successes, and keeps on tour, making worldwide presentations, and singing their most memorable songs.\n\nMusician Tito Gomez, who fronted the group for seven and half years (1985–1992), died on June 12, 2007 in Cali, the city where Grupo Niche was established.\n\n]Bandleader and co-founder Jairo de Fátima Varela Martínez was born on 9 December 1949 in Quibdó, Colombia, the son of merchant Pedro Antonio Varela Restrepo and writer and poet, Teresa de Jesús Martínez Arce.\n\nHis first contact with music occurred when he was eight years old, in the barrio of Roma de Quibdo where he formed the group \"La Timba\", essentially composed of musicians playing only the flute, bongos, maracas and güiro.\n\nAt the age of 62, Varela was found dead in his Cali home on August 8, 2012, apparently from heart failure. Jairo's daughter, Yanila Varela has been the Grupo Niche's owner since her father's death in 2012.\n\nGrupo Niche played in Montreal on July 21, 2001 for a party to celebrate the independence of Colombia (July 20). Grupo Niche was also accompanied that night with another band called Balmore Estrada y su Nueva Sensacion, who was formed in the late 1980s by Balmore Estrada.\n\nGrupo Niche also played again in Montreal, on July 15, 2006, in the festival colombiano, October 2008 and on May 8, 2010 to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the band.\nAccording with the Latin site Hola Calgary on October 11, 2008, Grupo Niche played at the Jack Singer Concert Hall EPCOR Centre for the Performing Arts in Calgary, Alberta.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985132", "title": "Henry Procter (British Army officer)", "text": "Henry Procter (British Army officer)\n\nHenry Patrick Procter or Proctor (1763–31 October 1822) was a British major-general who served in Canada during the War of 1812. He is best known as the commander who was decisively defeated in 1813 by the Americans and left western Upper Canada in American hands. Procter is regarded by many as an inept leader who relied heavily on textbook procedure. His \"going by the book\" is attributed to his lack of any combat experience before coming to Canada.\n\nProcter was born in Ireland. His father, Richard Procter, was a surgeon in the British Army. Henry Procter began his military career at the age of 18 as an ensign in the 43rd Regiment of Foot in April 1781. He served as a lieutenant in New York in the final months of the American War of Independence. His promotion was slow, probably indicating a lack of means, since commissions were usually obtained by purchase. Procter became a captain in November 1792. He was promoted to major three years later in May 1795, and on 9 October 1800 became a lieutenant colonel in command of the 1st battalion of the 41st Regiment of Foot. Procter joined his new regiment in Lower Canada in 1802. He served in Canada for the next ten years. Inspecting officers, including Major-General Isaac Brock, noted that Procter's regiment was \"very sharp\", indicating a good standard of drill and discipline, and that this was due to Procter's \"indefatigable industry\".\n\nWhen the war began in June 1812, the 41st were stationed in Upper Canada. Procter was sent to Amherstburg near the westernmost part of the province, to relieve the commandant of Fort Malden and defend the fort against a possible American assault. He fought several skirmishes, which helped isolate the American post at Fort Detroit and contributed to its capture by General Brock. When Brock departed, Procter was left in command on the Detroit frontier. He was soon faced with an attack by American General William Henry Harrison, who intended to expel the British from Michigan.\n\nProcter won a resounding victory over an American brigade commanded by Brigadier-General James Winchester at the Battle of Frenchtown, though his tactics did not escape criticism. He had allowed his men to open fire too soon, which alerted the Americans to his attack. He also placed his artillery within American rifle range, which resulted in his gunners becoming casualties unnecessarily. Nevertheless, his surprise attack overwhelmed the Americans and forced Winchester to surrender. Following his victory, he learned that General Harrison's main army was coming to Winchester's support. Procter had only enough carts to transport his own severely wounded, and in his haste to retreat, he left 68 severely wounded American prisoners behind with only a small guard of Canadian militiamen. That night, Procter's Indian allies murdered the wounded prisoners in what became known as the Massacre of the River Raisin. This gave American troops a new battle-cry: \"Remember the Raisin!\"\n\nOn 8 February 1813, Procter was promoted to brigadier general by Sir George Prévost, the Governor General of Canada. A few months later, he was made a major general.\n\nIn April and May 1813, Procter besieged Harrison at Fort Meigs, Ohio. His artillery pounded the fort for days but the muddy ground inside the fort absorbed most of the cannon balls. On 5 May 1813, at the Battle of the Miami Rapids, Procter and the Indians inflicted a devastating defeat on Brigadier-General Green Clay's brigade of Kentucky militia, who were trying to reinforce the garrison. A sortie from the fort by Harrison's command was also turned back. Many American prisoners were taken, and 38 wounded men who had been captured were moved to the disused Fort Miami. Once again, some of the wounded prisoners were massacred by Indians who had arrived too late to take part in the battle. The Shawnee chief Tecumseh reviled Procter for his failure to prevent the killings. The siege ultimately ended in failure, as did the subsequent Battle of Fort Stephenson.\n\nOn 20 June, Procter's command was recognised as the \"Right Division of the Army of Upper Canada\". However, he received very few reinforcements and his \"division\" consisted essentially of the 41st Foot only, with whatever militia could be gathered for any operation and unreliable numbers of Native Americans.\n\nFollowing an American naval victory in the Battle of Lake Erie, Procter's supply lines were cut, and he was forced to retreat from Detroit and Amherstburg towards Burlington Heights at the western end of Lake Ontario, to obtain supplies. Tecumseh reviled Procter for retreating as \"\"a fat animal which slinks away, its tail between its legs\"\" and demanded that Fort Malden be handed over to the Natives to defend. However, there was no food for them and the fort's artillery had been placed on the British fleet for the naval battle and was consequently lost. Tecumseh and his warriors were forced to accompany Procter as he retreated.\n\nProcter's retreat was slow and poorly organised, and the Americans under Harrison caught up with him near Moraviantown. By now, Procter's troops were exhausted and starving on half-rations. At the Battle of the Thames, the 41st fired a single ineffectual volley before breaking. About 250 fled and the remainder (under 600) surrendered, leaving their Indian allies to fight alone. Tecumseh and Roundhead were killed and their forces soundly defeated.\n\nProctor claimed he had attempted to rally his troops before he galloped off himself, but this was generally disbelieved. He admitted the conduct of the 41st Foot \"\"was not upon this unfortunate occasion, such as I have on every other witnessed with pride and satisfaction ...\"\". Having rallied some men at the Grand River, Procter recommended that there was no need to abandon Burlington Heights. However, his division was disbanded, his remaining men merged into the \"Centre Division\", and Procter himself was relieved of duty.\n\nIn December 1814, Procter was tried by court martial at Quebec for his conduct during the retreat and at the Battle of the Thames. He was found guilty of \"deficiency in energy and judgement\", and suspended for six months without pay. The Prince Regent insisted that the findings and sentence be read to every regiment in the Army. Procter's sentence was later reduced to a reprimand, but the conviction effectively ended his military service.\n\nProcter returned to England in 1815, but was semi-retired. He died in 1822 at the age of 59 in Bath.\n\nOpinions on Procter are divided. Some scholars dismiss him as incompetent, while others point out that he was denied adequate resources by his superiors and was unfairly held responsible for the conduct of his Indian allies (except where accompanied by Tecumseh himself). Most sources agree that Procter was a good regimental officer, but was out of his depth when in charge of an independent command, especially one which required him to handle unpredictable Native American allies. Procter never achieved the instant rapport with Tecumseh which Brock had gained, and Tecumseh was dismissive or even contemptuous towards Procter on occasions such as the Battle of Miami Rapids and the retreat from Amherstburg. Procter's conduct at the Battle of the Thames bears a strong correlation with signs of (then undiagnosable) battle fatigue, after a long campaign with insufficient supplies.\n\nThe Canadian historian Pierre Berton concludes:\n\nTo the Americans he remains a monster, to the Canadians a coward. He is neither--merely a victim of circumstances, a brave officer but weak, capable enough except in moments of stress, a man of modest pretensions...The prisoner of events beyond his control, Procter dallied and equivocated until he was crushed. His career is ended.\n\nProcter married Elizabeth Cockburn in Kilkenny in Ireland, in 1792. They had one son and four daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985133", "title": "Bupivacaine", "text": "Bupivacaine\n\nBupivacaine, marketed under the brand name Marcaine among others, is a medication used to decrease feeling in a specific area. In nerve blocks, it is injected around a nerve that supplies the area, or into the spinal canal's epidural space. It is available mixed with a small amount of epinephrine to increase the duration of its action. It typically begins working within 15 minutes and lasts for 2 to 8 hours.\nPossible side effects include sleepiness, muscle twitching, ringing in the ears, changes in vision, low blood pressure, and an irregular heart rate. Concerns exist that injecting it into a joint can cause problems with the cartilage. Concentrated bupivacaine is not recommended for epidural freezing. Epidural freezing may also increase the length of labor. It is a local anaesthetic of the amide group.\nBupivacaine was discovered in 1957. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Bupivacaine is available as a generic medication and is not very expensive. The wholesale cost in the developing world of a vial is about US$2.10.\n\nBupivacaine is indicated for local infiltration, peripheral nerve block, sympathetic nerve block, and epidural and caudal blocks. It is sometimes used in combination with epinephrine to prevent systemic absorption and extend the duration of action. The 0.75% (most concentrated) formulation is used in retrobulbar block. It is the most commonly used local anesthetic in epidural anesthesia during labor, as well as in postoperative pain management. Liposomal formulations of bupivacaine are no more effective than plain solutions of bupivacaine.\n\nBupivacaine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to bupivacaine or amino-amide anesthetics. It is also contraindicated in obstetrical paracervical blocks and intravenous regional anaesthesia (Bier block) because of potential risk of tourniquet failure and systemic absorption of the drug and subsequent cardiac arrest. The 0.75% formulation is contraindicated in epidural anesthesia during labor because of the association with refractory cardiac arrest.\n\nCompared to other local anaesthetics, bupivacaine is markedly cardiotoxic. However, adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are rare when it is administered correctly. Most ADRs are caused by accelerated absorption from the injection site, unintentional intravascular injection, or slow metabolic degradation. However, allergic reactions can rarely occur.\n\nClinically significant adverse events result from systemic absorption of bupivacaine and primarily involve the central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular system. CNS effects typically occur at lower blood plasma concentrations. Initially, cortical inhibitory pathways are selectively inhibited, causing symptoms of neuronal excitation. At higher plasma concentrations, both inhibitory and excitatory pathways are inhibited, causing CNS depression and potentially coma. Higher plasma concentrations also lead to cardiovascular effects, though cardiovascular collapse may also occur with low concentrations. Adverse CNS effects may indicate impending cardiotoxicity and should be carefully monitored.\n\n\nToxicity can also occur in the setting of subarachnoid injection during high spinal anesthesia. These effects include: paresthesia, paralysis, apnea, hypoventilation, fecal incontinence, and urinary incontinence. Additionally, bupivacaine can cause chondrolysis after continuous infusion into a joint space.\n\nBupivacaine has caused several deaths when the epidural anaesthetic has been administered intravenously accidentally.\n\nAnimal evidence indicates intralipid, a commonly available intravenous lipid emulsion, can be effective in treating severe cardiotoxicity secondary to local anaesthetic overdose, and human case reports of successful use in this way. Plans to publicize this treatment more widely have been published.\n\nBupivacaine crosses the placenta and is a pregnancy category C drug. However, it is approved for use at term in obstetrical anesthesia. Bupivacaine is excreted in breast milk. Risks of discontinuing breast feeding versus discontinuing bupivacaine should be discussed with the patient.\n\nBupivacaine is toxic to cartilage and its intra-articular infusions may lead to postarthroscopic glenohumeral chondrolysis.\n\nBupivacaine binds to the intracellular portion of voltage-gated sodium channels and blocks sodium influx into nerve cells, which prevents depolarization. Without depolarization, no initiation or conduction of a pain signal can occur.\n\nThe rate of systemic absorption of bupivacaine and other local anesthetics is dependent upon the dose and concentration of drug administered, the route of administration, the vascularity of the administration site, and the presence or absence of epinephrine in the preparation. \n\nLike lidocaine, bupivacaine is an amino-amide anesthetic; the aromatic head and the hydrocarbon chain are linked by an amide bond rather than an ester as in earlier local anesthetics. As a result, the amino-amide anesthetics are more stable and less likely to cause allergic reactions. Unlike lidocaine, the terminal amino portion of bupivacaine (as well as mepivacaine, ropivacaine, and levobupivacaine) is contained within a piperidine ring; these agents are known as pipecholyl xylidines.\n\nBupivacaine is available as a generic medication and is not very expensive. The wholesale cost of a vial of bupivacaine is about US$2.10.\n\nLevobupivacaine is the (\"S\")-(–)-enantiomer of bupivacaine, with a longer duration of action, producing less vasodilation. Durect Corporation is developing a biodegradable, controlled-release drug delivery system for after surgery. It has currently completed a phase-III clinical trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985134", "title": "Madingley", "text": "Madingley\n\nMadingley is a small village near Cambridge, England. It is located close to the nearby towns of Coton and Dry Drayton on the western outskirts of Cambridge. The population of the civil parish at the 2011 Census was 210.\nThe village was known as \"Madingelei\" in the Domesday Book, a name meaning \"Woodland clearing of the family or followers of a man called Mada\". Madingley is well known for its 16th-century manor house, Madingley Hall, which is owned by the University of Cambridge.\n\nThe village is home to Madingley Hall, which was built by Sir John Hynde in 1543 and occupied as a residence by his descendants until the 1860s. It is surrounded by parkland. Queen Victoria rented the Hall in 1860 for her son Edward (the future King Edward VII) to live in while he was an undergraduate at the University of Cambridge. The family sold the Hall in 1871.\n\nThe Madingley Hall estate, including its surrounding park and farmland have been owned by the University of Cambridge since 1948. The manor house is currently used by the University of Cambridge and is the official home of the Cambridge Institute of Continuing Education. In addition to its extensive English gardens, the Madingley Hall estate includes 1150 acres of countryside which are maintained by the University of Cambridge. \n\nThe \"Cambridge American Cemetery and Memorial\" is a major military cemetery and memorial dedicated to American servicemen which opened in 1956, on the southern edge of Madingley and close to the city of Cambridge.\n\n3811 American military dead are buried in the cemetery. In addition, the names of 5127 are inscribed on the \"Wall of the Missing\", Americans who lost their lives but whose remains were never recovered or identified. Most of these died in the Battle of the Atlantic (1939-1945) or in the strategic air bombardment of Northwest Europe during World War II. The entire 30½ acres used for the American Cemetery and Memorial were donated to the United States Government by the University of Cambridge following World War II.\n\nThe village's former public house, \"The Three Horseshoes\", is now a restaurant though it still has a bar that serves beer. The village has an independent pre-preparatory school which caters for reception to year-two students. The village's community spirit is exemplified by the yearly quiz. There is also a village church, where services are held weekly. The church has a 12th-century canonical sundial on the south wall.\n\nThe village has two cricket teams, both playing in the Cambridgeshire Cricket Association leagues and one cricket team playing in the Cambridge Business House Midweek League. Madingley is closely connected with nearby Cambridge and students and dons are commonly seen in the village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985145", "title": "Expedition (book)", "text": "Expedition (book)\n\nExpedition is a science fiction and speculative fiction book by artist-author Wayne Douglas Barlowe. Subtitled \"Being an Account in Words and Artwork of the 2358 A.D. Voyage to Darwin IV\", it is written as though published in the year 2366, five years after Barlowe's participation in a voyage to an alien planet, dubbed Darwin IV in honor of Charles Darwin.\n\nIn the 24th century the exploitation of the Earth's ecosystem has created an environment so toxic that mass extinctions have wiped out nearly half of its animal population. Most of the remaining fauna, save humans, have suffered horrible mutation. Aided by the benevolent and technologically superior alien race, the Yma, humanity begins to repair their ravaged world while simultaneously learning more about the universe around them. When an unmanned Yma probe discovers evidence of alien life on another planet, the titular \"expedition\" is sent to investigate.\n\nBarlowe writes as a sort of 24th century Audubon, presenting his findings in a collection of paintings, sketches, field notes, and diary entries from his explorations of Darwin IV. He details a bewildering variety of alien lifeforms such as Gyrosprinters, Arrowtongues, Grovebacks, Daggerwrists, Skewers, Emperor Sea Striders, and Eosapiens. Unlike the aliens presented in much of popular science fiction, which often seem to be variations of terrestrial lifeforms, Barlowe's creatures are truly alien: none of them possess eyes or true jaws; their body structures are often unlike any found on Earth; and they have unique modes of locomotion, sensing, and eating. Very late in the expedition, the explorer encounters lifeforms which use tools (the Eosapiens), giving a very strong indication they are intelligent.\n\nA conservationist theme is present throughout the book. The expedition is designed to have as minimal an impact as possible on Darwin IV's environment. When two of the expedition's members suffer a fatal accident, Yma technology is used to remove all traces of the accident from Darwin IV's environment. At the conclusion of the expedition, Darwin IV is left in the same pristine state it was in prior to the expedition, with the exception of a metal obelisk placed in a remote area by the expedition.\n\nA portion of the book, \"Sea Strider Skull and Littoralope\" was reprinted by the American Littoral Society.\n\nThe Discovery Channel produced a television special adapted from Barlowe's \"Expedition\", entitled \"Alien Planet\", which first aired on May 14, 2005. This program was faithful to the book in its presentation of the lifeforms found on Darwin IV. However, instead of being presented as the artist's own experiences, the program is presented as the findings of two autonomous robotic probes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985147", "title": "Utility computing", "text": "Utility computing\n\nUtility computing, or The Computer Utility, is a service provisioning model in which a service provider makes computing resources and infrastructure management available to the customer as needed, and charges them for specific usage rather than a flat rate. Like other types of on-demand computing (such as grid computing), the utility model seeks to maximize the efficient use of resources and/or minimize associated costs. Utility is the packaging of system resources, such as computation, storage and services, as a metered service. This model has the advantage of a low or no initial cost to acquire computer resources; instead, resources are essentially rented.\n\nThis repackaging of computing services became the foundation of the shift to \"on demand\" computing, software as a service and cloud computing models that further propagated the idea of computing, application and network as a service.\n\nThere was some initial skepticism about such a significant shift. However, the new model of computing caught on and eventually became mainstream.\n\nIBM, HP and Microsoft were early leaders in the new field of utility computing, with their business units and researchers working on the architecture, payment and development challenges of the new computing model. Google, Amazon and others started to take the lead in 2008, as they established their own utility services for computing, storage and applications.\n\nUtility computing can support grid computing which has the characteristic of very large computations or sudden peaks in demand which are supported via a large number of computers.\n\n\"Utility computing\" has usually envisioned some form of virtualization so that the amount of storage or computing power available is considerably larger than that of a single time-sharing computer. Multiple servers are used on the \"back end\" to make this possible. These might be a dedicated computer cluster specifically built for the purpose of being rented out, or even an under-utilized supercomputer. The technique of running a single calculation on multiple computers is known as distributed computing.\n\nThe term \"grid computing\" is often used to describe a particular form of distributed computing, where the supporting nodes are geographically distributed or cross administrative domains. To provide utility computing services, a company can \"bundle\" the resources of members of the public for sale, who might be paid with a portion of the revenue from clients.\n\nOne model, common among volunteer computing applications, is for a central server to dispense tasks to participating nodes, on the behest of approved end-users (in the commercial case, the paying customers). Another model, sometimes called the Virtual Organization (VO), is more decentralized, with organizations buying and selling computing resources as needed or as they go idle.\n\nThe definition of \"utility computing\" is sometimes extended to specialized tasks, such as web services.\n\nUtility computing merely means \"Pay and Use\", with regards to computing power.\nUtility computing is not a new concept, but rather has quite a long history. Among the earliest references is:\nIBM and other mainframe providers conducted this kind of business in the following two decades, often referred to as time-sharing, offering computing power and database storage to banks and other large organizations from their worldwide data centers. To facilitate this business model, mainframe operating systems evolved to include process control facilities, security, and user metering. The advent of mini computers changed this business model, by making computers affordable to almost all companies. As Intel and AMD increased the power of PC architecture servers with each new generation of processor, data centers became filled with thousands of servers.\n\nIn the late 1990s utility computing re-surfaced. InsynQ, Inc. launched [on-demand] applications and desktop hosting services in 1997 using HP equipment. In 1998, HP set up the Utility Computing Division in Mountain View, CA, assigning former Bell Labs computer scientists to begin work on a computing power plant, incorporating multiple utilities to form a software stack. Services such as \"IP billing-on-tap\" were marketed. HP introduced the Utility Data Center in 2001. Sun announced the Sun Cloud service to consumers in 2000. In December 2005, Alexa launched Alexa Web Search Platform, a Web search building tool for which the underlying power is utility computing. Alexa charges users for storage, utilization, etc. There is space in the market for specific industries and applications as well as other niche applications powered by utility computing. For example, PolyServe Inc. offers a clustered file system based on commodity server and storage hardware that creates highly available utility computing environments for mission-critical applications including Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server databases, as well as workload optimized solutions specifically tuned for bulk storage, high-performance computing, vertical industries such as financial services, seismic processing, and content serving. The Database Utility and File Serving Utility enable IT organizations to independently add servers or storage as needed, retask workloads to different hardware, and maintain the environment without disruption.\n\nIn spring 2006 3tera announced its AppLogic service and later that summer Amazon launched Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud). These services allow the operation of general purpose computing applications. Both are based on Xen virtualization software and the most commonly used operating system on the virtual computers is Linux, though Windows and Solaris are supported. Common uses include web application, SaaS, image rendering and processing but also general-purpose business applications.\n\n\nDecision support and business intelligence 8th edition page 680 \n\n"}
{"id": "1985148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985148", "title": "Alex Kurtagić", "text": "Alex Kurtagić\n\nAlex Kurtagić (born 1970) is a British artist, cultural commentator, satirist, musician, novelist, and publisher. He is the founder of Supernal Music and various publishing houses. For a time, he was a far-right speaker and writer, although he's since drawn a line under political extremism. His writing has dealt with topics relating to culture, society, politics, music, and community relations in the contemporary West. He is known as a proponent of elitism and as a critic of conservatism. \n\nKurtagić was born in 1970. Due to his parents' jobs he spent part of his youth in South America. In 1995, he founded the project Benighted Leams, which has since released four albums. In 1996 he founded Supernal Music.\n\nDuring the mid-to-late 1990s, he became known for his album cover illustrations. His artwork appeared on albums by black metal artists, such as Dimmu Borgir, Deinonychus, among others. His cover of Dimmu Borgir's \"Stormblåst\" is featured in the book \"Heavy Metal Thunder: Album Covers that Rocked the World\".\n\nKurtagić's dystopian novel, \"Mister\", was published in 2009. For the next few years, Kurtagić was active as a social, cultural, and political commentator. In 2011 a collection of articles and essays was published in book form by Unitall Verlag in German translation, with the title \"Ja, Afrika muss zur Hölle gehen\".\n\nA second collection, also in German, was published by Antaios in 2013 as \"Warum Konservative immer verlieren\".\n\nMore recently, a book collecting his artwork was published, containing also anecdotal, fictional, semi-fictional, and satirical texts.\n\nSupernal Music was mainly known throughout the late 1990s for its mail order catalogue of underground music, particularly extreme metal in all categories, but mainly black metal. Later on it became known in the underground black metal scene through a roster that included bands such as Astrofaes and Drudkh from Ukraine, Fleurety and Mayhem from Norway, and The Meads of Asphodel from the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2008 the British anti-fascist magazine \"Searchlight\" published a critical article on fascist lyrics and imagery in some styles of black metal that included criticism of the label's newsletter for having featured Savitri Devi, Ernst Junger, Miguel Serrano, and Julius Langbehn on its covers and for the content of some of the CDs on offer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985149", "title": "Apios priceana", "text": "Apios priceana\n\nApios priceana is a rare species of flowering plant in the legume family known by the common names Price's potato-bean, Price's groundnut, and traveler's delight. It is a climbing yellow-green vine in the growing from a stout, potato-like tuber. It is native to the U.S. states of Alabama, Mississippi, Kentucky, and Tennessee. It occurred in Illinois in the past but its population there was destroyed. There are about 25 known occurrences. It is federally listed as a threatened species.\n\nThe vines may be up to 3 to 5 meters long with fragrant pale pink or greenish-yellow pea-like flowers which bloom in the summer. They are pollinated by bees and the long-tailed skipper (\"Urbanus proteus\"). Each vine leaf is about long, with seven leaflets. Leaves are alternately arranged on the stem. The plant's large underground tuber distinguishes it from other \"Apios\" species. It was probably used as a food source by Indians and early white settlers. The fruit is a long slender pod about long.\n\nThe plant is usually associated with openings in the forest canopy in mixed hardwood stands where ravine slopes grade into creek or stream bottoms.\n\nThe threatened status of Price's potato bean is primarily due to habitat destruction, but other impacts such as disease, predation, and historical tuber collection have also contributed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985161", "title": "Dick, Kerr Ladies F.C.", "text": "Dick, Kerr Ladies F.C.\n\nDick, Kerr Ladies F.C. was one of the earliest known women's association football teams in England. The team remained in existence for over 48 years, from 1917 to 1965, playing 833 games, winning 759, drawing 46, and losing 28. During its early years, matches attracted anywhere from 4,000 to over 50,000 spectators per match. In 1920, Dick, Kerr Ladies defeated a French side 2–0 in front of 25,000 people that went down in history as the first international women's association football game. The team faced strong opposition by the Football Association (FA), who banned the women from using fields and stadiums controlled by FA-affiliated clubs for 50 years (the rule was finally repealed in 1971).\nDick, Kerr Ladies F.C. was founded in Preston, Lancashire, England as a World War I-era works team for the company Dick, Kerr & Co. The women on the team had joined the company in 1914 to help produce ammunition for the war. Although women had initially been discouraged from playing football, it was believed that such organised sporting activity would be good for morale in wartime factories and would aid production, so competitive sport was encouraged.\n\nDuring a period of low production at the factory in October 1917, women workers joined the apprentices in the factory yard for informal football matches during their tea and lunch breaks. After beating the men of the factory in an informal game, the women of Dick, Kerr formed a team, under the management of office worker, Alfred Frankland. The team drew strong crowds from the beginning; Dick, Kerr beat Arundel Coulthard Factory 4–0 in front of a crowd of 10,000 on Christmas Day 1917 at Deepdale.\n\nDick, Kerr played in charity fixtures against similar teams around the country and raised money for injured servicemen during and after the war. The \"Daily Post\" wrote, \"Dick, Kerr were not long in showing that they suffered less than their opponents from stage fright, and they had a better all-round understanding of the game. Their forward work, indeed, was often surprisingly good, one or two of the ladies showing quite admirable ball control.\" Players were paid 10 shillings a game by Dick, Kerr & Co. to cover their expenses.\n\nThe team played the first women's international in 1920 against France. The French team was from Paris and was led by the great patron of Women's sport in France, Alice Milliat.\n\nDick, Kerr played a total of four games in the UK the same year. The first match was played at Deepdale, where the squad won 2–0. The second match at Stockport was won by the Dick, Kerr Ladies 5–2 followed by the third game in Manchester which drew 1–1. The final was won by the French at Stamford Bridge in London with a score of 2–1.\n\nThe Dick, Kerr Ladies went on to tour in France where they played in Paris, Roubaix, Havre and finally Rouen, drawing on three and winning the final game.\n\nThe French tour generated tremendous publicity for the team and on Boxing Day of 1920, their match against St. Helen's Ladies at Goodison Park, Liverpool drew a crowd of 53,000 spectators, a world record for women's club matches that lasted for over 98 years. The team were featured regularly in the Pathé newsreels of the day and players like Lily Parr and Alice Woods became an appealing draw at British football grounds.\n\nThe popularity of the team led the Football Association (FA) to ban women's football at its members grounds on 5 December 1921. Although they FA claimed that the reason for the ban was to \"protect\" women, who they saw as not physically able to play football, it was widely purported that they felt the popularity of the team threatened the men's game. The crowds at the Dick, Kerr Ladies matches were often bigger than men's games being played on the same day. Less than a year after a match played before 53,000 fans packed into Goodison Park, the Dick, Kerr Ladies, as well as all the other women's teams that had been established in England, lost their official recognition by the FA.\n\nThe resolution passed by the FA's Consultative Committee read:\n\nThe FA ban would stay in place for fifty years – finally being rescinded in 1971 – and would ultimately become a major setback for the women's game in England. The grounds that were under the FA's governance were the only ones that held enough capacity to meet the demand of the women's games in the early 1920s. Because of the ban, women's games were relegated to smaller capacity fields with less resources and exposure. The FA finally recognised women's football in July 1971, 50 years after they had banned the game and six years after the team folded. The later Preston North End W.F.C., now Fylde Ladies, is unrelated to this team.\n\nThe women's game in England was left on its own until 1993 when the FA took over its administration and funding.\n\nDespite the FA ban, the team continued to play on non-FA grounds. In late 1922, the team traveled abroad for a tour of Canada and the United States. Upon their arrival, Canada's Dominion Football Association prevented the team from playing anywhere in the country. The \"Washington Post\" reported on 23 September 1922, \"The Dick, Kerr's team of English women soccer football players arrived today on the steamship Montclare en route to the United States where they will play a series of games. The girls will not be allowed to play Canadian soccer teams under order from the Dominion Football Association which objects to women football players. The team's first game will be at Patterson, N.J., on September 24th.\" The team played nine U.S.-based men's teams before crowds ranging from four to ten thousand spectators. Some of the opposing teams included immigrants who had previously played in the British football league, plus at least one American who would go on to represent the U.S. at the 1930 World Cup finals. Dick, Kerr Ladies acquitted themselves well, winning three games, drawing three, and losing three. They proved tough opponents. \"I played against them in 1922,\" recalled Paterson goalkeeper Peter Renzulli. \"We were national champions and we had a hell of a job beating them.\"\n\nThe \"Fall River Evening Herald\" in Fall River, Massachusetts described the match there as \"one of the biggest things in soccer ever to have visited the United States.\" Newspapers often described the team as \"showing great stamina, clever combination of play, and considerable speed.\"\n\nThe team's club colours were black and white striped jerseys with a small Union Jack on the left breast and blue shorts. Their England colours were white jerseys and blue shorts. The women also wore striped hats to cover their hair.\n\nIn 1926, Alfred Frankland had a falling out with the Dick, Kerr Ladies ownership. The team's name changed to Preston Ladies F.C. and carried on playing until 1965. Despite having to play in more obscure locations due to the FA ban, the team saw an average of 5,000 spectators at their matches throughout the 1930s. In 1937, the team played against Scottish women champions, the Edinburgh Ladies and won 5–1, earning the \"unofficial\" title of world champions for the first time.\n\nThe story of the Dick, Kerr Ladies F.C was featured in the BBC's \"Nation On Film – Women's Football\" in 2005 and featured archive film footage of the team in action shot by professionals and amateurs.\n\nDick, Kerr Ladies' history was revisited in \"When Football Banned Women\", a documentary presented by Clare Balding and broadcast on Channel 4 in 2017: the programme featured archive footage and still photographs as well as historians discussing the club and analysing the reaction of the football authorities to the women's game.\n\n\"Famous and Forgotten\" is an award-winning play based on the story of Dick, Kerr Ladies F.C., written by playwright Andrew Colley. In 2004 the play won the 'Naked Talent' playwriting competition at the Mercury Theatre, Colchester, and has been widely performed by amateur and professional groups in the UK and abroad. It was performed at the College at Braintree in 2011.\n\nThe story of the Dick, Kerr Ladies, set against the backdrop of the impact of the Suffragette movement and The Great War, has provided the inspiration for a play called, \"Unfit for Females\", produced by London theatre company, Bold Over Theatre. The show ran from 24 March – 13 April 2014 at Riverside Studios, Hammersmith before embarking on a national tour.\n\n\"No Man's Land\" by Stephanie Alice McKervill was produced by Ribcaged Productions in 2014. It tells the story of the Dick, Kerr Ladies rise and their treatment both during and after the Great War. It toured Lancashire including The Grand Clitheroe, Blackburn Empire and Lowther Pavilion, Lytham in 2014. \n\nNot a Game for Girls\n\n\"Not a Game for Girls\" by Benjamin Peel was first performed by Matthew Wignall's Off the Rock Productions company at Friargate Theatre, York in June 2017 and it was directed by Alison Young. Using a mixture of real, composite and fictional characters it begins with the team's formation in 1917 and ends with the 1921 ban. Blending drama, songs, choreographed games and projections this fictionalised version takes in themes of social change during and after the Great War and also the effect of the conflict on men with the play garnering positive reviews such as on The One & Other Creative website. It was published by Oberon Books in 2018 and it has since been produced at the Guildford School of Acting in 2018 and also at the Northern Academy of Performing Arts, Hull and at Spotlight Theatre, Bridlington both in 2019.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985162", "title": "Barry Mason", "text": "Barry Mason\n\nJohn Barry Mason (born 12 July 1935), known professionally as Barry Mason, is an English songwriter; he grew up in the village of Coppull, near Chorley in Lancashire. A leading songwriter of the 1960s, he wrote the bulk of his most successful songs in partnership with Les Reed. Mason gained many gold and platinum awards for his work including five Ivor Novello Awards, the most recent of them in 1998.\n\nHis songwriting credits included \"Love Grows (Where My Rosemary Goes)\", \"The Last Waltz\", \"Here It Comes Again\", \"I Pretend\", \"There Goes My First Love\", \"A Man Without Love\", \"Winter World of Love\" \"Now That You are Gone\", \"Rowbottom Square\" and \"Delilah\".\n\nHis songs have been recorded by Tom Jones, Dalida, P. J. Proby, David Essex, The Drifters, Rod Stewart, Petula Clark, Perry Como, Elvis Presley, Engelbert Humperdinck, The Fortunes, Charles Aznavour, Tony Christie, Connie Francis, Mireille Mathieu, Barbra Streisand, The Dave Clark Five, Cliff Portwood and Ashley Maclaine. \n\nMason and Reed wrote a song for Kathy Kirby, \"I'll Try Not To Cry\", as part of \"A Song for Europe 1965\", the BBC's contest to choose the United Kingdom entry for that year's Eurovision Song Contest in Naples. The song was beaten by \"I Belong\". \"The Last Waltz\" became a million selling UK number one for Humperdinck in September 1967. In 1968, the duo scored another UK number 1 hit with Des O'Connor's recording of \"I Pretend\". Mason and Reed also wrote \"Who's Doctor Who\", a novelty song recorded by \"Doctor Who\" star Frazer Hines in 1967, but it failed to chart. They also wrote \"Marching On Together\" (aka \"Leeds! Leeds! Leeds!\"), the anthem of Leeds United F.C.\n\nHe was also the major songwriter for the English singer Declan Galbraith for his first album, \"Declan\" (2002), including the hit \"Tell Me Why\" (No. 29 in UK) and \"Till the Day We Meet Again\".\n\nHe founded his own publishing company, Barry Mason Enterprises Ltd.\n\nMason was a frequent guest on the BBC1 panel game \"Pop Quiz\", hosted by Mike Read.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985163", "title": "Raspletin (crater)", "text": "Raspletin (crater)\n\nRaspletin is a lunar impact crater that is located along the southeastern inner edge of the much larger walled plain Gagarin, on the far side of the Moon.\n\nThe southeastern inner wall of Raspletin has merged with the edge of Gagarin's rim, giving it the appearance of a much wider face along that side. The remainder of the rim is somewhat polygonal in outline, with straight faces to the north and west. The edge is eroded, with some small craters along the southern rim. A small crater is attached to the southern outer rim where Raspletin joins Gagarin's inner face.\n\nThe interior floor is irregular in the southeastern half, and more level to the northwest. At the midpoint is a merged pair of small crater rims that appear worn and rounded. There is a small crater along the edge of the inner wall to the northeast and another along the southwest inner side.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985166", "title": "David Morse", "text": "David Morse\n\nDavid Bowditch Morse (born October 11, 1953) is an American actor, singer, director and writer. He first came to national attention as Dr. Jack \"Boomer\" Morrison in the medical drama series \"St. Elsewhere\" (1982–88). He continued his film career with roles in \"The Negotiator\", \"Contact\", \"The Green Mile\", \"Dancer in the Dark\", \"Disturbia\", \"The Long Kiss Goodnight\", \"The Rock\" and \"12 Monkeys\".\n\nIn 2006, Morse had a recurring role as Detective Michael Tritter on the medical drama series \"House\", for which he received an Emmy Award nomination. He portrayed George Washington in the 2008 HBO miniseries \"John Adams\", which garnered him a second Emmy nomination. He has also received acclaim for his portrayal of Uncle Peck on the Off-Broadway play \"How I Learned to Drive\", earning a Drama Desk Award and Obie Award. He has also had success on Broadway, portraying James \"Sharky\" Harkin in \"The Seafarer\". From 2010 to 2013, he portrayed Terry Colson, an honest police officer in a corrupt New Orleans police department, on the HBO series \"Treme\". He also appeared in the WGN America series \"Outsiders\" (2016–17) and in the Showtime miniseries \"Escape at Dannemora\" (2018).\n\nMorse was born October 11, 1953, in Beverly, Massachusetts, the son of Jacquelyn, a school teacher, and Charles Morse, a sales manager. He was raised in Essex, Massachusetts and Hamilton, Massachusetts. His middle name, Bowditch, comes from mathematician Nathaniel Bowditch.\n\nAfter graduating from high school in 1971, Morse studied acting at the William Esper Studio. He began his acting career in the theater as a player for the Boston Repertory Theatre in the early 1970s. In the mid-1970s, Esquire Jauchem, artistic director of the Boston Repertory Theater, adapted and directed a stage musical version of \"The Point!\" that starred an 18-year-old Morse as Oblio. The production later toured to the Trinity Square Repertory Company in Providence. He spent some time in New York's theater community in the early 1980s before moving into television and film. During that time, Morse was listed as one of the twelve most \"Promising New Actors of 1980\" in John A. Willis's \"Screen World, Vol. 32\". Morse's big break came in 1982 when he was cast in the television medical drama \"St. Elsewhere\". He played Dr. Jack \"Boomer\" Morrison, a young physician who is forced to deal with the death of his wife and the struggles of a single parent professional.\n\nMorse appeared in a number of supporting roles following \"St. Elsewhere\". He is quoted as saying: \"I made the decision that I didn't care if there was any money in the role or not. I had to find roles that were different from what I had been doing.\" His turn in \"Desperate Hours\" as antagonist showed a darker Morse. He later starred in \"The Indian Runner\" and \"The Crossing Guard\". He has appeared in three adaptations of Stephen King stories: \"The Langoliers\", \"Hearts in Atlantis\", and \"The Green Mile\". He was a guest star on \"\", playing a racist cousin of Detective Tim Bayliss.\nIn 2002, Morse starred as Mike Olshansky, an ex-Philadelphia police officer turned cab driver, in the television film \"Hack\". The film was so well received that a television series with the same name was created. For his role in the 2002 crime-drama film \"Shuang Tong\", Morse was nominated as Best Supporting Actor in the Golden Horse Awards, the first ever nomination for an English-speaking actor. He appeared as questionable neighbor Mr. Turner in the 2007 release \"Disturbia\". Film critic and commentator John Podhoretz wrote that Morse is a \"largely unsung character actor who enlivens and deepens every movie fortunate enough to have him in the cast\".\n\nIn 2006, Morse received a phone call from David Shore, having previously worked with him on the \"Hack\" series, who asked him if he would be interested in having a guest role on \"House\". When Morse watched the show, he could not understand why people watched the show, because he believed that \"this House guy is a total jerk\". When he told some of his friends about the offer, however, their excited reactions convinced him to accept the role. Morse portrayed Michael Tritter, a detective with a vendetta against Dr. House. He earned his first Emmy Award nomination for his work on the series.\n\nIn 2008, Morse portrayed George Washington in the HBO miniseries \"John Adams\", for which his nose was made bigger. Morse commented: \"The first thing that comes to mind is my nose; it was my big idea to do that nose. We didn't have a lot of time, because they asked me to do this about three weeks before they started shooting, and I just kept looking at these portraits and thinking 'this man's face is so commanding'. And I did not feel that my face was very commanding in the way his was. So I convinced them that we should try the nose, and we tried it on, and everybody went 'wow, that's Washington'.\" Morse's portrayal earned him his second Emmy Award nomination. He is currently reprising the role of Washington in voice form as part of The Hall of Presidents show in Walt Disney World Resort's Magic Kingdom.\n\nMorse has stated that out of all of the films he has done, his favorites are \"The Green Mile\", \"The Crossing Guard\", and \"The Indian Runner\". In 2010, he guest starred in two episodes of the HBO drama series \"Treme\", as Lt. Terry Colson of the New Orleans Police Department. He was promoted to series regular starting with the show's second season, which began in April 2011. Later that year, Morse won the best actor award at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival for his role in \"Collaborator\". He played an ex-CIA agent in the film \"World War Z\" (2013). He played the late NFL player, Mike Webster, in the biographical sports drama \"Concussion\".\n\nIn addition to his film and television career, Morse has continued to appear on stage. For his performance in the 1997 Off-Broadway production of Paula Vogel's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama \"How I Learned to Drive\", he received an Obie Award, a Drama League Award, a Drama Desk Award, and a Lucille Lortel Award. That same year, he played Father Barry in the play adaptation of \"On the Waterfront\". The play ran for only eight performances. From 2007 to 2008, Morse appeared on Broadway in Conor McPherson's play \"The Seafarer\". He received a Tony Award nomination for his role in the 2018 Broadway revival of \"The Iceman Cometh.\"\n\nMorse has three younger siblings. He has been married to actress and author of \"The Habit\", Susan Wheeler Duff Morse, since 1982. They have one daughter, Eliza, and twin sons Benjamin and Samuel. After the 1994 Northridge earthquake, Morse and his family moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where they currently live.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985175", "title": "Janneke Jonkman", "text": "Janneke Jonkman\n\nJanneke Jonkman (born Leiderdorp, Netherlands 20 January 1978) is a Dutch writer.\n\nAfter primary school, Jonkman studied dance at the Koninklijk Conservatorium for three years. She quit her studies there and subsequently attended the Stedelijk Gymnasium in Leiden, where she obtained her diploma in 1997. Whilst studying Dutch at the Universiteit van Amsterdam she became a member of the editorship of the literary magazine \"Nymph\".\n\nIn 2001, Jonkman's debut novel \"Soms Mis Je Me Nooit\" (\"Sometimes You Never Miss Me\") was published by Dutch publishers Prometheus/Bert Bakker. Her second book was called \"De Droomfotograaf\" (\"The Dream Photographer\"). Her third novel, entitled \"Verboden Te Twijfelen\" (\"Forbidden To Doubt\"), was published in October 2006. Jonkman's novel \"Vederlicht\"(\"Featherlight\") was published in 2009.\n\nJanneke Jonkman co-authored the television movie \"Near Neighbors\", along with director Marleen Jonkman, in 2010.\n\nInterviews with Jonkman have appeared in Dutch magazines including \"Sp!ts\", \"Folia\", \"Spui\", \"Plug\", \"Avant Garde\" and \"Viva\".\n\nShe currently lives and works in Amsterdam, working part-time for the magazine AvantGarde.\n"}
{"id": "1985181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985181", "title": "Who Am I This Time?", "text": "Who Am I This Time?\n\n\"Who Am I This Time?\" is a short story written by Kurt Vonnegut, published in the \"Saturday Evening Post\" in 1961. The story was collected in Vonnegut's famous anthology \"Welcome to the Monkey House\". It was originally titled \"My Name is Everyone\".\n\nThe story centers on a character named Harry Nash, who is an extremely shy and characterless small-town man. However, whenever he takes a part in the local, amateur theater production he becomes the character to an overwhelming extent. Soon Helene Shaw, a recent addition to the town, falls in love—not with Nash, but with his character in the play.\n\nHarry Nash is a clerk at Miller's Hardware Store who acts in local amateur productions at the North Crawford Mask and Wig Club. He's known for his ability to completely personify a role, whatever it calls for. Before the story's timeline, his roles included Captain Queeg in \"The Caine Mutiny Court Martial\", Abe Lincoln in \"Abe Lincoln in Illinois\", the young architect in \"The Moon is Blue\", Henry the Eighth in \"Anne of the Thousand Days\" and Doc in \"Come Back Little Sheba\". He's also known for his intense shyness when he's out of character or without a script in front of him. When approached with a new role, he asks \"Who am I this time?\". In the story, he plays Marlon Brando's role in \"A Streetcar Named Desire\". It's in this context that he meets Helene, who plays his wife on stage. He ultimately marries Helene.\n\nHelene Shaw works for a phone company and travels the country teaching local girls how to take care of the company's new billing machine. The director notices her beauty and persuades her to audition for a part in \"A Streetcar Named Desire\". Her initial audition falls flat as she seemingly has no passion to draw on. She confesses that she's never been in love but that she wants to be. It's not until she reads the script again, with Harry fully in character, that she's able to tap into the emotion necessary for the part. Over the course of the auditions, she falls in love with Harry's onstage persona. After the final performance, she gives him a copy of \"Romeo and Juliet\" which they read from and, together, they take on the characters' personas. She stays in North Crawford, marries Harry a week later and they seem to be happy, depending on which play they're reading from that week.\n\nThe short story is written from the unnamed director's point of view.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985184", "title": "Baran (film)", "text": "Baran (film)\n\nBaran (; literally: \"Rain\") is a 2001 Iranian film directed by Majid Majidi, based on an original script by Majid Majidi. The movie is set during recent times in which there are many Afghan refugees living on the outskirts of Tehran. \"Baran\" won a number of awards both nationally and internationally for the director and writer Majid Majidi.\n\nIt is winter in Tehran. Lateef is 17. He works at a building construction site managed by Memar, the site foreman. Lateef's job is to serve tea and prepare food for the workers with whom he is always quarrelling. The workers come from all parts of Iran, particularly from Iranian Azerbaijan (Azeris are referred as \"Turks\" in the film). Some workers are Afghan refugees from war-torn Afghanistan. They have no identity cards and are employed illegally as cheap labour. When the labour inspectors show up, the Afghan workers must hide.\n\nAs the story starts, an Afghan worker, Najaf, falls from the building and breaks his leg. He is taken to the hospital. The next day, Soltan, another Afghan worker, brings in Rahmat, Najaf's son, who is around 14 years old, to replace his father. Memar soon realizes that Rahmat is not fit for such hard work, and decides to switch the jobs between Rahmat and Lateef. Lateef is furious, threatens Rahmat, tries to sabotage his work and spies on him. One day, by looking through the door where Rahmat works, he is totally shocked to discover that Rahmat is a girl. As he watches her comb her hair, he finds himself in a strange state, surrounded by unusual sounds.\n\nFrom then on his attitude changes completely; he becomes protective, helpful and gradually desperately in love with Rahmat. While Rahmat does not express herself verbally at all, over time she seems to respond to this love. During a surprise visit of the labour inspectors, they find themselves face to face with Rahmat. She panics and runs away, as they chase her through the city streets. Lateef runs after them, struggling with the inspectors while Rahmat flees. Lateef is beaten and taken to the police station. Now Memar must pay a fine, comply with the law, and lay off all illegal Afghan workers.\n\nLateef can't bear Rahmat's absence, and decides to locate Soltan to get some news of her. He goes to the village where the Afghans live, walks around, meets an enigmatic cobbler, and ends up in the courtyard of a shrine near a graveyard where Afghan families are gathered for a local milk ceremony. He inquires about Soltan, but gets no clues. Among the Afghans in the courtyard stands Rahmat in female clothing. She sees Lateef, stares at him for a while, then leaves the ceremony. Lateef is not aware of her presence. The next day on the road, he finds Soltan, and learns that Rahmat works in the village near the river. Lateef rushes there to find Rahmat in a pitiful state, working with other women carrying heavy stones from the river. He is distressed, and wants to find a way to help her out of that ordeal.\n\nHe gets all his accumulated wages from Memar, and hands them to Soltan, asking him to pass them on to Najaf. They agree to meet the next day at the shrine after Soltan has given the money to Najaf. The next day at the shrine, instead of Soltan, Najaf shows up to inform Lateef that Soltan has gone to Afghanistan. He tells Lateef that Soltan came to him and offered him some money he'd borrowed from someone. He also tells Lateef he has refused the money, and has advised Soltan to keep it for himself, and use it to leave immediately for Afghanistan where he had a life and death issue in his family. Lateef is now shocked and worried.\n\nLateef becomes even more worried the next day when he overhears a conversation in Najaf's house that Najaf is now faced with family problems in Afghanistan, as his brother has been killed in the war. He also hears Rahmat's real name is Baran. Lateef goes back to the river to find Baran, who is exhausted, carrying logs out of the river in an atmosphere reminiscent of a war field. Powerless before the hardship she is going through, Lateef returns to the construction site in a state of depression. The next morning, Najaf on his crutches is at the construction site to meet Memar. Lateef overhears Najaf begging Memar without success to lend him some money.\n\nLateef makes a desperate attempt to get money. He sells the only valuable thing he has, his identity card. When he brings the money to Najaf, Lateef learns that thanks to this money, Najaf and his family will return to Afghanistan. Lateef is overwhelmed by this news, and finds refuge in the shrine. There, in a state of anguish and despair, he hears from all around him the same sounds he heard when he first saw Baran. He surrenders to his fate.\n\nThe next day, while helping Najaf to load a truck with household effects, Lateef is finally face-to-face with Baran. Through eye contact and physical proximity, they exchange their feelings of love. As Baran covers herself and walks to the truck, her shoe gets stuck in the mud. Lateef gets on his knees, takes her shoe out of the mud, and hands it to Baran so she can wear it and leave. The truck takes Baran away. Left alone in the empty place, Lateef stares at the footstep in the mud left by Baran's shoe, and smiles while the rain covers it.\n\nMiramax released the film for viewing in New York and Los Angeles on December 7, 2001.\n\n\n\n\n http://baran.cinemajidi.com/synopsis.html\n\n"}
{"id": "1985191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985191", "title": "Gordon Fines", "text": "Gordon Fines\n\nGordon Richard Fines (November 11, 1911 in Darlingford, Manitoba – July 29, 1990) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1949 to 1953, as a member of the social-democratic Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nFines was the son of Richard Fines and Mabel Willcott, who had resided in Manitoba since 1876, shortly after the province's creation. He was educated in Baldur, and worked as an educator in Manitoba and Saskatchewan for eight years. He was elected to the Winnipeg school board in 1947, and to the Winnipeg city council in 1948. Fines also worked for the Canadian Pacific Railway, became active in the labour movement, and was local chair of the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks Lodge 49. He returned to teaching later in life.\n\nHe was married twice: first to Santa Maria La Monica in 1942 and later to Marion Cove Morden.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1949 provincial election, in the constituency of Winnipeg Centre. During this period's Winnipeg was divided into three constituencies, each of which elected four members through a single transferable ballot. Fines finished fourth on the first count with 2,149 votes, and was declared elected to the third position on the seventh count when another CCF member was eliminated.\n\nHe was chosen as party whip on December 22, 1952, at the same meeting which saw Lloyd Stinson chosen as party leader. Stinson later described Fines as \"a quiet man with firm opinions and a flair for statistics and fiscal matters\". He was the CCF's main spokesperson in budget debates.\n\nFines sought re-election to the legislature in the 1953 election, but was defeated. He finished seventh on the first count with 1,080 votes, and was eliminated on the seventh count. The independent candidates of Lewis Stubbs and Stephen Juba likely contributed to Fines's defeat.\n\nAfter his provincial defeat, Fines ran for the federal Cooperative Commonwealth Federation in the 1953 Canadian election, in the single-member riding of Winnipeg South Centre. He finished third, with about half the votes of Progressive Conservative Gordon Churchill. He ran again in the 1958 election, but finished a poor third.\n\nWinnipeg's electoral map was redrawn before the 1958 provincial election, with the multi-member constituencies eliminated and \"first past the post\" single-member constituencies introduced in their place. Fines ran for the CCF in the St. Matthew's constituency, but lost to Progressive Conservative William G. Martin by 822 votes. He lost to Martin by 545 votes in the 1959 election, and finished third as a candidate of the New Democratic Party (successor to the CCF) in the 1962 campaign.\n\nFines had greater success in municipal politics. He was elected to the Winnipeg City Council for Ward Two in the 1953 municipal election. He served on council from 1953 to 1960, and again from 1966 to 1971. In 1969, he was chosen as the head of Winnipeg's Parks and Recreation Committee.\n\nHe died in Winnipeg at the age of 78.\n"}
{"id": "1985199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985199", "title": "Sapote", "text": "Sapote\n\nSapote (from Nahuatl tzapotl) is a term for a soft, edible fruit. The word is incorporated into the common names of several unrelated fruit-bearing plants native to Mexico, Central America and northern parts of South America. It is also known in Caribbean English as soapapple.\n\nSome but not all sapotes come from the family Sapotaceae:\n\n\nSapotes from the family Ebenaceae include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985211", "title": "Technical High School of Limeira", "text": "Technical High School of Limeira\n\nThe Technical High School of Limeira (Portuguese: \"Colégio Técnico de Limeira\", COTIL) is a public high school maintained by the State University of Campinas. Its campus is located in Limeira, São Paulo, Brazil. The school was founded in 1967.\n\nCOTIL provides courses in computer science, mechanical engineering, nursing, civil engineering, geomatics, and quality & productivity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985224", "title": "Time Machine (game show)", "text": "Time Machine (game show)\n\nTime Machine is an American game show where contestants compete to answer trivia questions about popular culture and recent history to win prizes. The show aired on NBC from January 7 through April 26, 1985, and was hosted by John Davidson. Charlie Tuna was the announcer, with Rich Jeffries as his substitute. Reg Grundy Productions produced the series, and upon its premiere \"Time Machine\" was one of three Grundy series airing on NBC (\"Sale of the Century\", which followed \"Time Machine\" on NBC's daytime schedule, and \"Scrabble\" were the other two).\n\nMost of the questions used focused on nostalgia, popular culture, and recent history, and more specifically what year a particular event occurred.\n\nFuture \"Card Sharks\" model Suzanna Williams appeared as one of the prize models in this series.\n\nThree contestants, one usually a returning champion, competed in mini-games, similar to pricing games from \"The Price Is Right\", to win prizes. The prizes won went into a contestant's \"Prize Bank\". Each contestant played one game, with the champion playing the third game.\n\n\nAfter the mini-games were played the three contestants faced off in the final round, the Time Capsule. Davidson gave the players a list of four events that all happened in the same year, and then a clip from a popular song from that year was played. The contestants then attempted to guess the year, and the contestant with the closest guess became the champion, won all of their banked prizes, and advanced to the bonus round. The other two players left with parting gifts. If two or more contestants were equally close, John would read a question related to the Time Capsule year to the tied players; the first one to buzz in with the right answer won.\n\nOn February 11 (just over a month after the series began), the format was completely overhauled with many mini-games undergoing rule changes to fit the new format and others retired. The champion no longer played the mini games, with the two challengers playing for the right to meet him/her in the final round. They played three mini-games, each one worth a prize; the Prize Bank was scrapped, with contestants now keeping their prizes regardless of how well they did.\n\nThe first two mini-games were worth one point, the last one was worth two. The one with the most points after three games won the game and advanced to the Challenge Round. If there was a tie after three games, a tiebreaker question was read; the first one to buzz in with the right answer won the game.\n\nSix mini-games were used in this new format. Unlike the old format, the same two lineups were used for every episode, alternating each day.\n\n\n\nThe Time Capsule round from the previous format was reworked into a two-player game and renamed the \"Challenge Round\" following the format change. The winner from the mini-games portion of the show faced off against the returning champion. The format for the Challenge Round remained the same, with the closest player winning and playing the bonus round. If the winning mini-games player was unable to unseat the champion, they kept whatever prizes were in their prize bank.\n\nThree different bonus games were used during the show's run.\n"}
{"id": "1985228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985228", "title": "Vedanā", "text": "Vedanā\n\nVedanā (Pāli and Sanskrit: वेदना) is an ancient term traditionally translated as either \"feeling\" or \"sensation.\" In general, \"vedanā\" refers to the pleasant, unpleasant and neutral sensations that occur when our internal sense organs come into contact with external sense objects and the associated consciousness. Vedanā is identified as valence or \"hedonic tone\" in psychology.\n\nVedanā is identified within the Buddhist teaching as follows:\n\nIn the context of the twelve links, craving for and attachment to vedanā leads to suffering; reciprocally, concentrated awareness and clear comprehension of vedanā can lead to Enlightenment and the extinction of the causes of suffering.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nNina van Gorkom states:\n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states:\n\nMipham Rinpoche states:\n\nAlexander Berzin describes this mental factors as \"feeling (tshor-ba, Skt. vedanā) some level of happiness\". He states:\n\nVedanā is the distinct valence or \"hedonic tone\" of emotional psychology, neurologically identified and isolated.\n\nContemporary teachers Bhikkhu Bodhi and Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche clarify the relationship between \"vedanā\" (often translated as \"feelings\") and Western notions of \"emotions.\"\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi writes: \n\nChögyam Trungpa Rinpoche writes:\n\nIn general, the Pali canon describes vedanā in terms of three \"modes\" and six \"classes.\" Some discourses discuss alternate enumerations including up to 108 kinds.\n\nThroughout canonical discourses (\"Sutta Pitaka\"), the Buddha teaches that there are three modes of vedanā: \n\nElsewhere in the Pali canon it is stated that there are six classes of vedanā, corresponding to sensations arising from contact (Skt: \"sparśa\"; Pali: \"phassa\") between an internal sense organ (\"āyatana\"; that is, the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body or mind), an external sense object and the associated consciousness (Skt.: \"vijnana\"; Pali: \"viññāna\"). (See Figure 1.) In other words:\n\nIn a few discourses, a multitude of kinds of vedana are alluded to ranging from two to 108, as follows:\n\nIn the wider Pali literature, of the above enumerations, the post-canonial Visuddhimagga highlights the five types of vedanā: physical pleasure (\"sukha\"); physical displeasure (\"dukkha\"); mental happiness (\"somanassa\"); mental unhappiness (\"domanassa\"); and, equanimity (\"upekkhā\").\n\nVedanā is a pivotal phenomenon in the following frequently identified frameworks of the Pali canon:\n\nVedanā is one of the five aggregates (Skt.: \"skandha\"; Pali: \"khandha\") of clinging (Skt., Pali: \"upādāna\"; see Figure 2 to the right). In the canon, as indicated above, feeling arises from the contact of a sense organ, sense object and consciousness.\n\nIn the Chain of Conditioned Arising (Skt: \"pratītyasamutpāda\"; Pali: \"\"), the Buddha explains that: \n\nIn the post-canonical 5th-century Visuddhimagga, feeling (\"vedana\") is identified as \"simultaneously\" and \"inseparably\" arising from consciousness (\"viññāṇa\") and the mind-and-body (\"nāmarūpa\"). On the other hand, while this text identifies feeling as \"decisive\" to craving and its mental sequelae leading to suffering, the conditional relationship between feeling and craving is not identified as simultaneous nor as being karmically necessary.\n\nThroughout the canon, there are references to the four \"foundations of mindfulness\" (\"satipaṭṭhāna\"): the body (\"kāya\"), feelings (\"vedanā\"), mind states (\"citta\") and mental experiences (\"dhammā\"). These four foundations are recognized among the seven sets of qualities conducive to enlightenment (\"bodhipakkhiyādhammā\"). The use of \"vedanā\" and the other \"satipaṭṭhāna\" in Buddhist meditation practices can be found in the Satipaṭṭhāna Sutta and the Ānāpānasati Sutta.\n\nEach mode of vedanā is accompanied by its corresponding underlying tendency or obsession (\"anusaya\"). The underlying tendency for pleasant vedanā is the tendency toward lust, for unpleasant, the tendency toward aversion, and for neither pleasant nor unpleasant, the tendency toward ignorance.\n\nIn the Canon it is stated that meditating with concentration (\"samādhi\") on \"vedanā\" can lead to deep mindfulness (\"sati\") and clear comprehension (\"\") (see Table to the right). With this development, one can experience directly within oneself the reality of impermanence (\"anicca\") and the nature of attachment (\"upādāna\"). This in turn can ultimately lead to liberation of the mind (\"nibbāna\").\n\nAlternate translations for the term vedana are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985250", "title": "Somme (book)", "text": "Somme (book)\n\nSomme () is a First World War military history book by Lyn MacDonald, published in 1983 by Michael Joseph. \nThe Battle of the Somme started on Sunday, 1 July 1916 leading to the biggest losses by Britain in one single day (19,240 dead, 35,493 wounded, 2,152 missing and 85 prisoners for a total loss of 57,470). The battle ended on Tuesday, 21 November 1916. The main objective of this battle was to relieve the horrific battle at Verdun.\n\nMacDonald has collected testimonies of soldiers involved in the battle of the Somme. In the beginning, their stories show chauvinism, nationalism and patriotism, but later, with soldiers seeing the stalemate, reflect the despair and horror of war. Everybody agrees that war is terrible.\n"}
{"id": "1985253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985253", "title": "Saṃjñā", "text": "Saṃjñā\n\nSaṃjñā (Sanskrit; Pali: \"sañña\") is a Buddhist term that is typically translated as \"perception\" or \"cognition.\" It can be defined as grasping at the distinguishing features or characteristics.\n\nSaṃjñā is identified within the Buddhist teachings as follows:\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nAccording to the Theravada tradition, saññā experiences the same object as the citta it accompanies but it performs its own task: it 'perceives' or 'recognizes' the object and it 'marks' it so that it can be recognized again.\n\nThe Atthasālinī (I, Part IV, Chapter 1, 110) provides the following two definitions for saññā:\n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states: \n\nMipham Rinpoche states:\n\nAlexander Berzin gives the following informal explanation:\n\nSaṃjñā is identified as one of the Five Aggregates, as shown in the following diagram\nIn the early Buddhism Theravadin texts of the Nikayas/Āgamas, saṃjñā/sañña is the third of the Five Aggregates (Skt.: \"skandha\"; Pali: \"khandha\") which can be used to skillfully delineate phenomenological experiences during meditation. Whether as one of the Five Aggregates, meditative concentration (\"samādhi\") on the passing and rising (P. \"vipassana,\" S. \"vipaśyanā\") of sañña can lead to mindfulness (P.\"sati\", S. \"smṛti\"), clear comprehension (P. \"sampajanna\", S. \"samprajaña\") enlightenment and Arhantship (see Table).\n\nIn the Pali Canon, sañña is frequently defined as:\n\nIn post-canonical Pali commentaries, the Visuddhimagga likens sañña to \"a child without discretion.\"\n\nAlternate translations for the term \"sañña\" are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985262", "title": "The Lantern", "text": "The Lantern\n\nThe Lantern is the official, daily student-published university newspaper at The Ohio State University. It is one of the largest campus newspapers in the United States, reaching a circulation of 15,000. \n\nSections of \"The Lantern\" include Campus, Sports, and Arts and Life.\n\nCopies of the paper are free and available on campus and throughout Columbus. Editions are published in print Tuesday and Thursday with online content published Wednesdays and Fridays. It does not print in the summer but provides original online content.\n\n\"The Lantern\" received national attention in 2011 when it broke news regarding members of the school's illustrious football team selling memorabilia for money and tattoos. In 2019 it earned the Student Press Law Center's Reveille Seven College Press Freedom Award for its pursuit of public records. \n\nThe paper was chartered in 1881 and became an integral part of the School of Journalism in 1914. At one time in the past, with a circulation of 28,000 papers during the regular school year and readership of 75,000, it was the third largest college newspaper in the country.\n\n\"The Lantern\" is a laboratory paper that is put together daily by students in the newsroom of the Journalism Building. There are 23 paid student editors and assistant editors who change after completion of two academic semesters. Student reporters, most of whom contribute through the \"Lantern\" practicum class, are not paid.\n\"The Lantern\" has faced several of the same problems the rest of the newspaper industry has suffered over the past few years. The current faculty adviser for \"The Lantern\" is Spencer Hunt, a former reporter at the Columbus Dispatch and Cincinnati Enquirer.\n\n\"The Lantern\" posts all its stories on its website.\n\nIn addition to the stories in print, the website includes a multimedia section for photo slide shows, videos and a weekly video webcast. Sports and Arts & Life podcasts are also posted on the website.\n\nVisitors may also view print editions of the paper, made available by Issuu.\n\nIn 2011, \"The Lantern\" won the \"General Excellence\" award from the Ohio Newspaper Association, deeming it the top collegiate newspaper in the state of Ohio. \"The Lantern\"'s seven wins in the categories of editorial writing, sports coverage, headline writing, photojournalism, design, best newspaper website and news coverage combined to give the newspaper the General Excellence award.\n\n\"The Lantern\" also won \"Best College Daily Newspaper\" in Ohio by the Ohio chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists in 2011, as well.\n\nIn 2018, \"The Lantern\" won \"Best College Newspaper: Non-Daily\" in Ohio for the Ohio SPJ Awards. Additionally, reporters also won first and second place for \"Best College Feature Writing,\" \"Best College News Writing,\" and \"Best College Sports Writing.\"\n\nIn Spring 2010, a situation occurred on campus in which two cows escaped from the Veterinary Hospital, and started running loose on campus. After several vet students and faculty were trampled in attempts to wrangle the animals, the Ohio State University Police cordoned off several areas of campus, and eventually resorted to force to stop the cows, who were eventually tranquilized and recaptured with assistance of staff from the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium.\n\nDuring the commotion, a student photographer from \"The Lantern\" purportedly disobeyed orders from police officers to leave the area. After claiming freedom of the press, he was arrested for the misconduct. The School of Communication protested the arrest, though the school did not provide the photographer legal aid. Many other journalism outlets took his side, and the photographer was never charged.\n\nMonths after news broke that Ohio State quarterback Terrelle Pryor, as well as several other teammates, had been involved with selling memorabilia for tattoos and money, \"The Lantern\" published a story on May 25, 2011, in which former football player Ray Small admitted to also selling memorabilia for money. The two reporters on the story, editor-in-chief Zack Meisel and sports reporter James Oldham, received threats from angry Ohio State fans as a result. Meisel, Oldham and \"The Lantern\" received national attention for their coverage, including appearances on ESPN's \"Outside the Lines\" and in the \"Wall Street Journal\", among others.\n\nHead football coach Jim Tressel resigned on May 31, 2011, in response to the scandal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985292", "title": "UEFA Women's Championship", "text": "UEFA Women's Championship\n\nThe UEFA European Women's Championship, also called the UEFA Women's Euro and unofficially the 'European Cup', held every four years, is the main competition in women's association football between national teams of the UEFA confederation. The competition is the women's equivalent of the UEFA European Championship.\n\nWomen's football history has interesting turns and twists starting all the way in Europe.\nThe predecessor tournament to the UEFA Women's Championship began in the early 1980s, under the name \"UEFA European Competition for Representative Women's Teams\". With increasing popularity of women's football, the competition was given European Championship status by UEFA around 1990. Only the 1991 and 1995 editions have been used as European qualifiers for a FIFA Women's World Cup; starting in 1999, the group system used in men's qualifiers was also used for women's national teams.\n\nEight UEFA Women's Championships have taken place, preceded by three editions of the earlier \"European Competition for Representative Women's Teams\". The most recent holding of the competition is the 2017 Women's Euro hosted by the Netherlands in July and August 2017.\n\nUnofficial women's European tournaments for national teams were held in Italy in 1969 and 1979 (won by Italy and Denmark respectively), but there was no formal international tournament until 1982 when the first UEFA 1984 European Competition for Women's Football qualification was launched. The 1984 Finals was won by Sweden. Norway won in the 1987 Finals. Since then, the UEFA Women's Championship has been dominated by Germany, which has won eight out of ten events, interrupted only by Norway in 1993. Germany's 2013 win was their sixth in a row.\n\nThe tournament was initially played as a four team event. The 1997 edition was the first that was played with eight teams. The third expansion happened in 2009 when 12 teams participated. From 2017 onwards 16 teams compete for the championship.\n\n\nStatistics does not include the unofficial 1969 and 1979 tournaments.\n\n\nLegend\n\nFor each tournament, the number of teams in each finals tournament (in brackets) are shown.\n\n\nOfficial player of the tournament (from 2013)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985305", "title": "Light novel", "text": "Light novel\n\nA is a style of Japanese novel primarily targeting high school and middle school students (young adult demographic). The term \"light novel\" is a \"wasei-eigo\", or a Japanese term formed from words in the English language. Light novels are often called or, in the West, LN. The average length of a light novel is about 50,000 words, close to the minimum expected for a Western novel, and light novels are usually published in \"bunkobon\" size (A6, 10.5 cm × 14.8 cm), often with dense publishing schedules. A distinguishing characteristic of light novels is that they are illustrated with an anime or manga art style and are often adapted into such media. They are mainly published in separate book volumes, while some of them have their chapters serialized in anthology magazines before being collected in book form, similar to how manga is published.\n\nLight novels are an evolution of pulp magazines. To please their audience, in the 1970s, most of the Japanese pulp magazines began to put illustrations at the beginning of each story and included articles about popular anime, movies and video games. The narrative evolved to please the new generations and became fully illustrated with the popular style. The popular serials are printed in novels.\n\nVery often light novels are chosen for adaptation into anime, manga, and live-action films, and some of them are serialized in literary magazines such as \"Faust\", \"Gekkan Dragon Magazine\", \"The Sneaker\" and \"Dengeki hp\", or media franchise magazines like \"Comptiq\" and \"Dengeki G's Magazine\".\n\nPublishing companies are constantly searching for new talent with annual contests, many of which earn the winner a cash prize and publication of their novel. The Dengeki Novel Prize is the largest, with over 6,500 submissions (2013) annually. They are all clearly labeled as \"light novels\" and are published as low-priced paperbacks. For example, the price for \"The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya\" in Japan is ¥540 (including 5% tax), similar to the normal price for trade paperbacks—light novels and general literature—sold in Japan. In 2007 it was estimated (according to a website funded by the Japanese government) that the market for light novels was about ¥20 billion (US$170 million at the exchange rate at the time) and that about 30 million copies were published annually. Kadokawa Group Holdings, which owns major labels like Kadokawa Sneaker Books and Dengeki Books, has a 70% to 80% share of the market. In 2009, light novels made ¥30.1 billion in sales, or about 20% of all sales of bunkobon-format paperback books in Japan.\n\nThere are currently many licensed English translations of Japanese light novels available. These have generally been published in the physical dimensions of standard mass market paperbacks or similar to manga \"tankōbon\", but starting in April 2007, Seven Seas Entertainment was the first English publisher to print light novels in their original Japanese Bunkobon format. Other English-language publishers that license light novels are Tokyopop, Viz Media, DMP, Dark Horse, Yen Press and Del Rey Manga. The founder of Viz Media, Seiji Horibuchi, speculates that the US market for light novels will experience a similar increase in popularity as it has in the Japanese subculture once it becomes recognized by the consumer audience.\n\nMost light novels are published by Japanese writers, with very few exceptions. For example, Yū Kamiya, author of \"No Game No Life\", is a Japanese-Brazilian writer who lives in Japan and publishes his novels through major Japanese publishing labels.\n\nPopular literature has a long tradition in Japan. Even though cheap, pulp novels resembling light novels were present in Japan for years prior, the creation of Sonorama Bunko in 1975 is considered by some to be a symbolic beginning. Science fiction and horror writers like Hideyuki Kikuchi or Baku Yumemakura started their careers through such imprints.\n\nThe 1990s saw the smash-hit \"Slayers\" series which merged fantasy-RPG elements with comedy. Some years later MediaWorks founded a pop-lit imprint called Dengeki Bunko, which produces well-known light novel series to this day. The \"Boogiepop series\" was their first major hit which soon was animated and got many anime watchers interested in literature.\n\nDengeki Bunko writers continued to slowly gain attention until the small light novel world experienced a boom around 2006. After the huge success of the \"Haruhi Suzumiya\" series, the number of publishers and readers interested in light novels suddenly skyrocketed.\n\nLight novels became an important part of the Japanese 2D culture in the late 2000s, with series such as \"A Certain Magical Index\" selling large amounts of copies with each volume release. The number of light novels series put out every year increases, usually illustrated by the most celebrated artists from pixiv and the most successful works are adapted into manga, anime, games and live action movies.\n\nSince the mid 2000s with the advent of the internet, publishers began to contact authors of popular stories on their blog or website, or through free novel publication sites such as Shōsetsuka ni Narō. Publishers would then adapt those works into print edition for the light novel format with an editor and illustrator. Popular works like \"Sword Art Online\", \"That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime\", \"Overlord\", \"\" and \"Konosuba\" were originally popular web novels that got contacted by a publisher to distribute and publish those stories in print format.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985315", "title": "Fruko y sus Tesos", "text": "Fruko y sus Tesos\n\nFruko y sus Tesos is a salsa group from Colombia that is popular in both Latin America and the United States. It was formed in 1969 by multi-instrumentalist Julio Ernesto Estrada (aka Fruko). Beginning with \"Tesura\" in 1969, the band has recorded 42 albums to date. The band achieved a degree of success after Joe Arroyo was recruited as lead singer in 1973.\n\nA Medellin native, Julio Ernesto \"Fruko\" Estrada Rincón was expelled from school for fighting and began his musical career at the age of 15 as a studio musician for Discos Fuentes record company. Noticed by Lisandro Meza, Estrada was added to Meza's popular group, Los Corraleros de Majagual. In 1968, Los Corraleros traveled to New York City giving Fruko his first opportunity to experience the city's burgeoning salsa scene. Fruko was influenced by New York City salsa greats Richie Ray, Willie Colon, Ray Barretto, and Eddie Palmieri. In the 1970s, Estrada helped mold the Colombian salsa scene, acting as arranger, bass player, studio musician, and bandleader for his Tesos as well as backing the highly successful Colombian salsa band, The Latin Brothers, plus launching salsa acts Afrosound in 1973 and Wganda Kenya in 1976, Former lead singer Wilson Manyoma remembered Estrada as a strict leader.\n\nOne of their most popular songs is \"El Preso\" recorded in 1975 and sung by Wilson \"Saoko\" Manyoma. In an interview, Estrada said it \"constituirse en un himno mundial de la salsa\" (\"became a world anthem of salsa music\"). The song was composed by the band's percussionist Álvaro Velásquez. The lyrics are the narration of a prisoner (\"preso\") serving 30 years. The actual inspiration for songwriter Velásquez was a friend's letter describing another friend's pain being jailed for 30 years on a drug charge. \n\nIn 1998, when Colombia secured a position in the Futbol World Cup, Fruko came up with the team song: \"La Pachanga Del Futbol.\" This proved to be one of Fruko's more endearing and infectious hits.\n\nIn 2013, Estrada ran for the Colombian Senate on the ticket of the governing party of President Juan Manuel Santos. In an interview with Colombia's Semana, Fruko said his purpose was to \"defend the arts\", representing the rights of musicians who often outlive their commercial success. He was inspired by salsa musician Rubén Blades who attained elected office in Panama.\n\nThe nickname \"Fruko\" came from the advertising doll of a popular Colombian fruit company called FRUCO (\"Frutera Colombiana\"), for which friends saw a resemblance to Estrada. Estrada changed the \"C\" in the Fruco trademark to \"K\" to differentiate himself from the brand name. The name was ironic because the Fruco doll advertised tomato 'salsa', meaning tomato 'sauce', whereas \"Fruko\" Estrada introduced to Colombia the style of music also called 'salsa'.\n\n\"Fruko\" Estrada discovered teenager Arroyo, who started by singing in bordellos, in 1972 and in 1973 installed him as primary lead vocals for Fruko y sus Tesos. Arroyo left to embark on a solo career, forming his Joe Arroyo y la Verdad group in 1981. Arroyo's \"La Rebelión\" is one of the most successful songs in the history of salsa music.\n\nWilson \"Saoko\" Manyoma, from Cali, Colombia was discovered by Fruko Estrada. Manyoma sang lead on some of the group's most important tracks, beginning on the album \"Ayunando\", and including \"El Preso\" before leaving to pursue a solo career.\n\n\"Piper Pimienta\" Díaz rotated lead vocals in the early 1970s before moving on to perform with The Latin Brothers and recording solo.\n"}
{"id": "1985319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985319", "title": "Haydarpaşa railway station", "text": "Haydarpaşa railway station\n\nHaydarpaşa station () is a railway station in Istanbul. Until 2012 the station was a major intercity, regional and commuter rail hub as well as the busiest railway station in Turkey. Haydarpaşa, along with Sirkeci station (on the other side of the Bosphorus), are Istanbul's two intercity and commuter railway terminals. As of 19 June 2013 all train service to the station has been indefinitely suspended due to the rehabilitation of the existing line for the new Marmaray commuter rail line. As of 2018, the station is now open again. The station building still houses the headquarters for District 1 of the State Railways.\n\nThe station building, built in 1909 by the Anatolian Railway (CFOA) as the western terminus of the Baghdad and Hedjaz railways, has become a symbol of Istanbul and Turkey and is famous throughout the Middle East.\n\nHaydarpaşa is situated on an embankment over the Bosphorus just south of the Port of Haydarpaşa and is slightly north from central Kadıköy. Until the suspension of rail service, ferry service was available to Eminönü, Karaköy and Kadıköy from the station's ferry dock.\n\nThe closure of the station has been subject to a lot of controversy. As it was unclear if Haydarpaşa would be re-opened to rail service once the Marmaray project was completed. Claims that the Turkish government was planning to sell the historic railway station along with the port and turn it into a residence/luxury resort surfaced. Following the closure, a publicly formed group known as \"The Haydarpaşa Solidarity\" () staged sit-ins every week in front of the station, protesting the closure. In December 2015, the integration of Haydarpaşa station into the Marmaray network was approved along with the restoration and rehabilitation of the station building and platforms. Ever since, Haydarpaşa was placed back on official railway maps for Istanbul.\n\nİstanbul was the capital of the Ottoman Empire as well as the largest city in the empire. İstanbul was a major economic and cultural hub. However, İstanbul had no rail links, so in 1871 Sultan Abdülaziz ordered a rail line to be built from Haydarpaşa to İzmit. Haydarpaşa station opened in 1872, when the railway reached Gebze. In 1888 the Anatolian Railway (CFOA) took over the line and the station. Since the station was built next to the Bosphorus, freight trains would unload at Haydarpaşa and the freight would be transferred to ships. Haydarpaşa station saw its first regular passenger service in 1890: a daily train from Haydarpaşa to İzmit. In 1892 the CFOA built a line to Ankara and shortly after a daily train ran between the two cities.\nHaydarpaşa was chosen to be the northern terminus of the Baghdad Railway and the Hedjaz Railway in 1904, and, with rail traffic increasing, a new and larger building was required. The Anatolian Railway hired two German architects, Otto Ritter and Helmut Conu, to build the new building. They chose a neo-classical structure and construction started in 1906. Its foundation is based on 1100 wooden piles, each 21 metres long, driven into the mushy shore by a steam hammer. German and Italian stonemasons crafted the facade embellishments of the terminal. The German engineers and craftsmen who worked at the construction site of the building established a small German neighbourhood in the Yeldeğirmeni quarter of Kadıköy. The new pseudo-castle structure was completed on 19 August 1909. The new terminal was inaugurated on 4 November 1909 for the anniversary of Mehmed V. The new terminal was built on land reclaimed from the sea. World War I broke out in 1914 and the Ottoman Empire sided with the Central Powers against the Allied Powers. The Ottomans lost and İstanbul was taken over by the British Empire. Haydarpaşa was under strong military control by the British during the occupation.\n\nThe Turkish Independence War ended on 29 October 1923. The Republic of Turkey was formed and the British Empire withdrew from İstanbul. Haydarpaşa terminal was still under CFOA control but in 1927 the newly formed Turkish State Railways took over the CFOA and the terminal, in an attempt to nationalise all Turkish railways. In 1927 the CIWL started a premier train service from Haydarpaşa to Ankara: the Anatolian Express. This all-sleeper train travelled daily between the two cities. In 1938 the Eastern Express entered service from Haydarpaşa to the eastern Turkish city of Kars, a distance of . With the completion of the Baghdad Railway to Baghdad, the famous Taurus Express entered service in 1940 from Haydarpaşa to Baghdad, a distance of . In 1965 the Trans-Asia Express entered service from Haydarpaşa to Tehran, a distance of . In 1969 the tracks from Haydarpaşa to Gebze were electrified with 25 kV AC catenary for the Haydarpaşa-Gebze Commuter Line.\n\nIn 1979 a tanker burning on the Bosphorus damaged the terminal building, but it was restored a few months later. On 28 November 2010 a fire caused by carelessness during the building's restoration destroyed the roof and the 4th floor of the terminal building. Three people were sentenced to ten months in prison for \"recklessly causing the fire\".\n\nIn 2011 the World Monuments Fund, the New York-based heritage preservation organization, placed the railway terminal on its 2012 Watch, drawing attention to the uncertain future of the historical site. There are plans to transform the terminal building into a luxury hotel. In November 2012 the station was the site of a three-day art exhibit entitled \"Haydarpasa: Past, Present and Uncertain Future\", which was organised in collaboration with the WMF, and featured Canadian and Turkish artists and photographers, seeking to raise international interest in preserving the station as a vibrant public transportation hub. In October 2013 the same art event is to be held in Vienna in Austria also on the theme of heritage preservation.\n\nOn 2 February 2012 Haydarpaşa Railway Terminal temporarily closed to long-distance trains for at least 30 months to allow for the construction of the Istanbul–Ankara high-speed railway, and the Marmaray rail transport project which will connect Istanbul's Asian and European sides via an undersea commuter train line. There will be no train services between Istanbul and the Asian destinations of Turkey (with the sole exception of the suburban line to Pendik, a suburb 45 km east of Istanbul). In April 2012 commuter service to Gebze was suspended past Pendik. Finally, as announced by the Turkish State Railways, the only remaining train service from Haydarpaşa, the suburban line to Pendik, closed on 19 June 2013 for at least 24 months for line improvement works.\n\nIn 2018, remains of a Byzantine coastal town have been found during the restoration works of the Haydarapaşa railway station. Furthermore, excavations unearthed a Byzantine-era fountain, a big fortification wall and a ceramic brick kiln.\n\nAlso, dozens of graves have been unearthed during excavations. In October 2018, archaeologists found an intact skeleton, which has a scented necklace on it. In addition, coins and jewellery were found in the field. Some coins were so clean that their period can easily be seen. The coins date back to between 610-641 and 527-565 A.D.\n\nIn addition, a podium was unearthed from among the railway platforms. The podium, which is made of sheared rectangular blocks, is believed to date back to the Hellenistic era.\n\n\"Due to construction of the Istanbul-Ankara high-speed railway and Marmaray, train services to Haydarpaşa have been temporarily suspended.\"\nThere are tombs and monuments in the Haydarpaşa Cemetery near the military hospital, dedicated to the British and Commonwealth soldiers who lost their lives during the Crimean War (1854–1856) and during the two World Wars.\n\nThe north-west wing of the 19th-century Selimiye Barracks, which was transformed into a military hospital during the Crimean War, was the place where the nursing pioneer Florence Nightingale cared for wounded and infected British soldiers. Her room is today a museum, and her belongings are exhibited to honour her memory. The museum also contains other items which date from the Crimean War.\n\nThe buildings of the Haydarpaşa Numune Hospital, GATA Military Hospital, Dr. Siyami Ersek Hospital and the present-day Haydarpaşa Campus of the Marmara University (the former Haydarpaşa High School, which was originally built as the \"Mekteb-i Tıbbiye-i Şahane\" (Imperial Medical School) and designed by architects Alexander Vallaury and Raimondo D'Aronco) are located close to the terminal.\n\nThe Port of Haydarpaşa at the north is one of the main container terminals of Turkey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985321", "title": "Republic Steel", "text": "Republic Steel\n\nRepublic Steel is an American steel manufacturer that was once the country's third largest steel producer. It was founded as the Republic Iron and Steel Company in Youngstown, Ohio in 1899. After rising to prominence during the early 20th Century, Republic suffered heavy economic losses and was eventually bought out before re-emerging in the early 2000s as a subsidiary. The company currently manufactures Special Bar Quality (SBQ) steel bars and employs around 2,000 people. It is currently owned by Grupo Simec, based in Guadalajara, Mexico.\n\nIn 1927, Cyrus S. Eaton acquired and combined Republic with several other small steel companies, with the goal of becoming large enough to rival U.S. Steel. The newly named Republic Steel Corporation was headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, and became America's third largest steel company, trailing only U.S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel after acquiring Bourne-Fuller Company and the Central Alloy Steel Company (located in Massillon, Ohio) in the 1930s.\n\nTom M. Girdler became the first chairman of the board of directors. Eaton hired Girdler from Jones and Laughlin Steel Company, where he had served as president. Girdler modernized Republic Steel with the introduction of better alloys such as \"light steel\". During World War II, while still chairman of Republic Steel, Girdler relocated to California to serve as chief executive officer of Consolidated Aircraft, a military aircraft manufacturer. Following the war, Girdler left Consolidated to run Republic's aviation department.\n\nRepublic Steel was known for its labor problems during the Depression. On Memorial Day, May 26, 1937, a strike escalated into the Memorial Day massacre of 1937, in which Chicago police fired into an unarmed group of protesters, and killed ten, four outright. This was documented by the 1937 short film \"Republic Steel Strike Riot Newsreel Footage\". Girdler never signed the labor contract.\n\nWhen Girdler retired in 1945, Charles M. White was named chairman of the company. White was a protegé of Girdler's at Jones & Laughlin Steel, and was appointed assistant vice president in charge of operations at Republic Steel in May 1930. Five years later, when Girdler was appointed president of Republic Steel, White was promoted to take over Girdler's role as vice president of operations. In 1945, White was elected president of Republic Steel by the company's board of directors. He replaced Rufus Wysor, who retired. In 1960, at the age of 70, Charles M. White retired as chairman of Republic Steel. He remained on the board of directors until 1966, and was given the title of honorary chairman.\n\nThomas Patton, a private attorney who worked on the merger that formed Republic Steel was hired in 1936 to form Republic's internal legal department. As general counsel in the 1930s and 1940s, he negotiated with workers on behalf of management during the steel strikes. He went on to become president, then chief executive and chairman.\n\nRepublic Steel built a steel rolling mill in 1958 in Cotorro, Cuba. Plant manager Ernest Breedlove fled Cuba with his new Cuban bride when Fidel Castro confiscated the plant and shipped the newly installed machinery to the Soviet Union. Breedlove built another modern plant for Compania Fundidora de Fierro y Acero de Monterrey, S. A. in Monterrey Mexico and later pioneered the mini-mill concept at Nucor Steel.\n\nRepublic Steel was one of the last major steel firms to use low-phosphorus Adirondack magnetites, operating the Chateaugay Ore & Iron Company in Lyon Mountain, New York from 1939 to 1967. The Chateaugay mine was one of the deepest commercial iron ore mines in the United States, with stopes as much as 3,500 feet (1,050 m) below the surface.\n\nRepublic Steel remained prosperous until the 1970s, when rising foreign imports, labor costs, and other factors caused severe stress at Republic and throughout the steel industry in the U.S.\n\nIn 1984, Republic merged into the Jones and Laughlin Steel subsidiary of the LTV Corporation, with the new entity being known as LTV Steel. An employee stock ownership plan bought LTV's steel bar division and renamed it Republic Engineered Steels in 1989. In 1998, Republic Engineered Steels merged with Bar Technologies to become Republic Technologies International. Republic Engineered Products was established in December 2003 with the purchase of operating assets from Republic Engineered Products LLC. In July 2005 RES was acquired by Industrias CH, S.A de C.V. (ICH). In September 2011 RES changed its name to Republic Steel.\n\nIn April 2014, the company agreed to pay a $2.4 million fine to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and agreed to \"settle alleged health and safety violations\" at four Republic Steel facilities—in Canton, Lorain and Massillon in Ohio, and in Blasdell, New York. OSHA said they found over 100 violations of health and safety at the facilities run by Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985323", "title": "Flora Wovschin", "text": "Flora Wovschin\n\nFlora Don Wovschin (born 20 February 1923), was a suspected Soviet spy who later renounced her American citizenship.\n\nWovschin was born in New York City. Her mother was Maria Wicher and her stepfather was Enos Wicher. She attended the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Columbia University and Barnard College. At Barnard, she was active in the American Students Union and may have been a member of American Youth for Democracy. She attended Barnard with Marion Davis Berdecio and Judith Coplon, both of whom Wovschin later recruited into service for the NKVD.\n\nFrom 9 September 1943 to 20 February 1945, she worked in the Office of War Information, then transferred to the United States Department of State. She resigned from the State Department 20 September 1945. Wovschin acted as courier between Coplon and Soviet intelligence. Wovschin transmitted to the Soviet Union the information that the Americans had somehow become aware of NKVD internal codenames for various American institutions, including CLUB, HOUSE, BANK and CABARET, as used in the NKVD's most secret communications. After the war, she renounced her American citizenship and travelled to the Soviet Union where she married a Soviet engineer. An FBI counterintelligence report on Wovschin has a hand-written note in the margin stating she may have died serving as a nurse in North Korea. Her code name in Soviet intelligence and in the Venona project is \"Zora\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1985328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985328", "title": "Alexander Maconochie", "text": "Alexander Maconochie\n\nAlexander Maconochie may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985338", "title": "UEFA Women's Champions League", "text": "UEFA Women's Champions League\n\nThe UEFA Women's Champions League, previously called the UEFA Women's Cup (2001–09), is an international women's association football competition. It involves the top club teams from countries affiliated with the European governing body UEFA.\n\nThe competition was first played in 2001–02 under the name \"UEFA Women's Cup\", and renamed the Champions League for the 2009–10 edition. The most significant changes in 2009 were the inclusion of runners-up from the top eight ranked nations, a one-off final as opposed to the two-legged finals in previous years, and – until 2018 – playing the final in the same city as the men's UEFA Champions League final. From the 2021–22 season, the competition proper will include a group stage for the first time in the Women's Champions League era.\n\nLyon is the most successful club in the competition's history, winning the title six times.\n\nA preliminary round was played to reduce teams to 32, in the first season only two teams played a two-legged match, the following seasons were played as four team mini-tournaments which had the winner advance to the group stage. Teams were then divided into eight groups of four. The groups were played again as mini-tournaments at a single location over the course of five days. The group winners then advanced to the quarter-finals. The knock-out rounds were played as two-legged. That included the final which was only played as a single leg in 2002.\n\nFor the 2004–05 season the group stage was played in four groups with the top two teams advancing to the quarter-finals. That resulted in more qualifying groups.\n\nOn 11 December 2008, UEFA announced that the competition would be reformatted and renamed to the UEFA Women's Champions League. As in the men's game, the new tournament aims to include runners-up of the top women's football leagues in Europe, and the title holder has the right to enter if they do not qualify through their domestic competition. Also similar to the men, the final is to be played in a single match.\n\nThe competition is open to the champions of all 55 UEFA associations. However, not all associations have or had a qualifying women's league, and not all nations opt to participate each year. Due to the varying participation, the number of teams playing the qualifying round and teams entering in the round of 32 change from year to year. The principles are inferred from the access list: Numbers are based on three principles:\nFor example, in a 53-team tournament, 25 teams directly enter the R32, with seven qualifying groups providing seven group winners and no runners-up; if the tournament were 60 teams instead, 20 teams would directly enter the R32, with ten qualifying groups providing ten group winners and two runners-up.\n\nWhen the new format was initially announced, the eight top countries according to the UEFA league coefficient between 2003 and 2004 and 2007–08 would be awarded two places in the new Women's Champions League. The runners-up from each country participated in the qualifying rounds for the first two years under the Champions League format.\n\nFor the 2011–12 tournament, the runners-up from the top eight nations instead qualified directly to the R32. For the five years under this format, seven nations remained in the top eight: Germany, Sweden, England (both iterations), France, Denmark, Russia, and Italy. A different nation provided the eighth runner-up in each of the five years: Iceland, Norway, Austria, Czech Republic, and Spain in that order.\n\nThe tournament was expanded again for the 2016–17 season, with the runners-up from nations 9-12 in the UEFA league coefficient also qualifying. Whether they begin participation in the qualifying round or the R32 depends on how many total teams participate in the tournament. For the first three years under this format, the four nations in these slots were Czech Republic, Austria, Scotland, and Norway, though Czech Republic rose into the top 8 at the expense of Russia; for the 2019–20 season, Switzerland replaced Norway, and for the final season under this format, Norway, Kazakhstan, and The Netherlands replaced Russia, Scotland, and Austria in the top 12.\n\nOn 4 December 2019, the UEFA Executive Committee approved a new format for the 2021–22 season. The top six associations will enter three teams, the associations ranked 7–16 will enter two, and the remaining associations will enter one. The competition is restructured to appear much more similar to the men's CL format than before, with a double-round-robin group stage in the competition proper, the first time in the Women's Champions League era, and two paths (a champions path and a non-champions path) for all teams that do not automatically qualify for the group stage. UEFA will also centralise the media rights from the group stage onward, having previously only done so for the final.\n\nUnder this new format, the group stage - four groups of four - qualifies eight teams to the home-and-away quarterfinals, at which point the competition remains the same as before. Four teams qualify directly to the group stage: the defending UWCL champions and the league champions from the nations ranked 1–3 by UEFA coefficient. Seven teams qualify from the champions path - guaranteeing that at least ten nations will be represented in the group stage - and five from the league path. Qualification along both paths takes place in two rounds: a first round consisting of four-team, predetermined-venue miniature tournaments (one-off semifinals, third place, and final matches) and a second round of paired home-and-away ties. In this format, the first round is similar to the previous qualifying round except that teams play a two-game knockout tournament instead of a three-game round-robin, and the second round is similar to the previous round of 32 except that the range of possible opponents is more stratified.\n\nPrize-money was awarded for a first time in 2010 when both finalists received money. In 2011 the payments were extended to losing semi- and quarter-finalists. The current prize-money structure is\n\nIn the Champions League teams also receive 20,000 Euro for playing each round or the qualifying. There have been several complaints about the sum, which doesn't cover costs for some longer trips which include flights.\n\nUntil the 2015–18 cycle, UEFA Women's Champions League used to have the same sponsors as the UEFA Champions League. However, starting from the 2018–21 cycle, women's football competitions – including the Champions League – have their separate sponsors.\n\nSince the format change in 2009, no team from a nation outside the top two has made the final, save for Tyresö in 2014. Also, no team from a nation outside the top four made the semi-finals until Brøndby in 2015; Barcelona then made the semi-finals in 2017 and the final in 2019.\n\nThe top-scorer award is given to the player who scores the most goals in the entire competition, thus it includes the qualifying rounds. Iceland's Margrét Lára Vidarsdóttir has won the award three times. Ada Hegerberg holds the record for most goals in a season.\n Bold players still active.\n\n\"This article should not be confused with List of UEFA Champions League broadcasters\"\n\nFinal only. The coverage will be live streamed on UEFA YouTube channel in the unsold markets with highlights available in all territories.\n\n– FTA coverage only available in Sweden.\n\n– exclude 2019 Final.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985341", "title": "Tom Cousins", "text": "Tom Cousins\n\nThomas Grady Cousins (born December 1931) is a real estate developer, sports supporter and philanthropist, primarily based in Atlanta, Georgia. Cousins was a leader in shaping the skyline in Atlanta, and he purchased and brought the Atlanta Hawks to the city.\n\nCousins is also known for his community redevelopment and his desire to help local neighborhoods. In 1995, he purchased the historic East Lake Golf Club with the intent that its profits would go back to help the local East Lake community. Cousin's model of community redevelopment is now being implemented in cities all over the country through a program he founded to replicate the East Lake model called Purpose Built Communities.\n\nCousins graduated with a Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) in 1952 from the Terry College of Business at The University of Georgia in Athens. He and his father started their real-estate company in 1958. During the 1960s, Tom Cousins moved from real-estate to property development and sports franchising.\n\nHe developed buildings such as the CNN Center, the Omni Coliseum, 191 Peachtree Tower, the Pinnacle Building in Buckhead and the first phase of the Georgia World Congress Center. He and competitor John Portman completely remade downtown Atlanta in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nHe also helped revive and redesign the home course of golfing great Bobby Jones, East Lake Golf Club, which had fallen into disrepair. He hired Rees Jones (no relation to Bobby) to redesign the golf course, which has since hosted the PGA Tour's season ending Tour Championship several times, and become one of the leading golf courses in Atlanta. Cousins and his family financed the project to the tune of about $25 million. This was part of a greater revitalization of the East Lake Meadows housing project in the East Lake neighborhood around the golf course.\n\nHe retains air rights over the CNN Center parking deck in Atlanta's massive railroad gulch.\n\nHe stepped down as head of Cousins Properties in January 2002.\n\nIn 1995 Cousins founded the East Lake Foundation in Atlanta. The Foundation partnered with the Atlanta Housing Authority to build a mixed-income apartment block in a local low-income area with a high crime rate and put additional resources into education options and job provision for the tenants. Columnist Leonard Pitts Jnr. noted that these changes saw \"\"violent crime down 96 percent\"\" and \"\"78 percent of kids passing the state math test when only 5 percent could do it before\"\".\n\nBased on the results of the East Lake Foundation project, Cousins, with partner Warren Buffett, created Purpose Built Communities, an organization focused on supporting other communities working to replicate the successful community development seen in Atlanta. Purpose Built Communities currently partners with 13 other communities in the United States.\n\nIn April 1968, Cousins purchased the Hawks basketball team and moved them from St Louis to Atlanta, renaming them the Atlanta Hawks. At the time Atlanta did not have pro-ball facilities, but Cousins was building a local arena complex. Cousins also owned the Atlanta Flames until he sold them in 1980 for approximately $16 million to a consortium from Calgary. He purchased the original Atlanta Chiefs soccer club of the North American Soccer League from the Braves in 1973, during this time they were renamed the Atlanta Apollos.\n\nIn 1993 Tom Cousins was the recipient of the Bill Hartman Award which recognises former varsity athletes from the University of Georgia who have demonstrated excellence in their profession. On March 8, 2010, Cousins was awarded with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the 2010 Atlanta Sports Awards for his role in promoting sports in Atlanta.\n\nIn 1995 Cousins purchased East Lake Golf Club and restored it to its former glory. He also helped to establish East Lake as the permanent home of the TOUR Championship which is the season ending tournament for the PGA TOUR. Profits from East Lake Golf Club go to the East Lake Foundation which in turn goes to help the East Lake Community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985351", "title": "Ray Anderson (boxer)", "text": "Ray Anderson (boxer)\n\nRay Anderson (born August 31, 1944 in Anniston, Alabama) was a boxer in the light heavyweight division who fought from 1965 to 1977. Anderson became the first challenger to last fifteen rounds against Bob Foster for the world Light Heavyweight title, but he lost what was his only world title try by decision. Anderson currently lives in Anniston.\n\nAnderson began his rise to prominence in 1966. As a light heavyweight he took on and beat a formidable heavyweight journeyman named Amos Johnson in a ten-rounder at The Akron Armory in Akron, Ohio. Anderson was one of the few men to beat the young Cassius Clay (known later as Muhammad Ali) who went on to become the Heavyweight Champion of the world. Ray's career continued as he fought Joe Byrd of Flint, Michigan, in 1969, knocking Joe out in round 1. Ray also knocked out Canton's Marion Conner in Round 2, sealing his stature as Ohio's best light heavyweight. He fought John Griffin of Syracuse, New York twice, losing both in close decisions.\n\nRay Anderson was credited by Joe Frazier, who long used him as a sparring partner because of his tall rangy Ali-like style as assisting him in his preparation to unify the heavyweight title in 1970, with his win over WBA heavyweight titleholder Jimmy Ellis at Madison Square Garden. Later in 1970, Anderson was to bite off more than he could chew when he decided to fight a young prospect at the Cleveland Arena in Cleveland, Ohio named Ted Gullick, after providing Gullick with a boxing lesson in rounds 1 through 4, toward the end of the fourth Gullick scored a knockdown with a sharp left hook. Anderson rose and was in part saved by the bell. Later Gullick dominated the fight and finished Anderson in the 9th round by knocking him out. Anderson beat Gregorio Peralta by a ten-round decision in Spain in 1972.\n\nThe pinnacle of Ray's career was his challenge to the former Light Heavyweight Champion of the World Bob Foster. Anderson was a tall light-heavyweight of his era, standing 6 feet 1 inch. However, Foster was 6 feet 3½ inches and could punch very hard. Anderson was not used to giving away height; he prided himself in being both handsome and fast. He was not willing to risk being hit by Foster, thus he chose to dance and defend for most of the fight, thus losing a fifteen-round decision. To Anderson's credit he was one of the few men that would last all 15 rounds with Foster. The late Yank Durham, Joe Frazier's trainer, worked Anderson's corner during the Foster fight felt that Anderson should have eliminated the Ali style tactics and take it to Foster and was upset by the outcome. Anderson had proven to be a very respected fighter early on and once joining promoter Don King, seemed to start an altered course in his career which cant be explained. It is thought that King wanted to use Anderson to promote other upcoming boxers in order to propel himself into the limelight instead of using Anderson's talent to help him reach the top of the rankings. Anderson's children Deric and Eric (twins), and Brigitte Anderson were last known to reside in Ohio. In the early 90's one (or both) of Anderson's twin sons; were known for his athletic abilities and had shown glimpses of skills that would advance him into professional football. However, details of his efforts are not recorded. \n"}
{"id": "1985366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985366", "title": "Djediufankh", "text": "Djediufankh\n\nDjediufankh was an ancient Egyptian priest who lived between 2,000 and 4,000 years ago.\n\nIn 2005, what are believed to be the remains of Djediufankh were found in a 26 cm–high canopic jar in the Royal Pump Room Museum, in Harrogate, England. Experts at York University have established that the residue in the jar is cholesterol from human remains. Their tests also confirmed that the Egyptians had sterilised the body and entrails using Date Palm wine as an antiseptic, confirming for the first time the descriptions given by classical authors such as the ancient Greek historian Herodotus.\n\nThe organs stored inside the jar had also been treated with an aromatic spice, most likely scented cinnamon or cassia, imported from southeast Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985375", "title": "Music of the Spheres (disambiguation)", "text": "Music of the Spheres (disambiguation)\n\nMusic of the Spheres or \"Musica universalis\" is an ancient philosophical concept that regards proportions in the movements of celestial bodies as a form of music.\n\nMusic of the Spheres may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985376", "title": "Methyl methacrylate", "text": "Methyl methacrylate\n\nMethyl methacrylate (MMA) is an organic compound with the formula CH=C(CH)COOCH. This colorless liquid, the methyl ester of methacrylic acid (MAA), is a monomer produced on a large scale for the production of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA).\n\nGiven the scale of production, many methods have been developed starting from diverse two- to four-carbon precursors. Two principal routes appear to be commonly practiced.\n\nThe compound is manufactured by several methods, the principal one being the acetone cyanohydrin (ACH) route. ACH is produced by condensation of acetone and hydrogen cyanide. The cyanohydrin is hydrolyzed in the presence of sulfuric acid to a sulfate ester of the methacrylamide, Methanolysis of this ester gives ammonium bisulfate and MMA. Although widely used, the ACH route coproduces substantial amounts of ammonium sulfate.\nIn fact the sulfate ester of the amide is initially produced as an adduct with sulfuric acid ((CH)C(OSOH)C(O)NH HSO), which is removed in a cracking step. The sulfate ester is then methanolyzed (reacted with methanol):\n\nAs indicated in the last reaction, each kilogram of methyl methacrylate produced yields roughly 1.1 kg of ammonium hydrogen sulfate. Disposal of this salt is energy intensive. This technology affords more than 3 billion kilograms per year.\n\nThe economics of the ACH route have been heavily optimized.\nThe first stage involves carboalkoxylation of ethylene to produce methyl propionate (MeP):\nThe MeP synthesis is conducted in a continuous-stirred tank reactor at moderate temperature and pressure using proprietary agitation and gas-liquid mixing arrangement.\n\nIn a second set of reactions, MeP is condensed with formaldehyde in a single heterogeneous reaction step to form MMA:\n\nThe reaction of MeP and formaldehyde takes place over a fixed bed of catalyst. This catalyst, caesium oxide on silica, achieves good selectivity to MMA from MeP. The formation of a small amount of heavy, relatively involatile compounds poisons the catalyst. The coke is easily removed and catalyst activity and selectivity restored by controlled, in-situ regeneration. The reactor product stream is separated in a primary distillation so that a crude MMA product stream, free from water, MeP and formaldehyde, is produced. Unreacted MeP and water are recycled via the formaldehyde dehydration process. MMA (>99.9%) is purified by vacuum distillations. The separated streams are returned to the process; there being only a small heavy ester purge stream, which is disposed of in a thermal oxidizer with heat recovered for use in the process.\n\nIn 2008, Lucite International commissioned an Alpha MMA plant on Jurong Island in Singapore. This process plant was cheaper to build and run than conventional systems, produces virtually no waste and the feedstocks can even be made from biomass.\n\nEthylene is first hydroformylated to give propanal, which is then condensed with formaldehyde to produce methacrolein, The condensation is catalyzed by a secondary amine. Air oxidation of methacrolein to methacrylic acid completes the synthesis of the acid:\n\nAs developed by Atochem and Röhm, isobutyric acid is produced by hydrocarboxylation of propene, using HF as a catalyst:\nOxidative dehydrogenation of the isobutyric acid yields methacrylic acid. Metal oxides catalyse this process:\n\nUsing Reppe chemistry, methyl acetylene is converted to MMA. As developed by Shell, this process produces MMA in one step reaction with 99% yield with a catalyst derived from palladium acetate, phosphine ligands, and Bronsted acids as catalyst:\n\nThe reactions by the direct oxidation method consist of two-step oxidation of isobutylene or TBA with air to produce methacrylic acid and esterification by methanol to produce MMA.\n\nA process using isobutylene as a raw material has been commercialized by Escambia Co. Isobutylene is oxidized to provide α-hydroxy isobutyric acid. The conversion uses NO and nitric acid at 5–10 °C in the liquid phase. After esterification and dehydration MMA is obtained. Challenges with this route, aside from yield, involve the handling of large amounts of nitric acid and NO. This method was discontinued in 1965 after an explosion at an operation plant.\n\nMAN can be produced by ammoxidation from isobutylene:\nThis step is analogous to the industrial route to acrylonitrile, a related commodity chemical. MAN can be hydrated by sulfuric acid to methacrylamide:\n\nMitsubishi Gas Chemicals proposed that MAN can be hydrated to methacrylamide without using sulfuric acid and is then esterified to obtain MMA by methylformate.\n\nAsahi Chemical developed a process based on direct oxidative esterification of methacrolein, which does not produce by-products such as ammonium bisulfate. The raw material is \"tert\"-butanol, as in the direct oxidation method. In the first step, methacrolein is produced in the same way as in the direct oxidation process by gas phase catalytic oxidation, is simultaneously oxidized and is esterified in liquid methanol to get MMA directly. \n\nThe principal application, consuming approximately 75% of the MMA, is the manufacture of polymethyl methacrylate acrylic plastics (PMMA). Methyl methacrylate is also used for the production of the co-polymer methyl methacrylate-butadiene-styrene (MBS), used as a modifier for PVC. Another application is as cement used in total hip replacements as well as total knee replacements. Used as the \"grout\" by orthopedic surgeons to make the bone inserts fix into bone, it greatly reduces post-operative pain from the insertions but has a finite lifespan. Typically the lifespan of methylmethacrylate as bone cement is 20 years before revision surgery is required. Cemented implants are usually only done in elderly populations that require more immediate short term replacements. In younger populations, cementless implants are used because their lifespan is considerably longer. Also used in fracture repair in small exotic animal species using internal fixation.\n\nMMA is a raw material for the manufacture of other methacrylates. These derivatives include ethyl methacrylate (EMA), butyl methacrylate (BMA) and 2-ethyl hexyl methacrylate (2-EHMA). Methacrylic acid (MAA) is used as a chemical intermediate as well as in the manufacture of coating polymers, construction chemicals and textile applications.\n\nWood can be impregnated with MMA and polymerized in situ to produce a stabilized product.\n\nIn terms of the acute toxicity of methyl methacrylate, the LD50 is 7-10 g/kg (oral, rat). It is an irritant to the eyes and can cause redness and pain. Irritation of the skin, eye, and nasal cavity has been observed in rodents and rabbits exposed to relatively high concentrations of methyl methacrylate. Methyl methacrylate is a mild skin irritant in humans and has the potential to induce skin sensitization in susceptible individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985408", "title": "Sam Savitt", "text": "Sam Savitt\n\nSam Savitt (March 22, 1917 – December 25, 2000) was an equine artist, author, and teacher, as well as an illustrator of over 130 books, in addition to his own. He was designated the official illustrator of the United States Equestrian Team, and was a founding member of the American Academy of Equine Art. He created several horse charts that are considered authoritative works and have been used by the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nSam Savitt was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania in 1917. He graduated from Pratt Institute in 1939, and was a veteran of the Second World War, where he held the rank of First Lieutenant. He was further educated at the New School, in sculpting, as well as the Art Students League of New York in visual arts. Savitt was also an active equestrian, and relocated to North Salem, New York in 1956.\n\n\"The New York Times\" said of his 1956 book \"Step-a-Bit: The Story of a Foal\", that Savitt's drawings had \"great charm and spontaneity\". That year Savitt was named the official artist of the United States Equestrian Team. Then his book \"Midnight, Champion Bucking Horse\" won the Boys Club of America junior book award in 1958. In 1950, he illustrated the seminal book on English equestrianism, \"Learning to Ride, Hunt, and Show\" by Gordon Wright.\n\nHis paintings have been used in the posters for races like the Kentucky Derby and the National Horse Show. His work went to galleries and commercial accounts, and he painted portraits of people such as William Randolph Hearst Jr. and Raymond Firestone. It was at times considered a mark of greatness for a race horse to have been illustrated and published by Savitt. He has also created paintings of horses participating in competitive polo. In addition, his subjects included fox hunting, rodeo, steeple-chasing and show jumping. His 1981 book \"Draw Horses with Sam Savitt\" is considered to be a seminal book in equine portraiture. As a writer he wrote sixteen books and co-authored two. In addition, he illustrated more than 130 books by other authors. He worked as a cover artist for Dell Books. His comic book work included stories written about Gene Autry, Roy Rogers, The Lone Ranger, The Cisco Kid, and Ben-Hur. His work appeared in magazines that included \"Equus\", \"The Chronicle of the Horse\", \"Equine Images\", \"Arizona Highways\", \"Boys’ Life\", and \"Sports Illustrated\".\n\nIn 1998 Savitt was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award from the North American Horseman’s Association. The association had previously awarded him the title of Equine Artist of Distinction. \"Equus Magazine\" included him in their list of the world’s most influential horsemen of the 20th century. Savitt is the cofounder of the American Academy of Equine Art, with Henry Koehler, Marilyn Newmark, and June Harrah. With his wife, Bette, he opened Black Horse Press in 1963, which sold his charts and reproductions of his pieces. His works have been used as the illustrative basis of home furnishings and décor by various companies.\n\nSavitt died at the age of 83, in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985410", "title": "Lyman Johnson", "text": "Lyman Johnson\n\nLyman Johnson is the name of:\n\n"}
{"id": "1985414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985414", "title": "Fania All-Stars", "text": "Fania All-Stars\n\nThe Fania All-Stars is a musical group formed in 1968 as a showcase for the musicians on Fania Records, the leading salsa music record label of the time.\n\nIn 1964, Fania Records was founded in New York City by Jerry Masucci, an Italian-American lawyer with a love for Cuban music, and Johnny Pacheco, a flutist, percussionist and bandleader born in the Dominican Republic but raised in the South Bronx who had like minded musical tastes. Masucci later bought out his partner Pacheco from Fania Entertainment Group, Ltd. and was the sole owner until his death in December 1997.\n\nThroughout the early years, Fania used to distribute its records around New York. Eventually success from Pacheco's \"Cañonazo\" recording would lead the label to develop its roster. Masucci and Pacheco, now executive negotiator and musical director respectively, began acquiring musicians such as Bobby Valentín, Larry Harlow, and Ray Barretto.\n\nIn 1968, Fania Records created a continuously revolving line-up of entertainers known as the Fania All-Stars. They were considered some of the best Latin Music performers in the world at that time. The original lineup consisted of:\n\n\nThey recorded \"Live At The Red Garter, Volumes 1 and 2\" with this original lineup. In 1971 they recorded \"Fania All-Stars: Live At The Cheetah, Volumes 1 and 2.\" It exhibited the entire All-Star family performing before a capacity audience in New York City's Cheetah Lounge.\n\nFollowing sell-out concerts in Puerto Rico, Chicago, and Panama, the All-Stars embarked on their first appearance at New York's Yankee Stadium on August 24, 1973. The Stars performed before more than 40,000 spectators in a concert that featured Ray Barretto, Willie Colón, Edwin Tito Asencio, Rubén Blades, Larry Harlow, Johnny Pacheco, Roberto Roena, Pellín Rodríguez, Bobby Valentín, and Jorge Santana (younger brother of Carlos Santana), Celia Cruz, Héctor Lavoe, Cheo Feliciano, Ismael Miranda, Justo Betancourt, Ismael Quintana, Pete \"El Conde\" Rodríguez, Bobby Cruz and Santos Colón. \"Live at Yankee Stadium\" was included in the second set of 50 recordings in the U.S. National Recording Registry, solidifying the All-Stars as \"culturally, historically, and aesthetically significant.\"\n\nIn 1974, the All Stars performed in Zaire, Africa, at the 80,000-seat Stade du 20 mai in Kinshasa. This was captured on film and released as \"Live in Africa\" (\"Salsa Madness\" in the UK). This Zairean appearance occurred along with James Brown and others at a music festival held in conjunction with the Muhammad Ali/George Foreman heavyweight title fight. Footage of the performance was included in the 2008 documentary \"Soul Power\".\n\nTo attain a wider market for salsa music, Fania made a deal with Columbia Records in the US for a series of crossover albums by the All-Stars, beginning with \"Delicate & Jumpy\" (1976), in which Steve Winwood united with the All-Stars' Pacheco, Valentin, Barreto, and Roena. During the same year, the Fania All-Stars made their sole UK appearance, at London's Lyceum Ballroom, with Winwood appearing as guest.\n\nIn 1978 the All-Stars released \"Live\", recorded in concert on July 11, 1975 at San Juan's Roberto Clemente Coliseum. In 1979, they travelled to Havana, Cuba, to participate in the Havana Jam festival that took place between 2–4 March, alongside Rita Coolidge, Kris Kristofferson, Stephen Stills, the CBS Jazz All-Stars, Trio of Doom, Billy Swan, Bonnie Bramlett, Weather Report, and Billy Joel, plus Cuban artists such as Irakere, Pacho Alonso, Tata Güines, and Orquesta Aragón. Their performance is captured on Ernesto Juan Castellanos's documentary \"Havana Jam '79\". During the same year the All-Stars released \"Crossover\" and \"Havana Jam on Fania\", which came from a concert recorded in Havana on March 2.\n\nIn May 2007 Ruben Blades was sued by his former bandmate, Willie Colon for breach of contract. This led to a series of suits and countersuits that lasted over five years. A book titled \"Decisiones\" detailing the inside story of this legal battle was written by Blades' former agent, Robert J. Morgalo, and published in 2016 in English and Spanish website. The court documents can be read here and full transcripts of depositions and court rulings can be seen here\n\nIn 2008, Cheo Feliciano celebrated his 50 years in the music industry by hosting a concert at Madison Square Garden, where then New York City mayor Bloomberg declared July 20 \"Cheo Feliciano Day\" in New York.\n\nIn 2009, an historical documentary, \"Latin Music USA\", shown on PBS TV, featured an episode on the Fania All-Stars, their evolution, career, and later demise. In 2009 as well, the All-Stars returned to the stage, opening Carlos Santana's world tour in Bogotá, Colombia. The presentation caused mixed feelings inside the salsa circle though, mainly because they were treated as seconds by the concert's organizers.\n\nIn March 2011, and subsequently in November 2012, a limited roster of the All-Stars performed in Lima, Peru. One thing to note about the 2012 performance is the return of Ruben Blades. Ismael Quintana was not present in the November 2012 presentation though, as well as Yomo Toro (Yomo died in Q3 2012). In October 2013, a new, complete roster of the All-Stars presented in San Juan Puerto Rico, celebrating the 40th anniversary of their first presentation in San Juan. This roster included the return of Orestes Vilato and Luigi Texidor, as well as the participation of Andy Montañez, Cita Rodriguez (Pete's daughter) and Willie Colón. This was Cheo Feliciano's last presentation with the All-Stars before dying in a car accident in April 2014 in San Juan, Puerto Rico. In 2014 the Fania All-Stars were chosen to receive ASCAP's honorary Latin Heritage Award. The All-Stars were set to present in Central Park, New York City on August 24 as part of the closing of the 50th anniversary celebration of the legendary Fania Records label.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985416", "title": "List of ICD-9 codes", "text": "List of ICD-9 codes\n\nThe following is a list of codes for International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems.\n"}
{"id": "1985418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985418", "title": "Barlowe's Guide to Extraterrestrials", "text": "Barlowe's Guide to Extraterrestrials\n\nBarlowe's Guide to Extraterrestrials (1979; second edition 1987) is a science fiction book by artist Wayne Barlowe, with Ian Summers and Beth Meacham (who provided the text). It contains Barlowe's visualizations of different extraterrestrial life forms from various works of science fiction, with information on their planetary location or range, biology, and behaviors, in the style of a real field guide for animals. It was nominated for an American Book Award and for the 1980 Hugo Award for Best Related Work.\n\nThe second edition has an added foreword by Robert Silverberg.\n\nAfter the success of the work, in 1996 Barlowe and Neil Duskis wrote a second book, \"Barlowe's Guide to Fantasy\".\n\nThe book contains descriptions of the following species:\n\n\n\"Barlowe's Guide to Extraterrestrials\" received a mixed review from Wendy Bousfield in \"Library Journal\". Bousfield commented that the book's drawings were \"colorful\", but also \"somewhat static and artificial-looking, with less vitality than the preparatory sketches from the artist's notebook included at the end.\" She also criticized the omission of \"the facts of publication of the novels\", but concluded that public libraries might still be interested in the work. The book received a positive review from Claudia J. Morner in \"School Library Journal\". Morner praised the book's \"colorful drawings\" and \"fold-out comparative size chart\" showing the size of aliens relative to human beings. She concluded that it was a \"fun browsing book\" that would appeal to \"young people fascinated by monsters\" as well as to science fiction readers.\n\nBarlowe's work was nominated for an American Book Award and for the 1980 Hugo Award for Best Related Work.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985448", "title": "Slapstick (comics)", "text": "Slapstick (comics)\n\nSlapstick (Steve Harmon) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He resembles an animated clown and has the abilities of a slapstick cartoon character, such as one from \"Looney Tunes\", including warping reality to match that of an animated cartoon.\n\nSlapstick debuted November 1992 in \"The Awesome Slapstick\" #1 and was created by writer Len Kaminski and artist James Fry. Afterwards, he made a notable appearance with the New Warriors in \"Marvel Comics Presents\", and was unseen until a \"Civil War\" cameo in \"She-Hulk\". He also regularly appeared in \"\" as a recruit.\n\nIn 2015, Slapstick became a regular member of the Mercs for Money series. In 2017, he got a second solo series created by Reilly Brown, Fred Van Lente, and Diego Olortegui that lasted six issues.\n\nIn \"Slapstick\" Vol. 2 Issue 4, his full name was revealed to be Steven Winsor McCay Harmon, his middle name being a reference to the animator Winsor McCay.\n\nSlapstick was originally junior high school class clown Steve Harmon, from New York City. In a plan to get back at his archrival Winston, Steve dresses as a clown to blend into the crowd at a strange new carnival.\n\nBefore Steve could enact his plan, Winston and his date, Heather, were kidnapped by several clowns. Steve picks up a mallet as a weapon and follows them. The group enters the carnival funhouse and enters a portal disguised as a mirror. As it was closing, Steve follows.\n\nAt the moment of entry, an energy burst races across Steve's world, alerting the senses of several beings, such as Doctor Strange, Silver Surfer, Spider-Man, and Howard the Duck.\n\nHis molecules stretch across 3741 dimensions and Steve ends up in the realm of the Scientist Supreme of Dimension X (who resembles Groucho Marx). The scientist helps Steve master his new form, a body composed of living unstable molecules dubbed \"Electroplasm\". This essentially makes him a living cartoon character. The scientist, who had been ousted from his position by the Overlord, theorizes that Steve had come to his new form because he was slightly out of synch when entering the funhouse portal.\n\nUsing his new powers and a map the scientist had, Steve freed many captive Earthlings from the evil Clowns from Dimension X and their ruler, the Overlord. It is learned that this is what the scientist had intended all along. The Overlord's plan had been to brainwash Earthlings enough so their belief would be sufficient to give Overlord whatever he desired. The Overlord's plans were foiled when the belief that held up his castle gave way as the humans regained their right minds. The castle crashes. The captured humans run to the portal, followed quickly by the monstrous clowns. Steve destroys the mirror, eradicating the clown's influence on this reality.\n\nMinutes afterward, Steve is found by his best friend, Mike Peterson, who agrees to assist him.\n\nSteve has other villains to confront: a Punisher copycat called the Overkiller attacks Steve because he thinks he is a mutant (the mutant was Dr. Denton). The two fight in a mall, destroying most of it. Steve ends the fight by literally kissing Overkiller and then walloping him while the man reacts with disgust. Spider-Man assists with the battle. Slapstick also battled the super smart, preteen Dr. Denton and Teddy, and rescued Barbara Halsey. There was also a homeless man, the Neutron Bum, with the power to cause explosions. Despite the gathering of dozens of superheroes willing and planning to fight the man (including Daredevil, Ghost Rider, Speedball, the Fantastic Four, the Avengers, and the New Warriors), Slapstick simply neutralizes the situation by getting Neutron Bum what he had been yelling for all along — a cup of coffee — and then blindsiding the man from behind while he's drinking it.\n\nHe is a friend of Speedball of the New Warriors and is described as \"The hero who doesn't fight crime but rather plays cruel tricks on it.\"\n\nLater, Slapstick teamed up with the New Warriors to fight Dr. Yesterday, partly because doing so would impress women. It has been established that at some point prior to Justice and Firestar leaving the New Warriors to become Avengers, Slapstick and Ultra Girl are made official members of the Warriors and given communicators, after helping the team stop a Badoon invasion.\n\nDuring the \"Civil War\" storyline, Slapstick helps the surviving members of the New Warriors find Hindsight Lad, the young man and former Warrior responsible for outing the secret identities of past Warriors and allies to the public. LaFroyge was stopped, arrested by the authorities, before Slapstick's identity was made public.\n\nSlapstick is later seen on the bus of new recruits arriving at Camp Hammond as part of the training program. He is later seen, with other heroes, confronting Ben Grimm as part of a training mission.\n\nSlapstick and other Camp Hammond members are sent out as crowd control when the Hulk and his Warbound crew leads an attack on New York. He is assigned morale support for the evacuating citizens under command of the Avenger Triathlon. A fellow recruit, Rage leads a rebellion against the crowd support mission in order to go confront the Hulk. Slapstick joins in. His team is swiftly defeated by the Hulk's forces.\n\nThe recruits are imprisoned by Hulk's forces in Madison Square Garden and neutralized with power-sapping technology. They are rescued by black ops forces associated with the Camp.\n\nLater it is Slapstick who attacks and almost kills Gauntlet out of loyalty to the New Warriors, in retaliation for Gauntlet's use of the team's name as an insult. He has since tried to admit this to his teammates but is always comically interrupted. He later comes in possession of a device containing the memory and personality of KIA, the villainous clone of Michael Van Patrick, and decides to keep it for further use.\n\nSlapstick and several other former New Warriors have recently been recruited by Justice and apparently deserted from the Initiative, after Justice finds evidence of shady activities within the organization. After helping stop KIA's rampage, this new group officially quits the Initiative, intending to act as a form of independent oversight for the program. As legally registered heroes, they are free to act unless they break the law while doing so. When asked to change to his less conspicuous normal form, Slapstick admits that he has not done so since joining the Initiative, and claims that the mechanism that activates the change no longer works.\n\nHe later returned to Camp Hammond with the team, now calling themselves the New Warriors again, and battled Ragnarok, the cyborg clone of Thor. Slapstick is also a noted presence in the multi-hero effort to rebuild New York after the events of \"World War Hulk\".\n\nDuring the \"Fear Itself\" storyline, Slapstick appears at a meeting held by Prodigy regarding magical hammers that have crashed into the earth. He later joins forces with other heroes to battle the Worthy.\n\nWhen Deadpool founded his Mercs for Money, he employed the services of Slapstick, among numerous other vigilantes, to pose as him in order to extend his reach across the globe. While striving to do good, like his new colleagues, Slapstick has severe emotional problems due to an inability to change back to his human form.\n\nAs Slapstick, Steve Harmon's body is made out of Electroplasm after exposure to an unknown alien device, which makes him indestructible. Any damage that he takes can be immediately shaken off, as he possesses superhuman durability and virtually unlimited physical malleability in the manner of an animated slapstick cartoon character. Slapstick also possesses superhuman agility and reflexes. It has been shown that the molecular bonds of the Electroplasm can be disrupted by a counter charge of a specific frequency of energy, reducing Slapstick to an immobile \"puddle\"; however, another energy charge can restore him to \"normal\".\n\nIn addition, Slapstick gets temporarily stronger when electrocuted. However, he must have a consistent feed of electricity to maintain this strength.\n\nSlapstick's gloves also possess alien technology. His left glove has a transformation inducer that allows him to transform to and from Slapstick to his normal Steve Harmon form. His right glove is a materializer that contains an extra-dimensionally sub-spacial storage pocket, which functions similar to cartoon hammerspace, and allows him to store items seemingly nowhere. He can access these items by making a special gesture with that hand, though to anyone observing it would appear he is pulling them out of thin air. He usually keeps a large cartoon-ish mallet in this space. Recent accounts have shown similar pockets in the pants of his costume. Objects stored in these pockets are undetectable by conventional means; for example, Slapstick carried his New Warriors communicator, left forgotten in a pants pocket, into Camp Hammond without any of the base's security measures detecting it.\n\nSlapstick is an experienced practical joker, with a highly developed bizarre sense of humor.\n\nIt has been noted that Steve Harmon has no genitalia in his Slapstick form, much to his disappointment.\n\nIn the alternate universe of \"Mutant X\" (Earth-1298 in the Marvel Comics Multiverse), Slapstick was a member of a group of supernatural heroes called the Lethal Legion (no connection to the Earth-616 villain group). Little is known about this version of the character, and why he joined the team. He was killed by the Goblin Queen, disguised as the Beyonder.\n\nSlapstick makes a cameo appearance in Deadpool's ending in \"Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1985450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985450", "title": "Linguistic demography", "text": "Linguistic demography\n\nLinguistic demography is the statistical study of languages among all populations. Estimating the number of speakers of a given language is not straightforward, and various estimates may diverge considerably. This is first of all due to the question of defining \"language\" vs. \"dialect\". Identification of varieties as a single language or as distinct languages is often based on ethnic, cultural, or political considerations rather than mutual intelligibility. The second difficulty is multilingualism, complicating the definition of \"native language\". Finally, in many countries, insufficient census data add to the difficulties.\n\nDemolinguistics is a branch of Sociology of language observing linguistic trends as affected by population distribution and redistribution and by the status of societies.\n\nThe following table compares the estimates of Comrie (1998) and Weber (1997) (number of native speakers in millions). Also given are the estimates of SIL Ethnologue (2005). \nComparing estimates that do not date to the same year is problematic due to the 1.14% per year growth of world population (with significant regional differences).\n\nThis table shows that for the world's largest languages, it is impossible to give an estimate of the number of native speakers with a certainty better than maybe 10% or 20% or so.\n\nCase studies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985456", "title": "List of WCW World Tag Team Champions", "text": "List of WCW World Tag Team Champions\n\nThe WCW World Tag Team Championship was a professional wrestling World Tag Team Championship contested for in World Championship Wrestling (WCW). Originally, WCW was a member of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), which had numerous member promotions. The NWA operated many tag team championships before one prime tag team title was established in 1992. One of those titles was the NWA World Tag Team Championship, which was operated by the NWA member Mid-Atlantic Championship Wrestling (MACW), the predecessor of WCW. The championship was created by MACW in 1975.\n\nIn January 1991, WCW (the former MACW) began the process of withdrawing as a member of NWA to become an independent promotion, thus the name of the title was changed to the WCW World Tag Team Championship. On July 12, 1992, the WCW World Tag Team Championship was unified with the NWA World Tag Team Championship, which was created earlier that year by the NWA as its prime tag team championship. In September 1993, WCW's withdrawal from the NWA was made official, and the NWA World Tag Team Championship was returned to the NWA; the title was reactivated by the NWA in 1995.\n\nIn March 2001, all WCW assets were purchased by the then World Wrestling Federation (WWF) after AOL/Time Warner discontinued their involvement in wrestling programming. After the purchase, the WWF continued the use of the championship as a part of a storyline called The Invasion, which involved a rivalry between former WCW wrestlers and original WWF wrestlers before the purchase of WCW.\n\nTitle reigns were determined either by professional wrestling matches with different tag teams, a duo of wrestlers, involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines or were awarded the title due to scripted circumstances. Wrestlers were portrayed as either villains or fan favorites as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches for the championship. The inaugural champions, under the NWA, were The Minnesota Wrecking Crew (Gene Anderson and Ole Anderson), who were announced to have won the titles after winning a tournament in January 1975.\n\nBefore the promotion's purchase, the final champions recognized by WCW were Sean O' Haire and Chuck Palumbo; they were also the first champions under the titles operation in the WWF. On November 18, 2001, the championship was deactivated after its use in the Invasion storyline. The title was unified with the WWF Tag Team Championship, and the final champions recognized by the WWF, were The Dudley Boyz (Bubba Ray Dudley and D-Von Dudley). The title was won in Australia, Canada, Germany, and the United States. Harlem Heat (Booker T and Stevie Ray) held the most reigns as a tag team (10), and Booker T held the most individual reigns (11), which is the same number of times the title was vacated. At 282 days, Doom's reign during WCW's NWA withdrawal was the longest in the championship's history. Overall, there were 143 title reigns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985461", "title": "Product Support Services", "text": "Product Support Services\n\nProduct Support Services, more commonly referred to as PSS, is the Microsoft business unit with primary responsibility for responding to end-user and partner requests for assistance with the company's products and services.\n\nPSS also gives feedback to Microsoft development groups for use in the development of future products or product features. The Windows 2000 recovery console, for instance, was developed in large part to address difficulty that PSS agents had when attempting to assist customers with non-functional Windows NT installations. Additionally, PSS identifies major issues with products, and works with the responsible product teams in order to create \"hotfixes\" for these issues, and/or make sure that the issues are addressed in service packs or future product versions. It is a type of Call Center.\n\nPSS offers a wide variety of support options, with varying prices. Options include assistance with:\n\nPSS has major offices worldwide, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1985469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985469", "title": "Stella (United States coin)", "text": "Stella (United States coin)\n\nThe United States four dollar coin, also officially called a Stella, is a unit of currency equivalent to four United States dollars.\n\nIt was originally minted as a universal coin exchangeable with any currency around the world. Two varieties of the Stella were made: Liberty with flowing hair, designed by Charles E. Barber, and with coiled hair, designed by George T. Morgan. The flowing hair variety is the most commonly seen variety. Even though the coin was designed as a pattern coin, similar to the Gobrecht dollar, many catalogs list the coin as a regular-issue item.\n\nThe Stella was a pattern coin produced to explore the possibility of joining the Latin Monetary Union (LMU); these patterns were produced in 1879 and 1880 at the urging of John A. Kasson, a former chairman of the United States House Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures. The Stella was meant to contain a quantity of precious metal similar to that of the standard LMU gold piece, the twenty-franc Napoleon minted in France, Switzerland, and other LMU countries. However, the composition and weight of the Stella was not a precise match to the LMU standard: the total weight was 7 grams (rather than 6.45 grams), the gold content was 6 grams of fine gold (rather than 5.81 grams), and the coins were only .857 fine (rather than .900).\n\nTwo different designs obverse were produced: one with flowing hair; in the other the hair is coiled. Both bear the same inscription: \"★6★G★.3★S★.7★C★7★G★R★A★M★S★\" (the five-pointed glyph variant of the \"★\" is used) to indicate the metallic content of the coin, and the date.\nThe reverse star had the inscriptions \"ONE STELLA\" and \"400 CENTS\", while the reverse rim had the legends \"UNITED STATES OF AMERICA\" and \"FOUR DOL.\", and circling the star but between its points were the legends \"E PLURIBUS UNUM\" (\"Out of many, one\") and \"DEO EST GLORIA\" (\"To God is the glory\").\n\nThe coin and the prospect of joining the Latin Monetary Union were rejected by Congress, but not before several hundred restrikes of the Barber flowing hair design had been produced and sold to Congressmen at the cost of production. These later became a source of scandal when it was noted that a number of them ended up as jewelry pieces adorning the necks of madams operating some of Washington's most infamous bordellos.\n\nFive examples of a pattern quintuple stella denominated at 20 dollars were produced in 1879 as well. These coins used a modified version of the then-current Liberty Head (Coronet) design of the double eagle, replacing the stars on the obverse with \"★30★G★1.5★S★3.5★C★35★G★R★A★M★S★\", and the motto \"IN GOD WE TRUST\" on the reverse with the same \"DEO EST GLORIA\" found on the reverse of the stella.\n\nOnly 425 examples of the Stella were made. All 1880 coins are rare; 25 examples are known.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985471", "title": "Sabbat (English band)", "text": "Sabbat (English band)\n\nSabbat were an English thrash metal band from Nottingham, England, consisting of Martin Walkyier (vocals), Andy Sneap (guitars), Simon Jones (guitars), Gizz Butt (bass) and Simon Negus (drums). Over six years, Sabbat released three studio albums, four demos, two split singles/compilation albums, two singles and a live VHS. In 1988, the band released their debut album \"History of a Time to Come\", which earned them further recognition. Their next album, \"Dreamweaver (Reflections of Our Yesterdays)\" (1989) was also critically acclaimed. Shortly after the release of \"Mourning Has Broken\" (1991), tensions with the band began to surface, most of them revolved around money. This resulted in Sabbat breaking up. After an attempted reunion in 2001, which was blocked by Sneap, the original Sabbat lineup reunited in 2006, and in December of that year, performed together for the first time in sixteen years at five different venues in England, one a warm up gig in Nottingham, the other four in support of Cradle Of Filth. The band had continued to perform at many live venues and festivals around the world since then, but did not release any new material. Andy Sneap confirmed in a January 2014 interview with \"Decibel\" magazine that Sabbat had once again split up.\n\nThe origins of the band started in June 1985, with vocalist Martin Walkyier and bassist Frazer Craske, who were members of a band called Hydra. Andy Sneap joined Hydra as second guitarist, but the remaining guitarist left two weeks later. The arrival of former Striptease and Fallen Angel drummer, Simon Negus (replacing Mark Daley, who left at the same time as second guitarist Adam Ferman) coincided with a name change to Sabbat.\n\nAndy Sneap:-\n\"\"Let me shed a bit of light on things here. Martin and Frazer had this band called Hydra back in 84/85. The most impressive thing about the band was the fact that Frazer had already printed some 2 colour t shirts and he had a car! I met Frazer at a local Hell gig in Long Eaton and it turned out they were thinking of getting a second guitarist. I heard a tape (which I still have, it's priceless) of a show they did in a pub in Nottingham and decided to have a jam as I was wanting to get some experience playing, after all I was the ripe old age of 15. Hell, two weeks after I joined, the original guitarist quit (i think this was in the cards) and the drummer left (thankfully) after we did our first demo a couple of months later, I think due to me having a go about his girlfriend being in the studio (you see, good work ethic back then!). It was Tim Bowler (the drummer from Hell) who introduced us to Simon Negus. The name Sabbat came from a book on witchcraft, but I actually found some old school books of mine with ideas doodled on them so I'm sure I had some doing in suggesting it, but I do remember we liked the way the word looked in the scrawly type of writing so we went with it. Yeah the flexi disc for white dwarf was an odd one, John Blanche, the art editor painted our first cover so it all came about quite easy, it does sound shockingly bad though.\"\"\n\nAfter rehearsing for nearly a year they released the \"Fragments of a Faith Forgotten\" demo, which was well received, with immediate interest from several record companies and a two-page spread in \"Kerrang!\" magazine.\n\nAndy Sneap:\n\n\"\"Martin and Frazer were really into Venom, I was really into Mercyful Fate and Slayer. I remember the day we recorded 'Fragments...', Frazer had that Venom, Exodus and Slayer video from New York and we decided that's totally what we wanted to be doing.\"\"\n\n\"\"we did 'Fragments of a Faith Forgotten' on a little four track, we did it in two afternoons just threw it down. We didn't think much about it but off that we got a deal with Noise, two pages in Kerrang! and a Radio One session. It just snowballed. After the session the label were even more interested and then we got the Kerrang! cover after that.\"\" \n\nAfter releasing a Warhammer-inspired Flexi-disc on the front cover of \"White Dwarf magazine\", the band penned a deal with German Noise Records in mid-1987 (signing had previously been delayed because Andy Sneap was under 18 years of age and not legally an adult).\n\nIn September 1987, the band travelled to Hanover, Germany to record their debut album, \"History of a Time to Come\". This generated lots of media attention amongst journalists and fans alike for its unique lyrical approach and its difference to the \"Big 4\" approach at the time during the 1980s metal scene.\n\nThe second album \"Dreamweaver (Reflections of Our Yesterdays)\", was a conceptual album, based on the book \"The Way of Wyrd\", by Brian Bates. The album demonstrated Walkyier's deep-held beliefs in Wyrdism, Anglo-Saxon spirituality, Celtic mysticism and paganism.\n\nFraser Craske:\n\"\"Well, we made the decision after our European tour [to add a second guitarist]. We had taken Richard Scott with us on tour for the extra sound and it had really worked out great. But Richard said he wouldn't join us full time because he wanted to continue with his other band, but we had to get another guitarist because of the improvement in the sound.\"\" \n\nThe introduction of new guitarist \"Jack Hammer\" – Simon Jones – made a vast improvement on the guitar attack, as acknowledged by Andy Sneap, in his interview with Renee Ackerman of Rockworldtv at his back stage studios in 2007.\n\nJack, as he was known professionally prior to joining Sabbat, and indeed is still referred to as in the band, previously played in Holosade, and was brought in midway through the recording of Dreamweaver as a rhythm and lead guitarist to complement Sneap's contribution.\n\nTensions within the band began to mount, most of them revolved around money. The band were developing a very good following and selling a lot of merchandise, however they were victims of poor management and with a label (Noise) that did not seem to care what the band did. Martin Walkyier:\n\"\"With the Noise contract, people were telling us 'Don't sign it,' but we did. Bands who were doing well at the time - Celtic Frost, Helloween, Kreator - were all on Noise. We had complete artistic freedom, but not for the right reasons. It was because they didn't give a flying fuck.\"\"\n\nThe band almost split up during the Dreamweaver sessions, but re-grouped to finalise the recording and move on and accept their differences. Andy Sneap observes with hindsight in interviews that it is great that he and Martin Walkyier were able to function within Sabbat again without the arguing about money, musical direction and clash of personalities he and Martin experienced.\n\nMartin Walkyier:\n\"\"There are stories that I quit Sabbat because the rest of the band didn't like my pagan lyrics. That's not true. All of us shared an interest in paganism. The paganism was never a problem; I was always left to get on with the lyrics the best way I saw fit. No, the truth was that I could see that the music was going to get even more complex. Andy was writing 11 minute musical epics and I couldn't even begin to see how I'd write lyrics for something like that. I wanted to bring in other musical styles, to bring in violins for instance. That would never have worked with Sabbat.\"\"\n\nMartin Walkyier commented in late 2006 that Sabbat were in severe financial distress in 1989 and that he was living on government state benefits, such was the stark financial situation the band faced. Walkyier commented that he felt that they were becoming \"like Rush\" due to the overtly technical nature and length of their songs – combined, these issues forced tensions within the band.\n\nMartin Walkyier:\n\"\"All the things that went wrong with Sabbat in the old days were really nothing to do with me and Andy Sneap, even though we had our disagreements in the days when we were young. That was largely to do with record labels and management and things that were happening around us – the fact that we were selling hod-loads of records and not actually seeing any money at all and having to live on benefits at the time.\"\n\nFirst to jump ship was guitarist Simon Jones during their 1989 UK Dreamweaver tour with British thrashers Xentrix supporting. He left the band only moments before the gig at Sheffield University refectory on 15 November 1989, Sabbat did finish the gig though with just Andy Sneap on guitar. Andy Sneap has stated that this was a drink related departure and Jones himself has said he regrets his departure in a recent video on Andy Sneap's Myspace site.\n\nGuitarist Neil Watson was brought in for guitar duties, and with only two weeks to learn all of the tracks, appears on the live video The End of the Beginning. Walkyier left in 1990 along with Craske, with Walkyier going off to form Skyclad. Fraser Craske left the music industry completely at this time. Andy Sneap and Simon Negus overhauled the band and brought in vocalist Richie Desmond and bassist Wayne Banks. In 1991, they released Mourning Has Broken - but it did not go down well with fans or critics and the band performed a final show in Derby soon after, then shortly after, split up.\n\nIn \"Terrorizer\" (No. 152, Xmas 2006] Andy Sneap has stated:\n\"(emphatically) \"I don't listen to this (Mourning Has Broken). There is some mad guitar playing on there, some of the shredding is ridiculous, but it sounds thrown together, which is why it shouldn't have had the Sabbat name on it.\"\"\n\nSimon Negus went on to join a band called the Glory Boys. Andy Sneap and Wayne Banks went on to form the group Godsend. Andy Sneap is now best known as a successful Grammy winning producer with over 100 albums produced at his Backstage Recording studios in rural Derbyshire.\n\nMartin Walkyier initially wanted to re-form the band as Sabbat in 2001 with Fraser Craske and Simon Jones, however, this was blocked by Andy Sneap at the time.\n\nAndy Sneap:\n\"\"The way I originally heard about (the reunion) was from one of the guys at Earache (Records), who called me up to ask me about it. I knew nothing about it so I called Martin to ask him about it. The conversation got a little heated and I explained they couldn't do it under the name SABBAT as both he and (bassist) Frazer quit, leaving me and (drummer) Simon (Negus) with a lot of debts and financial problems to clear up. This was the reason we carried on as SABBAT and did a third album. Obviously we wanted the new line up to work out but it didn't … simple as that. What it came down to though was Simon Negus and myself, in theory, own the business and name as they left. If you left your employee, you couldn't go and start that business somewhere else under the same name.\"\"\n\nWalkyier, Jones and Craske performed under the name Return to the Sabbat for 2001–2003, Skyclad drummer Jay Graham played on drums, after Simon Jones left (replaced by Andy Newby), the band continued for a while playing at Bloodstock indoor festival and a gig in Camden, London after which Return to the Sabbat disbanded.\n\nIn 2006 the band re-united with the \"Dreamweaver\" line-up to support Cradle of Filth on their UK tour in December 2006 at four different venues.\n\nA warmup gig for this short tour was played at \"The Rig\" in Nottingham, England, on Saturday 16 December 2006, and as such was the first time since 1989 that the Dreamweaver line-up had played live together. They received much press attention and rave reviews for their support slot and confirmed that were to release their first two albums in a remastered format with additional bonus material.\n\nThey then played festival appearances at the \"Keep It True Festival\", Germany - 15 April 2007 and the 'Day of Darkness' festival in Co. Laois, Ireland, which took place on the 6 and 7 July 2007.\n\nFrazer Craske left Sabbat once again, for personal and work related reasons. He was replaced at the D.O.D. festival by Gizz Butt.\n\nSimon Jones from official Sabbat website, January 2008:-\n\"\"First up was the Keep It True Fest', southern Germany April 14th. If anyone can recall, spring 2007 was particularly warm and boy we sweated a few pounds off thrashing to a sold out venue. It was great to share the bill with Laaz Rocket and Diamond Head too. After this gig Frazer broke the news that he wouldn't be doing any more gigs. Gizz Butt would take his place from now on. There was no pressure laid on Frazer; it was his decision and the rest of us respected it, after all we had got back together to play metal and enjoy it. If it wasn't working for him then so be it. Miraculously Gizz breathed new life into Sabbat as a band and brought a new perspective to the songs.\"\"\n\nAndy Sneap and Martin Walkyier said in interviews that the reunion was \"a bit of fun\" and there was no long term plan.\n\nOn 27 February 2007 Sabbat re-released \"History of a Time to Come\" and \"Dreamweaver\". The re-releases feature new packaging, bonus live tracks, and a remastered sound. Sabbat's final album, 1991's \"Mourning Has Broken\", was not re-released.\n\nIn 2010 the band went into hiatus, before finally splitting up once again. Inevitably, Martin and Andy were to fall out, once again, very publicly in a Facebook argument.\n\nIn a January 2014 interview with \"Decibel\" magazine, Andy Sneap confirmed that Sabbat are no more. One of the reasons for the break up was reportedly due to a feud between Sneap and Walkyier.\n\nAndy Sneap said in 2014 to the \"talking bollocks\" podcast that Sabbat is over and he is happier in his current band, Hell, doing what he wants to do, and it is better if he and Martin \"do their own thing.\" Sneap joined Judas Priest in February 2018 as a touring guitarist, filling in for Glenn Tipton, who had recently been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease.\n\nSabbat were initially labelled as \"thrash\" and \"satanic\" in the Midlands metal scene. Fraser Craske: \"\"We're not Satanists. It's more theatrical. We're interested in religion and philosophy and it follows that we write tracks about things like that.\"\" The band's early lyrics were \"primarily Satanic or […] influenced by the Occult in some way\"; in Walkyier's interpretation, Satanism \"doesn’t say ‘let’s go out and kill people’ or anything like that\", referring to \"The Satanic Bible\" which has \"nothing to do with sacrifice\" but with a selfish outlook. Walkyier sees Satanism as a rebellion against orthodox Christianity. As he considers Satan and the Devil to be \"in a lots of ways […] a bogeyman invented by the Christians\" to make people follow them, and \"started to look more into the old religion of Europe […], and that’s sort of where my… my kind of personal beliefs lie really\".\n\nThe late Dave G. Halliday was the singer/guitarist from the band Hell, the Derbyshire band who in the mid-1980s were a big influence upon and inspiration for Sabbat.\n\nAndy Sneap:\n\"\"We are heavily influenced by Hell and don't mind admitting it\" Andy says with obvious admiration. \"The singer even taught me how to play guitar! We're not a deliberate copycat of Hell in any way though. They were a great band and it's a mystery to me why they never got anywhere. To be compared to them we don't mind in the least, we would take it more as an honour than anything. We've just done a charity show at Trent Poly dedicated to Hell's guitarist Dave Halliday who committed suicide in January. All the money went to his favourite charity, Cancer Research.\"\"\n\nMartin Walkyier has left a fitting tribute to Dave G. Halliday within the sleeve notes of 2006 The Clan Destined release, \"In the Big Ending\", which reads:-\n\"\"These recordings are dedicated to the memory of Dave G Halliday. A man who was literally decades ahead of his time, but who tragically never had the chance to witness the enormous & positive influence he had upon the worldwide Metal scene. Whilst i still have breath in my body, you will never be forgotten.\"\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSabbat\nType:\nVideo\nRelease date:\n1990\nLabel:\nFotodisk Video\nFormat:\nVHS\n\n"}
{"id": "1985477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985477", "title": "Laila Morse", "text": "Laila Morse\n\nMaureen Oldman, known by her stage name Laila Morse (born 1 August 1945), is an English actress. Her best known roles include Janet in drama film \"Nil by Mouth\" (1997) and Mo Harris in BBC One soap opera \"EastEnders\".\n\nMorse was married to Gerald Bromfield from 1963 to 1970 and they had two children, Gerry and Tracy Bromfield.\n\nMorse is a breast cancer survivor, having been diagnosed with the illness in May 2001 and recovered within a year. She lives in New Cross, South East London, England.\n\nDuring the evening of 29 June 2008, two men named Dano Sonnex and Nigel Farmer attempted to burgle her home, just hours before they committed the New Cross double murder.\n\nIn August 2013, Morse was declared bankrupt.\n\nLaila's stage name \"Laila Morse\" was suggested to her by Italian actress Isabella Rossellini, while dating her brother, actor Gary Oldman. \"Laila Morse\" is an anagram of \"mia sorella\" which is Italian for \"my sister\".\n\nMorse rose to fame when she was fifty-one when her first film \"Nil by Mouth\" was released in 1997. The BAFTA winning film also marked the debut of her brother Gary, as a writer and producer. Morse's performance as the matriarch won her the award of 'Most Promising Newcomer in any Category' at the British Independent Film Awards.\n\nMorse's television debut was in \"The Bill\" for two episodes, which was followed by a regular role as Honky Mum in the BBC sitcom \"Honky Sausages\", and the character Molly in the 1999 television production of \"Great Expectations\".\n\nIn 2000, Morse played Laila in the film \"Love, Honour and Obey\". In the same year, she made her first appearance as Mo Harris in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". Her first scene in the BBC soap opera was with Pam St Clement, who played Pat Butcher. A couple of weeks later, a television critic said that Morse had acted like \"a lump of cardboard\". Recalling the article, Morse replied: \"I daresay he was right! I was bloody petrified.\" She admitted that it was only three years later that she started to feel comfortable on set. Morse temporarily left \"EastEnders\" in January 2016, after appearing on a recurring basis since July 2012.\nIn June 2017, Morse expressed interest in returning to \"EastEnders\" as she felt that she never \"officially left\". In December 2017, it was announced that Morse would be returning to the show to play Mo.\n\nIn 2011, Morse made a return to film when she appeared as Aunt Queenie in the film \"Big Fat Gypsy Gangster\", written, produced and starring Ricky Grover.\n\nIn December 2012, Morse made her pantomime debut as the Fairy in a production of \"Jack and the Beanstalk\".\n\nIn 2014, Morse portrayed the role of Cynthia in the film \"The Ninth Cloud\", starring Michael Madsen and Leo Gregory. The film was released on DVD in the UK.\n\nIn 2019, Morse appeared as an BPRD employee in \"Hellboy\".\n\nOn 19 February 2010, Morse appeared on \"The Weakest Link\" in a special \"EastEnders\" edition, with Adam Woodyatt, Laurie Brett, Larry Lamb, Todd Carty, Ricky Groves, John Partridge, Charlie G. Hawkins and John Altman. She lost in the final round to Laurie Brett.\n\nIn January 2012, Morse took part in the seventh series of ITV celebrity edition skating show \"Dancing on Ice\". She also published her autobiography \"Just A Mo\" which detailed her troubled love life, which included men who beat and betrayed her, and her love story to a man she knew and fell in love with again some twenty-five years later.\n\nIn November 2013, Morse participated in the thirteenth series of \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\" and was the second participant to be voted out of the series on 2 December.\n\nIn March 2014, Morse began performing DJ sets at nightclubs around the UK. Billed as \"Crazy, funny, party evenings\" and marketed under her \"Big Mo\" character, starting with a performance at AlphaBEATs in Canterbury on 26 March.\n\nIn June 2016, it was revealed that she would be taking part in the next series of \"Celebrity Masterchef\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1985484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985484", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Kent", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Kent\n\nThe ceremonial county of Kent, (which includes the unitary authority of Medway), is divided into 17 Parliamentary constituencies - one borough constituency and 16 county constituencies.\n\nThe Boundary Commission for England retained these 17 constituencies, with changes to realign constituency boundaries with the boundaries of current local government wards, and to reduce the electoral disparity between constituencies.\n\nThey recommended two name changes: Gillingham to\nGillingham and Rainham to reflect the similar stature of the two towns, and Medway to Rochester and Strood to avoid confusion with the larger Medway unitary authority. These changes were implemented at the 2010 United Kingdom general election.\n\nThe Boundary Commission for England submitted their final proposals in respect of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies (the 2018 review) in September 2018. Although the proposals were immediately laid before Parliament they were not brought forward by the Government for approval. Accordingly, they did not come into effect for the 2019 election which took place on 12 December 2019, and which was contested using the constituency boundaries in place since 2010.\n\nUnder the terms of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011, the Sixth Review was based on reducing the total number of MPs from 650 to 600 and a strict electoral parity requirement that the electorate of all constituencies should be within a range of 5% either side of the electoral quota.\n\nOn 24 March 2020, the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office, Chloe Smith, issued a written statement to Parliament setting out the Government's thinking with regard to parliamentary boundaries. They propose to bring forward primary legislation to remove the statutory obligation to implement the 2018 Boundary Review recommendations, as well as set the framework for future boundary reviews in time for the next review which is due to begin in early 2021 and report no later than October 2023. It is proposed that the number of constituencies now remains at the current level of 650, rather than being reduced to 600, while retaining the requirement that the electorate should be no more than +/- 5% from the electoral quota.\n\n\"Primary data source:\" House of Commons research briefing - General election results from 1918 to 2019\n\nThe number of votes cast for each political party who fielded candidates in constituencies comprising Kent in the 2019 general election were as follows:\n\n1974 & 1979 - Liberal Party; 1983 & 1987 - SDP-Liberal Alliance\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Included in Other\n\nA cell marked → (with a different colour background to the preceding cell) indicates that the previous MP continued to sit under a new party name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985487", "title": "Terri", "text": "Terri\n\nTerri is an alternative spelling of Terry. It is a common feminine given name and is also a diminutive for Teresa.\n\nPeople with the name Terri include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985505", "title": "Tommy Rogers", "text": "Tommy Rogers\n\nTommy Rogers may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985510", "title": "West Atlantic UK", "text": "West Atlantic UK\n\nWest Atlantic UK Limited, (Formerly Atlantic Airlines Ltd) is a British cargo airline based in Coventry, United Kingdom. It operates contract and ad hoc cargo flights worldwide, especially within Europe as part of the West Atlantic Group. The company fleet is composed of Boeing 737 aircraft. The airline specialises in the transport of dangerous goods and radioactive products and other specialist aerial work, including oil spill response, dispersant spraying and icing trials. The prime activity of the business is the supply and operating of aircraft to night-time freight integrators and consolidators and the operation of ad hoc air charters on behalf of other airline, freight brokers and forwarders. Atlantic Airlines merged with the Swedish airline \"West Air Europe\" in 2008 to establish the West Atlantic Group.\n\nWest Atlantic UK Ltd holds an EU Ops Air Operators Certificate with the United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority and a Type A Operating Licence, permitting it to carry cargo and mail on aircraft.\n\nThe airline was established in 1994. It was formed as part of the Air Atlantique Group of Companies to specialise in the supply of contract and ad hoc cargo services. Since July 2001 West Atlantic UK (Formerly Atlantic Airlines) has traded independently and continues to broaden its product range and capability through the marketing of its Air Operators Certificate (AOC).\n\nThe company Atlantic Airlines Limited was established in March 2001 when the management performed a buy-in to the trading company. A full management buy-out was achieved on 28 May 2004 when the same management purchased all the assets of the business including aircraft, spares, engines etc.\n\nIn January 2006, Atlantic acquired the first of an order for 5 BAe ATP freighter aircraft.\n\nIn February 2007, Atlantic Airlines signed an agreement with BAE Systems Regional Aircraft to long-term lease a further 6 BAe ATP freighters bringing the total orders to 11.\n\nIn October 2008, it was announced that the airline would merge with West Air Sweden to form a new airline called West Atlantic with its headquarters in Sweden.\n\nOn 8 December 2009, Atlantic Airlines' biggest base, Coventry Airport, was closed for financial reasons, causing Atlantic Airlines to cease all cargo flights to and from the airport. Atlantic Airlines moved all Coventry flights to Birmingham on a temporary basis as a result. The airline recommenced operations out of Coventry Airport when it reopened after it was bought by Sir Peter Rigby. But the airline has since moved out of Coventry Airport: it set up new airline offices to the south of Coventry Airport and relocated its Operational and Line Maintenance Control Centre to East Midlands Airport. The West Atlantic Group also has a large maintenance hangar at East Midlands Airport, capable of maintaining the Boeing 737 and other group aircraft types.\n\nOn 27 April 2013, Atlantic Airlines retired the last Lockheed L188 Electra from its fleet in cargo service. Atlantic Airlines was the last operator of the type outside of Canada. Subsequently, most of the fleet was sold and transferred to Buffalo Airways in Canada. \n\nIn 2015 Atlantic Airline transferred its ATP fleet to the West Atlantic group Swedish AOC to focus on further Boeing 737 acquisitions. \n\nIn June 2017 West Atlantic announced that it would be the launch customer and first operator of the Boeing 737-800BCF (Boeing converted Freighter). \n\nOn 1 November 2017 Atlantic Airlines officially changed its name to West Atlantic UK Limited.\n\nWest Atlantic UK serves daily the following destinations:\n\nAs of January 2020, the West Atlantic fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n"}
{"id": "1985512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985512", "title": "Sandwich board", "text": "Sandwich board\n\nA sandwich board is a type of advertisement composed of two boards (holding a message or graphic) and being either Carried by a person, with one board in front and one behind, creating a \"sandwich\" effect; or set up (for example next to a store advertising its goods) in a triangle shape, hinged along the top. In this way, the advertising message can be read on both sides interchangeably.\n\nThe term \"sandwich man\" was coined by Charles Dickens. Sandwich boards were most popular in the 19th century, and have largely been supplanted by billboards, which are more effective in advertising to passers-by who are now likely to be in automobiles, rather than traveling by foot.\n\nHowever, they are still frequently to be seen on major shopping streets such as Oxford Street, London; Champs Élysées, Paris, and 42nd Street, New York City, where they are used to advertise offers from particular stores most often in adjacent side-streets.\n\nThere are generally two types of sandwich boards.\n\nThe carried version is usually attached to straps acting as suspenders, allowing the person wearing the boards to carry the weight on his or her shoulders and keeping the boards balanced on the wearer. The wearer might also pass out flyers or shout advertising slogans.\n\nAnother is called \"A-board\" which is kept next to the stores, on public transport grounds, such as sidewalks or pedestrian zones to draw the attention of the customers passing by. These A-boards resemble the shape of letter A. In some modern A-boards the conventional two boards have been replaced by a single board hanging within the frame. A-boards are most typically deployed in busy pedestrian areas to advertise businesses. Advertising the business website or social media page on these boards helps the business get recognized locally as well as internationally.\n\nMany different types materials are used to make these boards. The carried type is generally made up of light materials like cardboard or paperboard and yarn to hang it to the shoulders. The conventional types of A-boards are generally made with wood or MDF and modern A-boards are made with plastic or aluminum and hinges are made with leather. To resist the blow of the winds in the windier days sandbags are hung under the board as a counterweight which gives balance and stability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985515", "title": "People's Party of the Russian Federation", "text": "People's Party of the Russian Federation\n\nThe People's Party of the Russian Federation (\"Народная Партия Российской Федерации\", transliterated as \"Narodnaja Partija Rossijskoj Federacii\") was a centrist political party in Russia. The leader of the party was Gennady Raikov.\nAt the 2003 parliamentary election which saw the election of the fourth convocation of the State Duma, the party had won 1.2% of the popular vote and 16 out of 450 seats. Most deputies were elected in single mandate districts and later joined United Russia faction.\n\nThe People's Party joined A Just Russia on 14 April 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985517", "title": "Maplin Sands", "text": "Maplin Sands\n\nThe Maplin Sands are mudflats on the northern bank of the Thames estuary, off Foulness Island, near Southend-on-Sea in Essex, England, though they actually lie within the neighbouring borough of Rochford. They form a part of the Essex Estuaries Special Area of Conservation due to their value for nature conservation, with a large colony of dwarf eelgrass (\"Zostera noltei\") and associated animal communities.\n\nTo the northeast, the Maplin sands are contiguous with the Foulness sands, which are bordered to the north by the Whitaker Channel; the seaward continuation of the River Crouch. To the south runs the Swin Channel.\n\nMaplin Sands is crossed by the ancient trackway known as The Broomway.\nA screw-pile lighthouse was built on the sands in 1838 by Messrs. Mitchel and Sons (sic- more often Mitchell and Sons) on the recommendation of James Walker of Trinity House. It was the first screwpile lighthouse ever to be designed. Although construction of the Maplin Sands Light had started before, the Wyre Light (Fleetwood) was completed first, as it was built in a much shorter period of time. Excessive scouring of the Thames by the strength and direction of the tidal streams caused the lighthouse to become undermined and it was completely swept away in 1932. \n\nIn the later part of the 19th century John I. Thornycroft & Company and Yarrow Shipbuilders used the sands for the measured mile speed trials of their destroyers. The shallow waters resulted in a flow of water that could add up to a knot to the ship's speed. When the Admiralty found out they required that all future trials be carried out in deep water.\n\nFollowing the report of the 1968 Roskill Commission, in 1973 plans were proposed and approved for a third airport for London, the Thames Estuary Airport, but were abandoned in 1974 in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis. The project would also have included a deep-water harbour suitable for the container ships then coming into use, a high-speed rail link to London, and a new town for the accommodation of the thousands of workers who would be required.\n\nThe Maplin Sands were at that time, and remain, a military testing ground belonging to the Ministry of Defence, as does Foulness Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985518", "title": "Arzach", "text": "Arzach\n\nArzach () is a comic book collection of four wordless short stories by artist/author Jean 'Moebius' Giraud, which were originally published in the French sci-fi/fantasy comics magazine \"Métal Hurlant\". The stories follow Arzach, a silent warrior who rides a pterodactyl-like creature through a strange, desolate landscape. The imagery and situations in \"Arzach\" are often compared to dreams or the subconscious. These stories had an enormous impact on the French comics industry, and the Arzach character is still among Moebius' most famous creations. It can be defined as a pantomime comic, fantasy comics or an experimental comic.\n\nThe spelling of the title, originally Arzach, was changed in each of the original short stories.\n\nMoebius later revisited the character with a story called \"The Legend of Arzach\". This later story contains dialogue, and it ties the Arzach stories into a previously unrelated Moebius story called \"The Detour\".\n\nMoebius' 2010 book \"Arzak: L'Arpenteur\" (\"Arzak: The Surveyor\") was the first of a planned trilogy to explore the origin of the character. However, with the death of Jean Giraud in March 2012, this vision was never realised.\n\n\"Arzach\" is credited as the inspiration for the final sequence, \"Taarna\", of the animated film \"Heavy Metal\" (1981).\n\n\"Moebius' Arzach\" is a novel by Jean-Marc and Randy Lofficier, published by iBOOKS in August, 2000. The book features a cover and inside illustrations by Moebius, and a map by J.O. Ladronn. The first half of the book is a novelisation of several Arzach stories. The second half recursively introduces John Gerard (a thinly disguised Jean Giraud) and family into the world of \"Arzach\". A brief essay on the publishing history of \"Arzach\" concludes the book.\n\n\"Arzach\" was one of Panzer Dragoon's major artistic influences. Jean Giraud even contributed in the creative process of Team Andromeda's game with original artwork.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985528", "title": "List of prime ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "List of prime ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nThe following is a list of prime ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe, since the establishment of the office of Prime Minister of Portuguese São Tomé and Príncipe in 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985566", "title": "Congo tetra", "text": "Congo tetra\n\nThe Congo tetra (\"Phenacogrammus interruptus\") is a species of fish in the African tetra family, found in the central Congo River Basin in Africa. It is commonly kept in aquaria.\n\nThe Congo tetra has a typical full-bodied tetra shape with rather large scales. When mature, the iridescent colors of the Congo tetra run through the fish from front to back, starting with blue on top changing to red through the middle, to yellow-gold, and back to blue just above the belly. It is not its fluorescent colors that make this tetra so distinct, but rather its tail fin, which develops into a most beautiful grayish-violet feathery appendage with white edges. The males get up to 3.0 inches (8.5 cm). Females up to 2.75 inches (6 cm). The male is larger with more color, also the tail fin and dorsal fin are more extended.\n\nIn the aquarium, a natural habitat will allow for healthy fish. The Congo tetra requires soft, peat-filtered water and a darker substrate. They are most comfortable in an aquarium with lower light levels. The beautiful rainbow colors of this fish will also show best in lower light levels. These fish are easily frightened by aggressive tank mates and loud noises, and may abstain from feeding until people have left the area. It is a peaceful schooling fish and needs a large aquarium to thrive and develop its full beauty. Any aquarium of less than 30 gallons is not considered suitable for a proper school of the Congo tetra.\n\nRecommended water parameters:\n\nAs they are an omnivorous fish, Congo tetra will generally eat all kinds of live, fresh, and flake foods. Daily feeding with a high quality flake food is recommended. Brine shrimp (live or frozen) or bloodworms can be given as a type of \"treat.\"\n\nCongo tetra kept in aquariums are generally a good community fish when other fish are of similar size and temperament.\n\nCongo tetras are egg layers. While little is known about their wild breeding habits. In captivity however, a large aquarium, peat-filtered water, and bright lighting will initiate spawning. They will lay up to 300 eggs that will drop to the bottom. The fry are large enough to eat freshly-hatched brine shrimp.\n\nThe IUCN lists the Congo tetra as a species of Least Concern.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985569", "title": "Coalition for Unity and Democracy", "text": "Coalition for Unity and Democracy\n\nThe Coalition for Unity and Democracy (Ge'ez : ቅንጅት ለአንድነት እና ዴሞክራሲ), commonly referred to by its English abbreviation CUD, or occasionally CDU; its Amharic abbreviation, used in Ethiopia, is Qinijit; in English writing often referred to as Kinijit) was a coalition of four existing political parties of Ethiopia which combined to compete for seats in the Ethiopian General Elections held on May 15, 2005, and around the end of that year, became a full-fledged political party (the Coalition for Unity and Democracy Party). Its leader was Dr. Hailu Shawul. It dissolved in 2007.\n\nThe four parties that combined to form the CUD are: Ethiopian Democratic League, All Ethiopian Unity Party (AEUP), United Ethiopian Democratic Party-Medhin Party and . At the legislative elections, 15 May 2005, the party won 89 out of 527 seats in the House of People's Representatives, representing the Regions of Amhara, Oromia, and of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples (SNNPR), as well as in the chartered cities of Dire Dawa and Addis Ababa.\n\nDespite the CUD winning 99% of Addis Ababa, the ruling party continued to govern the city. The CUD and the EU election observers said there was heavy election rigging and the opposition might have won more seats.\n\nEngr. Hailu was placed under house arrest in early June 2005 after a government investigation into his alleged involvement in the planning of riots which the government claims over 40 were killed, but were referred to by the CUD as street protests, concluded he was responsible.\n\nIn the elections for the Regional assemblies, the CUD won 137 of the 138 seats in the Addis Ababa administrative district, 106 of 294 in the Amhara Region, 11 of 89 in the Benishangul-Gumuz Region, 1 of 82 in the Gambela Region, 3 of 36 in the Harari Region, 33 of 537 in Oromia, and 39 of 348 in the SNNPR. But the split inside CUD has caused big problems. One of the parties that split was the old UEDP-Medhin and this was a major problem for the AEUP because without UEDP-Medhin, CUD support in Addis Ababa would have been \"no more than marginal.\" \n\nAfter implying that the ruling Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) committed election fraud, on 6 November the CUD leadership called for a week of riots and a boycott of businesses owned by members of the EPRDF, as well as boycotting the new parliament. In response, the TPLF/EPRDF stripped CUD legislators of their parliamentary immunity, and arrested a large number of CUD members.\n\n, most of the leaders of the AEUP subparty remain imprisoned, awaiting the outcome of their trial that has spanned nearly a year starting from their arrest. Porous roofs, cramped conditions, extreme temperatures have all contributed to the numerous emergency room visits that the main leaders of the party have experienced. During this time the health of three of the major figures—Dr. Hailu, Professor Mesfin Woldemariam, Dr.Berhanu Nega—has suffered during their incarceration, and required visits to the Police hospital. There is an international effort in motion that is trying to create harmony between EPRDF and CUD, but it has not made any progress.\n\nThe spirit of CUD and the Kinijit movement is still in motion. Dr. Berhanu Nega has written a book, published by MM publishing, providing his account not only of the CUD's role in the election, but also of his imprisonment, as well as of his fellow detainees.\n\nEngineer Hailu, a leader of the AEUP, was one of the ministers working for the previous Ethiopian Derg regime led by Mengistu Haile Mariam. Under the Derg government, it was one of the darkest eras for Ethiopia, which some sources claim up to 1,500,000 Ethiopians were victims of the genocide. Due to this, many people have been worried about his rise into the executive leadership of this opposition party. Engineer Hailu held an insignificant ministry, The Ministry of State Farms and his role was primarily technical management of farms. He was never a significant player in the regime and had little influence on issue that had to do beyond the State Farms.\n\nAlso various negotiations between the UEDP-medhin opposition party and the AEUP opposition party failed. And this was a major problem for the AEUP that was originally united with UEDP-Medhin to make up the CUD because without UEDP-Medhin, CUD support in Addis Ababa would have been \"no more than marginal.\" Most people, including UEDP-Medhin and Rainbow party, have pointed out the hardliners inside AEUP, particularly Hailu Shawel, were the reasons for the disagreements. Some members said AEUP leaders like Hailu Shawel \"are chauvinists and dictators who think that they are the only best opposition party.\"\n\nThe other issue was about accepting the parliamentary seats of the CUD party. When UEDP and others Disrespected the vote of the people and took their seats, some AEUP members, forced by Dr. Hailu, didn't take their seats because they believed there was election fraud. Later, they organized a demonstration. Some said the hardliners in AEUP knew there would be massive riots beforehand. One SBS journalist, Olivia Rousset, indicated that the government used too much force to calm the rioters.\n\nA major issue arose when even the closest people to Dr. Hailu rejected his stance and wanted to take their parliamentary seats instead of joining the banned protests that turned to riots. One of them, Berhanu Nega, stated that elected MPs and City Councilors would be betraying their constituents if they failed to take their seats. But at the end, the minority in AEUP, including Hailu Shawel, forced CUD members to change direction, thus causing a permanent division between UEDP and AEUP. Most sources claim that the Rainbow party also split from Hailu's AEUP but the decision of mayor choice issues between UEDP and Rainbow allowed Hailu to dictate Rainbow's destiny. Following the split in the party, most subparties in CUD itself are working in the parliament as are the other opposition parties, with the exception of Hailu's AEUP members who have been charged with inciting the riots that resulted in many deaths.\n\nThe Walta Information Center reported 9 October that the CUD lost its legal life with the conclusion of the 2005 election, and is no longer accredited as a political party. Although a number of members of the Ethiopian Parliament still possess identification cards issued by the CUD, National Election Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) deputy head Tesfaye Mengesha stated that this does not guarantee eligibility. The CUD that existed in the pre-election had long taken its exit, he concluded. \"Today's CUD has borne nothing of the former, but the name.\"\n\nIn a surprise development, the General Assembly of the CUD met on 22 October in the Hall of the NEBE in Addis Ababa, and elected new officials. Ayele Chamesso was elected party Chairman and the former Chairman Temesgen Zewde was elected Deputy Chairman in absentia, while Sasahulh Kebede became Secretary General. However Temesgen Zewde stated that the meeting was held against party rules and its decisions were illegal. When asked why the NEBE allowed the assembly to take place on its premises, Mekonnen Wondimu, the Acting Registrar of the NEBE Political Parties Registration Office, replied that the request had been made in writing by the Deputy Chairman of the party, and that the NEBE has never turned down the requests of political parties when they made similar requests.\n\nAfter a split between inside CUD in the diaspora, another split occurred to CUD in Ethiopia during the Ethiopian intervention in Somalia. A CUD group led by Temesgen Zewde disapproved the decision by the government to go into Somalia, while a CUD group led by Tadesse Bekele (CUD's elected representative for Addis Ababa City Council) supported the ruling party's decision to go into Somalia. Tadesse said \"Ethiopians have never been divided on the issue of the sovereignty of the country, and the stand of the CUD group led by Temesgen and some opposition parties has failed to prioritize national interest.\" \n\nAfter a long trial, the Ethiopian court found 38 CUD officials guilty of breaching Ethiopia's constitution. General charges ranged from armed rebellion to \"outrage against the constitution\". In addition to organizing and provoking the violence, witnessed also accused some CUD leaders of attempting assassinations on government heads. Various human rights organizations have accused the trial of being politically motivated.\n\nAfter spending 20 months in jail and being convicted by the court, Kinijit leaders, after undergoing through amnesty board, were finally released on July 20, 2007. According to the government and the mediator elders, the CUD prisoners signed an apology letter admitting partial responsibility for the post election violence and promising not to use unconstitutional means for any political aims. In addition to their release, the prisoners' right to vote and seek public office also have been restored. Following their release, the American government said \"The United States appreciates the efforts of Ethiopian elders and civil society leaders that resulted in today’s pardon by the Ethiopian Government of 38 opposition leaders and journalists detained in the wake of political violence in 2005.\"\n\nChairman: Eng. Hailu Shawel<br>\n1st Vice Chairperson: Birtukan Mideksa<br>\nSecretary: Muluneh Eyuel\n\nExecutive staff:<br>\nAbayneh Birhanu, Abdurahman Ahmedin, Akalu Gergrie,\nDr. Hailu Alemayehu, Dr. Befikadu Degifie, Dereje Amensisa,\nElala Tezera, Major Getachew Mengistu, Eng Gizachew Shiferaw,\nLeniesil Asfaw, Dr. Mulalem Tarekegn, Mesfin Ayalew, \nSeleshi Tena, Dr. Shimel Tekletsdik, and Dr. Yakob Hailemariam\n\nIn a recent development Hailu Shawel was said to be sacked and replaced by first vice-chairperson, Birtukan Mideksa, who as of November 2009 has been in prison since December 2008 and is considered to be a political prisoner by Human Rights Watch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985591", "title": "Andrews University", "text": "Andrews University\n\nAndrews University is a private Seventh-day Adventist university in Berrien Springs, Michigan. Founded in 1874 as Battle Creek College, it was the first higher education facility started by Seventh-day Adventists and is the flagship university of the Seventh-day Adventist school system, the world's second largest Christian school system.\n\nThe university consists of eight schools or colleges, offering 130 undergraduate majors and 70 graduate majors. In addition, post-baccalaureate degrees are offered by all. It is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, and the Adventist Accrediting Association (AAA).\n\nAndrews University was founded as a small Seventh-day Adventist school called Battle Creek College in 1874 named for the nearby city of Battle Creek, Michigan.\n\nIn 1901, the school moved from Battle Creek, Michigan to its current location in Berrien Springs. It is said that everything the school had was packed up in 16 boxcars and sent on its way. The school was renamed \"Emmanuel Missionary College\", or EMC for short.\nas \"the first school among us having a distinctive Biblical name\".\n\nAfter this SDA college that had been known as Battle Creek College moved to Berrien Springs, Dr. John Harvey Kellogg opened a new Battle Creek College in Battle Creek under his presidency in 1923, by bringing together the existing Training School for Nurses, the School of Home Economics, and the School of Physical Education. This Battle Creek College operated until 1938.\n\nEmmanuel Missionary College continued to grow slowly through the early 20th century. In the 1940s, Nethery Hall, the current location of the College of Arts and Sciences, was built as the administration building. Its construction marked the culmination of an aggressive building program.\n\nIn the 1930s Seventh-day Adventist leaders established a Theological Seminary. At first, it was located on the campus of Pacific Union College in the Napa Valley, California. Later it was moved to Washington, D.C. and located near the denominational headquarters.\n\nThe following events culminated in relocating the graduate program and theological seminary of Potomac University from Washington, D.C. and joining with the school in Berrien Springs in 1959.\n\nIn 1956, denominational leaders decided to organize a university in order to train elementary and secondary teachers in an Adventist school rather than send them to an unaffiliated university which did not promote a denominational perspective..\"\n\nIn 1956 a charter was granted. The new school was named Potomac University. Earlier, Ellen White, cofounder of the Adventist Church, had advised that Adventist schools locate in rural settings. Church leaders looked for a suitable rural location where the new university could be near to, and in affiliation with, Washington Missionary College, now Washington Adventist University. Over a period of two years effort was put forth to find such a location. Finally the idea was abandoned. Too much expense was involved in making such a move.\n\nAt the 1958 Autumn Council, held in Washington, the board of Emmanuel Missionary College invited the General Conference to locate Potomac University on its campus. After careful deliberation, the council voted unanimously to accept the offer and move the institution to the EMC campus.\n\nArrangements similar to those envisioned for Washington Missionary College were made with EMC. Emmanuel Missionary College did not lose its identity. It remained the college for the youth of the Lake Union Conference, but was affiliated with the new Seventh-day Adventist university.\n\nIn 1959, H. L. Rudy, a vice-president for the SDA General Conference, described the relationship of the new graduate university with Emmanuel Missionary College: \n\nBecause of the addition of the graduate programs and the seminary in 1960, the school was renamed \"Andrews University\" in honor of John Nevins Andrews, an Adventist scholar and the first officially sponsored overseas missionary for the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Over the past three years, church leaders had discussed an appropriate new name for this graduate university.\n\nOn April 18, 1957, the Minutes of the General Conference Committee report gave the conclusion that \" the name of the graduate school be Adventist University\" Three years later, the April 5, 1960, Minutes of the General Conference Committee's Spring Meeting recommended that it be Andrews University, saying \"This name was chosen because it honors our first missionary, a scholarly, dedicated man, J. N, Andrews, and is a name that has a very strong Adventist appeal.\nSix months later, for the October 26 meeting of the Autumn Council decided that \"the West Coast University be named Loma Linda University.\" \nThese minutes reveal a growing awareness among church leaders that the Seventh-day Adventist Church had two, rather than just one, developing universities; one in the East and one on the West Coast.\n\nToday the seminary is known as the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary.\n\nIn 1974, the undergraduate division of Andrews was organized into two colleges—the College of Arts & Sciences and the College of Technology. The School of Business Administration, which evolved from the Department of Business Administration, was established in 1980. In a similar move, the Department of Education became the School of Education in 1983. In 1993, the Department of Architecture became the Division of Architecture, and is now the School of Architecture, Art & Design. At the same time existing and new programs in technology were restructured and a new School of Health Professions was opened in 2012.\n\nThe present organizational structure of the School of Graduate Studies was adopted in 1987. Now the School of Graduate Studies & Research, it oversees graduate programs and research activities campus-wide.\n\nGriggs University joined Andrews in 2011 to become the School of Distance Education. It extends access to Adventist education beyond campus, community and national boundaries. It supports all schools in delivery of degrees at national and international locations, while also promoting and modeling best practices in distance education.\n\nOn Thursday, April 11, 2007, President Niels-Erik Andreasen announced at a special chapel assembly that the university had just received a gift totaling $8.5 million. The anonymous donors requested the money be spent on the following: Construction of the new entrance on Old US 31 (officially opened on June 2, 2008 and named J. N. Andrews Blvd.), Two endowed chairs: one for the Marketing Department in the School of Business Administration and the second in the Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary's Christian Ministry Department, Construction of a milking parlor for the Andrews Dairy, Refurbish the kitchen and dining facilities in the Campus Center, and Support for the educational program of the Aeronautics Department.\n\nAndrews University is located in the Village of Berrien Springs in southwest Michigan. The campus is adjacent to the St. Joseph River and away from the shores of Lake Michigan. South Bend, Indiana, home of the University of Notre Dame, is away; thus, some Andrews faculty members hold joint appointments with Notre Dame.\n\nThe campus is officially designated as an arboretum. The campus maintains a variety of indigenous trees, especially around the quad in the center of the campus. The campus is composed of 27 instructional buildings, the Howard Performing Arts Center, an airpark, four single-sex residence halls and four apartment complexes.\n\nThe four dormitories on campus are Lamson Hall, the undergraduate women's hall, Damazo Hall, the graduate women's hall, Meier Hall, the undergraduate men's hall, and Burman Hall, primarily for men who are either graduate or seminary students. The residence halls strictly enforce a curfew depending on a student's age, as well as a visitation policy which does not allow students of the opposite sex in dorm rooms at any time. Students living on-campus are also required to attend a number of worship services.\n\nArtworks on the campus include \"Corten Steel Sculpture\", \"Legacy of Leadership\", and \"Regeneration\".\n\nThe university is made up of eight schools/colleges, offering 130 undergraduate majors and 70 graduate majors. In addition, post-graduate degrees in several areas are supervised by the School of Graduate Studies.\n\nThe university's freshmen retention rate is 83.9% while the graduation rate is 53.3%.\n\nThe School of Architecture began as a simple architecture program in 1974, offering an associate degree. The program received full accreditation as a bachelors program in 1987. In 2002 the program was approved to offer a 5-year National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB)-accredited masters of architecture. On October 29, 2007, the Board of Trustees voted the Division of Architecture to be reclassified as the School of Architecture. It advocates the building and preservation of rural and urban landscapes which promote civility, healthy living and environmental stewardship. In January 2012, the School of Architecture was merged with the Department of Art & Design to form the School of Architecture, Art & Design. As a result, two new majors were introduced in the architecture program: Interior Design and Construction Management. In 2016 departments were again reorganized, with the art and design portions of the school leaving the School of Architecture and joining the Department of Communication, creating the School of Architecture & Interior Design and the Department of Visual Art, Communication & Design. Carey Carsacallen is the current dean of the School of Architecture & Interior Design.\n\nThe studio is led by Assistant Professor Andrew von Maur. Past projects have led to municipal adoption as well as implementation. Previous projects by the School of Architecture include community plans for Palmer (Alaska), Empire, Suttons Bay, Traverse City and Wayne (Michigan), Billings (Montana), Michigan City and Plymouth (Indiana), and Henderson Point and Saucier (Mississippi). The Andrews University School of Architecture is one of five accredited architecture programs in the United States located at a Christian university.\n\nThe College of Arts & Sciences, which was officially organized in 1974, is the largest of the university's six schools. It is divided into thirteen departments covering a wide range of subjects encompassing the fine arts, the sciences, the humanities, and the social sciences. Keith Mattingly is the current dean of the College of Arts & Sciences.\n\nThe College also offers pre-professional programs in law, health, optometry, dentistry and medicine, among others. A number of graduates go on to attend Loma Linda University, a Seventh-day Adventist institution with the only Protestant Christian medical school and dental school in the United States, for a professional education in medicine, dentistry and other health-related disciplines.\n\nThe School of Business Administration first began to offer graduate education in business in 1964. It has been housed in its current location in Chan Shun Hall since 1989 and offers Bachelor of Business Administration, Master of Science in Administration and Master of Business Administration degrees. The school is a member of the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). Ralph Trecartin is currently the dean of the School of Business Administration.\n\nThe School of Distance Education & International Partnerships (formerly Griggs University/Griggs International Academy) was formally transferred to the ownership of Andrews University on November 1, 2010. It is housed in Griggs Hall B near the main campus entrance on Old US-31. In 2016 the School of Distance Education was given the extended name of School of Distance Education & International Partnerships, reflecting more of the school's focus on partnering with sister schools and extension campuses around the globe. Alayne Thorpe is the current dean of the School of Distance Education & International Partnerships.\n\nThe School of Education offers bachelors (BA, BS), masters (MA, MAT), education specialist (EdS) and doctoral degree (EdD, PhD) programs in thirty-one different programs of education. Also housed within the school is the university's leadership program, which offers graduate degrees in various areas of leadership. The university also has an undergraduate program in leadership, which currently awards certificates rather than degrees. Robson Marinho is the current dean of the School of Education.\n\nIn 2012, the School of Health Professions was organized. This school includes all of the health-related sciences: the Departments of Nursing, Physical Therapy, Medical Laboratory Sciences, Speech-Language Pathology & Audiology, and Public Health, Nutrition & Wellness. Emmanuel Rudatsikira was appointed the first dean of the School of Health Professions, and is currently still serving in this role.\n\nThe College of Technology was formally dissolved in 2012. Its former departments were relocated to other schools. The Department of Visual Art & Design is now joined with the Department of Communication to create the Department of Visual Art, Communication & Design. The Department of Engineering & Computer Science and the Department of Aviation became part of the College of Arts & Sciences. The Department of Agriculture is a stand-alone department overseen by an assistant to the president/provost.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Theological Seminary was voted into existence in 1936 by action of the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. It operated in Washington, D.C. until 1960, when it was transferred to Berrien Springs, Michigan. There it became a school at the newly established Andrews University. The seminary is fully accredited by The Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada.\n\nThe primary mission of the Seminary is to prepare ministers for the Seventh-day Adventist Church. This is done especially by means of the 3-year Master of Divinity program. There are also 2-year master's programs in Youth Ministry and in Pastoral Ministry. In addition, the Seminary offers the 1-2 year academic Master of Arts in Religion program and the Master of Theology. Three doctoral programs are also offered: Doctor of Ministry, Doctor of Philosophy in Religion, and Doctor of Theology. Andrews University was the first institution to offer a PhD in Adventist studies.\n\nThe Seminary has six departments: Christian Ministry, Church History, Discipleship & Religious Education, New Testament, Old Testament, Theology & Christian Philosophy, and World Mission. The current dean of the Seminary is Jiři Moskala.\n\nThe J. N. Andrews Honors program provides a learning community and curriculum focused on critical thinking, discussion, and debate. The program is a member of the Upper Midwest Honors Council, the Michigan Honors Association, and the National Collegiate Honors Council. Designed to offer both advanced general education coursework and monitored undergraduate research to the motivated student, the J. N. Andrews Honors Program was established in 1966 by Dr. Paul E. Hamel and Dr. Merlene A. Ogden. The current curriculum, SAGES (Scholars' Alternative General Education Studies) was developed by Dr. Malcom Russell and implemented by Dr. Gordon Atkins. The current director of the program is Dr. L. Monique Pittman.\n\nThe original James White Memorial Library was constructed in 1937 as the first stand-alone library building of the University's campus, then known as Emmanuel Missionary College. In 1959 the denomination's graduate programs in theology and education moved from Takoma Park, MD., to Berrien Springs, forming a comprehensive university for the growing needs of the world church. Lawrence Onsager is the current dean of libraries at Andrews University.\n\nThe library has two branches the Music Materials Resource Center, and the Architecture Resource Center and the Center for Adventist Research. The Library also houses the University Archives and Records. The Library also catalogs materials for the Horn Archaeological Library.\n\nAlong with most Seventh-day Adventist institutions, Andrews University has received criticism for its stand against LGBTQ advocacy groups.\n\nEducators include:\n\nAlumni include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1985600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985600", "title": "Syndactyly", "text": "Syndactyly\n\nSyndactyly is a condition wherein two or more digits are fused together. It occurs normally in some mammals, such as the siamang and diprotodontia, but is an unusual condition in humans. The term is from Greek σύν meaning \"together\" and δάκτυλος meaning \"finger\".\n\nSyndactyly can be simple or complex.\nSyndactyly can be complete or incomplete.\n\nComplex syndactyly occurs as part of a syndrome (such as Apert syndrome) and typically involves more digits than simple syndactyly.\n\nFenestrated syndactyly, also known as acrosyndactyly or terminal syndactyly, means the skin is joined for most of the digit but in a proximal area there is gap in the syndactyly with normal skin. This type of syndactyly is found in amniotic band syndrome.\n\nSimple syndactyly can be full or partial, and is present at birth (congenital). In early human fetal development, webbing (syndactyly) of the toes and fingers is normal. At about 6 weeks of gestation, apoptosis takes place due to a protein named sonic hedgehog, also known as SHH, which dissolves the tissue between the fingers and toes, and the webbing disappears. In some fetuses, this process does not occur completely between all fingers or toes and some residual webbing remains.\n\nFive types of syndactyly have been identified in humans. The corresponding loci associated with these types and their common phenotypical expression are as follows:\n\nSyndactyly of the border digits (thumb/index finger or ring/small fingers) is treated at early age to prevent the larger digit from curving towards the smaller digit with growth. Typically, syndactyly of these digits is treated at six months of age. The treatment of syndactyly of the other digits is elective and is more commonly performed when the digits have grown, at 18–24 months of age.\n\nBecause the circumference of the conjoined fingers is smaller than the circumference of the two separated fingers, there is not enough skin to cover both digits once they are separated at the time of surgery. Therefore, the surgeon must bring new skin into the area at the time of surgery. This is most commonly done with a skin graft (from groin or anterior elbow). Skin can also be used from the back of the hand by mobilizing it (called a \"graftless\" syndactyly correction), which requires planning over a period of months prior to surgery.\n\nThe most common problem with syndactyly correction is creeping of the skin towards the fingertip over time. This is likely due to tension at the site of the repair between the digits. Additional surgery may be required to correct this. One critique of using skin grafts is that the grafts darken in the years after surgery and become more noticeable. Also, if the skin grafts are harvested from the groin area, the skin may grow hair. Finally, the fingers may deviate after surgery. This is most commonly seen in complex syndactyly (when there has been a bony joining of the fingers).\n\nThe earliest appreciation of syndactyly as a birth anomaly or burn-trauma can be traced back to the Andalusian Muslim surgeon Al-Zahrawi (d. 1013 CE), known in the West as Abulcasis. The French barber surgeon Ambroise Paré also described syndactyly in the sixteenth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985612", "title": "R. Mika", "text": "R. Mika\n\n, known as and more commonly as , is a fictional character and professional wrestler from Capcom's \"Street Fighter\" fighting game series. She was introduced in the 1998 game \"Street Fighter Alpha 3\", and later returned in the 2016 game \"Street Fighter V\". The character has received mixed critical reception since her appearance in the 2016 title. Many western journalists have been critical of her overtly revealing character design, while additional criticism was directed toward her gameplay.\n\nR. Mika was created to introduce a \"tricky and technical character\" into the series. Later, the team created Karin to provide a contrast to her. Debuting in \"Street Fighter Alpha 3\", Mika is primarily a grappling character, whose main weapons are high-priority command throws. Unlike other grapplers in the \"Street Fighter\" series, who are slow and heavy, Mika is more fast and agile.\n\nIn the games, Mika is a blonde Japanese girl who plans to make her debut as a professional wrestler and is seen working hard to achieve her dream to become \"Star of the Ring\". To this end, she travels the world, fighting various street fighters to promote herself and meeting her idol Zangief along the way. She receives rigorous training from her manager, Yoko Harmagedon, a large muscular woman who is seen in a few of her victory poses riding a golf cart and wielding a shinai.\n\nMika first appeared in \"Street Fighter Alpha 3\", and later returned in \"Street Fighter V\", where she is joined by a tag-team partner named Yamato Nadeshiko (大和ナデシコ), who is used in some of her attacks. Mika also appears in minor roles in the UDON's comic series \"\", \"Street Fighter Legends: Sakura\", and \"Super Street Fighter: New Generations\". She also has a cameo in the Capcom game \"Startling Adventures\" and in \"Capcom Fighting Evolution\" in Felicia's ending. Her attire appears as a swap costume for \"Tekken\" character Kuma in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\". After a long period of absence, Mika returned in \"Street Fighter V\", sporting her original character design.\n\nHer primary outfit consists of a blue and white wrestling leotard with an eyemask and knee-length white boots. Her outfit slightly differed, depending on the game. In \"Alpha 3\", her leotard chest piece is covered by two blue heart shaped patterns, but in \"SFV\" the blue hearts were replaced by a heart-shaped hole. Another feature of R. Mika's outfit is that it shows her exposed back and buttocks.\n\nShe is a personal favorite of the \"Street Fighter\" series' producer Yoshinori Ono, who had tried but failed to bring the character in \"Street Fighter IV\": \"I'm a big Rainbow Mika fan, I don't know if you remember her. So I wanted to put her in \"Street Fighter 4\" and I really wanted to put her in 'Super,' so I basically harassed the director. Unfortunately he didn't listen but maybe next time.\"\n\nPrior to her return in \"Street Fighter V\", Mika has been requested by \"Street Fighter\" fans and video game publications alike. Mika has been ranked twelfth in the Japanese rankings of Capcom's official Street Fighter Character Poll. Heavy.com listed Mika as their fourth most wanted character they wanted to appear in \"Ultra Street Fighter IV\" while GamesRadar listed her as one of their preferred choices to appear in \"Street Fighter V\". Jahanzeb Khan at \"Hardcore Gamer\" listed her as one of five characters he wanted to see return in \"SFV\", where he noted \"Having a highly technical and badass female wrestler would spice up the roster and game balance of \"Street Fighter V\", not to mention a nice alternative to the male heavyweights.\" Prima Games listed her as one of the characters they wanted to see in \"SFV\", where they opined that she would \"add more feminine talent to the game.\"\n\nNegatively, Mika was included in \"Complex\"'s list of the \"lamest\" \"Street Fighter\" characters, reasoning \"\"Street Fighter\" has never been shy with the gorgeous ladies, but they've always had full-figured back stories to go along with their full-figured backsides. Rainbow Mika on the other hand is the most blatant example of mysogynistic character design seen in the series.\" Todd Ciolek from Anime News Network declared Mika as \"the worst \"Street Fighter\" character,\" reasoning \"every little detail about her annoyed me, from the stupid boob-hearts on her costume to the way she whomped opponents with her butt—and rubbed it after she hit the ground.\" At \"Paste\", Eric Van Allen criticized her outfit by stating that \"even by \"Street Fighter\" standards, this amount of gratuitous flesh is rather ridiculous.\" However, this opinion is not shared between all critics, with Nadia Oxford of \"USgamer\" finding Mika to be an example of positive female gender representation, writing \"I can say that I have nothing against, er, voluptuous women in games. Or even scantily-clad women\", and that \"My problem has always been women characters whom I'm expected to take seriously while they slay dragons/wander the desert/travel the frozen wastes while baring their midriff through the majority of their journey\", and that she enjoys Mika's \"silly\" and \"goofy\" design.\n\nMika's return to the lineup of \"Street Fighter V\" was praised by Jason Shreiser of \"Kotaku\", who wrote that \"She looks fun to play—check out those wrestling moves — but this is an odd choice given Mika’s lack of pedigree. Cool throwback, though!\" However, after the game's released, her gameplay has subsequently been criticized for being \"cheap\". At \"Eurogamer\", Wesley Yin-Poole labelled Mika as \"SFV\"s \"most hated character\", writing \"I've seen people criticise R. Mika players for doing nothing but going for this Passion Rope Throw over and over again until it lands. Some within the fighting game community believe this move, as well as the \"vortex\" style, is not a \"high skill\" strategy\", and as a result Mika has been labelled \"cheap\" and a \"troll character\" that is frustrating to play against. According to Christopher Isaac at Screen Rant, she is the 12th most powerful \"Street Fighter\" character. Isaac explained by saying \"The wrestler's unorthodox usage of her tag team partner Yamato, body slams, and booty slams to the face have been throwing players for a loop lately, and has led to the phrases \"overpowered\" and \"broken\" getting thrown around.\"\n\nIn debut footage of \"Street Fighter V\", Mika is seen slapping her buttocks as part of her Critical Art attack. The decision not to show the animation in the North American version of the game was a subject of controversy, leading to a petition to restore it. According to producer Yoshinori Ono regarding not showing her butt slap, \"Those changes came up internally. We decided to remove that because we want the biggest possible number of people to play, and we don’t want to have something in the game that might make someone uncomfortable.\" Some other shots, including the entrance animation for Cammy, were also replaced.\n\nJonathan Holmes from \"Destructoid\" questioned the controversy over the decision by stating \"While there are surely plenty of folks who adore seeing their screen filled with frilly thong shots, I imagine there may be even more players out there who'd find the sudden prioritization of arse in their fighting games to be little out of place.\" Chris Carter at \"Destructoid\" commented \"It's still a bit weird that something this goofy was removed, especially with the design Laura has in general,\" and noted that a character like Necalli is \"probably far more harmful\" for children's eyes. In another article by \"Destructoid\", Carter stated \"It's such a weird thing to me, because R. Mika's butt is still very visible, she just doesn't lightly tap it a few times per match.\" Likewise, ND Medina at \"iDigitalTimes\" expressed confusion over the change, noting that her full butt was still being exposed. The butt slap was later restored as a mod for the PC version, albeit in a different pose.\n"}
{"id": "1985616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985616", "title": "1926–27 in Swedish football", "text": "1926–27 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1926-27 season in Swedish football, starting August 1926 and ending July 1927:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1985623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985623", "title": "Hollywood Showdown", "text": "Hollywood Showdown\n\nHollywood Showdown was an American game show that aired on both PAX TV and Game Show Network from January to November 2000, then returned solely to GSN on January 1, 2001 and ran until March 30 of that year. Reruns aired on GSN again from September 2004 to April 2005 plus June 2006 and June 2007 on TV Guide Network. Todd Newton served as host, with Randy West announcing.\n\nProduced by Sande Stewart, the game was similar to \"Jackpot!\", whose creator/producer Bob Stewart is Sande's father.\n\nSeven contestants competed against each other over the course of five episodes. At any given time, one contestant was in control of the game, while the other six stood in the gallery, each holding an envelope. Five of the envelopes held cards with dollar amounts ranging from $100 to $1,000 in $10 increments, while the last had the \"Box Office\" card.\n\nThe contestant in control selected one gallery member, who opened his/her envelope and revealed its contents. The two contestants then squared off in a question round. Newton read a series of questions with three answer choices, and the contestants buzzed in to answer. If correct, he or she scored one point, otherwise, the opponent chose from the remaining two choices. The first person to answer three questions correctly took control of the game.\n\nIf the gallery member's card showed a dollar amount, it was added to the Box Office jackpot, which began at $10,000 after being collected. If the gallery member had the \"Box Office\" card, the winner of that question round played for the jackpot.\n\nThe object of the Box Office round was to answer five questions correctly. Before each question, the contestant was presented with two category choices. The first four correct answers were worth $500 each, and the fifth won the Box Office.\n\nAt any time, a contestant could quit and take what they had won up to that point. However, an incorrect answer lost whatever winnings they had earned. If a contestant did not win the Box Office either by missing a question or choosing to stop, he or she played another game, with the Box Office continuing to grow from its previous value. When a contestant won the Box Office, he/she retired from the show, and a new contestant took his/her place among the remaining contestants. The Box Office reset to $10,000 every time it was won.\n\nAll weeks were self-contained, meaning that a game in progress on Friday could not continue into the following Monday. When time ran out, all remaining players in the gallery opened their envelopes, and the player with the Box Office card competed in the final question round for that week. The winner of that round could either take $1,000 or return next week to play again for a brand-new $10,000 Box Office. Early in the first season, the winner of the last Friday showdown played the Box Office one last time.\n\nA special \"Box Office Bonanza Week\" aired during the show's first season in May 2000, during which the \"Box Office\" card was replaced in some games by the \"Blockbuster\" card. If chosen, the Box Office jackpot doubled (but returned to its pre-doubled total if the subsequent Box Office round was not won). On the Wednesday show of that week, a record $33,260 jackpot was won. The Friday payoff rules remained, except that the winner took home $2,000.\n\nA short-lived Indonesian version of \"Hollywood Showdown\", titled \"Showbiz\" and produced by Becker Entertainment, aired on RCTI from (21 April) April 21 until (5 July) July 5, 2003 and was hosted by Harsya Subandrio.\n\nWhile the show was airing first-run episodes, Boxerjam.com featured an online version of \"Hollywood Showdown\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1985629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985629", "title": "Vartan Gregorian", "text": "Vartan Gregorian\n\nVartan Gregorian (born April 8, 1934) is an Armenian-American academic, educator, and historian. He has been serving as president of the Carnegie Corporation since 1997. \n\nAn Armenian born in Iran, Gregorian moved to the United States at 22. He graduated with dual PhD from Stanford University. He subsequently taught at several universities and his work as a historian focused mainly on the Muslim world. He went on to join the University of Pennsylvania faculty, then as its provost. From 1981 to 1989 he served as president of the New York Public Library during which he succeeded in financially stabilizing the institution and revitalizing its cultural importance. From 1989 to 1997 he served as the first foreign-born president of Brown University. Gregorian's work has been widely acknowledged. He has received dozens of honorary doctorates, the National Humanities Medal (1998) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom (2004).\n\nVartan Gregorian was born on April 8, 1934 in the city of Tabriz in northern Iran to Christian Armenian parents Samuel B. Gregorian and Shushanik (née Mirzaian). His father worked for the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company in Abadan. His mother died of pneumonia when he was six and his father later remarried. Vartan and his younger sister were raised by his maternal grandmother. His grandfather owned an inn for camel caravans. He first went to an Armenian elementary school in Tabriz, then a Russian one when northern Iran was under Soviet occupation. When Iran regained control of the area, he learned Persian. His grandmother was illiterate and his parents only had high school education. He was told by Edgar Maloyan, French vice-council in Tabriz of Armenian origin, that he had to go to Beirut because he was \"too smart to stay in Tabriz.\" He continued his studies at Collège Armenien (\"Jemaran\") in Beirut, Lebanon, graduating in 1955. Among his teachers there was Simon Vratsian, the last prime minister of the First Republic of Armenia (1918–20). He also briefly worked as a reporter in Beirut before emigrating to the United States in 1956. Gregorian came to the US with the initial intention to return to Beirut to teach Armenian history in a high school. In another interview, Gregorian said he studied Portuguese so he could become the principal of an Armenian high school in São Paulo, Brazil. In 1956 He enrolled at Stanford University and completed his BA in history and humanities in just two years, graduating with honors in 1958. \n\nIn a sense, I wrote the book as a tribute to my grandmother and all the other people who played such a crucial role in my life. Without them, I would not be here.\n\nGregorian earned a dual PhD in history and humanities (art history, philosophy, Romance languages, religion, classics) from Stanford University in 1964. His dissertation was titled \"Traditionalism and Modernism in Islam.\" He began his teaching career at University of California, Berkeley where he was briefly instructor in Armenian history and culture in 1960. He taught European and Middle Eastern history at San Francisco State University (then college) between 1962 and 1968. He was initially instructor, then in 1964 he was named assistant professor and, in 1966, associate professor of history. He was a visiting associate professor of history at University of California, Los Angeles in 1968, before moving to University of Texas at Austin as associate professor in 1968-70 and professor of history in 1970-72.\n\nGregorian joined the University of Pennsylvania faculty in 1972 as Tarzian Professor of Armenian and Caucasian History and Professor of South Asian history. In 1974 he became the founding dean of UPenn's Faculty of Arts and Sciences until 1978. He subsequently served as the 23rd provost of UPenn from January 1979 to October 1980. In 1980 Gregorian was widely considered to be the most probable candidate for president of the University of Pennsylvania as he had the \"resounding support of most of the deans, the Faculty Senate, and the Undergraduate Assembly.\" Gregorian was seen as a charismatic leader and one with \"flamboyant style and ever-present brilliance.\" However, the university trustees chose Sheldon Hackney instead.\n\nIn 1984–89 Gregorian was professor of history and Near Eastern studies at New York University and at the New School for Social Research (The New School). He taught European intellectual history at the New School.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1989 Gregorian served as president of the New York Public Library (NYPL), a network that contained four research libraries and 83 circulating libraries. He was highly successful in the position, primarily as a fundraiser. He nearly doubled its budget and by the end of his tenure, he had secured $327 to $400 million for the NYPL from individuals, foundations and corporations. He has been credited with restoring the \"crumbling landmark to a vibrant cultural nexus\" and rescuing one of America's \"known public institutions from financial and cultural crisis and thereby restor[ing] the stature of public libraries nationwide.\" According to Michael Gorman Gregorian is one of the few \"shining exceptions\" of academics running libraries well. He notes that as the head of the NYPL Gregorian \"can fairly be said to have rescued that venerable and valuable institution from pauperism.\" \n\nDuring Gregorian tenure, the Main Branch in Manhattan was restored with $42 million. He also succeeded in getting approval from city planning authorities to restore the nearby Bryant Park. Upon his departure, \"The New York Times\" wrote that as president of the NYPL, Gregorian \"revived an empire of learning that is more than ever a national treasure.\" Barlow Der Mugrdechian noted that Gregorian \"transformed what was then a decaying and underfinanced institution into a center of New York cultural life.\" His tenure at the NYPL made Gregorian a reputable institutional leader. In May 1999 a hall of the Main Branch was named after Gregorian.\n\nBrown University awarded Gregorian an honorary doctorate in 1984 for his work at the NYPL. Four years later, in August 1988 Gregorian was chosen to become its 16th and first foreign-born president. He was officially inaugurated as president in April 1989. When he took over, Brown had the lowest endowment ($370 million) in the Ivy League. He served in that position for eight years, until June 1997. In his eight-year tenure, Gregorian raised around $535 million, raising the total to $850 million. He was also credited with strengthening Brown's reputation and \"enhancing its traditional emphasis on undergraduate education.\" During his presidency, the university \"Gregorian hired 270 new faculty members, expanded the library, and established eleven new departments.\"\n\nAt Brown, Gregorian continued teaching a freshman seminar and a senior seminar and a course on Alexis de Tocqueville with Stephen Graubard.\n\nIn January 1997 Gregorian was chosen as the president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, at the time the 16th largest foundation in the US, known for its advocacy of education and peace. He assumuted the position in June 1997 and became the 12th president and the first outsider—not from within the foundation—to head it. At Carnegie Corporation, Gregorian has switched from his usual fundraiser role to one of a fund granter. He commented on it: \"People think that giving away money is an easy job. Actually, it's harder than raising money, as you well know, because you have so many excellent projects that compete for funding. The issue is, I tell our staff: Are we going to be an incubator or an oxygen tank?\" He has advocated \"initiatives in teacher education, international peace, and cooperative efforts with other foundations.\" Commenting on his work at Carnegie Corporation, he said that his main aim is \"teaching ideas and values. But most importantly, also, preparation of new citizens. One of our great programs, which I’m very proud of at Carnegie is strengthening US democracy.\"\n\nGregorian has been involved in projects in the Armenian American community and Armenia. Barlow Der Mugrdechian described him as a \"highly visible model for Armenians.\" He is a \"much-sought-after\" keynote speaker at Armenian events, for which he does not take money: \"I’ve never accepted one penny from any Armenian source for the past 30 years.\"\n\nGregorian has been outspoken about the importance of education in Armenia. He stated in a 2009 interview: \"The first thing that Armenia has to invest in, like the Scandinavian countries, is education. Even in the Armenian army, they should teach computer science, mathematics, other sciences.\" He also called on the Armenian church to invest in education. He is on the Board of Governors of UWC Dilijan, the first international boarding school in Armenia founded in 2014. He has donated 1,500 books to the school and a learning centre is named after him. Gregorian donated hundreds of books to the American University of Armenia in 2010–14.\n\nIn 2016 Gregorian co-founded the Aurora Prize for Awakening Humanity with Ruben Vardanyan and Noubar Afeyan. It honors individuals for humanitarian work on behalf of the survivors of the Armenian Genocide. Armenia's Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan called it the \"Armenian Nobel Peace Prize.\"\n\nGregorian has been honored by the Armenian government, the Armenian Church and diaspora organizations. In 1999 he received the St. Gregory the Illuminator Medal, the Armenian Church's highest secular award, from Catholicos Karekin I. The National Academy of Sciences of Armenia named him an Honorary Doctor in 2001 and elected him as a Foreign Member in 2008. President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan awarded him the Mkhitar Gosh Medal in 2013 and the Order of Honor in 2017. He has met President of Armenia Armen Sarkissian on several occasions.\n\nThe National Association for Armenian Studies and Research (NAASR) headquarters in Belmont, Massachusetts was officially renamed to NAASR Vartan Gregorian Building in January 2019.\n\nGregorian has been described as a public intellectual, who often comments on educational and political matters. He has been a life-long advocate for education. \"He has become increasingly worried about America's deemphasizing studies in the humanities, which has been replaced by the desire to learn marketable skills, and he is concerned by the failure of high schools to prepare students for college so that they often spend the first two years at universities trying to catch up to where they should be.\"\n\nGregorian has a reputation of a \"visionary educator.\" In 1988 Bill Moyers described him as \"an evangelist for education.\" He has advised Walter Annenberg and the Annenberg Foundation on school reform. Gregorian believes that the sole function of education is to provide an \"introduction to learning.\" Gregorian believes that \"we can produce an educated, cultured person\" in four years that would include \"all the possible elements of professionalism, and know-how, and a career, and also a vocation.\" Commenting on the rise of college tuition, Gregorian believes that a special tax is needed: \"Five percent of the tax Californians pay should go to universities.\"\n\nGregorian has called teachers, journalists and librarians the most important jobs for the United States. According to him, without \"educated journalists and free press [...] you're going to have an Orwellian society which we always dreaded.\" Gregorian opined in 1988 that because there is an explosion of information, which is not equal the explosion of knowledge, there are \"great possibilities of manipulating our society by inundating us with undigested information.\" He elaborated: \"So instead of \"1984\", Orwell saying deny information, now one other way of paralyzing people is by inundating with trivia, as well as a major way of paralyzing our choices, by giving so much that we cannot possible digest it.\"\n\nGregorian is \"known for his commitment to human rights and interest in foreign affairs, especially conflict resolution and intellectual freedom.\" Nancy Levit called Gregorian \"politically liberal\" in her 1998 book. In his 1989 speech as president of Brown University, Gregorian called for a \"value-oriented, moral sense of politics\" as Patrick Garry describes it. Gregorian stated that a democratic society needs freedom and choice, but also a moral center and not a moral enclosure. Garry wrote that Gregorian strove to \"inject moral passion into an increasingly listless liberalism. He advocates a moral sense, but not as defined by conservative beliefs.\" Instead, the \"moral center should come from a public moral discourse and from the choices of individuals regarding moral values and social ideas.\" \"We need Linda Greenhouses, we need individuals who would be challenging the system. We need a Bill Buckley … new Bill Buckleys. We need new I. F. Stones from the Left and the Right who could challenge, who could create a kind of dialogue, rather than monologue,\" he said in 2009.\n\nHe has said that it is more important to integrate immigrants into the American society than assimilate them. \"America is about citizenship, about rights, about privileges, about responsibilities, knowledge of America’s past, engagement in its future and so a part of being both individualist, as well as part of the organic community, which is the United States,\" he said.\n\nGregorian has advocated for better understanding of Islam. Commenting on his 2003 on the religion, Gregorian stated: \"We have to see what we have in common, as well as what divides us.\"\n\nIn a 2003 interview, Gregorian stated that he made \"nondiscrimination on the basis of sexual orientation an official policy at both the University of Pennsylvania and at Brown.\"\n\nIn April 2009 Gregorian joined Václav Havel, Prince Hassan bin Talal, Desmond Tutu, and Yōhei Sasakawa on calling China to rescind the decision to execute Tibetan activists involved in the 2008 Tibetan unrest and \"provide them with an opportunity to be re-tried in a judicial process that is more in keeping with the international standards that China says that it adheres to.\"\n\nIn May 2009 Gregorian proposed U.S. President Barack Obama to send a message to the Iranian authorities: Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad that \"mixes Obama's characteristic emphasis on respect and cultural sensitivity with any apology for Mossadegh's overthrow, thanks for Iranian condemnation of 9/11, and a conciliatory tone in asking for the abandonment of nuclear enrichment.\"\n\nIn June 2009 President Obama appointed Gregorian as a White House Fellow.\n\nIn 2009 Richard Heffner suggested that Gregorian would be great as a successor to Hillary Clinton as a Senator from New York.\n\nGregorian speaks Armenian, Persian, English, Turkish, Arabic, and French. He did not speak English when he arrived to the US in 1956. He speaks English with a \"soft Middle Eastern accent.\" \"New York Times\" journalist Sydney Schanberg reported that Gregorian faced housing discrimination because of his Armenian origins when he moved to New York City in 1981.\n\nGregorian married Clare (née Russell) on March 25, 1960. They met at Stanford. She died on April 28, 2018 at the age of 80. She was a \"community and volunteer leader in several states and cities.\" She was an advocate of women’s rights, literacy and the arts and was described as a \"driving force behind the establishment\" of Rhode Island Public Radio. Janet L. Robinson stated that her \"unwavering support of organizations such as Rhode Island Public Radio, Providence Public Library and Planned Parenthood proved to be a critical factor in the success of these organizations.\" They had three sons: Vahe, Raffi, Dareh.\n\nGregorian had a surgery for kidney removal in October 1999.\n\nGregorian's interests include chess and Armenian music.\n\nGregorian is one of America's \"most respected and frequently honored educators and intellectuals.\" Barlow Der Mugrdechian described him as \"one of the most noted educators and leaders in higher education\" in the US. Hendrik Hertzberg wrote in \"The New Yorker\" in 2008: \"The impossibly distinguished Vartan Gregorian is a one-man academy of arts, letters, and the humanities.\" Peter Gay wrote in the \"New York Times\" in 2003: \"If the word had not been so badly debased in our time, I would call him a civilian hero.\" French Ambassador to the US Gérard Araud described Gregorian as a \"visionary and a living example of the modern man of letters, for whom education and knowledge is the key to opportunity and peace.\"\n\nGregorian has a reputation for his fundraising skills. \"Financial Times\" wrote in 2007 that he has been \"hailed as a fund-raising genius.\"\n\nAn elementary school in Fox Point, Providence, Rhode Island is named after Gregorian. In 2009 he said that he takes great pride in that fact. \"It has become a great school. I’ve helped them personally,\" he added.\n\n\"Financial Times\" wrote in 2007 that Gregorian had received \"39 awards, six international decorations, 14 civic honours and 16 prestigious medals.\"\n\n\nAs of 2001, Gregorian had received around 50 honorary degrees 60 by 2007, and \"nearly seventy\" by 2015.\n\n\n\n\nGregorian's first book, \"The Emergence of Modern Afghanistan: Politics of Reform and Modernization, 1880–1946\", was published by Stanford University Press in 1969, \"long before most Americans had any interest in or knowledge of that faraway country.\" It covered the history of Afghanistan from the 19th century until the end of World War II. It was based on his PhD thesis and research of eight years.\n\nThe book was widely praised by reviewers. Louis Dupree described it as \"the best of its kind on Afghanistan [which] will be a basic source for years to come\" and added, \"In the past, all books written about Afghanistan had to be measured alongside Elphinstone's 1815 classic. We now have another yardstick: Gregorian, 1969.\" M. E. Yapp called it a \"comprehensive and informative study\" and the best general presentation for the period covered. Leon B. Poullada noted that \"Until Gregorian came, Afghanistan has in some ways been a country in search of a scholar.\" Ludwig W. Adamec opined that Gregorian has written a \"valuable book; but much remains to be done by him and others before the definitive story of Afghanistan's modernization can be told.\" Firuz Kazemzadeh noted that Gregorian \"filled an enormous gap in our knowledge of the Middle East and has done it with exemplary diligence, intelligence, and verve. His book is far superior to any work on modern Afghanistan known to this reviewer.\" M. Jamil Hanifi wrote that it is a \"major scholarly work, which should be considered as a most imperative reference work by students of Afghanistan in particular, and those interested in the history of Asia in general.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985649", "title": "Jack Perkins (reporter)", "text": "Jack Perkins (reporter)\n\nJack Morton Perkins (December 28, 1933 – August 19, 2019) was an American reporter, commentator, war correspondent, and anchorman. He was dubbed \"America's most literate correspondent\" by the Associated Press.\n\nPerkins was born on December 28, 1933, in Cleveland, Ohio. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Case Western Reserve University in 1956. While at Case Western Reserve, Perkins joined the Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta.\n\nPerkins appeared on \"NBC Nightly News\" and \"The Today Show\", and on A&E as host of \"Biography\". Until 2012, he hosted \"A Gulf Coast Journal\", a weekly magazine show which aired on Tampa, Florida PBS member station WEDU-TV. He also hosted and narrated special programs on Chattanooga, Tennessee PBS member station WTCI-TV. From 1982 to 1986, Perkins was also a news anchor and commentator for NBC owned-and-operated station KNBC, in Los Angeles, California.\n\nPerkins devoted a great deal of his time to creating original photography and poetry which he brought together in books, titles including \"Island Prayers: Photographs and Poems of Praise\" (2006) and \"Nature of God: Exploring Nature to meet the Creator\".\n\nHis 2013 book \"Finding Moosewood, Finding God\" tells of the period in his life between 1984 and 1999 that he and his wife, Mary Jo, lived on Bar Island off Acadia National Park in Maine to live a simple life, and there found God.\n\nPerkins and his \"Biography\" introductions were parodied several times on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000,\" with Perkins portrayed by Michael J. Nelson as a somewhat scatter-brained man prone to long, meandering, name-dropping rambles about nothing in particular, and, on syndicated versions of \"MST3K\", dubbed \"The Mystery Science Theater Hour\", the character introduced the films. Perkins declared himself a fan of the show and his parody on it, even participating in an online drive to save the program during its first cancellation. Perkins was also spoofed on \"Saturday Night Live\", first by Harry Shearer reporting on the Walter Keane art exhibit in 1980; and then by Darrell Hammond, who played Perkins as a sarcastic alcoholic while hosting \"Biography\".\n\nPerkins married Mary Jo Perkins in 1960. Together they had three children: Julie, Mark and Eric. Eric followed his father into journalism, serving as sports director at KARE-TV, the NBC affiliate station in the twin cities in Minnesota.\n\nPerkins died August 19, 2019, in Nokomis, Florida, at age 85.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985650", "title": "United Ethiopian Democratic Forces", "text": "United Ethiopian Democratic Forces\n\nThe United Ethiopian Democratic Forces () was a coalition of several political parties in Ethiopia which combined to compete for seats in the Ethiopian general elections held on May 15, 2005.\n\nThe main constituent parties were the Oromo National Congress, Ethiopian Social Democratic Federal Party, Southern Ethiopia People's Democratic Coalition, All-Amhara People's Organization and the Ethiopian Democratic Unity Party. Other parties that joined to create the UEDF include: Afar Revolutionary Democratic Unity Front), All-Ethiopia Socialist Movement (MEISON), Ethiopian Democratic Union - Tehadiso, Ethiopian National United Front, Ethiopian People Federal Democratic Unity Party (HIBREHIZB), Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party, Gambela People's United Democratic Front, Oromo People's Liberation Organization (OPLO - IBSO), and Tigrean Alliance for Democracy.\n\nIn July 2008, the UEDF joined the Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement, the Somali Democratic Alliance Forces, and the Union of Tigrians for Democracy and Sovereignty (also known as Arena) to found the Ethiopian Democratic Unity Front or simply Medrek, a new coalition of opposition parties and activists.\n\nIn the 2005 parliamentary elections held on 15 May 2005, the UEDF gained 52 seats in the Council of People's Representatives (CFR), consisting of 40 from the Oromia Region and 12 from the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region (SNNPR).\n\nIn the August 2005 Regional assembly elections, the party won 105 out of 537 seats in the assembly of the Oromia Region, 1 of the 36 seats in the Harari Region, and 37 of the 348 seats in the assembly of the SNNPR.\n\nIn October the UEDF briefly supported the other major opposition party, the Coalition for Unity and Democracy, in a refusal to participate in the CPR until several demands were met. However, at the last moment, party chairman Dr. Merera Gudina and vice-chair Beyene Petros both announced the UEDF would participate, after which a vote of the party's central committee on 24 October 2005 expelled both of them. The current acting party leaders are vice chairman Girma Shumie and Secretary-General Dereje Kebede, and the party Whip is Geberu Mariam Uturu, who represents a district in the Mirab (West) Shewa Zone of Oromia.\n\nAccusing the ruling Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front of using intimidation to force 14,000 of its candidates for local seats in the 15 May 2008 by-elections, three days before that election Beyenne Petros announced that the UEDF would boycott the \nelection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985657", "title": "Aurigny", "text": "Aurigny\n\nAurigny Air Services Limited (pronounced ), commonly known as Aurigny, is the flag carrier airline of the Bailiwick of Guernsey with its head office next to Guernsey Airport in the Channel Islands, and wholly owned by the States of Guernsey since nationalisation in 2003. It operates passenger and freight services between the Channel Islands and the United Kingdom (as well as seasonal services to Norwich and Grenoble). Its main base is Guernsey Airport, with other aircraft and crew based at Alderney Airport. Aurigny is one of the longest serving regional airlines in the world, and is the second oldest established airline in Britain after Loganair. The origin of its name lies in the cognate across Norman languages for Alderney.\n\nAurigny Air Services was founded by Sir Derrick Bailey and started operations on 1 March 1968 after British United Airways withdrew from the Alderney to Guernsey route. It initially operated Britten-Norman Islander aircraft, developing a highly efficient network linking the Channel Islands with each other and with France and the United Kingdom. During the first year of operations the airline carried 45,000 passengers between Guernsey, Jersey and Alderney.\n\nAurigny became the first commercial operator of the Britten-Norman Trislander in July 1971; the airline remained the world's largest operator of the type until its retirement. Use of this larger aircraft enabled the route structure to be developed to include the south coast of England and northern France., In 1977 Aurigny banned smoking on all services, the first ever airline to do so. In 1993, Aurigny won a contract to carry mail between the Channel Islands and the UK and in 1999 it began daily services between Guernsey–London Stansted Airport and Amsterdam Airport operated by Saab 340 aircraft. The latter route was later dropped due to poor demand, but marked its transition from a local carrier to a regional airline.\n\nOwnership of the airline passed from Aurigny Aviation Holdings to Close Brothers Private Equity on 23 May 2000, but was wholly acquired by States of Guernsey on 15 May 2003, after British Airways announced that it was to cease flying on the London Gatwick–Guernsey route (just two months before the Island Games). It employs 280 staff in the Channel Islands, France and the United Kingdom. Aurigny also operates charter services, and is a handling agent for various other airlines which fly into Guernsey, including Blue Islands.\n\nIn June 2006, a survey by market researchers islandopinion.com showed that Aurigny was the most popular airline which served Guernsey. On 21 June 2007, Aurigny got permission from its sole shareholder, the States of Guernsey, to raise a private loan to purchase two new ATR 72-500 aircraft which entered service in March 2009. Aurigny celebrated 40 years in operation in 2008. It was voted 4th-best short-haul airline in a poll published in the consumer magazine \"Which?\". In a survey of 30,000 members the magazine examined 71 airlines and asked readers to rate each carrier for standards of check-in, cabin staff, cleanliness, food and entertainment.\n\nIn March 2009, the airline announced that it was to operate a Jersey – London Stansted route, whilst restarting the Guernsey and East Midlands link. Daily flights commenced from 1 May 2009. The frequency of flights from Guernsey – London Gatwick was increased from four to five daily return flights that day. In August 2009, Aurigny announced that it would be operating winter flights to Grenoble using its ATR 72-500 aircraft. The flights ran from 26 December 2009 to midway through February 2010. This was repeated for the 2010/2011 winter season, but flights were continued until March. The extension did not prove viable and the previous length of operation has been restored since the 2011/2012 season. Thanks to the change, it noted that demand was stronger due to a decreased period of availability.\n\nIt was revealed in July 2010 that Blue Islands was planning to buy Aurigny, and was undergoing a due diligence process with the Treasury and Resources department of the States of Guernsey. This sparked major debate throughout the islands, and a Facebook page in opposition to the proposed buy-out gained 530 members. On 14 September, Treasury and Resources announced that the sale would not go ahead.\n\nBlue Islands' withdrawal from Alderney on 9 May 2011 left Aurigny with a monopoly on that island for the first time in over a decade. However, it was criticised later that year for cutting the number of flights to Southampton, not lowering prices and reducing services to twice daily over that winter; Malcolm Hart later reaffirmed its commitment to the route and admitted that encouraging passengers to fly via Guernsey had been 'the biggest mistake in Aurigny's recent history'. At the end of 2011, Aurigny rolled out the first GPS approach system in Europe (based on the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service, for use by its Trislanders at Alderney and Southampton airports, in co-operation with EUROCONTROL, allowing flights in lower visibility and in poorer weather.\n\nIn October 2013, Mark Darby joined the company as CEO after six months as a non-executive director. He would initiate an eight-week trial for the Dornier 228 as a replacement for the Trislander fleet, on lease from Aero VIP (Portugal), and later the purchase of four such aircraft (two older and two NG variants). Three aircraft arrived during the course of 2014 and 2015, with another due from manufacturer RUAG in 2017.\n\nAfter Flybe announced its withdrawal from the London Gatwick – Guernsey route by March 2014, Aurigny ordered an Embraer 195 to serve its Gatwick route in order to provide sufficient capacity as the sole operator. The aircraft was delivered on 24 June 2014, and a similar aircraft was wet leased from Flybe between March and June to provide capacity in the interim. Given substantial government investment in fleet acquisition, and its monopoly position on the Gatwick route, an agreement between the airline and the States of Guernsey struck in April 2014 saw it commit to offer 65% of fares for £65.00 or less. Additionally, in January 2014 Aurigny applied to the States of Guernsey to operate a Guernsey – London City service, with an aim of starting the route from May. Due to delays in aircraft procurement, the route commenced on 8 September 2014, initially operated by VLM Airlines.\n\nAfter ten years of competition with Blue Islands on the Jersey – Guernsey inter-island route, in March 2014 Aurigny signed a codeshare agreement with that airline pertaining to Jersey – Guernsey inter-island services. The deal, which marked the secession of Aurigny flights from Jersey for the first time since 1969, saw Blue Islands take over all flying on the route and Aurigny oversee ground-handling of Blue Islands flights in Guernsey. Each airline sold 50% of available seats, and the contract was initially signed for two years. In January 2016, Aurigny and Blue Islands announced the contract for the codeshare would not be renewed, after Blue Islands became a franchise partner with Flybe and restrictions on the latter's inter-island operation were lifted by the States of Guernsey the previous year.\n\nIn April 2015, Aurigny acquired an ATR 42-500 on dry lease from Nordic Aviation Capital for use on London City – Guernsey services, and as a back-up aircraft. In December of that year, Aurigny announced a new year-round route from Guernsey to Leeds Bradford (commencing 27 May 2016), and a summer seasonal service to Norwich (commencing 14 May 2016), using its ATR 42 and ATR 72 aircraft. In February 2016, Aurigny announced that it would operate a summer seasonal service from Guernsey to Barcelona, to be operated by its Embraer 195 over four weekends from 23 July to 13 August 2016. Additionally, it applied to operate a summer seasonal service between Guernsey and London Luton from March 2017.\n\nIn November 2015, the States of Guernsey agreed to recapitalise Aurigny's holding company, Cabernet Ltd, by paying off £25m of existing and expected debt. The airline signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the States of Guernsey and the States of Alderney, putting in place a system of communication between the three parties as well as a basic service level agreement, in February 2016.\n\nCabernet Ltd is the 100% holding company for the Aurigny Group, which consists of Aurigny Air Services and Anglo Normandy Aero Engineering. The holding company is itself 100% owned by \"The States of Guernsey acting by and through the States Trading Supervisory Board\".\n\nThe airline has been loss-making for a number of years; however its services have been viewed as essential to Guernsey's economy, etc. - a May 2017 strategic review said \"that Aurigny’s objectives should focus on supporting economic enablement and providing a backbone of air services to support the Bailiwick [of Guernsey]’s economy and its growth, providing access to affordable air travel to the UK.\"\n\nTrading figures have been released for Cabernet Ltd (that is, the Aurigny Group), with promises of increasing transparency. The key trends over recent years, from annual accounts and press statements, are shown below (as at year ending 31 December):\n\nAs of April 2020, Aurigny serves the following destinations:\n\nThe airline also previously served the following destinations:\n\nAs of January 2020, the Aurigny Air Services fleet consists of:\n\nThe airline formerly operated the de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter (retired by mid-1980s), the Short 360 (retired 2006) and the Saab 340 (retired early 2000s), as well as leasing a British Aerospace 146 (for summer 2003 charters) and a Boeing 737-300 from Titan Airways to stand in for unserviceable aircraft. One Dornier Do 228 arrived for a two-week trial in November 2013.\n\nAurigny announced in April 2014 that it would retire its five Trislanders and replace them with three second-hand Dornier Do 228s, noting that \"the cost of keeping [the Trislanders] in the air is now prohibitively expensive\". The programme to replace the Trislanders was expected to cost £3 million, with the airline asking the States of Guernsey for a loan in order to fund its Dornier acquisition.\n\nAurigny's flagship Trislander aircraft nicknamed \"Joey\", after its registration \"G-JOEY\", gained great affection over time and a campaign was established to have \"Joey\" put on display in Guernsey rather than being sold. This aircraft has made its last flight on 28 June 2015 and in November of that year it was announced that it would be preserved on the island. In March 2016 Oatlands Village, a local tourist attraction, was revealed to be \"Joey\"'s possible new home, subject to permission for construction of a suitable building to house the Trislander.\n\nIn February 2020, the President of the States of Alderney William Tate told a meeting of the UK Parliament's All-Parliamentary Channel Islands Group, \"We have an airline which is state-owned and operated by Aurigny. It was started in Alderney 51 years ago and, without going into all the whys and wherefores, that service is unlikely to be provided in the future in the same way that it has been historically. So we’re going to be faced with a reduction in our capacity which will seriously damage our economic prospects. Half of the seats on the Southampton to Alderney service are filled by tourists. That service could well end. And anyone wishing to visit Alderney will have to visit via Guernsey. That’s a massive disincentive economically.\"\n\nOn 9 June 2017, Aurigny withdrew the island's medevac service outside of normal hours, meaning Alderney residents could only be transferred to hospital during working hours. Outside of normal hours, medical transfers became the responsibility of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution. The airline blamed a lack of staff, and The States of Guernsey said it was trying to work with Aurigny to address the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985663", "title": "Alvin Hellerstein", "text": "Alvin Hellerstein\n\nAlvin Kenneth Hellerstein (born December 28, 1933) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and has presided over several high-profile cases.\n\nHellerstein was born in New York City, New York, to Rose and Max Hellerstein, and is an Orthodox Jew. He attended the Bronx High School of Science, graduating in 1950. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Columbia College in 1954. He received a Juris Doctor from Columbia Law School in 1956, and was editor of the \"Columbia Law Review\". He was a law clerk for Judge Edmund Palmieri of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York from 1956 to 1957. \n\nHe was in the United States Army, JAG Corps, as a first lieutenant from 1957 to 1960. Hellerstein was in the private practice of law, making partner in 1969 and ultimately as co-head of the litigation department of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP, in New York City from 1960 to 1998. He has been President and Chairman of the Board of Jewish Education.\n\nHellerstein is a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. He was nominated by President Bill Clinton on May 15, 1998, to a seat vacated by Louis L. Stanton. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on October 21, 1998, and received his commission on October 22, 1998. He took senior status on January 30, 2011.\n\nIn 2003, Hellerstein agreed to hear a consolidated master case against three airlines, ICTS International NV, and Pinkerton's airport security firms, the World Trade Center owners, and Boeing Co., the aircraft manufacturer. The case was brought by people injured in the 9-11 attacks, representatives of those who died, and entities that suffered property damage. In September 2004, just before the three-year statute of limitations expired, the insurers for the World Trade Center filed suit against American Airlines, United Airlines, and Pinkerton's airport security firm, alleging their negligence allowed the planes to be hijacked. \n\nOn January 12, 2006, Hellerstein dismissed the last remaining property-damage claim against New York City, while leaving pending several other suits against other parties, among them the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. According to Reuters, \"[s]ix insurers sought repayment from the city for expenses arising from the collapse of a 47-story office building near the Twin Towers\"; Hellerstein ruled New York had sovereign immunity.\n\nThe World Trade Center first responders (\"e.g.\", police and fire fighters) and the city conflicted with each other over the issue of payments for health costs of survivors among the first responders. On October 17, 2006, Hellerstein rejected New York City's motion to dismiss lawsuits that requested health payments to the first responders.\nHellerstein, on July 7, 2008, ruled that \"the city is not required to re-sift through debris from ground zero in search of bits of human remains and remove it to a space where a cemetery might be built (thereby leaving the material from ground zero at Fresh Kills landfills). Plaintiffs have no property right in an undifferentiated, unidentifiable mass of dirt that may or may not contain the remains of plaintiffs' loved ones. Not every wrong can be addressed through the judicial process.\" Hellerstein urged the city to build a memorial and nature reserve at the site. Victims' families' counsel Norman Siegel criticized the ruling: \"We are not prepared to leave hundreds of human remains of 9/11 victims on top of a garbage dump as their final resting place.\"\n\nOn December 20, 2004, Hellerstein said he would deny a government request to delay a review of whether certain Central Intelligence Agency internal files related to Iraq should be made public. On June 3, 2005, Hellerstein ordered the government to release four videos from Abu Ghraib prison and dozens of photographs from the same collection as photos that touched off the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal a year prior. Hellerstein said the 144 pictures and videos could be turned over in redacted form to protect the victims' identities. The judge ordered the release after he viewed eight of the photos. They were given to the Army by a military policeman assigned to Abu Ghraib. On September 29, 2005, in \"ACLU v. Department of Defense\" (caution: large PDF file), Hellerstein ordered the release of 87 more photographs and videotapes. In January and September 2017, Hellerstein ordered the release of additional government documents, including those referred to in the Senate torture report.\nHellerstein presided over the Barack Obama \"Hope\" poster case. Shepard Fairey, the artist behind the poster, sued the Associated Press. He sought to establish that his Hope poster did not infringe the AP's copyright of a shot taken by AP freelancer Mannie Garcia. The AP countersued, accusing Fairey of infringement. When Fairey finally admitted to his attempted cover up, Hellerstein allowed Fairey's original counsel to withdraw. In January 2011, the AP and Shepard Fairey settled out of court.\n\nHellerstein presided over the Harvey Weinstein case. In April 2019, Hellerstein eliminated 17 claims from the case, but allowed the case to proceed to trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985665", "title": "Ray Anderson", "text": "Ray Anderson\n\nRay Anderson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1985673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985673", "title": "Shye Ben Tzur", "text": "Shye Ben Tzur\n\nShye Ben Tzur (שי בן צור) is an Israeli musician who lives in India and Israel. He composes Qawwalis, instrumental and devotional music in Hebrew, Urdu and Hindi. Ben Tzur has been living and creating music in India and Israel for over a decade. He first visited India while searching for a classical Indian music teacher. After years of studying Indian classical music in the traditional manner, Ben Tzur began to compose traditional Sufi Qawwali music in his own language, Hebrew. Qawwali is a form of ecstatic devotional music.\n\nAfter attending a concert in Jerusalem by the Indian classical musicians Hariprasad Chaurasia and Zakir Hussain, Ben Tzur became interested in Indian music, which brought him into contact with Qawwali. He went to Ajmer in India (the site of the mausoleum of the Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Hasan Chishti). In 2004, he performed at Jahan-e-Khusrau, an international Sufi music festival held in New Delhi in the spring annually since 2001. Shye Ben Tzur performs around the world with his ensemble.\n\nHe worked with Rajasthan Folk musicians communities across India. Shye collaborated with various folk musicians from the Rajasthan desert. Shye collaborated with the famous Indian singer Shubha Mudgal, the Spanish guitar maestro Fernando Pérez, Yossi Fine, Mishko M’ba, Eli Magen, Zohar Fresco and many others.\n\nIn 2015, Ben Tzur recorded an album with British guitarist and composer Jonny Greenwood and a group of Indian musicians at the 15th-century Mehrangarh Fort in the Indian state of Rajasthan. The sessions and Greenwood's 2015 India tour were filmed by Paul Thomas Anderson for his documentary \"Junun\". The film premiered at the 2015 New York Film Festival.\n\nShye’s first collection of poems, \"Souls Expressions\", was published in 1999 in Israel. A new poetry collection, \"Love Poems of Worship\", was announced in Israel.\n\nHis 2003 debut album \"Heeyam\" (\"Supreme Love\" in Arabic), was recorded in India, Israel and USA.\nShye worked with traditional Sufi Qawwali singers, who sang in Hebrew.\n\nIn 2010 Shye’s second album \"Shoshan\" ('Rose' in Hebrew) was released. It rated Top 10 in \"Songlines\" world music magazine and Top 5 album of the year of non-Bollywood music by \"Times of India Chennai\".\n\nShoshan is a cross-cultural mix of passions, genres and languages.\n\n\"Junun\" is a 2015 album by Ben Tzur, the English composer and Radiohead guitarist Jonny Greenwood, and the Indian ensemble the Rajasthan Express. It was produced by Radiohead producer Nigel Godrich.\n"}
{"id": "1985686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985686", "title": "List of prime ministers of Canada by military service", "text": "List of prime ministers of Canada by military service\n\nThere are seven prime ministers of Canada with military service. Four prime ministers served with the sedentary militias or active militias of the Province of Canada, or the succeeding Canadian Confederation during the 19th century. Two served with the Canadian Expeditionary Force (CEF) during First World War. The last prime minister to serve in the military was Pierre Trudeau, who joined the army's Canadian Officers' Training Corps during the Second World War.\n\nThe prime ministers with military experience have only served with the land forces of Canada, the active militias/Canadian Army, or the CEF. No prime minister has served in the other branches of the Canadian Forces, the Royal Canadian Air Force and Royal Canadian Navy. Lester B. Pearson is the only prime minister to serve in the British Army, having transferred to the Royal Flying Corps from the CEF.\n\nIn addition to military service, two prime ministers served as a defence minister prior to their premiership. Although John A. MacDonald was the first prime minister of confederated Canada, he previously served as the Minister of Militia and Defence for the Province of Canada. Kim Campbell is the only prime minister to serve as prime minister, and simultaneously hold the defence portfolio (as the Minister of National Defence). \n\nThe prime minister of Canada is not Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Forces, rather the role is held by the Queen of Canada and is held on behalf of the monarch by the Governor General of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985695", "title": "Seleucia", "text": "Seleucia\n\nSeleucia (), also known as or , was a major Mesopotamian city of the Seleucid, Parthian, and Sasanian empires. It stood on the west bank of the Tigris River opposite Ctesiphon, within the present-day Baghdad Governorate in Iraq.\n\nSeleucia (, \"Seleúkeia\") is named for Seleucus I Nicator, who enlarged an earlier settlement and made it the capital of his empire around 305 BC. It was the largest and most important of the many cities to bear its name but is sometimes distinguished as or () from the name of its river.\n\nTexts from the Church of the East's synods referred to the city as ' () or some times ' () when referring to the metropolis of Seleucia-Ctesiphon.\n\nThe Sassanids named the eastern city as Veh-Ardashir (), Arabs called it Bahurasīr.\n\nSeleucia, as such, was founded in about 305 BC, when an earlier city was enlarged and dedicated as the first capital of the Seleucid Empire by Seleucus I Nicator. Seleucus was one of the Diadochi successors of Alexander the Great who, after Alexander's death, divided his empire among themselves. Although Seleucus soon moved his main capital to Antioch, in northern Syria, Seleucia became an important center of trade, Hellenistic culture, and regional government under the Seleucids. The city was populated by Greeks, Syrians and Jews.. To make his capital into a metropolis, Seleukos I forced almost all inhabitants of Babylon, except the local temple priests/supporting workers, to leave and resettle in Seleucia. \" A tablet dated 275 BC states that the inhabitants of Babylon were transported to Seleucia, where a palace and a temple (Esagila) were built.\" Standing at the confluence of the Tigris River with a major canal from the Euphrates, Seleucia was placed to receive traffic from both great waterways. During the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC, it was one of the great Hellenistic cities, comparable to Alexandria in Egypt, and greater than Syrian Antioch. Excavations indicate that the walls of the city enclosed an area of at least . Based on this size, the population has been estimated to number over 100,000 initially and probably more later. Its surrounding region might have supported half a million people.\n\nPolybius (5,52ff) uses the Macedonian \"peliganes\" for the council of Seleucia, which implies a Macedonian colony, consistent with its rise to prominence under Seleucus I; Pausanias (1,16) records that Seleucus also settled Babylonians there. Archaeological finds support the presence of a large population not of Greek culture. In 141 BC, the Parthians under Mithridates I conquered the city, and Seleucia became the western capital of the Parthian Empire. Tacitus described its walls, and mentioned that it was, even under Parthian rule, a fully Hellenistic city. Ancient texts claim that the city had 600,000 inhabitants, and was ruled by a senate of 300 people. It was clearly one of the largest cities in the Western world; only Rome, Alexandria and possibly Antioch were more populous.\n\nIn 55 BC, a battle fought near Seleucia was crucial in establishing dynastic succession of the Arsacid kings. In this battle between the reigning Mithridates III (supported by a Roman army of Aulus Gabinius, governor of Syria) and the previously deposed Orodes II, the reigning monarch was defeated, allowing Orodes to re-establish himself as king. In 41 BC, Seleucia was the scene of a massacre of around 5,000 Babylonian Jewish refugees (Josephus, \"Ant.\" xviii. 9, § 9).\n\nIn 117 AD, Seleucia was burned down by the Roman emperor Trajan during his conquest of Mesopotamia, but the following year it was ceded back to the Parthians by Trajan's successor, Hadrian, then rebuilt in the Parthian style. It was completely destroyed by the Roman general Avidius Cassius in 165.\n\nOver sixty years later a new city, \"Veh-Ardashir\", was built across the river by Persian emperor Ardashir I. This new city was long believed to be located at Seleucia but was shown by Italian excavations to be a fresh construction separate from Seleucia and Ctesiphon. There were active Christian churches in Mesopotamia from the 1st century onwards and in the 3rd or 4th century Seleucia became an important centre.\n\nFollowing the edict of toleration by the Persian Sassanian King Yazdegerd I, which for the time being brought an end to the persecution of Christians, which had lasted for 70 years, the remaining Christians set about reorganizing and strengthening the church.\n\nThe Council of Seleucia-Ctesiphon (The Synod of Mar Isaac) met in 410 AD under the presidency of Mar Isaac, the bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon. The most important decision of the Synod which had a very far reaching effect on the life of the church, was to declare the bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon as the primate of the Church of the East; and in recognition of this pre-eminence he was given the title ‘Catholicos’. The Synod confirmed Mar Isaac as Catholicos and Archbishop of all the Orient. The Synod also declared its adherence to the decision of the Council of Nicaea and subscribed to the Nicene Creed. The Canons of the Synod leave no doubt as to the authority of the great Metropolitan, the Catholicos of Seleucia-Ctesiphon. Without his approval, no election of bishop would be valid.\n\nTowards the end of the reign of Yazdegerd I, the Christians were again persecuted in AD 420. Dadyeshu was elected Catholicos in AD 421 and himself suffered during the persecution and was imprisoned. When he was released he resigned and left Seleucia, but the church refused to accept the resignation and there followed the Synod of Dadyeshu which met in AD 424 in Markabata of the Arabs under the presidency of Mar Dadyeshu. It proved to be one of the most significant of all Persian synods. The first synod of Isaac in AD 410 had decided that the Catholicos of Seleucia Ctesiphon be supreme among the bishops of the East. The Synod of Dadyeshu decided that the Catholicos should be the sole head of the Church of the East and that no ecclesiastical authority should be acknowledged above him. For the first time, this synod referred to the Catholicos as Patriarch and that their Catholicos was answerable to God alone. This had some effect in reassuring the Sasanian monarchy that the Persian Christians were not influenced by the Roman enemy.\n\nThe city eventually faded into obscurity and was swallowed by the desert sands, probably abandoned after the Tigris shifted its course.\n\nThe site of Seleucia was rediscovered in the 1920s by archaeologists looking for Opis.\n\nBeginning in 1927, University of Michigan professors Leroy Waterman (1927–1932) and Clark Hopkins (1936–1937) oversaw excavations for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology on behalf of the American School of Oriental Research of Baghdad with funds supplied by the Toledo Museum of Art and the Cleveland Museum of Art.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1968 and then between 1985 and 1989, an Italian mission from the University of Turin directed by Antonio Invernizzi and Giorgio Gullini excavated at the site. They found a Seleucid archive building with about 30,000 seal impressions, all in a fully Greek style.\n\nIn an outer wall of the Parthian period, a reused brick dated by stamp to 821 BC, during the Neo-Assyrian period.\n\nIt appears to have incorporated both Greek and Mesopotamian architecture for the public buildings. Finds have indicated an extensive non-Greek population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985699", "title": "Seleucia Pieria", "text": "Seleucia Pieria\n\nSeleucia in Pieria (Greek Σελεύκεια ἐν Πιερίᾳ), also known in English as Seleucia by the Sea, and later named Suedia, was a Hellenistic town, the seaport of Antioch ad Orontes (Syria Prima), the Seleucid capital, modern Antakya (Turkey). The city was built slightly to the north of the estuary of the river Orontes, between small rivers on the western slopes of the Coryphaeus, one of the southern summits of the Amanus Mountains.\n\nAccording to Pausanias and Malalas, there was a previous city here named Palaeopolis (\"Old City\"). At present, it is located at the seaside village of Çevlik\nnear the town of Samandağ in the Hatay Province of Turkey. Seleucia, Apamea, Laodicea, and Antioch formed the Syrian tetrapolis.\n\nSeleucia Pieria was founded in ca. 300 BCE by Seleucus I Nicator, one of the successors of the Macedonian conqueror Alexander the Great and the founder of the Seleucid Empire. The Macedonians called the landscape Pieria, after a district in their homeland that was also between the sea and a mountain range (the Olympus).\n\nWhen Seleucus I was murdered on his way to Macedon in 281 BC, his son, Antiochus I, buried his ashes in a building called \"Nikatoreion\", situated on Seleucia.\n\nThe city was of great importance in the struggle between the Seleucids and the Ptolemies; it was captured by Ptolemy Euergetes in 246 BCE. As the Ptolemies (Lagids) and Seleucids fought over the city, it changed hands several times until 219 BCE, when the Seleucid Antiochus III the Great recaptured it during the Fourth Syrian War (219–217 BCE); his general Ardys is recorded as having distinguished himself during the siege. Then it obtained its freedom and kept it even to the end of the Roman occupation. It had long enjoyed the right of coinage.\n\nWhen the Seleucid Empire was subdued by the Armenian conqueror Tigranes II, Seleucia Pieria resisted. Roman general Pompey the Great restored the Seleucids to power by giving the city to Antiochus I Theos of Commagene, a direct descendant of Seleucus I Nicator and a loyal ally of Rome. Under light Commagene rule, Seleucia enjoyed substantial autonomy, i.e. de facto independence.\n\nSeleucia's importance grew significantly over time, necessitating the enlargement of its harbours several times under Diocletian and Constantius. These harbours, called the \"inner\" and \"outer\" harbours, served from time to time the Roman navy.\n\nMost buildings and structures today date from the Roman period.\n\nDuring Byzantine times the city went into a steady decline. The silting up of the city's harbours hastened this process. In the fifth century CE the fight to keep them open was finally given up. It suffered severely in the devastating 526 Antioch earthquake.\n\nSeleucia was captured by the Sasanids around 540 CE. While it never recovered as a port-city again, Al-Walid ibn Abd al-Malik, Ummayad Caliph from 705 to 715, built a fortress in the city.\n\nThe city was Christianized early. As the port of Antioch of Syria, \"Seleucia on sea\"—so called to distinguish it from other cities of the same name—is most notable as the precise point of embarkation from which the Apostle Paul [in 45 CE] and Saint Barnabas sailed from this port on their first missionary journeys, as chronicled in the Bible (Acts 13:4). At the end of that same journey he must have made landfall at Seleucia before going to Antioch (see Acts 14:26). His route at the beginning of the second journey was by land and probably bypassed Seleucia (see Acts 15:40–41), though on returning, he must have passed through it again (see Acts 18:22). Once more taking a land route when setting out on his third journey, Paul may have missed Seleucia (see Acts 19:1), and at that journey's end he did not return to Antioch and so missed Seleucia again (see Acts 21:7–8). This means that Paul passed through Seleucia at least three times, and probably several more on pre-missionary visits to Antioch of Syria (see Acts 11:26; 12:25).\n\nThe oldest bishop known is Zenobius, present at the Council of Nicaea in 325 CE. Other known bishops include Eusebius, an Arian, and Bizus in the fourth century, with twelve others cited by Le Quien (\"Oriens Christianus\", II, 777–780). In the sixth century CE the \"Notitia Episcopatuum\" of Antioch, gives Seleucia Pieria as an autocephalous archbishopric, suffragan of Antioch (\"Échos d'Orient\", X 144); the diocese existed until the tenth century CE, and its boundaries are known (\"Échos d'Orient\", X, 97). For some Roman Catholic titularies see Eubel, \"Hierarchia catholica medii aevi\", I, 468.\n\nSeleucia Pieria was a diocese of the Syriac Orthodox Church in the eighth and ninth centuries CE, three of whose bishops are known. The last-known Syriac Orthodox bishop of Seleucia, Ahron (847/874 CE), is mentioned in the lists of Michael the Syrian. There were also Georgian monastic establishments around Seleucia from the 11th to the 13th centuries.\n\nThe city is still a titular see of the Roman Catholic Church, \"Seleuciensis Pierius\"; the seat is vacant following the death of the last bishop in 1980.\n\n\nThe upper city, about 13 km in circumference, is still distinguishable. The lower city, smaller than the preceding one, was more thickly populated. Ruins include a necropolis, amphitheatre, citadel, temples, some irrigation works as well as some fortifications.\n\nThe highlight of the city is a 1350–1400m-long tunnel/canal complex built during Roman times. It is believed that it was dug to divert the nearby river and prevent the harbour from silting up with time. A further reason is assumed to be to help reduce flooding caused during heavy winter rains. Construction began during the reign of Emperor Vespasian (69–79 CE) continuing mainly during his son Titus's time (79–81 CE).\n\nAccording to Flavius Josephus, a Roman-Jewish historian (37–ca.100 CE), Jewish slaves were used as workers. These were working under orders of Emperor Titus, who had captured Jerusalem in 70 CE. Other POWs were sent to Rome, where they had to build the Colosseum. According to an inscription, the tunnel/canal was not completely finished until the reign of Antoninus Pius (138–161 CE). The last workers were Roman legionaries.\n\nMost parts of the tunnel/canal are intact and it can be visited on foot. Rock tombs are found on the wall of the canal.\n\nFamous residents include Apollophanes, a physician of Antiochus III the Great (third century), and Firmus who aroused Palmyra and Egypt against Rome in 272 CE.\n"}
{"id": "1985706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985706", "title": "Kvutzat Yavne", "text": "Kvutzat Yavne\n\nKvutzat Yavne () is a religious kibbutz in the Central District of Israel. Located in the coastal plain just east of Ashdod, it falls under the jurisdiction of Hevel Yavne Regional Council. In it had a population of .\n\nThe idea of Kvutzat Yavne was conceived in Germany. The intention of the founders was to make the area near ancient Yavne (from which it takes its name) the site of a religious kibbutz and a yeshiva. These founders, members of the Religious Zionist movement, began to prepare themselves for agricultural work on German farms in 1929. Shortly thereafter, they immigrated to Mandate Palestine. They initially settled near Petah Tikva on land purchased by a Jewish-owned German company. Finally, in 1941, the 180-person group of German Zionists, began to build Kvutzat Yavne at its intended location. The kibbutz continued to grow, joined by German, American, and Sabras. It came to be known as the cradle of the Religious Kibbutz Movement, with which the kibbutz is associated.\n\nMost of Yavne's agricultural production is in field crops, fruit orchards, poultry, and dairy, all contained within approximately of land. Major industry located on the kibbutz includes olive and cucumber processing plants, the Adi watch factory, and the largest chicken hatchery in the country (dispatching 600,000 chicks per day). It is also the location of Yeshivat Kerem B'Yavneh, the first Hesder Yeshiva. The kibbutz used to run a Jewish studies program preparing candidates for conversion to Judaism, but this is no longer available. There was also an Hebrew ulpan for both Jewish students and Gerim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985713", "title": "Susie Gharib", "text": "Susie Gharib\n\nSusie Gharib, born in 1950, is an award-winning business news journalist. Currently, she is Senior Special Correspondent for \"Fortune\" magazine. Gharib is also a contributor to \"Nightly Business Report produced by CNBC,\" a program that she co-anchored for 16 years until she left the show in December 2014. She was replaced by Sue Herera.\n\nGharib joined \"Nightly Business Report\" in 1998 after a 20-year career working at some of America’s most prestigious print and broadcast organizations, including CNBC, NBC, ESPN, and WABC-TV/New York. Gharib launched her career as a business journalist at Fortune magazine, where she was a senior writer and associate editor. Her previous work includes reporter positions at \"Newsweek\", the Associated Press, and \"The Plain Dealer\". In 1983, she moved from print to the then-new medium of TV business news when she joined \"Business Times\" on ESPN.\n\nDuring part of her career she went by her married name, Susie Nazem.\n\nIn 2012, Gharib received the prestigious Elliot V. Bell Award from the New York Financial Writers’ Association for significant contribution to financial journalism.\n\nGharib is the recipient of a 2013 Gracie Allen Award for NBR’s profile of Harvard University’s first female president Drew Gilpin Faust. Gharib received an earlier Gracie Award in 2001 as the top anchorwoman of a national news program.\n\nGharib has also won the Fulbright Award in 2012 for furthering global business understanding, and the “Front Page Award” from the Newswoman’s Club of New York in both 2007 and 2002. Her 2002 Front Page Award was for an outstanding panel discussion with high-profile CEOs on how to restore investor confidence in the aftermath of the business scandals at Enron and WorldCom.\n\nShe has also been named one of the nation's 100 most influential business journalists by the editors of TJFR, an industry publication.\n\nGharib graduated magna cum laude with Phi Beta Kappa honors from Case Western Reserve University. Gharib also earned her master's degree in international affairs at Columbia University. Gharib is among the outstanding graduates of Cleveland Heights High School featured in the book \"Every Tiger Has a Tale\".\n\nShe is on the Board of Trustees of Case Western Reserve University, the Board of Advisors of Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, and a member of the Economic Club of New York.\n\nGharib, one of four daughters of a Cleveland anesthesiologist, is of Iranian descent. One of her sisters is an endocrinologist in Boston.\n\nGharib is married to Fred F. Nazem and have two adult children who are both physicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985718", "title": "NWA World Six-Man Tag Team Championship", "text": "NWA World Six-Man Tag Team Championship\n\nThe NWA World Six-Man Tag Team Championship was a professional wrestling championship sanctioned by the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and originally promoted in the NWA Mid-America territory based out of Tennessee. Originally called the \"NWA Six-Man Tag Team Championship\" NWA Mid-America promoted the title from 1974 until 1981. In 1984 another NWA territory, Jim Crockett Promotions, brought the concept back, this time as the \"NWA World Six-Man Tag Team Championship\" which it promoted until 1989. The Championship was briefly revived in 1998 by NWA 2000. As the name indicates the championship was exclusively for three man teams that competed in six-man tag team matches. Because the championship was a professional wrestling championship, it was won or lost by the decision of the bookers of a wrestling promotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985720", "title": "Norwood (film)", "text": "Norwood (film)\n\nNorwood is a 1970 American comedy film that reunites \"True Grit\" co-stars Glen Campbell and Kim Darby, also featuring Joe Namath. It was based on the novel of the same title, written by Charles Portis (who also wrote \"True Grit\"), but updated from the original 1950s setting to 1970.\n\nThe film marked the penultimate screen appearance of actor Jack Haley, the father of the director Jack Haley Jr.\n\nAs of 2015, there has yet to be a DVD or Blu-ray release, though \"Norwood\" is sometimes available to stream on Netflix in America.\n\nNorwood Pratt has just finished his enlistment in the United States Marine Corps and is on his way home from Vietnam. A musician, his one great ambition is to appear on the radio program \"Louisiana Hayride\".\n\nAlong the way, Norwood meets a variety of characters, including Grady Fling, a flim-flam man; Yvonne Phillips, a hooker; Marie, a jaded would-be starlet; and his Marine buddy Joe William Reese.\n\nHowever, the most important person that he meets is Rita Lee Chipman, the \"right kind of girl,\" who is unfortunately an unwed soon-to-be mother at a time when this was uncommon and somewhat shameful. She supports him and is there when Norwood finally reaches the KWKH studio as his dream comes true.\n\nHoward Thompson of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"the picture is a showcase for the guitar-playing Campbell. And it is an entirely shapeless affair that simply bumps him around the country. A pity, too, for he is a pleasant, natural actor — 'True Grit' proved that — and he sings a clutch of guitar ballads easily and winningly.\" \"Variety\" called it \"little more than perpetuation of the Elvis Presley format for Glen Campbell, complete with a parade of pretty faces and uninspired countryish rhythm by Presley tunesmith Mac Davis.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film 1 star out of 4 and described its humor as \"hokey, but harmless.\" Charles Champlin of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"an amiable, easygoing, often quite funny piece of entertainment.\" Richard Combs of \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote, \"At its best, Marguerite Roberts' screenplay provides some amiable regional comedy; at its worst, when tidying up the novel's loose ends (complete to Norwood's final appearance on country and western radio), it suggests how the material of \"Midnight Cowboy\" might have looked if turned into a vehicle for Elvis Presley.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985726", "title": "Bloodsucking Fiends", "text": "Bloodsucking Fiends\n\nBloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story is a novel by American writer Christopher Moore, published in 1995. It combines elements of the supernatural and of the romance novel.\n\nJody, a young, single, red-headed woman living in San Francisco, is attacked by a vampire and soon finds that she has become one herself. While attempting to adjust to her new nocturnal lifestyle, she finds the help of Tommy Flood, a wannabe writer who recently moved to the city and works as a night stocking manager (and champion \"turkey bowler\") at a local Safeway. She has him perform tasks during the day as her vampirism forces her unconscious except after sundown. As Jody and Tommy begin their life together and begin falling in love, they discover that a recent string of mysterious murders may be the work of the vampire who attacked Jody. To get to the bottom of the matter, they recruit \"the Animals\", Tommy's crew of stockers from the supermarket, as well as an eccentric street person and his faithful dogs known as \"The Emperor.\"\n\n\"Bloodsucking Fiends\" is the first volume of a trilogy, followed by \"You Suck: A Love Story\" (2007) and \"Bite Me\" (2010).\n\n"}
{"id": "1985727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985727", "title": "Russell Branyan", "text": "Russell Branyan\n\nRussell Oles Branyan (born December 19, 1975) is an American former professional baseball first baseman, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cleveland Indians (two occasions), Cincinnati Reds, Milwaukee Brewers (two occasions), Tampa Bay Devil Rays, San Diego Padres, Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, Seattle Mariners (two occasions), Arizona Diamondbacks, and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He batted left-handed and threw right-handed. While primarily a first baseman, Branyan was capable of playing third base and the outfield, as well. \n\nBranyan began his professional career in the Cleveland Indians minor league system. He made his big league debut with the Indians, on September 26, 1998, and was ranked the Indians' top prospect in 1999 by \"Baseball America\". Though he demonstrated the ability to hit home runs with Cleveland, his batting average was low. Indians' manager Charlie Manuel suggested in 2002 that Branyan could benefit from more playing time, but he was traded to the Reds for prospect Ben Broussard during the season. Excited to have a \"clean slate,\" as he put it, Branyan hit 16 home runs with the Reds in 2002 but struggled with injuries in the 2003 campaign. Allowed to become a free agent, he spent 2004 in the minor leagues for the Atlanta Braves and Cleveland before Milwaukee picked him up on July 26. In 51 games for the Brewers, Branyan hit 11 home runs. He competed with Wes Helms for the starting spot at third base in 2005 but again battled injuries much of the season. Branyan signed with the Devil Rays in 2006 and spent most of the year on their roster, but he expressed concern at the fact that he was not an everyday player with Tampa Bay. Traded to the Padres in August, he hit what was at the time the longest home run in Petco Park history, measured at 453 feet. He batted .197 for the Padres in 2007 and was released July 28. Branyan spent brief stints with the Phillies and Cardinals that season before becoming a free agent at the end of the year.\n\nIn 2008, Branyan split the season between Milwaukee and the minor leagues, hitting 12 home runs at both destinations while serving in a platoon role with Bill Hall in Milwaukee. With the Mariners in 2009, Branyan started doing eye exercises with an ophthalmologist. He attributed them to his most successful year in the major leagues thus far, when he hit a career-high 31 home runs while serving as an everyday player much of the season. Branyan signed with the Indians again in 2010. After starting the year on the disabled list, he hit 10 home runs for them before getting traded back to Seattle. With 15 home runs for the Mariners, Branyan finished the year with 25. He signed with the Diamondbacks in 2011, but only batted .197 with them and the Angels, with whom he finished the year. Branyan played in the minor leagues in 2012, did not play at all in 2013, and finished his career with time in the Mexican League and the Indians' system in 2014.\n\nBranyan was born December 19, 1975, in Warner Robins, Georgia. He graduated from Stratford Academy in 1994. His high school fostered such athletic talent like professional football player Le Kevin Smith and professional golfer Peter Persons. Branyan was selected as an All-Georgia State baseball player in both 1993 and 1994. He was drafted out of Stratford Academy in the 1994 Major League Baseball draft by the Cleveland Indians in the seventh round (185th pick overall).\n\nBranyan began his professional career with the rookie-level Burlington Indians of the Appalachian League in . He batted .211 with 10 doubles, five home runs and 13 RBIs in 55 games. The next two seasons, and , Branyan played with the Class-A Columbus RedStixx of the South Atlantic League. He was named the South Atlantic League Most Valuable Player in 1996 after he set a league record for most home runs in a single season, with 40. The previous record was held by Mike Simms who hit 39 home runs in . He was second in home runs and ninth in RBIs (with 106) in all of minor league baseball in 1996. He was named the Indians' 1996 Minor League Player of the Year (receiving the Lou Boudreau Award).\n\nIn , with both the Class-A Advanced Kinston Indians and the Double-A Akron Aeros, he led all minor league baseball in home runs with 39. In a strained tendon in his right wrist kept him on the disabled list for most of the season. In for the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons of the International League, he batted .208 and hit 30 home runs.\n\nBranyan was first called up to the Cleveland Indians in . In his major league debut on September 26, 1998, Branyan went 0-for-4. The next season, , Branyan played 11 games with Cleveland, batting .211 with one home run and six RBIs. Branyan got his first hit (also his first home run) on July 23, 1999 off of David Cone, a pitcher for the New York Yankees. In , Branyan continued his struggles, hitting .238 with 16 homers. After the 1999 season, \"Baseball America\" named Branyan as the Indians top prospect. His home-run prowess caused \"USA Today\" to compare him with Mark McGwire. On June 1, 2000, he hit two home runs in one game, the first two home run game of his career. In , an injury to Travis Fryman moved Branyan to third for a good part of the season. He again had a poor average, batting .232, with 20 home runs. In , manager Charlie Manuel wanted Branyan to succeed Fryman full-time, though he was primarily used as a utility player throughout the season. Manuel stated that Branyan should be an everyday player saying, \"He's definitely not a guy you want sitting on the bench, because of the timing in his swing.\" In spring training, Branyan was promised that he would be an everyday player. He hit .205 with just 8 homers before he was traded to Cincinnati for prospect Ben Broussard.\n\nBranyan called the trade to Cincinnati \"a clean slate\" stating he had been branded as a home run or strikeout player in Cleveland. He improved his numbers after the trade, but they still remained poor as he played left field opposed to his normal position at third base that was occupied by Aaron Boone. On August 4, 2002, Branyan hit three home runs, two off of Bobby J. Jones and one off of Mike Holtz as the Reds beat the San Diego Padres. He also hit two home runs on September 27, both off Montreal Expos pitcher Javier Vázquez. He finished the 2002 season to hit a combined .228 with 24 home runs and 151 strikeouts between the Indians and Reds. Branyan was also praised for his improved fielding during his transition to the outfield. At season's end, Branyan played winter ball in the Dominican Republic where on November 18, he injured his shoulder. An examination with the team's physician discovered serious damage, and Branyan underwent arthroscopic surgery on this shoulder on December 3.\n\nBranyan suffered through an injury-plagued season in , appearing in 74 games, including 42 starts, for the Reds. He began the season on the disabled list, recovering from arthroscopic surgery. Branyan was reinstated from the disabled list on May 29. Branyan's shoulder was said to be at less than 100 percent but the Reds reinstated him despite his preference to undergo more rehab. On June 25, Branyan was fined an undisclosed amount after an in-game incident against the Chicago Cubs. During the seventh inning of that game, pitcher Paul Wilson hit outfielder Moisés Alou with a pitch, and during the bottom of the inning Cubs pitcher Kyle Farnsworth threw inside on Wilson during his at-bat which lead to a fight between Farnsworth and Wilson. Branyan, who was in the dugout, had to be restrained by teammates after a verbal altercation with Cubs first baseman Eric Karros during the fight between the two pitchers. His home run on June 7, against Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Jeff Tam, was his first of the season. It was also 100th home run hit at the Great American Ball Park. His pinch-hit grand slam off Brooks Kieschnick on July 21 against Milwaukee was his first career pinch-hit home run and third career grand slam. He returned to the disabled list on August 13 with a right ankle sprain he obtained while sliding into the wall chasing a foul ball on hit by San Francisco Giants second baseman Ray Durham on August 1. After returning from the disabled list on August 28, he started 27 of the Reds' final 29 games of the season. Branyan finished the season with a .216 average, 12 doubles, nine home runs and 26 RBIs. His contract was not renewed at the end of the season.\n\nOn January 21, Branyan signed a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training with the Atlanta Braves. On March 25, Branyan was cut from spring training and assigned to the minor league camp. He began the 2004 season with the Richmond Braves, the Triple-A affiliate of the Braves. He was traded to the Cleveland Indians for a player to be named later on April 25 and was assigned to the Bisons.\n\nBranyan was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers on July 26, 2004 from Buffalo for future cash considerations. To make room for Branyan, the Brewers designated outfielder Chris Magruder for assignment. He made his Brewers debut in a ninth inning pinch-hit appearance that evening. About the trade, Branyan said:\nOn July 27, Branyan hit the longest home run in Miller Park history off Chicago Cubs pitcher Greg Maddux. The ball went an estimated 480-feet. On August 18, Branyan hit two home runs against the Chicago Cubs and drove in all five runs for the Brewers in a loss. Branyan went 3-for-4 in his second multi-home run game of season (ninth of his career) on September 12, against the Cincinnati Reds. Branyan hit .279 with 26 homers and 79 RBIs in 93 games at the Triple-A level in 2004, and posted a .234 batting average with 11 homers, and 27 RBIs in 51 games with the Brewers. He hit six home runs in his first 14 games with Milwaukee. He played 44 games at third base (40 starts), and two games at first base (one start). On December 21, the Brewers resigned Branyan, avoiding salary arbitration.\n\nBranyan returned to the Brewers in and went to spring training competing with Wes Helms for the starting spot at third base. He missed a month of the season, from June 2 to July 4, with a fractured middle finger on his left hand. Branyan went 5-for-17 in six rehab games with the Triple-A Nashville Sounds. After Branyan was activated from the disabled list, the Brewers optioned Prince Fielder to the minor leagues to make room for Branyan on the major league roster. Though he was off the disabled list, Branyan was still bothered by injuries throughout the rest of the season. By the end of the 2005 season, Branyan had played 59 games at third base, five at first base and three in left field. On the offensive side, Branyan batted .257 with 11 doubles, 12 home runs and 31 RBIs.\n\nBranyan expressed interest in returning to the Brewers in . He was re-signed by the Brewers on December 20, 2005 but after they acquired third baseman Corey Koskie from the Toronto Blue Jays, Branyan was designated for assignment. Branyan cleared waivers on January 18, and was released by the Brewers.\n\nBranyan signed a minor league contract with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays on January 31, . He attended spring training that year and competed for a spot on the roster as a utility player. Branyan missed more than a week of spring training due to back spasms. He failed to make the 25-man roster out of spring training, and was sent to the Devil Rays' Triple-A affiliate, the Durham Bulls. He did not play in a game for the Bulls, however, as he was called up to Tampa Bay due to an injury to Luis Ordaz on Opening Day. On May 21, Branyan hit a walk-off home run against Florida Marlins' pitcher Logan Kensing. It was Branyan's first career walk-off home run. With the Devil Rays, he spent the majority of his playing time in right field. Branyan also expressed concerns with the fact he was not an everyday starter. In 64 games for the Devil Rays, Branyan batted .201 with 12 home runs, 10 doubles, and 27 RBIs.\n\nOn August 24, 2006, Branyan was traded to the San Diego Padres for minor league pitchers Evan Meek and Dale Thayer. On the trade Branyan said:\n\nBranyan hit two home runs on August 29 against the Arizona Diamondbacks. The first home run in the seventh inning against Brandon Webb went an estimated 422 feet, and the second came in the ninth inning against Jorge Julio went an estimated 456 feet. Branyan hit his fifth home run as a member of the Padres on September 24, against the Pittsburgh Pirates. When recorded, it was the longest in Petco Park history, going an estimated 453 feet. He hit .292 for the Padres with 6 home runs, 9 RBIs, 14 runs scored and 15 walks. He compiled a .416 on-base percentage while slugging .556. He started at third base in 26 of San Diego's final 33 games and committed only 3 errors in 45 total chances. His 18 home runs overall in 2006 were the most he hit in a single season since 2002. At the end of the season it was speculated that Branyan would have a sure spot on the roster out of spring training. On October 30, Branyan's $1,000,000 option was picked up by the Padres.\n\nGoing into spring training in , newly acquired Kevin Kouzmanoff was slated for the job at third base. This left Branyan as a bench player going into the season. Branyan addressed the issues stating that he just wanted to play, no matter the circumstances. However, Branyan was seen as a good option if Kouzmanoff failed to produce at third base and at the plate. Branyan got off to a slow start out of spring training.\n\nBranyan was placed on the bereavement list following the death of this father-in-law on April 27. This made room for catcher Josh Bard on the roster. He was activated on May 3 and the Padres sent Pete Laforest outright to the Triple-A Portland Beavers to make room for Branyan on the roster. On May 12, in a win over the St. Louis Cardinals, Branyan hit two home runs. The first was against Kip Wells, and the second against Brian Falkenborg. Branyan hit a go-ahead home run at Wrigley Field against the Chicago Cubs in a 1–0 win on June 16. In 2007, Branyan batted .197 with five doubles, one triple, seven home runs and 19 RBIs in 61 games for the Padres before his release on July 28. The release made room for Scott Hairston on the Padres' roster.\n\nOn August 6, 2007, Branyan signed a minor league contract with the Cleveland Indians. He played one game with their Triple-A affiliate, the Buffalo Bisons. On August 9, Branyan was placed on waivers and traded to the Philadelphia Phillies for cash considerations. On August 14, in his first at-bat with the Phillies, Branyan hit a two-run home run against the Washington Nationals, putting the Phillies ahead in the game 3–2.\n\nOn August 28, Branyan was designated for assignment by the Phillies. On August 31, he was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals for a player to be named later. During his tenure in St. Louis, Branyan filled in for Scott Rolen, the Cardinals' regular starting third baseman. In 21 games (32 at bats), he batted .188 with one home run and two RBIs. In a combined 89 games between San Diego, Philadelphia, and St. Louis, his totals were a .196 batting average, 10 home runs, and 26 RBI. At the end of the season, Branyan filed for free agency.\n\nOn February 20, , Branyan signed a minor league contract with the Brewers. Branyan began the season with the Brewers' Triple-A affiliate, the Nashville Sounds. On May 25, his contract was purchased by the Brewers, and he was added to the active roster. To make room on the roster, the Brewers sent Tony Gwynn Jr. to Triple-A Nashville. About the call-up, Branyan said,\nBranyan began the season playing a platoon role with teammate Bill Hall. Hall did not like the shared role, feeling that he should be playing full-time. Branyan expressed no problem with the platoon role, but stated that he understood why Hall disliked the situation. Branyan started the season earning praise from manager Ned Yost and soon saw increased playing time. Later in the season, however, Branyan's playing time was decreased.\n\nHe was placed on the 15-day disabled list on August 12 with a right oblique strain. Branyan rehabilitated at the Brewers' spring training facility, and was reinstated on September 23. On May 31, shortly after his return to the majors, he hit a 465-foot home run into the \"Dew Deck\" in the right-field bleachers of the stadium, helping the Brewers to a 4–1 win. Branyan finished the season with 12 home runs, and 20 RBIs in 132 at-bats. He appeared in 50 games with the Brewers, including 35 starts; 33 at third base, and 2 at first base. He became the first player in franchise history to hit 10 home runs while playing 20 or fewer games in a season. He batted .455 with two homers as a pinch hitter.\n\nBranyan signed a one-year contract with the Seattle Mariners on December 3, 2008. The Mariners gave him the starting first base job before spring training. At the end of the season, Branyan was the team leader in home runs. Branyan stated one of the keys to his success with the Mariners was a vision training program with Chicago ophthalmologist Dr. Barry Seiller. The exercises strengthen eye muscles and improve focus at the plate. The program was similar to the one designated hitter (DH) Edgar Martínez used when he played for the Mariners. Branyan hit his 25th home run of the year on August 7, setting a new career high. His previous career-high of 24 had been achieved during the 2002 season. He also set career records in RBIs, doubles, hits, runs and total bases in the 2009 season.\n\nOn August 9, , Branyan hit a grand slam in the bottom of the sixth inning, this was his first hit in eleven at-bats and his fourth career grand slam. Branyan was often placed in the number two spot in the batting order in 2009 compared to the fourth spot, where managers typically put power hitters. The reason for this was because Branyan expressed discomfort with the cleanup role because of the excessive work load.\n\nBranyan was placed on the disabled list on August 30, with a herniated disk in his back. He had stated that he had been bothered by lower back spasms throughout the season. He left the game against the Kansas City Royals after experiencing pain on a swing and underwent an MRI the next day. On September 27 the Mariners' manager Don Wakamatsu acknowledged it was unlikely that Branyan would be rejoining the Mariners in 2009. Branyan said on September 15 there might be a possibility of him playing before the end of the season. He was activated from the disabled list on September 30 but did not appear in any more games. However, the season still wound up being the best of his career. He finished 2009 with a .251 batting average, 31 home runs, 21 doubles, one triple, 108 hits, 224 total bases in 116 games. On the defensive side, he had a .990 fielding percentage with 10 errors (tied for most in the league for a first baseman) in 116 games at first base, all starts.\n\nOn November 5, 2009, it was reported that Branyan had shown interest in returning for the Mariners in . There was no comment from Mariners general manager Jack Zduriencik, but on the possible return, Branyan said:\n\nBranyan rejected a one-year offer from the Mariners on November 10. He stated that the reason for the decline was because he wanted a contract that lasted for more than one year, possibly a two or three-year contract. Branyan also stated that he still wanted to return to Seattle, but would rather test the free agent market than settle for anything less than a two-year contract. On January 7, 2010, the Seattle Mariners traded infielder Bill Hall for first baseman Casey Kotchman. For Branyan, this meant it was unlikely the Mariners would offer him a new contract as Kotchman would be the likely candidate for the starting job at first base, vacated by Branyan. On February 9, Foxsports.com reported that Branyan has drawn interest from both the Cleveland Indians, and the Toronto Blue Jays. It was reported by Foxsports.com on February 16, that Tampa Bay, Cleveland, and the Boston Red Sox were interested in signing Branyan. That day, the Indians offered Branyan a one-year major league contract, according to MLB.com. On February 17, it was reported by Foxsports.com that the Red Sox were no longer interested in Branyan.\n\nOn February 19, 2010, Branyan accepted a one-year, $2 million contract with a $5 million option for 2011 from the Cleveland Indians. The back injury he had dealt with last year kept him on the disabled list until April 20. Manager Manny Acta stated that he only wanted to use Branyan for four games a week upon his return to give him some off days to continue to recover, but by May 9 he was playing nearly every game at first base. After not hitting a home run in his first 12 games, he hit two against the Royals on May 11, one against Brian Bannister in the second inning and another against Joakim Soria in the ninth inning of an 8–2 victory over Kansas City. On June 10, he came up to bat in the bottom of the ninth, with the Indians trailing the Red Sox 7–6 with two outs. He had a two-RBI single against Daniel Bard to give the Indians an 8–7 walk-off win. He batted .263 in his first 52 games with the Indians, with 10 home runs and 24 RBI.\n\nBranyan was traded back to Seattle for minor leaguers Ezequiel Carrera and Juan Díaz on June 26, 2010. He was used as Seattle's DH. On July 5, he had another home run against Bannister and the Royals, but the Mariners lost this game 6–4 in 10 innings. That month, he missed several games after a table in a hotel room fell on his toe. As he had on May 11, he hit two home runs on August 20, a three-run blast and a solo shot against A. J. Burnett in a 6–0 win over the Yankees. The next day, he became the first batter at the new Yankee Stadium to hit a home run into the fourth-deck with a first-inning blast against Vázquez in a 9–5 Mariner loss. He suffered another odd injury at a pizza parlor with his family in September. Bending down to pick up his son's flip-flop, Branyan fell off his chair, injuring his tailbone. That injury kept him from playing after September 15. In 57 games with Seattle, Branyan batted .215, 48 points lower than he had with Cleveland. However, in five more games with Seattle, Branyan hit 15 home runs. His total of 25 was the second-highest of his career.\n\nOn February 16, 2011, Branyan signed a minor league contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks with an invitation to Spring training. He made the Diamondbacks' Opening Day roster and was used primarily as a pinch-hitter and backup first baseman. Branyan batted .421 in his first 11 games but followed that with just five hits in his next 43 at bats. To clear up the three-way traffic jam at first base with Juan Miranda and Xavier Nady, Branyan was released on May 21, 2011. Micah Owings was called up to take his spot.\n\nBranyan did not stay unemployed for long, signing with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim five days after his release. With the Angels, he was used as a pinch-hitter, DH, and first baseman. On July 3, his two-run home run against Chad Billingsley gave the Angels a 3–1 victory over the Dodgers. His final major league game came on September 26, when he pinch-hit for Bobby Wilson in a game against the Rangers. Neftalí Feliz struck him out looking as the Angels lost 4–3. He only hit four home runs in 37 games for the Angels, batting .185. In a combined 68 games with Arizona and Los Angeles, he batted .197 with five home runs and 14 RBI. After the season, he became a free agent.\n\nIn 2012, Branyan signed a minor league contract with the New York Yankees with an invitation to spring training. Failing to make the team, he was assigned to the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees of the International League. He batted .309 with 11 home runs in 33 games and spent the greater part of the season on the DL with back issues. The Yankees released him on August 10, and Branyan went unsigned for the rest of the year.\n\nAfter not playing in 2013, Branyan started 2014 with the Toros de Tijuana of the Mexican League. He signed a minor league deal with the Indians on August 29, 2014, but Fox Sports reported that he was only being used to fill a roster spot with the Columbus Clippers, who were in an International League playoff race. Branyan batted .333 in four games, but Columbus was eliminated by the Bulls in the first round of the playoffs. He had a seventh-inning RBI in the final game of the series but was subsequently thrown out trying to stretch a single into a double.\n\nFollowing the 2014 season, Branyan played 19 games for the Tomateros de Culiacan of the Mexican Pacific Winter League and four games for Mexico in the Caribbean Series. He has not played professionally since.\n\nBranyan has four children: daughters Kylie, Quinn and Blake, and son Cash. Cash was named after Johnny Cash, of whom Branyan is a fan.\n\nOn January 31, 2008, Branyan was arrested for allegedly assaulting his then wife, Jill. According to police accounts, officers were called to a parking lot of a police station after an officer found Jill Branyan sitting alone in her car, crying. The couple had gone to The Cowboy restaurant in Bainbridge, Ohio and reportedly argued on the way home. At some point, Russell Branyan, who was driving, allegedly put his hand on Jill's face, causing her to have a cut lip. The force of the grab caused her to develop a swollen lip and some bleeding. When the couple entered their home, Jill's mother saw the injury and said that Jill and the children should go with her to her house.\n\nBranyan entered a \"not guilty\" plea in Shaker Heights Municipal Court on February 5, 2008, charged with one count of domestic violence. Branyan's attorney, Philip Kushner, and Pepper Pike prosecutor Jonathan D. Greenberg agreed to a temporary protection order prohibiting Branyan from being within 500 feet of his wife or children.\n\nBranyan was later arrested for breaking into his ex-wife Jill's home while she slept on the evening of October 30, 2015. Branyan allegedly removed several items and \"tampered with the thermostat inside of the home, making it extremely cold,\" before leaving the property. He was charged with felony aggravated burglary in November 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1985729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985729", "title": "Franklin Cover", "text": "Franklin Cover\n\nFranklin Edward Cover (November 20, 1928 – February 5, 2006) was an American actor best known for starring in the sitcom \"The Jeffersons\". His character, Tom Willis, was half of one of the first interracial marriages to be seen on prime-time television.\n\nCover was born on November 20, 1928 in Cleveland, Ohio, to Britta (Schreck) and Franklin Held Cover. He graduated from John Marshall High School in 1947. Cover graduated from Denison University in 1951, and he received his MA in Theater in 1954 and MFA in Theater in 1955 both from Case Western Reserve University.\n\nHis career started on the stage acting in \"Henry IV, Part 1\" and \"Hamlet\". He also appeared in \"Forty Carats\" with Julie Harris. He made his television debut on \"Naked City\" and later appeared on \"The Jackie Gleason Show\".\n\nIn 1965, he married Mary Bradford Stone.\n\nHis first starring role was on \"The Jeffersons\" as Tom Willis who was married to a black woman, Helen, played by Roxie Roker. The couple lived in the same high-rise apartment building as the sitcom's title characters. Cover would often be the foil to Sherman Hemsley's black businessman, George Jefferson. The sitcom ran from 1975 to 1985. He also appeared in \"The Stepford Wives\" in 1975, and played Hubert Humphrey in the 1982 TV movie \"A Woman Called Golda\".\n\nFollowing the end of \"The Jeffersons\", Cover continued to make guest appearances on television shows as well as appearing in a supporting role in \"Wall Street\" (1987). In 1994, he appeared in the second episode of \"ER\". His final television appearance was in an episode of \"Will & Grace\" (entitled \"Object Of My Rejection\") that aired on May 13, 1999.\n\nCover died at the Lillian Booth Actors Home in Englewood, New Jersey, on February 5, 2006. He had been living at the home since December 2005 while recovering from a heart condition, and died of pneumonia.\n\nHe was survived by his wife; the former Mary Bradford Stone, two adult children; Susan and Bradford, and a grandson, Maxwell. His son, Bradford Cover, an actor who lives in New York City, has appeared on \"Law and Order\", Broadway, and Off Broadway, and is a company member at The Pearl Theatre Company. His daughter Susan is the founder of Susie's Supper Club (now closed), a home delivery food service that catered to parents and children in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985745", "title": "Marcel Dzama", "text": "Marcel Dzama\n\nMarcel Dzama (born May 4, 1974) is a contemporary artist from Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada who currently lives and works in New York City. His work has been exhibited internationally, in particular his ink and watercolor drawings. He is represented by David Zwirner Gallery in New York and London.\n\nDzama received his BFA from the University of Manitoba in 1997.\n\nDzama works extensively in sculpture, painting, collage, and film. The artist is also known for his intricate dioramas and large scale polyptychs that draw from his talents across a range of media. Dzama works in multiple disciplines to bring his cast of human figures, animals, and imaginary hybrids to life, and has developed an international reputation and following for his art that depicts fanciful, anachronistic worlds. The artist is also known for his work with The Royal Art Lodge.\n\nDzama's work has been used on the covers of numerous record albums, notably \"The Else\" by They Might Be Giants, \"Guero\" by Beck and \"Reconstruction Site\" by The Weakerthans. He also provided the cover art for literary critic Sianne Ngai's 2005 book \"Ugly Feelings\", published by Harvard University Press. His costume designs can be seen in music videos for the Bob Dylan song, \"When the Deal Goes Down\", the N.A.S.A. song, \"The People Tree\", and the Department of Eagles song, \"No One Does It Like You\", which he also co-directed. McSweeney's has published two collections of his work, \"The Berlin Years\" in 2003 (reprinted in 2006) and a follow-up, \"The Berliner Ensemble Thanks You All\", in 2008.\n\nIn 2010, composer Ed Bennett created \"Dzama Stories\", a piece of music inspired by Marcel Dzama, featuring Decibel and Paul Dunmall. It is music for amplified ensemble, electronics and improviser.\n\nIn 2016, Dzama created the costume and stage design for the New York City Ballet's \"The Most Incredible Thing\", a performance based on Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale.\n\nDzama has been the subject of solo exhibitions at the Musée d'Art Contemporain de Montréal (2010) and Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich (2008). In 2006, he had an exhibition at the Ikon Gallery in Birmingham, England, which traveled to the Centre for Contemporary Arts in Glasgow, Scotland.\n\nMarcel Dzama cites Marcel Duchamp as one of his greatest inspirations and has drawn on the artist’s near-obsession with chess as a starting point for his video \"A Game of Chess\", 2011, in which life-size Kings, Queens, Rooks and pawns duel for supremacy in a production brought to life in Guadalajara, Mexico. The film is included in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada.\n\nOver the past decade, his work has been featured in numerous international exhibitions, including \"Compass in Hand: Selections from The Judith Rothschild Foundation Contemporary Drawings Collection\" at The Museum of Modern Art, New York (2009); \"Moby Dick\" at CCA Wattis Institute for Contemporary Arts, San Francisco (2009); \"Sobey Art Award Short List\" at the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia (2009); \"Wunderkammer: A Century of Curiosities\" at The Museum of Modern Art, New York (2008); \"In Me / Out of Me\" at P.S.1 Contemporary Art Center, New York and Kunst-Werke, Berlin (2007). In 2006, he was included in the Whitney Biennial exhibition, \"Down By Law: Day for Night\" at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. In the late 1990s, Dzama participated in the group exhibitions \"Greetings from Winnipeg\" at the Minneapolis College of Art & Design, Minneapolis and \"Contemporary American Realist Drawings, the Jalane and Richard Davidson Collection\" at The Art Institute of Chicago (both 1999). In May 2016 at the Labs Gallery in Bologna was presented an exhibition of his works entitled \"Masked Tales\", in which also exposed an italian artist Vanni Cuoghi.\n\nDzama's work is in the collections of major museums and public institutions, including: \n\n"}
{"id": "1985749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985749", "title": "Russian Party of Pensioners for Social Justice", "text": "Russian Party of Pensioners for Social Justice\n\nThe Russian Party of Pensioners for Social Justice (Российская партия пенсионеров за социальную справедливость, \"Rossiyskaya Partiya Pensionerov za sotsialnuyu spravedlivost\") is an unregistered political party in Russia.\n\nThe party was founded as the Party of Pensioners (Общественно-Политичеcкая организация) in 1997. On November 29, 1997 Sergei Atroshenko was elected as the first chairman. \nOn May 29, 1998 the party was registered with the Ministry of Justice. \nIn the December 1999 State Duma elections the party won 1.95% of the vote.\n\nOn December 1, 2001 the party was given its present name. On May 15, 2002 RPP was registered with the Ministry of Justice.\n\nAt the legislative elections, 7 December 2003, the alliance of the Russian Pensioners' Party and the Russian Social Justice Party won 3.1% of the popular vote and no seats.\n\nOn January 31, 2004, in an extraordinary congress of the party, chairman Sergei Atroshenko was dismissed from his post for their poor performance.\n\nOn March 27, 2005 Valery Gartung was elected chairman.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2005 RPP has been able to hold candidates in the elections of the parliaments of 12 regions. Their highest result was 20.7% in elections for Magadan Oblast's Regional Duma on May 22, 2005.\n\nOn October 9, 2005 RPP won elections in Tomsk, receiving 19.8% of the vote, compared to United Russia's 17.85%.\n\nOn December 17, 2005 an extraordinary congress was held to elect new members. Igor L. Zotov was elected Chairman.\n\nThe Russian Pensioners' Party merged with the Russian Party of Life and Rodina into a new party, Fair Russia, on 28 October 2006.\n\nAfter the merger on the 2nd of September, 2007 supporters of the Russian Party of Pensioners created its own Russian public organization \"Russian pensioner for Justice\" which brought together 88,000 seniors in some 60 regional organizations (Igor L. Zotov became the Chairman of the organization). The organization conducted independent social and political activity aimed at protection of interests of pensioners and low income citizens, came forward with public legislative initiative of the Pension Code adoption in the Russian Federation.\n\nOn the 29th of February, 2012 the General Council of the organization led by the Russian Federation State Duma Deputy Igor L. Zotov decided to convert the public organization \"Russian pensioners for Justice\" into political party \"Russian Pensioners For Justice Party\" during the next Congress on the 7th of April, 2012 in Moscow.\n\nThe current Head of the Central council of the Party is Vladimir Burakov.\n\nIn 2018 the party announced that they will support current president Vladimir Putin in the 2018 Russian presidential election.\n\nIn 2019 the party's registration was revoked because it had failed to take part in elections.\n\n\nThe Party of Pensioners finds its main goal in implementing the rights of the older generation and improving the quality of its life.\n\nThe party stands for:\n\n\nThe Party is against:\n\n\nThe Party calls for:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985751", "title": "Party of Social Justice", "text": "Party of Social Justice\n\nThe Party of Social Justice (Партия социальной справедливости, \"Partiya Sotsial'noy Spravedlivosti\") was a progressive political party in Russia.\n\nAt the 2003 legislative elections, the alliance of the Russian Pensioners' Party and the Social Justice Party won 3.1% of the popular vote and no seats.\n\nOn the 2007 Russian legislative election the party won 0.22% of votes, not breaking the 7% barrier, and thus no seats in Duma.\n\nIt merged into Just Russia in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1985754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985754", "title": "Party of Russia's Rebirth", "text": "Party of Russia's Rebirth\n\nThe Party of Russia's Rebirth (Партия возрождения России, \"Partiya Vozrozhdeniya Rossii\") is a left-wing political party in Russia led by Gennady Seleznev, former Duma speaker and then member of Communist Party of Russia (2002-2007), and later by the Nationalist writer Georgy Pryakhin (2007-2008). The party took the name of the illegal Russian fascist party, which existed in the USSR, and abroad among the Russian expatriates, in the 1930s.\n\nIn the 2003 legislative elections, the alliance of the Party of Russia's Rebirth and the Russian Party of Life party won 1.9% of the popular vote and no seats on the party list ballot, although Seleznev himself narrowly beat liberal candidate Irina Khakamada in Saint Petersburg to win a seat there.\n\nIn the 2007 elections Party of Russia's Rebirth blocked up with another nationalist party, Patriots of Russia, led by Gennady Semigin.\n\nOn September 9, 2008, the party was officially dissolved. Many of the members including Gennady Seleznev joined Patriots of Russia.\n\nThe party was re-founded in October 2012 and registered once again in May 2013.\n\nOn 19 July 2015, the founder and leader of the party Gennady Seleznev died, the acting leader became Viktor Arkhipov. On 26 June 2016, Igor Ashurbeyli was elected the new leader of the party.\n\nDuring the 2018 local elections, the party nominee Sardana Avksenteva was elected Mayor of Yakutsk, defeating the candidate from the ruling United Russia party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985755", "title": "The Price Is Right Live!", "text": "The Price Is Right Live!\n\nThe Price Is Right LIVE! is a staged production show based on the television game show \"The Price Is Right\".\n\nThe live stage shows were originally held at Caesars Entertainment casinos, as well as the Foxwoods Resort & Casino in Connecticut and the Seminole Casino Coconut Creek in Coconut Creek, Florida. Following the expiration of the contract with Caesars, the show now travels to various venues throughout the United States and Canada. The show made its Canadian debut at Great Canadian Casino’s River Rock and Boulevard Casino Resorts in British Columbia in 2010. This tour occurred following Howard Blank visiting the production at Bally’s Las Vegas and meeting with the Fremantle team in Burbank.They are produced in association with Fremantle.\n\nIn some cases, audience members for each show are asked a series of pricing questions; in some venues, this involves the use of audience response keypads; in others, a pricing game is played at registration prior to the show. The top scorers in both accuracy and speed are called as contestants for the One-Bid. In still other cases (such as the former Las Vegas and Atlantic City productions, the Branson show and the current touring production), contestants are chosen through a random drawing. Unlike on the television show, an entirely new set of contestants are chosen to bid on each One-Bid item and participate in the Showcase Showdown and Showcase. \"Contestants not appearing on stage\" receive a T-shirt.\n\nA contestant who bids exactly correctly on a One-Bid receives $100 in cash.\n\nIn addition to the people chosen as contestants, other audience members are randomly chosen to win small prizes in-between each pricing game. When the show ran at Caesars casinos, the prizes were Caesars Total Rewards credits; the current touring production gives away gift cards for Amazon.com and Bed, Bath and Beyond.\n\nTypically, the pricing games and Showcases are played for lower stakes and smaller prizes than on the TV version. Like the television series, contestants do not have to pay an admission fee to be eligible to be selected as contestants, although they must purchase a ticket to see the entire show.\n\nEleven of the show's pricing games have been featured in the live show:\n\nThree contestants are called down to play. Getting $1 in one or two spins awards $100; in the bonus spin, getting a green section awards $500 while the dollar is worth $1,000. The winning contestant (under normal Showcase Showdown rules) receives $250. In the event of a tie, the players get one spin in a spinoff; the higher number won; if the tie involved concurrently with the bonus spin, another spinoff was done but no more money to be won.\n\nTwo contestants are called down to play. Both contestants are shown a single showcase and bid on it by writing down their bids. After the bids are checked to ensure neither is duplicated, the contestant closer to the actual retail price of the showcase wins a pre-determined prize from the showcase. The contestant must be within $100 of the actual price of the showcase to win the entire showcase, which typically includes a car, the only time a car is given away on the live show.\n\nThe production features a rotating series of hosts. Hosts have included Todd Newton, Marc Summers, David Ruprecht, Pat Finn, Mark L. Walberg, Roger Lodge, Michael Burger, JD Roberto, George Hamilton, Doug Davidson, Bob Goen, Chuck Woolery, Marco Antonio Regil, Alan Thicke, Drew Lachey, Jerry Springer, Joey Fatone, and current television announcer George Gray.\n\nNewton, Summers, Regil, Davidson, and Hamilton were contenders to replace Bob Barker, a job that ultimately went to Drew Carey. Davidson was also the host of a short-lived syndicated spinoff of the show known as \"The New Price Is Right\", which ran for four months in 1994. Regil, who is bilingual, hosted the Mexican version of the show (\"Atinale al Precio\"), which has aired at various times since 1997, including the current Warman-style UK Showcase format that debuted in April 2010. Roberto has also been an announcer for the television version in 2010 (episodes taped August 2010 to start Season 39). Gray, who became announcer in 2011, began doing occasional shows starting in 2013.\n\nAnnouncers for the show include Randy West (who was the regular Las Vegas announcer for several years), Daniel Rosen, David Ruprecht, JD Roberto, Dave Walls and others. West, Rosen, and Roberto have been substitute announcers for select episodes of the CBS version in both daytime and prime time, with West and Rosen during the 2003 announcer search and Roberto in the 2010 search. Roberto was the announcer who debuted the television high-stakes pricing game \"Pay the Rent\". Andy Taylor, formerly of radio station KTTS in Springfield, MO is the announcer for the Branson show. Chinese-Canadian television presenter Benny Yau was co-announcer with Howard Blank for the show's Canadian debut at Vancouver, Canada in May 2011, where the show was done in English, Cantonese, and Mandarin. Howard Blank was the announcer for the cross Canada tour presented by Live Nation in March of 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985756", "title": "Russian Party of Life", "text": "Russian Party of Life\n\nThe Russian Party of Life (Российская партия жизни, \"Rossiyskaya Partiya Zhizni\") was a political party in Russia, led by Sergey Mironov (Speaker of the Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian parliament). According to its website, the party was liberal on economic issues and nationalistic on everything else. Its headquarters were located in Moscow.\n\nIn the legislative elections on 7 December 2003, the alliance of the Party of Russia's Rebirth and the Russian Party of Life party won only 1.9% of the popular vote and no seats, despite attracting to its list a number of Russian celebrities, most famously Oxana Fedorova.\n\nThe Russian Party of Life merged with Rodina and the Russian Pensioners' Party into a new party, A Just Russia, on 28 October 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985757", "title": "Conceptual Party Unity", "text": "Conceptual Party Unity\n\nConceptual party Unity () was a political party in Russia from 2000 to 2007, led by retired Major General Konstantin P. Petrov, not to be confused with the Unity Party of Russia (Yedinstvo), which existed from 1999 to 2001. At the last legislative elections, December 7, 2003, the party won 1.2% of the popular vote and no seats. The party was disbanded on May 15, 2007 by the Supreme Court citing failure to prove the required registration numbers and is now known as Russian national movement \"Course of Truth and Unity\" ().\n\nThe Social Security Conception of Dead Water (Russian: Концепция Общественной Безопасности \"Мертвая Вода\") is a religio-political doctrine named after the magical water from Russian folklore that heals the wounds of the dead. The doctrine was first elaborated by the sacerdotal council called Priestly Centre of the Internal Prophet of the Soviet Union, possibly existing since 1985 in Leningrad. The leader was the major general Konstantin P. Petrov (\"volkhv\" Meragor; 1945–2009). The doctrine was incorporated as the Conceptual Party Unity (Концептуальная Партия Единение), officially recognised in 2001, and the base of supporters organised themselves into the popular movement Towards the God-Power (К Богодержавию). After the party's liquidation in 2009, the movement reorganised itself as the Russian Nationwide Movement–Course of Truth and Unity (Российское Общенародное Движение \"Курсом Правды и Единения\") with a political branch known as the All-Russian Political Party–Course of Truth and Unity (Всероссийская Политическая Партия \"Курсом Правды и Единения\"). The Moscow branch and other branches of the movement refused to join the new party, and some incorporated as the Association of Supporters of the Social Security Conception (Объединение Сторонников Концепции Общественной Безопасности). The goal of the Dead Water movement is the liberation of Russia from Jewish ideas. Classical Russian literature, such as the work of Alexander Pushkin, is sacralised, and Dead Water adherents propose a rejection of Judeo-Christian terminology from the Russian language. Anti-Christianity, anti-Semitism, anti-Westernism and anti-communism are combined in teaching with an exaltation of Joseph Stalin's ideology.\n\nThe primary goal of the party was governing Russian Federation and, ultimately, the world, in accordance with religio-political \"Conception of Social Security \"Dead Water\"\" (Концепция общественной безопасности Мёртвая вода), named after the magical water from Russian folklore that heals the wounds of the dead, and \"Sufficiently Universal Theory of Ruling\" (Достаточно общая теория управления)\n\nIt was recommended to be introduced at the Parliament hearing in 1995. But later the party has been described as a neo-pagan religious cult, with explicit totalitarian communist agenda.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985761", "title": "Elisabeth Brooks", "text": "Elisabeth Brooks\n\nElisabeth Brooks Luyties (July 2, 1951 – September 7, 1997) was a Canadian actress. Elisabeth is probably best remembered for her role as the evil, leather-clad siren Marsha Quist in \"The Howling\" (1981). Her other film appearances included \"Deep Space\" (1988), and \"The Forgotten One\" (1989), starring Kristy McNichol.\n\nElisabeth was born on July 2, 1951 in Toronto, Ontario and adopted by William Harrison \"Sandy\" Luyties Jr. (1927-1996) and his wife Joan (née Brooks; 1935-2010) when she was 6 months old. Elisabeth has two brothers and two sisters, Judson, Jonica, Megan and Seth. To family and friends Elisabeth was known as \"Lissa\". \n\nShe began her acting career aged five, encompassing both stage and screen. She started appearing in television roles in the mid-1970s and managed to pursue her acting career as a single mother while working a variety of jobs to support herself and her son. She had a brief role in \"Rich Man, Poor Man\" (1976), and then appeared regularly on the soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\", and in popular television series such as \"The Rockford Files\", \"\", \"Hart to Hart\", \"Starsky and Hutch\", \"The Six Million Dollar Man\" and \"Emergency!\"\n\nAfter a 33-month struggle with brain cancer, Brooks died in Haven Hospice near her home in Palm Springs, California at the age of 46.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985771", "title": "William E. Gordon", "text": "William E. Gordon\n\nWilliam Edwin Gordon (January 8, 1918 – February 16, 2010) was a physicist and astronomer. He is referred to as the \"\"father of the Arecibo Observatory\"\".\n\nHe was born in Paterson, New Jersey on January 8, 1918, he received a Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University in 1953. He was a faculty member at Cornell University from 1953 to 1965. He joined the faculty of Rice University in 1966, serving as Dean of Science and Engineering, Dean of Natural Sciences, and Provost and Vice President.\n\nGordon wanted to study the properties of the Earth's upper atmosphere, the ionosphere, and thought that he could use a radar system to measure the density and temperature in this difficult-to-study atmospheric region. His calculations indicated that an antenna approximately 305 meters (1,000 ft) in diameter would do the job, but would be far too expensive to build using existing designs for radio and radar antennas. He oversaw the design of the radio telescope and its construction in the karst foothills just south of Arecibo, Puerto Rico. At its fortieth anniversary, it was named both a \"Milestone in Electrical Engineering and Computing\" and also a \"Mechanical Engineering Landmark.\" \n\nHe served as the Director of the resultant Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory from 1960 to 1965. Encouraged by work at the Platteville Atmospheric Observatory, Gordon was influential in getting an ionospheric heater built at Islote, about 30 km from the Arecibo Observatory, which operated until 1998 when it was destroyed by Hurricane Georges.\n\nIn 1966 he moved to Rice University to become Dean of Science and Engineering and a faculty member of both the Department of Space Science (later Space Physics and Astronomy) and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He subsequently served as Vice President and Provost. He guided 12 doctoral dissertations while serving as administrator.\n\nHe retired in 1986 to become Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Space Physics and Astronomy and of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Rice University. He was a member of many respected professional and academic societies, including the National Academy of Sciences (since 1968) and National Academy of Engineering (since 1975). In 1984 Gordon was awarded the Arctowski Medal from the National Academy of Sciences. He was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, (since 1986).\n\nHe died in Ithaca, New York on February 16, 2010 at the age of 92.\n\n\nThe William E. Gordon Papers range in date from 1947 to 1994, inclusive (bulk 1975–1990), and arranged in three series: Material in the collection includes publications and research reports (many of which concern findings from research conducted at the Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory in Puerto Rico), talks and lectures, reprints, office files, and alphabetical subject files, which include records of professional organizations and activities in which Dr. Gordon participated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985783", "title": "Chemnitz University of Technology", "text": "Chemnitz University of Technology\n\nChemnitz University of Technology (, abbreviated TU Chemnitz) is a public university in Chemnitz, Germany. With over 11,000 students, it is the third largest university in Saxony. It was founded in 1836 as \"Königliche Gewerbeschule\" (Royal Mercantile College) and was elevated to a \"Technische Hochschule\", a university of technology, in 1963. With approximately 1,500 employees in science, engineering and management, TU Chemnitz counts among the most important employers in the region.\n\nThe tradition of science in this region goes back to the 16th century when Georg Agricola (1494-1555), a famous German scholar of minerals, served as the city's mayor. In 1836, the Royal Mercantile College was established as a scientific base to support the industrial revolution. In 1882 more than 1,000 students registered at the college. Modern scientific areas like electrical engineering were included in the curriculum. These developments made it possible for the institution to become a \"Königliche Gewerbeakademie\" (Royal Technical Academy). This academy played a major role in helping Chemnitz to become one of the industrial centers at the beginning of the 20th century. At this time Chemnitz had the highest number of patent registrations in the whole of Germany and hence also in the whole world.\n\nThe city of Chemnitz and the Technical Academy were heavily damaged during World War II. In the German Democratic Republic era, after some time of adaptation to the new conditions the status of a \"Technische Hochschule\" was awarded in 1963. At the end of the 1960s, the university consisted of faculties for mathematics, natural sciences, engineering, and humanities. With the number of students increasing, the institution became a \"Technische Universität\" in 1986.\n\nAt the end of the German Democratic Republic, the academic system of Eastern Germany was absorbed by the West German system. Chemnitz University of Technology was actively supported to remain as a third university in Saxony besides University of Leipzig and TU Dresden. Therefore, in 1992 and 1993 two new faculties were established: The Faculty of Economics and Business Administration and the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences expanded the university's field of studies. These new faculties started to work on interdisciplinary projects with the established faculties of science and engineering and introduced joint degree programs. Within a few years, the number of students doubled to the current level of around 10,000.\n\nThe university is organised into the following eight faculties: \n\nThe Smart Systems Campus, which was built very near the university campus, is now the location of the Institute of Physics, including a cleanroom at the Centre for Microtechnologies, the Fraunhofer Institute for Electronic Nano Systems, and a building providing office space for startups and industrial real estate.\n\nThe ancient industrial building \"Alte Aktienspinnerei\" ('Old Spinning Mill') will be reconstructed and serve as the location for the Central University Library. Other university institutions will also be relocated along the tram route within the reorganization of the public transport system in Chemnitz according to the so-called 'Chemnitz Model'.\n\nIn winter term 2013/2014 about 2,500 young people started their bachelor's or master's degree studies at TU Chemnitz. All in all, the university offers 35 bachelor's and 50 master's degree programs. On the international level TU Chemnitz cooperates with 126 partner institutions in 39 countries. This includes 19 members of the international university network Academic Consortium for the 21st Century (AC21). TU Chemnitz is supported by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research within the project 'Teaching Quality Pact' as well as by Saxony's Centre for Teaching and Learning funded by the Saxon State Ministry of Science and the Arts.\n\nThe university has concentrated its research to six main profiles:\n\nA key research area 'Energy-efficient Production Processes' stands the Federal Cluster of Excellence 'Merge Technologies for Multifunctional Lightweight Structures' (MERGE). Funded with €34 million, this cluster is the only one in Germany focusing on the field of lightweight engineering. The breeding ground for this cluster was prepared by the Saxon State Cluster of Excellence 'Energy-efficient Product and Process Innovations in Production Engineering' (eniPROD), which was jointly established with the Fraunhofer Institute for Machine Tools and Forming Technology. These initiatives are complemented by additional collaborative research areas funded by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) which develop intelligent materials and energy-efficient production technologies.\n\nWithin the key research area 'Smart Systems and Materials', scientists at TU Chemnitz are also involved in the Federal Cluster of Excellence 'Center for Advancing Electronics Dresden' (cfAED). Further input is provided by the Nano System Integration Network of Excellence (Nanett), funded by the Federal Government, as well as by the cluster COOL SILICON 'Energy Efficiency Innovations from Silicon Saxony'. Several DFG Research Groups are working in this field. In addition, TU Chemnitz will be the home of the 'Center for Materials, Architectures and Integration of Nanomembranes' (MAIN).\nChemnitz University of Technology has a large body of foreign students. In winter semester 2017, out of its 10,482 students, 2,712 were foreign students, which equals to about 25%.\n\nWorldwide, TU Chemnitz is ranked 600-800 by THE, 1038 by CWUR, 800-900 by Shanghai, and is not ranking by QS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985794", "title": "Constitution of Denmark", "text": "Constitution of Denmark\n\nThe Constitutional Act of the Kingdom of Denmark (), or simply the Constitution (), is the constitution of the Kingdom of Denmark, applying equally in Denmark proper, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The first constitution was adopted in 1849, and the current constitution is from 1953. It is one of the oldest constitutions in the world. The Constitutional Act has been changed a few times. The wording is general enough to still apply today.\n\nThe constitution defines Denmark as a constitutional monarchy, governed thought a parliamentary system. It creates separations of power between the Folketing, which enact laws, the government, which implements them, and the courts, which makes judgment about them. In addition it gives a number of fundamental rights to people in Denmark, including freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of association, and freedom of assembly. The constitution applies to all persons in Denmark, not just Danish citizens.\n\nIts adoption in 1849 ended an absolute monarchy and introduced democracy. Denmark celebrates the adoption of the Constitution on 5 June—the date in which the first Constitution was ratified—every year as Constitution Day.\n\nThe main principle of the Constitutional Act was to limit the King's power (section 2). It creates a comparatively weak constitutional monarch who is dependent on Ministers for advice and Parliament to draft and pass legislation. The Constitution of 1849 established a bicameral parliament, the , consisting of the Landsting and the Folketing. The most significant change in the Constitution of 1953 was the abolishment of the Landsting, leaving the unicameral Folketing. It also enshrined fundamental civil rights, which remain in the current constitution: such as \"habeas corpus\" (section 71), private property rights (section 72) and freedom of speech (section 77).\n\nThe Danish Parliament () cannot make any laws which may be repugnant or contrary to the Constitutional Act. While Denmark has no constitutional court, laws can be declared unconstitutional and rendered void by the Supreme Court of Denmark.\n\nChanges to the Act must be confirmed by a majority in two consecutive parliamentary terms and then approval of the electorate through a national referendum.\n\nDuring the late middle ages and the renaissance, the power of the king was tempered by a håndfæstning, a coronation charter each king had to sign before being accepted as king by the nobility. This tradition was abandoned in 1665 when King Frederick III of Denmark managed to establish a hereditary absolute monarchy by Lex Regia (\"The Law of The King\", ). This was Europe's only formal absolutist constitution. Under Lex Regia, absolute power was inherited for almost 200 years.\n\nIn the beginning of the 19th century, there were a growing democratic movement in Denmark and King Frederick VI only made some small concessions, such as creation of \"Consultative Estate Assemblies\" () in 1834. But these only served to help the political movements, of which the National Liberals and the Friends of Peasants were the forerunners. When Christian VIII became king in 1839, he continued the political line of only making small democratic concessions, while upholding the absolute monarchy.\n\nAt this time Denmark was in a personal union between kingdom of Denmark and the duchies of Schleswig, Holstein, and Lauenburg called \"The Unitary State\" (Danish: \"Helstaten\"), but the Schleswig-Holstein question was causing tension. Under the slogan \"Denmark to the Eider\", the National Liberals campaigned for Schleswig to become an integral part of Denmark, while separating Holstein and Lauenburg from Denmark. Holstein and Lauenburg were then part of the German Confederation, while Schleswig was not. On the other side, German nationalists in Schleswig were keen to keep Schleswig and Holstein together, and wanted Schleswig to join the German Confederation. Christian VIII had reached the conclusion that, should the Unitary State survive, a constitution covering both Denmark, Schleswig and Holstein was necessary. Before his death in January 1848, he advised his heir Frederick VII to create such a constitution.\n\nIn March 1848 following a series of European revolutions, the Schleswig-Holstein question became increasingly tense. Following an ultimatum from Schleswig and Holstein, political pressure from the National Liberals intensified, and Frederick VII replaced the sitting government with the March Cabinet, where four leaders of the Friends of Peasants and the National Liberals served, among those D.G. Monrad and Orla Lehmann, both National Liberals. The ultimatum from Schleswig and Holstein was rejected, and the First Schleswig War started.\n\nMonrad drafted the first draft of the Constitution, which was then edited by Lehmann. Sources of inspiration included the Constitution of Norway of 1814 and the Constitution of Belgium. The draft was laid before the \"Constitutional Assembly of the Realm\" (). This assembly, which consisted of 114 members directly elected in October 1848, and 38 members appointed by Frederick VII, was overall split in three different groupings: the National Liberals, the Friends of Peasants, and the Conservatives. A key topic for discussion was the political system, and the rules governing elections.\n\nOn 25 May 1849, the Constitutional Assembly approved the new constitution, and on 5 June 1849 it was signed by Frederick VII. For this reason, it is also known as the \"June constitution\". Today, 5 June is known as Constitution Day and is a national holiday in Denmark.\n\nThe new constitution establish the Rigsdag, a bicameral parliament, with an upper house called the Landsting, and a lower house called the Folketing. While the voting rights for both chambers were the same, the elections to the Landsting was indirect, and the eligibility requirements harder. The constitution gave voting rights to 15% of the Danish population. Due to the First Schleswig war, the constitution was not put into force for Schleswig; instead this question was postponed to after the war.\n\nFollowing the First Schleswig war, which ended in Danish victory in 1852, the London Protocol reaffirmed the territorial integrity of the Unitary State, and solved an impending succession issue, since Frederick VII was childless. Since the June constitution was not put into force in Schleswig, the Schleswig-Holstein question remained unsolved. Work for creating a common constitution for the Unitary State started, and in 1855 the rigsdag accepted \"Helstatsforfatning (Constitution for The Unitary State),\" which covered affairs common to Denmark, Schleswig and Holstein. At the same time, the June constitution was limited to only be applicable in Denmark.\n\nIn 1863 this constitution was changed, the new one was called \"Novemberforfatningen\". This was shortly before Second Schleswig war, where Denmark lost control of Schleswig and Holstein, rendering the parallel constitution void.\n\nIn 1866, the defeat in the Second Schleswig War, and the loss of Schleswig-Holstein led to tightened election rules for the Upper Chamber, which paralyzed legislative work, leading to provisional laws.\n\nThe conservative Højre had pressed for a new constitution, giving the upper chamber of parliament more power, making it more exclusive and switching power to the conservatives from the original long standing dominance of the National Liberals, who lost influence and was later disbanded. This long period of dominance of the Højre party under the leadership of Jacob Brønnum Scavenius Estrup with the backing of the king Christian IX of Denmark was named the \"provisorietid\" (provisional period) because the government was based on provisional laws instead of parliamentary decisions. This also gave rise to a conflict with the Liberals (farm owners) at that time and now known as Venstre (Left). This constitutional battle concluded in 1901 with the so-called systemskifte (change of system) with the liberals as victors. At this point the king and Højre finally accepted parliamentarism as the ruling principle of Danish political life. This principle was not codified until the 1953 constitution.\n\nIn 1915, the tightening from 1866 was reversed, and women were given the right to vote. Also, a new requirement for changing the constitution was introduced. Not only must the new constitution be passed by two consecutive parliaments, it must also pass a referendum, where 45% of the electorate must vote yes. This meant that Prime Minister Thorvald Stauning's attempt to change the Constitution in 1939 failed.\n\nIn 1920, a new referendum was held to change the Constitution again, allowing for the reunification of Denmark following the defeat of Germany in World War I. This followed a referendum held in the former Danish territories of Schleswig-Holstein regarding how the new border should be placed. This resulted in upper Schleswig becoming Danish, today known as Southern Jutland, and the rest remained German.\n\nIn 1953, the fourth constitution abolished the Upper Chamber (the Landsting), giving Denmark a unicameral parliament. It also enabled females to inherit the throne (see \"Succession\"), but the change still favored boys over girls (this was changed by a referendum in 2009 so the first-born inherits the throne regardless of sex). Finally, the required number of votes in favor of a change of the Constitution was decreased to the current value of 40% of the electorate.\n\nIn 2009, the Act of Succession, which is referenced in the constitution and considered an integral part of it, was changed to eliminate male-preference primogeniture in favour of absolute primogeniture. The changes was approved in a referendum.\n\nThe Danish constitution consists of 89 sections, structured into 11 chapters. The Folketing have published the constitution with explanatory annotations; it is available in both Danish and English through their website.\n\nThe Constitution establishes Denmark as a constitutional monarcy, where the monarch serves as a ceremonial Head of state. The title of monarch is hereditary and passed on to the firstborn child, with equal rights for sons and daughters.\n\nThe political system of Denmark can be described as a democracy with a parliamentary system of governance. The powers of the state is separated into 3 different branches. The legislative branch held by the Folketing, the executive branch held by the Danish government, and the judicial branch held by the Courts of Denmark.\n\nThe Danish monarch, as the head of state, holds great \"de jure\" power, but \"de facto\" only serves as a figurehead who is not interfering in politics. The monarch formally holds executive power and, co-jointly with the Folketing, legislative power, since each new law requires royal assent. By article 12, 13 and 14, the powers vested in the monarch can only be exercised through the ministers, who are responsible for all acts, thus removing any political or legal liability from the monarch. The monarch appoints the ministers after advice from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is itself appointed after advice from the leaders of the political parties of the Folketing, a process known as a \"Queen's meeting\" (). The monarch and the Cabinet attend regular meetings in the Council of State, where royal assent is given, and the monarch is regularly briefed on the political situation by the Prime Minister and Foreign minister.\n\nThe Constitution requires the monarch to be a member of the evangelical lutheran church, though not necessary the Church of Denmark.\n\nThe Government holds executive power, and is responsible for carrying out the acts of the Folketing. The Government does not have to pass a vote of confidence before taking the seat, but any minister can be subject to a motion of no confidence. If a vote of no confidence is successfully passed against the Prime Minister, the government must resign or call a snap election.\n\nThe Folketing is the legislative branch of Denmark, and is located at Christiansborg. It consists of 179 members, of which 2 members are elected in Greenland, and 2 in the Faroe Islands. General elections is nominally held every 4 years, but the Prime Minister can at any point call a snap election. All Danish citizens over the age of 18 years who are living permanently within Denmark is eligible to vote, except those placed under legal guardianship. The same group of people is able to run for office. The electoral system is characterized as a party-list proportional representation system, with an election threshold on 2%. As a result, Denmark has a multi-party parliamentary system, where no single party has an absolute majority.\n\nThe session starts anew each year on the first Tuesday in October, and when interrupted by a general election; all previously unfinished business is cancelled. The Folketing then elects a speaker, who is responsible for convening meetings. The Folketing lay down their own rules of procedure, subject to the requirements in the Constitution. Among those, the required quorum of 90 members of the Folketing, and the rule that every proposed law requires three readings in the Folketing, before it can be passed into law.\n\nThe Folketing also have the responsibility of holding the government accountable for the governance. The members of the Folketing does this by submitting questing to the ministers and convene them to explanatory hearings. In addition, the Folketing elect a number of \"State Auditors\" (), who has the responsibility to look through the public accounts, and check that everything is okay, and that the government only spend money approved by the Folketing. Furthermore, the Folketing also appoints an ombudsman, who investigates wrongdoings by the public administrative authorities on behalf of the public.\n\nThe Courts of Denmark are independent of the other two branches. The Constitution does not stipulate how the courts are to be organized. Instead, this is regulated by statute. In the normal court system, there are 24 District Courts, High Courts and the Supreme Court. In addition to these, there is some special courts. There are certain rights in the Constitution with respect to the judiciary system.\n\nThere is a special Court of Impeachment, which can prosecute ministers for their official acts.\n\nThe court system is able to perform judicial review of laws, i.e. check if they are constitutional. This right is not included in the constitution, but was established by the Supreme Court in the beginning of the 20th century, when it decided to hear cases about the constitutionality of land laws. While this right was contested in the beginning, the political system eventually accepted it. The Supreme Court have been reluctant to rule laws unconstitutional; the only time it have done so was in 1999, when it found that the Tvind law breached the principle of separations of power. Cases about the constitutionality of laws can only be initiated by people directly affected by the laws. All can do this with respect to the Danish relation to EU, because of its wide effects on society.\n\nThe Evangelical-Lutheran Church of Denmark is the state church established by the Constitution. The queen have a number of duties in the Church of Denmark, and is often considered its head, but this is not a formal role in any way.\n\nThe state auditors are responsible for checking the public accounts. They are supported by Rigsrevisionen.\n\nThe Parliamentary Ombudsman is an independent institution under the Folketing, in charge of investigating and inspecting public authorities. It is inspired by Swedish example, and was established in 1955, following its inclusion in the 1953 constitution. The ombudsman is both appointed by and can be dismissed by the Folketing. The ombudsman cannot be a member of the Folketing themselves. While the constitution allows the Folketing to appoint two ombudsmen, by law it only appoints one. The current ombudsman, , is Niels Fenger.\n\nThe ombudsman handles 4,000-5,000 complains annually from the general public, and can also open cases on its own accord. In addition to that, the ombudsman have a monitoring division that inspects prisons, psychiatric institutions and social care homes. Since 2012 it has also had a children's division. The ombudsman cannot demand any action from the administration. It can only voice criticism and make recommendations, but these carry a lot of weight, and its recommendations are usually followed by the administration.\n\nThe Constitution of Denmark outlines fundamental rights in sections 71–80. Several of these are of only limited scope and thus serve as a sort of lower bar. The European Convention on Human Rights was introduced in Denmark by law on 29 April 1992 and supplements the mentioned paragraphs.\n\nThe constitution guarantees the personal liberty. No citizen can be held in detention based on their race, religion or political views, and detention can only be used if prescribed by law. People arrested need to be put before a judge within 24 hours, known in Danish as a \"grundlovsforhør\" (lit. constitutional interrogation), who decides if the provisional detention should be continued, and this decision can always be appealed. Special rules can apply in Greenland. Detention outside the criminal system or the immigration system, say due to mental illness, can be brought before the courts.\n\nThe constitution guarantees the right to property. A search warrant is needed to enter private property, confiscate things, or break the secrecy of correspondence, though general exemptions can be made by law. Expropriations must be for the public good, with full compensation, and as allowed by law. Bills regarding expropriations can by 1/3 of the Folketing be delayed until passed again after a general election. All expropriations can be brought before the courts.\n\nDenmark have freedom of speech and freedom of press, but some things, say libel or breaking confidentiality, can still be brought before a judge. Censorship is forbidden. §77: \"Anyone is entitled to in print, writing and speech to publish his or hers thoughts, yet under responsibility to the courts. Censorship and other preventive measures can never again be introduced.\"\n\nThere's widespread agreement in Danish legal theory that § 77 protects what is called \"formal freedom of speech\" (formel ytringsfrihed), meaning that one cannot be required to submit one's speech for review by authorities before publishing or otherwise disseminating it. However, there is disagreement about whether or not § 77 covers \"material freedom of speech\" (materiel ytringsfrihed), the right to not be punished for ones speech. There is agreement that the phrasing \"under responsibility to the courts\" gives legislators some right to restrict speech, but conversely there have been several court decisions implying that some material freedom of speech does exist. The discussion is about whether the material speech has limits or not, and if so, what those limits are.\n\nAll citizens have freedom of association, but associations who use violence or other illegal means can be temporary banned by the government, while dissolution is tested in court. Dissolution of political association can always be appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1941, during the occupation by Nazi Germany, the Rigsdag banned the Communist Party through the communist law. The law also legalized existing interments of Danish communists, including members of the Folketing. Both the internments and the law broke rights in the constitution, but was justified by the necessity of the situation. The Supreme Court found the law constitutional; a decision that was criticized as the Supreme Court President had been involved in its creation. The case illustrated how long Danish politicians was willing to go to ensure Danish control of law enforcement, and that democracy can be stretched to ensure its continued existence.\n\nIn addition to the communist law, on only two occasions have an association been forcefully dissolved. In 1874, the International Workers Organization, a precursor to the Social Democrats, was dissolved for being revolutionary, and in 1924, the organization Nekkab was dissolved for being a meeting place for homosexuals. In 2020, the gang Loyal to Familia was dissolved by the Copenhagen City Court; a judgment that has been appealed. The gang was temporarily banned in 2018, and the court case – the first dissolution case against a criminal gang – was initiated. Prior to this, it has been investigated if Hells Angels, Bandidos and Hizb ut-Tahrir could be banned, but the conclusions was that it would be difficult to win the cases.\n\nCitizens have freedom of assembly when unarmed, though danger to public order can lead to outdoor assemblies being banned. In case of riots, the police can dissolve assemblies when it \"in the name of the King and the law\" have requested it three times.\n\nSection 4 establishes that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is \"the people's church\" (), and as such is supported by the state. Freedom of religion is granted in section 67, and official discrimination based on faith is forbidden in section 70.\n\nAll children have the right to free public education, though no duty to use it; home schooling and private schools are allowed. The political system shall seek to make sure that all able to work can find a job. Those unable to support themselves have the right to public support, if they submit to the related requirements. Access to professions shall only be regulated for the public good, so trade guilds cannot regulate this themselves.\n\nSection 20 of the current constitution establishes that the delegation of specified parts of national sovereignty to international authorities requires either a 5/6 majority in Parliament or an ordinary majority in both Parliament and the electorate. This section has been debated heavily in connection with Denmark's membership of the European Union (EU), as critics hold that changing governments have violated the Constitution by surrendering too much power.\n\nIn 1996, Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen was sued by twelve Eurosceptics for violating this section. The Supreme Court acquitted Rasmussen (and thereby earlier governments dating back to 1972) but reaffirmed that there are limits to how much sovereignty can be surrendered. In 2011, Prime Ministers Lars Løkke Rasmussen faced a similar challenge when he was sued by twenty-eight citizens for having adopted the European Lisbon Treaty without a referendum. The group of professors, actors, writers and Eurosceptic politicians argued that the Lisbon Treaty hands over parts of national sovereignty to the EU and therefore a referendum should have taken place. The case was later dismissed.\n\nSection 20 was used in 1972 when Denmark, after a referendum, joined the EEC (now EU). More recently, in 2015 an (unsuccessful) referendum was held on one of its EU-opt-outs.\n\nAs section one of the constitution states that it \"shall apply to all parts of the Kingdom of Denmark\", is also applies in Faroe Islands and Greenland. The Faroe Island and Greenland each elect two members to the parliament; the remaining 175 members are elected in Denmark.\n\nThe Folketing have by law given the Faroe Island and Greenland extensive autonomy; the Faroe Island was given \"home rule\" in 1948, and Greenland was too in 1979. Greenland's home rule was in 2009 replaced by \"self rule\". There is an ongoing legal debate about what constitutional weight these arrangements have. In general, there are two conflicting views: (a) the laws delegate power from the Folketing and can be revoked unilaterally by it, and (b) the laws have special status so changes require the consent of the Faroese Løgting or the Greenlandic Inatsisartut, respectively.\n\nProponent of the first interpretation include Alf Ross, Poul Meyer, and Jens Peter Christensen. Ross, the chief architect of the Faeroese home rule, compared it to an extended version of the autonomy of municipalities. Meyer wrote in 1947, prior to the Faeroese home rule, that if power was delegated as extensive in other parts of the country, it would probably breach section 2 of the 1915 constitution, suggesting it did not do that here due to the Faroe Islands' separate history. Similarly, Christensen, a Supreme Court judge, said that due to the special circumstances, the scope of delegation need not be strictly defined.\n\nProponents of the second interpretation include Edward Mitens, Max Sørensen and Frederik Harhoff. Mitens, a Faeroese jurist and politician, argued that the Faeroese home rule had been approved by both the Løgting and the Rigsdag, so it was an agreement between two parties, in particular because the approval by the Løgting happened according to special rules put in place in 1940 with the consent of the Danish representative there, during the occupation by the United Kingdom. Sørensen said the intention with the Faeroese home rule was that it should not be unilaterally changed, as stated in the preamble, so it had that effect. Harhoff, in his 1993 Doctorate dissertation, considered the home rule acts of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be somewhere in between the constitution and a usual act by the Folketing, as it had been treated as such.\n\nDenmark have separation of powers into the three classic branches: the legislative, held by the Folketing; the executive held by the government; and the judiciary, held by the courts. The separation of powers is described in the constitution, and is there, as in many democracies, to prevent abuse of power. The Folketing enact laws, and the government implements them. The courts make judgments in disputes, either between citizens, or between authorities and citizens.\n\nThe Constitution is heavily influenced by the French philosopher Montesquieu, whose separation of powers was aimed at achieving mutual monitoring of each of the branches of government. However, the division between legislative and executive power in Denmark is not as sharp as in the United States.\n\nIn 1999, the Supreme Court found that the Tvind law, a law that barred specific schools from receiving public funding, was unconstitutional, because it breached the concept of separation of powers by settling a concrete dispute between the Tvind schools and the government. The judgment is the only time the courts have found a law to be unconstitutional.\n\nIn several sections the Constitutional Act sets out the powers and duties of the Danish Parliament. Section 15 in the Act, which deals with\nthe parliamentary principle, lays down that \"a Minister shall not remain in office after the Parliament has passed a vote of no confidence in him\". This suggests that Ministers are accountable to Parliament and even subservient to it. The Cabinet exerts executive power through its Ministers, but cannot remain in office if the majority of the Folketing goes against it. Another important feature of the Danish parliamentary system is that the Constitutional Act lays down that \"the Members of the Folketing shall be elected for a period of four years\", but still, \"the King may at any time issue writs for a new election\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1985807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985807", "title": "Lena Hades", "text": "Lena Hades\n\nLena Alekseevna Hades (; born October 2, 1959) is a Russian artist, writer and art theorist of Jewish origin.\n\nA Russian artist, writer and art theoretician. Lena Hades was born in Siberia, while her father was on a business trip, on the day of the total solar eclipse on October 2, 1959. Her father worked as communication engineer, her mother was a physician. At the age of 35 the future artist's father got ill with multiple sclerosis and died at the age of 51. Lena, his daughter, took care of the father herself till the day of his death, January 17, 1985. Memories about her father and his tragic life had a great impact on the artist. It is the father's disease that triggered her interest in the concept of death, and also in the philosophical problems of existence – the main topics of her creative works. Lena Hades graduated from Moscow State Pedagogical University in 1982 (Faculty of Physics and Mathematics), and she also completed higher foreign language courses (Spanish, Italian, Polish, French, German, English), and worked as a translator for many years. Being 35, she decided to become an artist, and in 1995 she left for Germany. In Cologne she created her first works and sold her first painting, gaining the first fee. In 1995–1997 she created more than 30 paintings, devoted to \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" by Nietzsche. For her, these works are visual metaphors, not mere illustrations. The series of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" paintings is unique, as there is no more powerful, picturesque, clear and accurate representation of aphoristic expressions in the world than this one. In 1997 the oil painting and graphic cycle \"Also Sprach Zarathustra\" was exhibited in the Institute of Philosophy of Russian Academy of Sciences. In 2004 the Russian Academy of Sciences published a bilingual edition of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" by Nietzsche – in Russian and German. The cover and the jacket of the book are decorated with two paintings by Lena Hades. The book also contains twenty other works from this cycle. Her paintings are in collections of the Moscow Museum of Modern Art, the Igor Markin Museum of contemporary art, the Pushkin Museum, the State Tretyakov Gallery etc. The works of the above series were also exhibited at the First Moscow Biennale of contemporary art in 2005, in the Institute of Philosophy of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 1997 and in the State Kashyrka Gallery in 1998. She is living and working in Moscow.\n\nLena Hades is known worldwide not only for her painting and graphic cycle \"Also Sprach Zarathustra\", but also for two other paintings of hers, which Russian nationalists deem Russophobian. Therefore, in March 2008 the group of Russian nationalists (over 300 people) took legal action against the artist, since in their opinion these two paintings provoke \"racial and nationalistic hostility and hatred\". The first work is called \"Welcome to Russia\" (1999). It was purchased by Igor Markin Museum of Contemporary Art, the name of the other painting is \"The Chimera of the mysterious Russian soul\" (1996). It was exhibited only once, at the Second Moscow Biennale of contemporary art in 2005. The nationalists were offended by the artist’s depiction of the Russian soul as a cartoonish creature with clichéd attributes of Russian everyday life — a bottle of vodka, a model of Sputnik — and by the crudely painted text in Welcome that indicts the Russian character as simultaneously overaggressive and alarmingly God-fearing.\n\nIn June 2010 Lena Hades was summoned to testify on the above two paintings to Basmannaya prosecutor's office, Moscow, she was threatened to be tried and heavily fined, since she could have been accused of hatred and hostility propaganda.\nJuly 6, 2012, Lena Hades announced a hunger strike supporting the Pussy Riot band. She demanded to free those members of the punk band in custody. The hunger strike lasted 25 days and entailed serious health problems. and resulted in severe health problems. During the hunger strike and before that the artist created the series of portraits of Pussy Riot. Several sites mention the politic pressure on Hades.\n\nMarch 3, 2015, Lena Hades started the art marathon in memory of Boris Nemtsov, making every day a lot Nemtsov's portraits. She said she will be stop drawing the assassinated politician's portraits only when a person or people who ordered this murder are arrested and brought to trial,\n\nThe above works are an absolute contrast to the autobiographic series of paintings \"A Girl with bows\". The work called \"A girl with bows, the woman that mows. The Dance\" is a personal confession made by the artist herself. It is in this painting that she bravely and courageously shows the poly-semantic world of the kingdom of death. Aides is the god of the dead. This depiction of the kingdom of death is not related to the Christian world, It is closer to Nietzsche's image of the Hell \"even god possesses his hell – which is his love to people\". Painting \"A girl with bows, the woman that mows.The Dance\" is the climax of the whole series. This image of the dance around pagan fires enables the artist to communicate as a peer with supernatural forces, undergo initiation by fire. It is the fire of death that helped to transform and strengthen her spirit. There is no more fear, the horror of death has been overcome. This provides an opportunity and power to possess the sacred theme of death. Graphic cycle of scalp works proves that Lena Hades is an artist and a person, who can live on the edge of life and death and bear this knowledge to people in her artwork.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985810", "title": "Golden Crescent", "text": "Golden Crescent\n\nThe Golden Crescent is the name given to one of Asia's two principal areas of illicit opium production (with the other being the Golden Triangle), located at the crossroads of Central, South, and Western Asia. This space overlaps three nations, Afghanistan, Iran, and Pakistan, whose mountainous peripheries define the crescent.\n\nThe United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) heroin production estimates for the past 10 years show significant changes in the primary source areas. In 1991, Afghanistan became the world's primary opium producer, with a yield of 1,782 metric tons (U.S. State Department estimates), surpassing Myanmar, formerly the world leader in opium production. The decrease in heroin production from Myanmar is the result of several years of unfavorable growing conditions and new government policies of forced eradication. Afghan heroin production increased during the same time frame, with a notable decrease in 2001 allegedly as a result of the Taliban's fatwa against heroin production. Afghanistan now produces over 90% of the world's \"non-pharmaceutical-grade\" opium. In addition to opiates, Afghanistan is also the world's largest producer of hashish.\n\nThe Golden Crescent has a much longer history of opium production than does Southeast Asia's Golden Triangle. The Golden Triangle emerged as a modern-day opium-producing entity only in the 1980s, after the Golden Crescent did so in the 1950s. The Golden Triangle began making an impact on the opium and morphine market in the 1980s and has steadily increased its output since then in order to match the increasing demand. During the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, a retaliation to the September 11th terrorist attacks, the Golden Crescent’s opium production took a huge hit, producing almost 90% less opium than in 2000.\n\nAt the peak of its opium production in 2007, the Golden Crescent produced more than 8,000 of the world’s almost 9,000 total tons of opium, a near monopoly. The Golden Crescent also dominates the cannabis resin market due to the high resin yields of the region (145 kg/ha), four times more than Morocco (36 kg/ha). The Golden Crescent also caters to a much larger market, about 64% more than the Golden Triangle. It produces and distributes over 2,500 tons of opiates to Africa, Europe, the Americas and Central Asia and supplies almost 9.5 million opiate users worldwide.\n\nDespite worldwide efforts to capture and seize as much opium product as possible, total opiate seizures only brought in 23.5% of the total estimated product distributed worldwide. Of these seizures around 97% of opium and morphine seizures are made in the Middle East and heroin seizures are made mostly in the Middle East or Europe. In Afghanistan only one percent of the heroin that is exported illegally is intercepted and destroyed by the national governments. Although Afghanistan is the major producer of opiates in the Golden Crescent, most of the seizures are made in Iran, their neighbor to the west. This is because traffickers are arrested while crossing the border from Afghanistan to Iran so that they can distribute the product to Europe and Africa where there is a high demand for opiates. In Pakistan the majority of traffickers arrested are 38% Nigerians and 32% Pakistanis.\n\nThese traffickers, essential to the transportation of the drugs from the source to end-user markets, make large profits because of how risky the job is. A rough estimate of how many people are currently involved in drug trafficking is above one million. The majority of opium produced in Afghanistan comes from the Kandahar and Helmand provinces, Helmand being the major producer. Of the 5,300 tons of opium produced in Afghanistan, 2,700 tons is transformed into heroin. In 2008, almost half of the heroin produced was used in Iran. Even though Afghanistan is the leading producer, only 7% was used there.\n\nAlthough the Golden Triangle heroin dominates the Asian illegal drug markets, the Golden Crescent is increasingly becoming a source of illicit drugs trafficked into western China, particularly the nearby Xinjiang Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985813", "title": "Culann's Hounds", "text": "Culann's Hounds\n\nCulann's Hounds are a traditional Irish folk band from San Francisco, California, United States. Founded in 1999 by Steve Gardner and Michael Kelleher as The Irish Bastards, the band began playing gigs and soon adopted the more broadly appealing name.\n\nThe name Culann's Hounds derives from the Irish folk story of Cuchulainn, a great Irish hero chronicled in the Tain. Cuchulainn, meaning the Hound of Culann, earned his name after killing (in self-defense) a fierce guard dog owned by the blacksmith Culann. The boy repaid the smith by guarding his house until a new dog could be raised.\n\nCulann's Hounds played their first public gig in spring of 1999 at the Blackthorn Tavern in San Francisco. Though initially sparsely attended, the up-tempo music attracted a crowd, establishing a tradition of Sunday afternoon gigs, sometimes called the Hounds' Sunday Beer Social. Culann's Hounds' popularity grew and in 2001 they recorded and released their first, eponymously titled album. Their second album, \"Year of the Dog\", was released March 17, 2006 (St. Patrick's Day) at the Great American Music Hall. The Hounds headlined the show; Quin and the Earl Brothers opened. The Hounds have returned to headline the Great American Music hall for St. Patrick's Day each year from 2007 to the present. \n\nThe Hounds have toured in the United States and Europe, playing concerts and festivals with numerous top shelf acts from various genres, and every Irish band of note. \n\nThe Hounds are preparing material for a new album, which will feature more of their original compositions. Some of these tracks were released in 2007 (\"The House of Faith Session\") and 2008 (\"One for the Road\"), though the latter is composed almost entirely of traditional songs.\n\nCurrent line-up:\n\nPast members:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985814", "title": "Bagdad Cafe", "text": "Bagdad Cafe\n\nBagdad Cafe (sometimes Bagdad Café, titled Out of Rosenheim in Germany) is a 1987 English-language West German film directed by Percy Adlon. It is a comedy-drama set in a remote truck stop and motel in the Mojave Desert in the US state of California. Loosely based on Carson McCullers' novella \"The Ballad of the Sad Café\" (1951), the film centers on two women who have recently separated from their husbands, and the blossoming friendship that ensues. It runs 95 minutes in the U.S. and 108 minutes in the German version.\n\nGerman tourists Jasmin Münchgstettner (Sägebrecht) from Rosenheim and her husband fight while driving across the desert. She storms out of the car and makes her way to the isolated truck stop, which is run by the tough-as-nails and short-tempered Brenda (Pounder), whose own husband, after an argument out front, is soon to leave as well. Jasmin takes a room at the adjacent motel. Initially suspicious of the foreigner, Brenda eventually befriends Jasmin and allows her to work at the cafe.\n\nThe cafe is visited by an assortment of colorful characters, including a strange ex-Hollywood set-painter (Palance) and a glamorous tattoo artist (Kaufmann). Brenda's son (Darron Flagg) plays J. S. Bach preludes on the piano. With an ability to quietly empathize with everyone she meets at the cafe, helped by a passion for cleaning and performing magic tricks, Jasmin gradually transforms the cafe and all the people in it.\n\n\nThe film had positive reviews. It holds an 89% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 19 reviews, with a weighted average of 6.79/10.\n\nThe film was successful at the box office, with a US gross of $3.59 million.\n\n\nIn 1990 the film was re-created as a television series starring James Gammon, Whoopi Goldberg, Cleavon Little, and Jean Stapleton, with Stapleton as the abandoned tourist, and Goldberg as the restaurant operator. In the TV version the tourist was no longer from Germany. The series was shot in the conventional sitcom format, before a studio audience. The show did not attract a sizable audience and it was cancelled after two seasons.\n\nThe setting, Bagdad, California, is a former town on U.S. Route 66. After being bypassed by Interstate 40 in 1973, it was abandoned and eventually razed. While the town had a \"Bagdad Cafe\", the film was shot at the then-Sidewinder Cafe in Newberry Springs, west of the site of Bagdad. The cafe has become something of a tourist destination; to capitalize on the movie, it changed its name to Bagdad Cafe. A small notice board on the cafe wall features snapshots of the film's cast and crew.\n\nThe soundtrack has the song \"Calling You\", by Jevetta Steele, and has a track in which the director narrates the story, including the film's missing scenes.\n\nThe principal piano pieces heard, performed by Darron Flagg, are preludes from Book I of Bach's \"The Well-Tempered Clavier\": the C major, no. 1, BWV 845; the C major, BWV 846, no. 2; and the D major, no. 5, BWV 850.\n\nHarmonica was performed by William Galison.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985830", "title": "Givetian", "text": "Givetian\n\nThe Givetian is one of two faunal stages in the Middle Devonian period. It lasted from million years ago to million years ago. It was preceded by the Eifelian stage and followed by the Frasnian stage. It is named after the town of Givet in France. The oldest forests occurred during the late Givetian.\n\nThe Givetian stage was proposed in 1879 by French geologist Jules Gosselet and was accepted for the higher stage of the Middle Devonian by the Subcommission on Devonian Stratigraphy in 1981.\n"}
{"id": "1985836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985836", "title": "Monodactylidae", "text": "Monodactylidae\n\nMonodactylidae is a family of perciform bony fish commonly referred to as monos, moonyfishes or fingerfishes. All are strongly laterally compressed with disc-shaped bodies and tall anal and dorsal fins. Unusually for fish, scales occur on their dorsal fins and sometimes on the anal fins. The pelvic fins are small, sometimes vestigial. They are of moderate size, typically around 25 cm in length, and \"Monodactylus sebae\" can be taller than it is long, measuring up to 30 cm from the tip of the dorsal fin down to the tip of the anal fin. These long, scaly fins have given them the name \"fingerfishes\". Most are silvery with yellow and black markings; the juveniles are especially attractive, and most species are popular as aquarium fish.\n\nThe family contains six extant species in two genera, \"Monodactylus\" and \"Schuettea\". They are distributed along the coastlines of Africa, India, and southern Asia, and as far west as Australia. Species of \"Monodactylus\" in particular commonly occur in estuaries. They are truly euryhaline and can live in fresh water for extended periods. Moonyfishes are predators and feed primarily on smaller fish and invertebrates. They are found primarily in shallow water and form large shoals.\n\nTwo extinct species, \"Psettopsis subarcuatus\" and \"Pasaichthys pleuronectiformis\", are known as fossils from the Lutetian lagerstatten of Monte Bolca, Eocene, in Italy.\n\nAquarists commonly keep \"M. argenteus\" and \"M. sebae\" as pets in domestic aquaria, where they are known as monos or Malayan angels; they are also widely kept in public aquaria. They are hardy and easy to care for, but require brackish water and copious swimming space. .\n"}
{"id": "1985837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985837", "title": "Huinay", "text": "Huinay\n\nHuinay is a tract of land belonging to the San Ignacio del Huinay Foundation. This territory covers nearly in the Commune of Hualaihué, in Los Lagos Region of Chile. It lies between the Comau or Leptepu fjord and the border with the Republic of Argentina in Palena Province. Its location is \n. Huinay also divides the private Pumalín Park founded by American Douglas Tompkins into two parts. Tompkins wants to purchase it to unify his park, however, this has met with strong opposition from the people in the hamlet of Huinay.\n\nThe Leptepu fjord is part of a longitudinal structural fault that runs from north to south, profoundly remodelled through the passing of the continental glaciers during the glaciations of the Quaternary period.\n\nThe ice field that slid through the fiord, trapped between high mountains, carved the valleys deeply - they have subsequently been partially refilled with sediment, resulting in a remaining depth of up to 500 m below current sea level. In numerous places there is evidence of the glacio-isostatic structures that survived the postglacial eustatic advances during the last 15,000 years. \n\nHuinay is under the influence of a cold and humid climate. The annual rainfall is very variable, with generally two or three comparatively dry months in summer in the fjord region with a strong increase towards the Andes mountain range, resulting in almost 6000 mm of annual precipitation in Huinay. The average yearly temperature is approximately 11.5 °C. This, together with the abundant rainfall, sustains the thick, evergreen, mixed, mild jungle that extends to the high-water mark along the walls of the fjord.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985843", "title": "Sébastien Gagnon", "text": "Sébastien Gagnon\n\nSébastien Gagnon (born May 21, 1973) is a Canadian businessman and former politician and soldier. Gagnon was elected as a Bloc Québécois member of the House of Commons of Canada in a 2002 by-election. He was elected in the riding of Lac-Saint-Jean—Saguenay and was re-elected in the 2004 Canadian federal election in the riding of Jonquière—Alma. Gagnon is the former Bloc critic of Regional Development, and is a former critic of Children and Youth. He was defeated in the 2006 federal election.\n\nGagnon was born in Metabetchouan, Quebec. Before entering politics, he was an entrepreneur and executive manager. Gagnon served in the Canadian Army from 1991 to 1995.\n"}
{"id": "1985848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985848", "title": "Paul Durcan", "text": "Paul Durcan\n\nPaul Durcan (born 16 October 1944) is a contemporary Irish poet.\n\nDurcan was born and grew up in Dublin and in Turlough, County Mayo. His father, John, was a barrister and circuit court judge; father and son had a difficult and formal relationship. Durcan enjoyed a warmer and more natural relationship with his mother, Sheila MacBride Durcan, through whom he is a great-nephew of both Maud Gonne, muse of WB Yeats and Irish social and political activist, and John MacBride, one of the leaders of the Easter Rising, which began the Irish War of Independence leading to the foundation of the Irish state.\n\nIn the nineteen-seventies he studied Archaeology and Medieval History at University College Cork. Earlier, in the nineteen-sixties, he studied at University College Dublin. While at college there, Durcan was kidnapped by his family and committed against his will to Saint John of God psychiatric Hospital in Dublin, and later to a Harley Street clinic where he was subjected to electric shock treatment and heavy dosages of barbiturates and Mandrax.\n\nIn 1966, Durcan moved to live in London, where he worked at the North Thames Gas Board. He met Nessa O'Neill in 1967; they married and had two daughters, Sarah and Siabhra. They lived in South Kensington, then moved to Cork where his wife taught in a prison. The marriage ended in early 1984.\n\nDurcan's main published collections include: \"A Snail in my Prime\", \"Crazy About Women\", \"Greetings to Our Friends in Brazil\" and \"Cries of an Irish Caveman\". He appeared on the 1990 Van Morrison album \"Enlightenment\", giving an idiosyncratic vocal performance on the song, \"In The Days Before Rock'n'Roll\", which he also co-wrote.\n\nIn 2003, he published a collection of his weekly addresses to the nation, \"Paul Durcan's Diary\", on RTÉ Radio 1 programme \"Today with Pat Kenny\". He got his inspiration from Paidraig Whitty local Wexford poet He was shortlisted in 2005 for the Poetry Now Award for his collection, \"The Art of Life\". In 2009, he was conferred with an honorary degree by Trinity College, Dublin. Durcan was the Ireland Fund Artist-in-Residence in the Celtic Studies Department of St. Michael's College at the University of Toronto in October 2009. In 2011 Durcan was conferred with an honorary doctorate from University College Dublin.\n\nBetween 2004–2007 Durcan was the third Ireland Professor of Poetry.\n\nDurcan is a member of Aosdána.\n\nA number of poems from Durcan's poetry career are studied by Irish students who take the Leaving Certificate.\n\n\nThis collection gives a new view of Duncan's work and a more intimate view of him and his poetry. It gives an insight into his childhood and allows readers to reflect themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985854", "title": "Congo Jazz", "text": "Congo Jazz\n\nCongo Jazz is a Looney Tunes cartoon starring Warner Bros.' first cartoon star, Bosko. The cartoon was released in September 1930. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and The Vitaphone Corporation. \"Congo Jazz\" was the first cartoon to feature Bosko's falsetto voice that he would use for the bulk of the series' run (the previous Bosko short, \"Sinkin' in the Bathtub\", had used a derisive African-American dialect). It has the earliest instance of a \"trombone gobble\" in animation.\n\n\nCarman Maxwell: Bosko\n\nAs Bosko is hunting in the jungle, a tiger creeps up behind him and gives him a lick. Finding his gun useless, Bosko tries to flee. After being chased and having his body stretched and his head slapped off, Bosko pulls out a flute and begins playing music, which greatly entertains the tiger. Bosko and the tiger play patty cake, dance, and Bosko plays the tiger's whiskers and tail like guitar strings. Now that the tiger has been rendered thoroughly harmless, Bosko kicks it off a cliff. Bosko then spots two little monkeys playing leap frog. He picks one of them up, but the monkey spits in his eye. Bosko begins spanking the monkey's behind, until he notices the monkey's father looming above him. Acting nonchalant, Bosko offers the ape some chewing gum. The ape accepts, and seems to enjoy the gum very much. They both stretch the gum out of their mouths and begin plucking a tune. The rest of the jungle animals join in: monkeys, ostriches, kangaroos, and more. They play music on themselves, on each other, or with the jungle scenery. A kangaroo plays a tree, monkeys play a giraffe, and an elephant plays its trunk. A tree does a provocative fanny-slapping dance, gyrating its coconut bosoms, until one flies off and hits Bosko in the head. Bosko and three hyenas laugh.\n\n\"When the Little Red Roses Get the Blues for You\" arr. Frank Marsales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985860", "title": "Quemahoning Reservoir", "text": "Quemahoning Reservoir\n\nThe Quemahoning Reservoir, also known to locals as The Dam, is created by the Quemahoning Dam, located on Quemahoning Creek on the border of Quemahoning Township, Conemaugh Township, and Jenner Township in Somerset County, Pennsylvania just south of Hollsopple. The dam was constructed by the Manufacturers Water Company to supply water for the Cambria Iron Company's works in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. Construction was begun in 1910 and completed in 1913. The reservoir created by this dam is about five miles long and two miles wide at its widest place, and drains into the Stonycreek River and thence into the Kiski-Conemaugh system.\n\nIt is one of the largest artificial bodies of water in Pennsylvania, and is known as a stopover for migratory waterfowl, including geese, swans, and herons. It was sold by Bethlehem Steel Corporation (successor to Cambria Iron) to the Cambria Somerset Authority in 2000, which now operates it both for recreation and industrial water supply.\n\nAdditionally, Somerset Borough, Pennsylvania has commenced construction of a pipeline from the reservoir to the borough to provide potable water. The original 66 inch pipeline constructed by Manufacturers Water Company from the reservoir to Johnstown was upgraded and refurbished after the sale to the Cambria Somerset Authority.\n\nFishing, boating, camping and occasional whitewater rafting are among the recreational activities available. Upgraded release valves in 2010 substantially increased discharges from the reservoir to improve whitewater rafting on the Stonycreek River.\n\nBethlehem Steel Corporation ran a gun club, a farm house and Bethco Pines, a recreational park for its staff. The park included boating, swimming and facilities which employed a number of people. The dissolution of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in the 1990s caused the recreation areas and reservoir to be put up for sale, and was included in the sale to a coalition of local governments.\n\nSummer's Best Two Weeks (SB2W) operates portions of the former Bethco Pines recreational park located on a section of the Reservoir. The Camp is affiliated with SB2W on Lake Gloria which is approximately 5 miles away from the one on the Quemahoning Reservoir. Summer's Best Two Weeks is a Christian sports resident camp that hosts hundreds of campers during the summer for two week intervals.\n\nThe reservoir is said to cover the American Indian village of Kickenapauling's Town, which was referred to in records of Christopher Gist, as well as in the 10 June 1779 deed of Joseph Johns, after whom Johnstown was named.\n"}
{"id": "1985865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985865", "title": "Håkan Hellström", "text": "Håkan Hellström\n\nHåkan Georg Hellström (; born 2 April 1974) is a Swedish musician. He made his breakthrough in Sweden in 2000 with the song \"Känn ingen sorg för mig Göteborg\" and the album with the same name. He has released nine studio albums to date with eight reaching number one on the Swedish Albums Chart, while \"Ett kolikbarns bekännelser\" reached number two.\n\nHellström played drums in the Swedish indie pop band Broder Daniel between 1988 and 1994, then briefly for Swedish alternative rock band Honey Is Cool with Karin from The Knife. In 1997 he rejoined Broder Daniel to play the bass, until 2003 when he left the band again to focus completely on his solo career.\n\nIn 2006, following the birth of his son, he announced that he would take a break from touring and recording. Despite this, he still performed occasional gigs and continues to release very successful albums.\n\nOn 5 June 2016, he performed a concert at Ullevi Stadium in Gothenburg that set a new attendance record of 70,144 people. In the summer of 2020, he will celebrate 20 years since his first album release, by having four concerts at Ullevi Stadium. Reportedly, Hellström will also release a new album in 2020. On 15 May 2020, Hellström released the album \"Rampljus Vol.1\".\n\nStudio albums\nLive albums\nCompilation albums\n\n"}
{"id": "1985881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985881", "title": "Gostun", "text": "Gostun\n\nGostun of the Ermi clan was a regent over the Bulgars for 2 years.\n\nLittle else is known about him. It is possible that Gostun is an alternative name of Organa, who according to some Byzantine sources was a regent over the Bulgars until Kubrat's return from Constantinople and was also member of the Ermi clan.\n\nGostun Point on Snow Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Gostun.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985883", "title": "Stryi", "text": "Stryi\n\nStryi (, ) is a city located on the left bank of the river Stryi in Lviv Oblast (region) of western Ukraine 65 km to the south of Lviv (in the foothills of the Carpathian Mountains). Serving as the administrative center of Stryi Raion (district), it is designated as a city of oblast significance and does not belong to the raion. Its population is approximately .\n\nStryi is considered to be the first city in Ukraine to bear the blue-over-yellow Ukrainian national flag when it was hoisted on the flagpole of the Town Hall on March 14, 1990 even before the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe city takes its name from the name of the river Stryi, one of the tributaries of the Dniester.\n\nStryi, as a name of river is a very old name and means \"stream\". Its etymology stems from an Indo-European root *sreu. Words that have the same root can be found in modern Ukrainian - струм, струя, Polish - \"struga\", \"strumień\", Irish (Celtic) - \"sruami\", German - \"Strom\" (large river), Persian - \"struth\" (river), Sanskrit - \"sravati\" (to flow), Latvian - \"straume\", Lithuanian - \"sriatas\", \"strautas\" (stream, the thing that flows) and several other languages. The word has a possible relation to the word \"Styr\", which means \"big\" in Ossetian, as there is also other Styr River in Ukraine. The area was inhabited by the White Croats and it has been established that name Horvat (Croat) is likewise of Iranian (Sarmatian) origin.\n\nIn different times the name was written differently, although it has always sounded the same. In various old documents we can find such names: Stryg, Stry, Stryj, Stryjn, Stryjia, Strig, Strigenses, Stryi, Strey, Striig, Strya, Sthryensis, Sthrya, Stryei, and Stri. The inhabitants take pride in the fact that the city has managed to keep its original name over time.\n\nStryi was mentioned for the first time in 1385 (see: Red Ruthenia). Already then its territory was incorporated in the Kingdom of Poland after the decline of Ruthenian Kingdom. In 1387 the Polish king Jogaila gave the city as the present to his pro-Tsarist brother Švitrigaila. In 1431 it was given the Magdeburg Rights, and it was located in the Ruthenian Voivodeship, which from the 14th century until 1772 was a part of Poland. The city was governed by the local magistrate headed by a burgomaster.\n\nIts geographical location had a positive influence on its development and growth. The city became a flourishing trade center being located on the major trade route between Halych and Lviv and especially during the 15th to 16th century due to support from the Polish king John III Sobieski. It also was destroyed during one of the Tatars raids in 1523. The city was later rebuilt and included a castle for defense purposes which later in the 18th century was demounted by the Austrian authorities. In 1634 the city was destroyed once again by another Tatar raid. In times of the Khmelnytsky Uprising the Cossack Hetmanate army was reinforced here by the Hungarian regiments of prince Rákóczi of Transylvania. After the partition of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1772 the city became a part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire (see: Partitions of Poland). During the revolutionary times in the empire the Ruthenian Council was created in the city in 1848. During 1872-1875 the city was connected to a railroad network. Its first wooden train station was built in 1875. At this time it started to industrialize. Among the most influencing citizens of the city were Doctor Yevhen Olesnytsky, Father Oleksa Bobykevych, and Father O.Nyzhankivsky.\n\nIn 1886, a large fire burned almost the entire city to the ground. From October 1914 to May 1915 Stryi was occupied by the Russian Empire. In 1915 a bloody World War I battle took place in the Carpathian Mountains, around the peak of Zwinin (992 metres above sea level), a few kilometres south of Stryi in which some 33,000 Russian soldiers perished.\n\nOn November 1, 1918, an armed uprising took place in the city, after which it became a part of the West Ukrainian People's Republic. Stryi was passed to Poland in May 1919, and became part of Poland first by the Warsaw treaty of 1920 and then the Riga Peace treaty of 1921. In 1939 Stryi became part of the Ukrainian SSR. (see: Polish September Campaign). In interbellum Poland, it was the capital of the Stryj County (area , pop. 152,600) of the Stanisławów Voivodeship. According to the Polish census of 1931, its population consisted of 35.6% Jews, 34.5% Poles, 28% Ukrainians and 1.6% Germans.In July 1941 the Nazis conquered Stryi.In a short time, Ukrainians and local Poles conducted a pogrom in the Jews of the settlement, killing about 300 people. The Nazis exterminated most of the Jews and sent almost all of the remainder to concentration or labor camps, most of whom were later sent to the Belzec extermination camp. Of a prewar population of 11,000, only a few Jews survived. \n\nDuring the Cold War it was home to Stryy air base.\n\nOn April 9, 2009, the Lviv Oblast council decided to remove a Soviet-era statue to the Red Army soldier that was installed by the local Communist regime in the city of Stryi and move it to a museum of the Soviet totalitarianism, saying that the statue carries no historical or cultural value to the city.\n\nNotable people born in Stryi include the following:\n\n\nStryi is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1985884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985884", "title": "Emerald Bay State Park", "text": "Emerald Bay State Park\n\nEmerald Bay State Park is a state park of California in the United States, centered on Lake Tahoe's Emerald Bay, a National Natural Landmark. Park features include Eagle Falls and Vikingsholm, a 38-room mansion that is considered one of the finest examples of Scandinavian architecture in the United States. The architect was Leonard Palme, who was hired by his aunt Laura Knight to design and build Vikingsholm. The park contains the only island in Lake Tahoe, Fannette Island. The park is accessible by California State Route 89 near the southwest shore of the lake. Emerald Bay is one of Lake Tahoe's most photographed and popular locations.\n\nIn 1969 Emerald Bay was recognized as a National Natural Landmark by the federal Department of the Interior. In 1994 California State Parks included the surrounding water of the bay as a part of the park, making Emerald Bay one of the first underwater parks of its type in the state, protecting the various wrecks and other items on the bay's bottom.\n\nThe park was established in 1953. It is located directly south of D. L. Bliss State Park.\n\nSummer temperatures at the park range from the low at night to mid- during the day, and during the winter visitors will usually experience temperatures between . During harsh winters the bay freezes over. The bay is about in length, and about two-thirds of a mile (1 km) wide at its widest point.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985891", "title": "Capital Gay", "text": "Capital Gay\n\nCapital Gay was a weekly free gay newspaper published in London founded by Graham McKerrow and Michael Mason. The first issue was published on 26 June 1981, during Pride Week, and folded with the issue dated 30 June 1995. Despite its name it was also distributed in Brighton and had a combined circulation, in the two cities, of around 20,000 at the time when publication ceased.\nMcKerrow and Mason met while working at Gay News and designed Capital Gay as a complementary publication. Capital Gay had a shorter production time, 24 hours, and came out more frequently, every week, compared with Gay News which was fortnightly. The aim was to provide a news service for London and Brighton particularly for users of the growing commercial lesbian and gay scene and to provide a link between the political movement and the commercial scene and facilitate swifter political responses by the LGBT movement than had previously been possible. The news pages covered politics and non-political news while regular contributors provided comment and analysis.\n\n\"Capital Gay\" sponsored the London Lesbian and Gay Switchboard and involved itself in events in the wider gay community in London; its editorial line tended to be strong. It is credited by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" with being the first publication in the world to use the term HIV, (the second being the international science journal Nature), with the first regular column on AIDS in the world being written in \"Capital Gay\" by Julian Meldrum in 1982. For some years, with no reliable information on the threat of Aids publicly available in the medical or national press, \"Capital Gay\" widened its distribution to cover cities with large gay populations including Manchester and Brighton. Copies were sent by rail and distributed to local clubs, bars and hotels by volunteers.\n\nDuring the controversy over Section 28 in December 1987, the paper's offices were targeted in an arson attack. After being accused by Labour MP Tony Banks of legitimising the incident, Conservative Member of Parliament Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman was quoted in \"Hansard\" as saying: \"I am quite prepared to affirm that it is quite right that there should be an intolerance of evil.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1985897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985897", "title": "WCW United States Tag Team Championship", "text": "WCW United States Tag Team Championship\n\nThe WCW United States Tag Team Championship was a professional wrestling tag team championship contested for in the United States-based Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) promotions. The title was only contestable by male tag teams and in tag team matches. In 1986, NWA President and JCP owner Jim Crockett, Jr.<ref name=\"WCW/JCP\"></ref> introduced the championship to replace and consolidate the old NWA Mid-Atlantic and Georgia National titles, under the name \"NWA United States Tag Team Championship\", by announcing a tournament for the newly created title, which was won by Krusher Khruschev and Ivan Koloff on September 28, 1986.\n\nIn 1988, Crockett sold JCP to Ted Turner, who established WCW as its successor; however, the title continued to be defended under the NWA name until January 1991, when the WCW owned and controlled titles were rebranded. The final champions under the NWA name were The Steiner Brothers (Rick and Scott). Following the rebranding, the title was referred to as the \"WCW United States Tag Team Championship\". On July 31, 1992, WCW stripped the final champions, The Barbarian and Dick Slater, of their titles and retired the championship in order to put the focus on the WCW World Tag Team Championship.\n\nNWA/WCW United States Tag Team Championship reigns were determined by professional wrestling matches, in which competitors are involved in scripted rivalries. These narratives create feuds between the various competitors, which cast them as villains and heroes. Overall, there were 19 reigns among 15 tag teams, all of which occurred in the United States. From the information known, The Midnight Express (Bobby Eaton and Stan Lane)'s first reign was the longest in the title's history at 346 days, while The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers)' second reign was the shortest, at 19 days. The Midnight Express also held the most reigns overall as a tag team and individually, with three.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985899", "title": "Mokichi Saitō", "text": "Mokichi Saitō\n\nThe psychiatrist Shigeta Saitō () is his first son, the novelist Morio Kita is his second son and the essayist Yuka Saitō is his granddaughter.\n\nMokichi was born in the village of Kanakame, now part of Kaminoyama, Yamagata in 1882. He attended Tokyo Imperial University Medical School and, upon graduation in 1911, joined the staff of Sugamo Hospital where he began his study of psychiatry. He later directed Aoyama Hospital, a psychiatric facility.\n\nMokichi studied tanka under Itō Sachio, a disciple of Masaoka Shiki and leader, after his master's death, of the Negishi Tanka Society; Sachio also edited the society's official journal \"Ashibi\". This magazine, due to Sachio's increasing commitment to other literary activities, was subsequently replaced by \"Araragi\" in 1908. The publication in 1913 of Mokichi's first collection of tanka, \"Shakkō\" (\"Red Light\") was an immediate sensation with the broader public. The first edition collected the poet's work from the years 1905-1913 and included 50 tanka sequences (\"rensaku\"), with the autobiographical being perhaps the most celebrated sequence in the book.\n\nMokichi's career as a poet spanned almost 50 years. At the time of his death at the age of 70, he had published seventeen poetry collections which include “14,200 or so poems,” the collected works being overwhelmingly devoted to tanka. In 1950 he received the inaugural Yomiuri Prize for poetry. He received the Order of Culture in 1951.\n\nMokichi was the family doctor of author Ryūnosuke Akutagawa and may have unknowingly played an indirect role in the latter's suicide. He also wrote philological essays on waka of Kakinomoto no Hitomaro and of Minamoto no Sanetomo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985917", "title": "Ruscio", "text": "Ruscio\n\nRuscio is a village of east central Umbria, a small \"Frazione\" ('Fraction') of Monteleone di Spoleto, located at 42°38N 12°58E in the upper valley of the Corno River at about 900 metres (2953 ft) above sea-level. It is 2 km SE of Monteleone and 11 km (7 mi) N of Leonessa. Its population is estimated at about 200.\n\nMonteleone di Spoleto is the village where a celebrated Etruscan chariot was found, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The village and its immediate vicinity also have several Romanesque churches, some Roman remains, and the Bronze Age site, apparently a religious sanctuary, of Forma Cavaliera.\n\n\n\"(Incorporates text from Bill Thayer's Gazetteer of Italy, by permission.)\"\n"}
{"id": "1985923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985923", "title": "Poqueira", "text": "Poqueira\n\nThe Poqueira is a river in La Alpujarra region in the province of Granada, in Spain. It is formed by the confluence of streams that rise near the summit of Mulhacén, the highest peak of the Sierra Nevada mountains. The river cuts through a dramatic gorge, then joins the Río Trevélez shortly before flowing into the Río Guadalfeo.\n\nNear the confluence there is a hydro-electric station, with the associated abandoned settlement of La Cebadilla, built to house the workers. At Pampaneira, near the bridge by which the main road from Órgiva and Lanjarón crosses the river, there is another hydro-electric installation, and just before the Poqueira river joins the Trevélez, at the narrowest point, there is a third - deep in the gorge and invisible from above.\n\nHigh on the eastern side lie the villages of Capileira, Bubión and Pampaneira which have become noted touristic attractions: they are of Moorish origin, with narrow, winding streets, flat roofs, characteristic chimney-pots... On the hillsides the terraces created by the Moors can still be seen, though now they mostly lie uncultivated, and the channels also built by the Moors still bring water to the villages and terraces.\n\nThe higher part of the valley lies within the Sierra Nevada National Park, the lower part within a Natural Park; and the valley with its villages has been declared a \"Conjunto Historico\".\n\nThe Poqueira valley was the scene of the first major battle in the second \"Morisco\" rebellion, in January 1569. During the Spanish Civil War of 1936-39, the villages remained under Nationalist control, though Republican guerrilla fighters controlled the heights of the Sierra Nevada, and the frontier during most of the war lay just above the villages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985938", "title": "Aspen parkland", "text": "Aspen parkland\n\nAspen parkland refers to a very large area of transitional biome between prairie and boreal forest in two sections, namely the Peace River Country of northwestern Alberta crossing the border into British Columbia, and a much larger area stretching from central Alberta, all across central Saskatchewan to south central Manitoba and continuing into small parts of the US states of Minnesota and North Dakota. Aspen parkland consists of groves of aspen poplars and spruce interspersed with areas of prairie grasslands, also intersected by large stream and river valleys lined with aspen-spruce forests and dense shrubbery. This is the largest boreal-grassland transition zone in the world and is a zone of constant competition and tension as prairie and woodlands struggle to overtake each other within the parkland.\n\nThis article focuses on this biome in North America. Similar biomes also exist in Russia north of the steppes (forest steppe) and in northern Canada.\n\nAccording to the Ecological Framework of Canada, published in 1999, the Aspen Parkland ecoregion (#156) is the largest and northernmost section of Prairies Ecozone. This definition is the arc-shaped region (i.e. including the WWF's central and foothills parkland but excluding the Peace River region). Partly defined by climate, it had a mean annual temperature of approximately 1.5 °C circa 1999, and rainfall varied from 400–500 mm/annum. It includes the communities of Red Deer and Edmonton in Alberta; Lloydminster on the Alberta–Saskatchewan border; North Battleford, Humboldt, and Yorkton in Saskatchewan; and Brandon, Manitoba as its major population centres and have a total population of 1.689 million. By this definition, there are approximately of this ecoregion in the province of Alberta.\n\nAccording to the World Wide Fund for Nature the Canadian Aspen forests and parklands (NA0802) encompass eight ecoregions as used in the Ecological Framework of Canada: the Peace Lowland, Western Boreal, Boreal Transition, Interlake Plain, Aspen Parkland, and Southwest Manitoba Uplands (TEC 138, 143, 149, 155, 156, 161, 163, and 164). These ecoregions lie in both the Boreal Plains Ecozone and the Prairies Ecozone (Ecological Stratification Working Group 1995). The Boreal sections are Manitoba Lowlands, Aspen-Oak, Aspen Grove, Mixedwood, and Lower Foothills (15-17, 18a and 19a).\n\nThe aspen parkland biome runs in a thin band no wider than 500 km through the Prairie Provinces, although it gets broader to the west, especially in Alberta. This is a hilly landscape with many small lakes and ponds. The cities of Edmonton and Saskatoon are the largest cities completely in this biome while Winnipeg is bordered by tallgrass prairie to the west and south and the aspen parkland to the northeast, and Calgary is bordered by prairie to the east and the Foothills Parkland to the west.\n\nThere are three main sections of aspen parkland: Peace River, Central, and Foothills. The Central Parkland is the largest section and is part of main band of aspen parkland extending across Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, bordered by prairie to the south and the boreal forest to the north. The Peace River Country is located along the Peace River region of the province, extending across the border into northeastern British Columbia, and is completely surrounded by boreal forest, cutting it off from the Central Parkland, it extends as far north as Fort Vermilion at 58°N 116°W. The Foothills parkland covers the Foothills of the Rocky Mountains as far south as Waterton Lakes National Park.\n\nThe region has a Humid continental climate accompanied by a subhumid low boreal transitional grassland ecoclimate. Summers are warm and short and winters can be long and cold. The Mean annual temperatures range from , with Summers ranging , and winters ranging . The Peace River Country in northwestern Alberta and northeastern areas of the North Interior in British Columbia has the coolest climate, but still supports extensive farmland. Southwest Manitoba sees the warmest. Annual precipitation is usually between . Chinook winds off the foothills also occur in winter, mainly affecting Alberta.\n\nFour significantly different habitats are common in the aspen parklands: The fescue prairie, the woodlands, the ravines and the wetlands and lakes. A rarer habitat type, tallgrass aspen parkland, occurs only in the extreme southeastern corner of the aspen parklands biome (southeastern Manitoba/northwestern Minnesota). The fescue prairie is a meadowland rich in vegetation variety which forms the cover for the development of the richer soils that underlie the parklands. The close association with woodlands and wetlands makes this a choice location for many plants and a preferred range or home site for a wide diversity of wildlife. The richer soil and increased precipitation favours the natural growth of fescue grass, but varying conditions such as moisture level and grazing pressures allow for the invasion of secondary plant species.\n\nThere are numerous grasses and sedges in the fescue prairie. Gravelly and rocky terrain is a good location for parry oat grass. Dry areas favour June, porcupine and spear grass. Wet areas are often covered with slender wheat grass and timber oat grass. Prairie rose and snowberry are common shrubs found in these grasslands.\n\nThe forested, or woodlands area is dominated by trembling aspen \"(Populus tremuloides)\", balsam poplar \"(Populus balsamifera)\", other poplars and spruces, although other species of trees do occur. Pines, mostly jack pine and lodgepole pine will often grow in areas that have sandy soil conditions. Other native species may include box elder, tamarack and willow, while the foothills area in the southeast of the region, such as Turtle Mountain or Spruce Woods Provincial Park, have woodland of white spruce and balsam fir but quaking aspen will dominate where the woodland has been cleared by fire. The proportion of forests to grasslands has increased somewhat over the prairie in areas not affected by agriculture in the last 100 years. This increase is partly due to the reduction of prairie fires which used to destroy the new saplings on the fringes of the aspen groves. Also, it was a common practice for farmers to plant stands of trees as windbreaks.\n\nAspen woodlands support an extensive understory consisting of mid-sized and small shrubs, some herbs and ground cover. Spruce-dominated woodlands usually do not support a dense understory due to more acidic and nutrient-poor soils and a denser canopy, which reduces sunlight reaching the forest floor below. However, in areas where a mixture of aspen and spruce occur, a fairly dense understory can still thrive. The mixed wood understory, as it is called, supports the greatest diversity of forest wildlife in the aspen parkland.\n\nLarge shrubs such as red-osier dogwood, beaked willow, saskatoon, chokecherry and pincherry, along with the smaller shrubs including prickly rose, snowberry, beaked hazelnut and high bush cranberry, form a dense entangled understory. Dense shrubbery is a typical feature in aspen-dominated forests. Common herbs found in the woodlands include: Lindley's aster \"(Aster ciliolatus)\", northern bedstraw \"(Galium boreale)\", pea vine, Western Canada violet \"(Viola canadensis)\", dewberry and bunchberry. Mosses appear at the base of trees and on the ground.\n\nWetlands are very common in this biome, including lakes, shallow open water, marshes, and grassy wetlands. Glacial erosion has contributed to such features by creating depressions in which standing water can collect. In the larger depressions, permanent lakes or ponds of water remain. Many of the lakes have a saline character, thus most shore vegetation has a high tolerance of salty soils. These lakes are known as alkali lakes. Wet meadows are flooded in the spring and dry by fall. They contain rushes, sedges and grasses and provide excellent opportunities to study the similarities and differences of these forms of vegetation.\n\nRivers and streams erode valleys throughout the parkland ecoregion. Steep hills and ravines result in a unique topography. Southwest slopes with increased exposure to the sun are dry and often more grass covered, while the shaded north and east exposures retain more moisture and tend to have greater forest cover. Some forms of vegetation unique to the ravines include: poplar, spruce, birch, willow, and river alder.\n\nWildflowers are an important component of the grassland association of the parkland. Look for common yarrow, cut-leaf anemone, rock cress, creeping white prairie aster, milk vetch, late yellow loco weed, goldenrod, prairie rose, prairie crocus, and tiger lily.\n\nThere are three main factors which influence the understory vegetation in the aspen stands of the mixed wood forest.\n\n1. Good sun exposure encourages a dense vegetation growth below the canopy. This is of particular importance in the early spring before the trees are in leaf.\n\n2. Warm soil and air temperature at the base level result in rapid melting process in spring which favours the growth of shrubs.\n\n3. A large percentage of precipitation passes through the canopy. This provides a protective snow cover in winter and in warm seasons precipitation percolates through the leaf cover to nourish plants which require surface soil moisture.\n\nThe result of the above factors is an extensive understory of vegetation in the aspen forest. Common shrubs and herbs are: saskatoon, red-osier dogwood, raspberry, wild rose, currants and bracted honeysuckle, wild sarsaparilla, hairy lungwort, asters, and peavine. Twinflower, strawberries, bunchberries, horsetails and wintergreen form an attractive grown cover.\n\nThe mineral soil is covered by a decaying cover of organic matter. Numerous consumers and decomposers create humus materials. Burrowing animals mix the new fertile materials with the soil to form a rich rooting compound.\n\nFactors which influence the understory vegetation of spruce stands in the boreal forest association include:\n\n1. Year round reduced sun exposure below the canopy restricts the forest undergrowth to shade tolerant species.\n\n2. A large percentage of the precipitation is trapped in the upper tree boughs of the spruce forest and is released through evaporation. The ground cover of feather moss quickly absorbs most of the moisture which does penetrate the canopy. These factors combine to cause drier conditions in the underlying mineral soils.\n\n3. The fallen acidic spruce needles are not fully decomposed and combine with the moss base. Water held in the moss carries the acid from the spruce needles into the mineral soil and leaches out soil nutrients – leaving a highly acidic, low nutrient soil base which is unsuitable for most boreal vegetation.\n\nAs a result of the above factors the forest floor ranges from nearly devoid of vegetation to a dense carpet of feather moss. A sparse community of shade tolerant shrubs exists in this environment. Some species of plants in the understory are Green Alder, low bush cranberry, prickly rose, bunchberry, twinflower, wild lily-of-the-valley, northern Comandra and wintergreens.\n\nThere are several factors which influence the mixedwood stands in the boreal forest.\n\nWhere there are stands of aspen and spruce forests in close association with each other, a mixed wood forest occurs. Each group forms its own microassociation as described previously.\n\nWhen the spruce and aspen forest types are mixed, the result can be quite different from the aspen or spruce stands. Animal and vegetation associations from each type combine to create considerable diversity of habitat which is typical of either spruce or aspen stands. The mixture of the transition soils provides an attractive environment with either pure spruce or pure aspen woodlands. An example of a bird which prefers a mixed wood habitat is the yellow-rumped warbler.\n\nThe mixedwood forest wetlands consist mainly of bogs, fens and marshes. Black spruce, tamarack, willow and bog and sphagnum mosses are the major vegetation types found in these lowlands. Dwarf birch and sedges cover large, wet areas with jack pine occurring on the sandy ridges.\n\nFor boreal aspen stands less than 40 years old, Comeau (2002) found that basal area provided a useful general predictor of understorey light levels, but, on the basis of light measurements in one 80-year-old stand, cautioned that relationships between understorey light and basal area may not hold in older stands. The literature indicates that the height growth of understorey spruce should be maximized when light levels exceed 40% or when aspen basal area is < 14 m²/ha. Models developed by Wright et al. (1998) show radial growth of understorey white spruce increasing almost linearly with increasing light and a continuous decline in radial increment with increasing aspen basal area. When applied to Comeau's (2002) data, the Wright et al. (1998) models suggest that spruce mortality will remain very low until aspen basal area exceeds 20 m²/ha, above which mortality will increase rapidly.\n\nWildlife in the parklands include moose \"(Alces alces)\", white-tailed deer \"(Odocoileus virginianus)\", black bear \"(Ursus americanus)\", coyote \"(Canis latrans)\", northern pocket gophers \"(Thomomys talpoides)\", thirteen-lined ground squirrels, Richardson's ground squirrels, North American beaver \"(Castor canadensis)\", snowshoe hare \"(Lepus americanus)\", weasels and gray wolf \"(canis lupus)\". Bear, moose, foxes, coyotes, beaver, snowshoe hare and red squirrels are found most often in the mixedwood stands compared to the aspen forests and spruce forests.\n\nBurrowing rodents such as Richardson's ground squirrels, thirteen-lined ground squirrels, and pocket gophers play a major role in the balance between the aspen groves and the grassland. These excavators make mounds of fresh soil which are ideal locations for the germination of poplar seeds. Once established, these trees spread by suckering, thus creating a new aspen groves.\n\nWhite-tailed deer finds shelter in the aspen and graze on the grasslands; coyotes and foxes hunt the resident rodents. Historically, bison grazed on the grassland and helped to prevent the spread of aspen groves. However, bison are now mostly absent due to over hunting during settlement in the 19th century and extensive loss of habitat due to agriculture. Bison, however, can still be seen in protected areas such as Elk Island National Park east of Edmonton and in farms, where they are raised for meat.\n\nWildlife in the woodlands is varied and abundant. The varying hare, weasel, fox, coyote, and white-tailed deer make their homes in this region, while water dependent mammals who make the ravines and wetland areas of the ecoregion their home are beaver, muskrats, otters and mink.\n\nBirds of the aspen parkland include kingfishers, ruffed grouse, magpies and northern orioles. and in particular several species of warblers find this a preferred habitat.\n\nExtensive cultivation has disturbed the habitats of some birds which nest and feed on the fescue grassland. However, the horned lark and meadowlark have managed to adapt to the new conditions. Song sparrow, vesper sparrow, and American goldfinch can often be seen in open areas.\n\nThe woodlands meanwhile are abundant with a variety of bird species. Black-capped chickadee, hairy woodpeckers, ruffed grouse, magpies, and great horned owls can be observed in all seasons. Summer residents include: red-eyed vireo, least flycatcher and northern oriole.\n\nBirds which prefer the wetland habitat include kingfishers and bank swallows. Finally there is an abundance of bird life around the wetland marshes. Many species of ducks make their summer homes in these waters and Canada geese nest in the more remote marshes. Blackbirds, marsh wrens and black terns nest in the reeds. Franklin gulls nest in the marsh vegetation, but range over agricultural fields for grasshoppers, crickets, and mice. Shore birds include: avocet, piping plover, spotted sandpiper, willet, common snipe and killdeer.\n\nThe invertebrate population in the woodland is enormous. Some of the most common invertebrates are roundworms, snails, segmented worms, centipedes, mites, spiders and mosquitoes. Poplar gore beetles and forest tent caterpillars are destructive to the tree cover. Insects of the wetlands in this region include caddis flies, mayflies and black flies.\n\nBefore European colonization, there were large areas of western aspen and aspen parkland in the west of what would become Canada and the United States. This was maintained by light to moderate fires with a frequency of 3 to 15 years. Fire also swept the Rocky Mountains aspen as frequently as every ten years, creating large areas of parkland. Settlement increased fire frequency in the late 19th century until fire suppression became popular.\n\nMost of the aspen parkland, like the prairie biome, has been extensively altered by agriculture over the last 100 years since settlement first began in the late 19th century. While the climate is generally cooler than in the prairies, the climate is still mild and dry enough to support large-scale farming of crops such as canola (Brassica napsus), alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), and livestock grazing. The soils in the aspen parkland biome are also quite fertile, especially around Edmonton and Saskatoon. Oil and natural gas exploration and drilling have also disturbed the natural habitat, especially in Alberta and northeastern British Columbia. As a result, less than 10% of the original habitat remains.\n\nThe largest blocks of intact parkland can be found in Moose Mountain Provincial Park north of Carlyle, Saskatchewan and Bronson Forest in Saskatchewan, and Elk Island National Park and Canadian Forces Base Wainwright in Alberta. The rest of the parkland area does contain fragments of original habitat, some in protected areas such as Spruce Woods Provincial Park and Turtle Mountain Provincial Park in Manitoba, and Porcupine Provincial Forest in Saskatchewan.\n\nThe First Nations of this region were not solely buffalo-hunting nomads, as were tribes to the south. They also relied to a great extent on trapping (rabbits, etc.) fishing, and deer and moose hunting, as well as gathering parkland berries, such as the Saskatoon berry or the high bush cranberry.\n\nThis area was one of the most important regions of the fur trade in North America. Both the Assiniboine and North Saskatchewan rivers were major fur trade routes, with a number of fur trade posts, much more so than rivers to the prairie south. The Métis people were formed around these posts from the intermarriage of white fur traders and native trappers.\n\nOnce European settlement began, this region was desired by the peasant farmers of Eastern Europe and the smallholders of Quebec for its wooded land, so that they could build and heat their own homes. This is as opposed to the primarily British and American settlers, who desired grasslands that were easier to break and plough. At the time, people of similar backgrounds were allowed to concentrate into block settlements by the federal government: for example the Edna-Star colony in Alberta, the largest concentration of Ukrainians on the prairies.\n\nAs a result of these different styles of indigenous hunting agricultural settlement, the ethnic makeup of the Prairie Provinces is somewhat divided north and south. Cree, Métis, French, and Ukrainian Canadians are concentrated in the parkland belt, and in parkland cities such as Edmonton, Saskatoon, and Winnipeg as opposed to prairie cities like Calgary and Regina, which were settled more so by people of Blackfoot, Sioux, American, English, and German backgrounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985950", "title": "Jordan Rift Valley", "text": "Jordan Rift Valley\n\nThe Jordan Rift Valley, often just Jordan Valley ( Bik'at HaYarden, Al-Ghor or Al-Ghawr), also called the Syro-African Depression, is an elongated depression located in modern-day Israel, Jordan, and Palestine. This geographic region includes the entire length of the Jordan River – from its sources, through the Hula Valley, the Korazim block, the Sea of Galilee, the (Lower) Jordan Valley, all the way to the Dead Sea, the lowest land elevation on Earth – and then continues through the Arabah depression, the Gulf of Aqaba whose shorelines it incorporates, until finally reaching the Red Sea proper at the Straits of Tiran.\n\nThe Jordan Rift Valley was formed many millions of years ago in the Miocene epoch (23.8 – 5.3 Myr ago) when the Arabian Plate moved northward and then eastward away from Africa. One million years later, the land between the Mediterranean and the Jordan Rift Valley rose so that the sea water stopped flooding the area.\n\nThe geological and environmental evolution of the valley since its inception in the Oligocene can be seen in a variety of sedimentary and magmatic rock units, preserved as continuous sequences in the deeper basins. The outcropping formations around the basins represent alternating deposition and erosion phases.\n\nThe lowest point in the Jordan Rift Valley is in the Dead Sea, the lowest spot of which is below sea level. The shore of the Dead Sea is the lowest land on earth, at below sea level. Rising sharply to almost in the west, and similarly in the east, the rift is a significant topographic feature over which a few narrow paved roads and difficult mountain tracks lead. The valley north of the Dead Sea has long been a site of agriculture because of water available from the Jordan River and numerous springs located on the valley's flanks.\n\nThe plate boundary which extends through the valley is variously called the Dead Sea Transform (DST) or Dead Sea Rift. The boundary separates the Arabian Plate from the African Plate, connecting the divergent plate boundary in the Red Sea (the Red Sea Rift) to the East Anatolian Fault in Turkey.\n\nThe DST fault system is generally considered to be a transform fault that has accommodated a northwards displacement of the Arabian Plate. This interpretation is based on observation of offset markers, such as river terraces, gullies and archaeological features, giving horizontal slip rates of several mm per year over the last few million years. GPS data give similar rates of present-day movement of the Arabian Plate relative to the Africa Plate. It has also been proposed that the fault zone is a rift system that is an incipient oceanic spreading center, the northern extension of the Red Sea Rift.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985951", "title": "Transnationalism", "text": "Transnationalism\n\nTransnationalism is a scholarly research agenda and social phenomenon grown out of the heightened interconnectivity between people and the receding economic and social significance of boundaries among nation states. \n\nThe term \"Trans-National\" was popularized in the early 20th century by writer Randolph Bourne to describe a new way of thinking about relationships between cultures. However, the term itself was coined by a colleague in college. Merriam-Webster Dictionary states 1921 was the year the term \"transnational\" was first used in print, which was after Bourne's death.\n\nTransnationalism as an economic process involves the global reorganization of the production process, in which various stages of the production of any product can occur in various countries, typically with the aim of minimizing costs. Economic transnationalism, commonly known as globalization, was spurred in the latter half of the 20th century by the development of the internet and wireless communication, as well as the reduction in global transportation costs caused by containerization. Multinational corporations could be seen as a form of transnationalism, in that they seek to minimize costs, and hence maximize profits, by organizing their operations in the most efficient means possible irrespective of political boundaries.\n\nProponents of capitalists transnationalism seek to facilitate the flow of people, ideas, and goods among regions. They believe that it has increasing relevance with the rapid growth of capitalist globalization. They contend that it does not make sense to link specific nation-state boundaries with for instance migratory workforces, globalized corporations, global money flow, global information flow, and global scientific cooperation. However, critical theories of transnationalism have argued that transnational capitalism has occurred through the increasing monopolization and centralization of capital by leading dominant groups in the global economy and various power blocs. Scholars critical of global capitalism (and its global ecological and inequality crises) have argued instead for a transnationalism from below between workers and co-operatives as well as popular social and political movements.\n\nTransnationalism as concept, theory and experience has nourished an important literature in social sciences. In practice transnationalism refers to increasing functional integration of processes that cross-borders or according to others trans bordered relations of individuals, groups, firms and to mobilizations beyond state boundaries. Individuals, groups, institutions and states interact with each other in a new global space where cultural and political characteristic of national societies are combined with emerging multilevel and multinational activities. Transnationalism is a part of the process of capitalist globalization. The concept of transnationalism refers to multiple links and interactions linking people and institutions across the borders of nation-states. Although much of the more recent literature has focused on popular protest as a form of transnational activism, some research has also drawn attention to clandestine and criminal networks, as well as foreign fighters, as examples of a wider form of transnationalism.\n\nSome have argued that diasporas, such as the overseas Chinese, are a historical precursor to modern transnationalism. However, unlike some people with transnationalist lives, most diasporas have not been voluntary. The field of diaspora politics does consider modern diasporas as having the potential to be transnational political actors. While the term \"transnationalism\" emphasizes the ways in which nations are no longer able to contain or control the disputes and negotiations through which social groups annex a global dimension to their meaningful practices, the notion of diaspora brings to the fore the racial dynamics underlying the international division of labor and the economic turmoil of global capital. In an article published in 2006, Asale Angel-Ajani claimed that \"there is the possibility within diaspora studies to move away from the politically sanitized discourse that surrounds transnational studies\". Since African diaspora studies have focused on racial formation, racism, and white supremacy, diaspora theory has the potential to bring to transnationalism \"a varied political, if not radical political, perspective to the study of transnational processes and—globalization\".\n\nDifferent approaches have attempted to explain this. Some argue that the main driver of transnationalism has been the development of technologies that have made transportation and communication more accessible and affordable, thus dramatically changing the relationship between people and places. It is now possible for immigrants to maintain closer and more frequent contact with their home societies than ever before.\nHowever, the integration of international migrations to the demographic future of many developed countries is another important driver for transnationalism. Beyond simply filling a demand for low-wage workers, migration also fills the demographic gaps created by declining natural populations in most industrialized countries. Today, migration accounts for 3/5 of population growth on western countries as a whole. And this trend shows no sign of slowing down. \nMoreover, global political transformations and new international legal regimes have weakened the state as the only legitimate source of rights. Decolonization, coupled with the fall of communism and the ascendance of human rights, have forced states to take account of persons qua persons, rather than persons qua citizens. As a result, individuals have rights regardless of their citizenship status within a country.\nOthers, from a neo-Marxist approach, argue that transnational class relations have come about which have occurred concomitant with novel organizational and technological advancements and the spread of transnational chains of production and finance.\n\nWhen immigrants engage in transnational activities, they create \"social fields\" that link their original country with their new country or countries of residence. \"We have defined transnationalism as the process by which immigrants build social fields that link together their country of origin and their country of settlement\". These social fields are the product of a series of interconnected and overlapping economic, political, and socio-cultural activities:\n\nEconomic transnational activities such as business investments in home countries and monetary remittances are both pervasive and well documented. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) estimates that in 2006 immigrants living in developed countries sent home the equivalent of $300 billion in remittances, an amount more than double the level of international aid. This intense influx of resources may mean that for some nations development prospects become inextricably linked—if not dependent upon—the economic activities of their respective diasporas.\n\nPolitical transnational activities can range from retained membership in political parties in one’s country of origin and voting in its elections to even running for political office. Less formal but still significant roles include the transfer or dissemination of political ideas and norms, such as publishing an op-ed in a home country newspaper, writing a blog, or lobbying a local elected official. There is also the more extreme example of individuals such as Jesus Galvis, a travel agent in New Jersey who in 1997 ran for a Senate seat in his native Colombia. He was elected and intended to hold office simultaneously in Bogota and Hackensack, New Jersey where he served as a city councilor.\n\nThe rise of global capitalism has occurred through a novel and increasingly functional integration of capitalist chains of production and finance across borders which is tied to the formation of a transnational capitalist class. This approach has led to a broader study of corporate networks, the global working class and the transnationalization of state apparatuses and elites.\n\nTransnationalism is an analytic lens used to understand immigrant and minority populations as a meeting of multiple simultaneous histories. Socio-cultural transnational activities cover a wide array of social and cultural transactions through which ideas and meanings are exchanged. Recent research has established the concept and importance of social remittances which provide a distinct form of social capital between migrants living abroad and those who remain at home. These transfers of socio-cultural meanings and practices occur either during the increased number of visits that immigrants take back to their home countries or visits made by non-migrants to friends and families living in the receiving countries or through the dramatically increased forms of correspondence such as emails, online chat sessions, telephone calls, CDs/ VDOs, and traditional letters.\n\nIn the late 1980s, ethnic studies scholars would largely move towards models of diaspora to understand immigrant communities in relation to area studies, although lone patterns of international flow would become accompanied by the multiple flows of transnationalism. However, to say that immigrants build social fields that link those abroad with those back home is not to say that their lives are not firmly rooted in a particular place and time. Indeed, they are as much residents of their new community as anyone else.\n\nTransnationalism is criticized for being too far removed from ethnic studies' efforts to empower solidarity in minority communities. Asian American Studies provides a counterargument in that its inception was based in comparative analysis of the racial discrimination against Asian Americans and Vietnamese during the Vietnam War. Furthermore, inter-movement spillover plays an important role in transnational climate change politics.\nBased off these findings, one can conclude that when movements come together in the form of actors and social change tactics, movements become stronger and more prominent. This is the purpose and overall effect of inter-movement spillover.\n\nTransnationalism has significant implications for the way we conceptualize immigration. Traditionally, immigration has been seen as an autonomous process, driven by conditions such as poverty and overpopulation in the country of origin and unrelated to conditions (such as foreign policy and economic needs) in the receiving country. Even though overpopulation, economic stagnation, and poverty all continue to create pressures for migration, they alone are not enough to produce large international migration flows. There are many countries, for example, which lack significant emigration history despite longstanding poverty. Also, most international immigration flows from the global South to the global North are not made up by the poorest of the poor, but, generally by professionals. In addition, there are countries with high levels of job creation that continue to witness emigration on a large scale.\n\nThe reasons and promoters for migration are not only embodied within the country of origin. Instead, they are rooted within the broader geopolitical and global dynamics. Significant evidence of geographic migration patterns suggests that receiving countries become home to immigrants from the receiving country's zone of influence. Then, immigration is but a fundamental component of the process of capitalist expansion, market penetration, and globalization. There are systematic and structural relations between globalization and immigration.\n\nThe emergence of a global economy has contributed both to the creation of potential emigrants abroad and to the formation of economic, cultural, and ideological links between industrialized and developing countries that later serve as bridges for the international migration. For example, the same set of circumstances and processes that have promoted the location of factories and offices abroad have also contributed to the creation of large supply of low-wage jobs for which immigrant workers constitute a desirable labor supply. Moreover, the decline of manufacturing jobs and the growth of the service sector, key drivers of the globalization of production, have transformed western economies’ occupational and income structure.\n\nUnlike the manufacturing sector, which traditionally supplied middle-income jobs and competitive benefits, the majority of service jobs are either extremely well-paid or extremely poorly paid, with relatively few jobs in the middle-income range. Many of the jobs lack key benefits such as health insurance. Sales representatives, restaurant wait staff, administrative assistants, and custodial workers are among the growth occupations.\n\nFinally, the fact that the major growth sectors rather than declining sectors are generating the most low-wage jobs shows that the supply of such jobs will continue to increase for the predictable future. The entry of migrant workers will similarly continue to meet the demand. In turn, this inflow provides the raw material out of which transnational communities emerge.\n\nTransnational organizations include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985954", "title": "Poka-yoke", "text": "Poka-yoke\n\nMore broadly, the term can refer to any behavior-shaping constraint designed into a process to prevent incorrect operation by the user. \n\nA simple poka-yoke example is demonstrated when a driver of the car equipped with a manual gearbox must press on the clutch pedal (a process step, therefore a poka-yoke) prior to starting an automobile. The interlock serves to prevent unintended movement of the car. Another example of poka-yoke would be the car equipped with an automatic transmission, which has a switch that requires the car to be in \"Park\" or \"Neutral\" before the car can be started (some automatic transmissions require the brake pedal to be depressed as well). These serve as behavior-shaping constraints as the action of \"car in Park (or Neutral)\" or \"foot depressing the clutch/brake pedal\" must be performed before the car is allowed to start. The requirement of a depressed brake pedal to shift most of the cars with an automatic transmission from \"Park\" to any other gear is yet another example of a poka-yoke application. Over time, the driver's behavior is conformed with the requirements by repetition and habit.\n\nThe term poka-yoke was applied by Shigeo Shingo in the 1960s to industrial processes designed to prevent human errors. Shingo redesigned a process in which factory workers, while assembling a small switch, would often forget to insert the required spring under one of the switch buttons. In the redesigned process, the worker would perform the task in two steps, first preparing the two required springs and placing them in a placeholder, then inserting the springs from the placeholder into the switch. When a spring remained in the placeholder, the workers knew that they had forgotten to insert it and could correct the mistake effortlessly.\n\nShingo distinguished between the concepts of inevitable human mistakes and defects in the production. Defects occur when the mistakes are allowed to reach the customer. The aim of poka-yoke is to design the process so that mistakes can be detected and corrected immediately, eliminating defects at the source.\n\nPoka-yoke can be implemented at any step of a manufacturing process where something can go wrong or an error can be made. For example, a fixture that holds pieces for processing might be modified to only allow pieces to be held in the correct orientation, or a digital counter might track the number of spot welds on each piece to ensure that the worker executes the correct number of welds.\n\nShigeo Shingo recognized three types of poka-yoke for detecting and preventing errors in a mass production system:\n\n\nEither the operator is alerted when a mistake is about to be made, or the poka-yoke device actually prevents the mistake from being made. In Shingo's lexicon, the former implementation would be called a \"warning\" poka-yoke, while the latter would be referred to as a \"control\" poka-yoke.\n\nShingo argued that errors are inevitable in any manufacturing process, but that if appropriate poka-yokes are implemented, then mistakes can be caught quickly and prevented from resulting in defects. By eliminating defects at the source, the cost of mistakes within a company is reduced.\n\nA methodic approach to build up poka-yoke countermeasures has been proposed by the Applied Problem Solving (APS) methodology, which consists of a three-step analysis of the risks to be managed:\nThis approach can be used to emphasize the technical aspect of finding effective solutions during brainstorming sessions.\n\nA typical feature of poka-yoke solutions is that they don't let an error in a process happen. Other advantages include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985956", "title": "Veterans for America", "text": "Veterans for America\n\nVeterans for America is \"an advocacy and humanitarian organization that works with its affiliate group, the Justice Project to engage the American public in support of policies addressing the needs of veterans, those currently in the armed services, and victims of war overseas, and to develop initiatives to make the world more secure.\"\n\nAccording to the Foundation Center's \"Philanthropy News Digest\", Veterans for America is an outgrowth of the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, founded in 1980 by veterans Bobby Muller and John Terzano. The group merged with Veterans for Common Sense for a time in 2006, and the combined group was renamed Veterans for America in 2006.\n\nThe veterans' advocate Steve Robinson, a twenty-year Army Veteran and former Army Ranger, was the director of Veterans for America for a period. Robinson advocated on behalf of soldiers with post-traumatic stress disorder at Fort Carson in Colorado who had been pushed out of the U.S. military via administrative discharges for \"personality disorders\" (which, unlike medical retirements for PTSD, disqualifies them from receiving health benefits). As Veterans for America director, Robinson gave testified at congressional hearings and pressured the Government Accountability Office to investigate. Robinson also testified before Congress several times following the Walter Reed Army Medical Center neglect scandal in 2007; Robinson pushed to reduce long \"the long wait times and bureaucratic tangles servicemembers faced as they waited for medical retirement after being injured in Iraq or Afghanistan.\" Robinson died in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985958", "title": "Curt Siodmak", "text": "Curt Siodmak\n\nCurt Siodmak (August 10, 1902 – September 2, 2000) was a German-American novelist and screenwriter. He is known for his work in the horror and science fiction film genres, with such films as \"The Wolf Man\" and \"Donovan's Brain\" (the latter adapted from his novel of the same name). He was the younger brother of noir director Robert Siodmak.\n\nSiodmak was born Kurt Siodmak in Dresden, Germany, the son of Rosa Philippine (née Blum) and Ignatz Siodmak. His parents were both from Jewish families in Leipzig. Siodmak acquired a degree in mathematics before beginning to write novels. He invested early royalties earned by his first books in the 1929 movie \"Menschen am Sonntag\", a documentary-style chronicle of the lives of four Berliners on a Sunday based on their own lives. The movie was co-directed by Curt Siodmak's older brother Robert Siodmak and Edgar G. Ulmer, with a script by Billy Wilder in collaboration with Fred Zinnemann and cameraman Eugen Schüfftan. Siodmak was the nephew of film producer Seymour Nebenzal, who funded \"Menschen am Sonntag\" with funds borrowed from his father, Heinrich Nebenzahl.\n\nIn the following years Siodmak wrote many novels, screenplays, and short stories, including the novel \"F.P.1 antwortet nicht\" (\"F.P.1 Doesn't Answer\") (1932) which was adapted into a film featuring Hans Albers and Peter Lorre.\n\nSiodmak decided to emigrate after hearing an anti-Semitic tirade by the Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels, and departed for England where he made a living as a screenwriter before moving to the United States in 1937. His big break in Hollywood came with the screenplay for \"The Wolf Man\" (1941), starring Lon Chaney, Jr., which established this fictional creature as the most popular movie monster after Dracula and Frankenstein's monster. In the film, Siodmak created several werewolf \"legends\" — being marked by a pentagram; being practically immortal apart from being struck/shot by silver implements/bullets; and the famous verse:\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nSiodmak's science-fiction novel \"Donovan's Brain\" (1942) was a bestseller that was translated into many languages and was adapted for the cinema several times, beginning in 1943 with \"The Lady and the Monster,\" then 1953's \"Donovan's Brain\" and 1962's \"The Brain.\" Other films he wrote the screenplays for include \"Earth vs. the Flying Saucers\", \"I Walked with a Zombie\" and \"The Beast with Five Fingers.\" An extensive interview with Siodmak about his career in both Germany and Hollywood is found in Eric Leif Davin's \"Pioneers of Wonder.\" In the plots of his work, Siodmak utilised the latest scientific findings combining those with pseudo-scientific motifs like the Jekyll and Hyde complex, the Nazi trauma and the East–West dichotomy.\n\nIn 1998, he won the Berlinale Camera at the 48th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nSiodmak died in his sleep on September 2, 2000, at his home in Three Rivers, California.\n\n\n\n\nScreenwriter\nActor\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985962", "title": "Toby Stevenson", "text": "Toby Stevenson\n\nToby \"Crash\" Stevenson (born November 19, 1976 in Odessa, Texas) is an Olympic class pole vaulter from the United States. He is known for being the only pole vaulter in the international elite to wear a helmet during jumps.\n\nWhile attending Permian High School, Stevenson set 24 high school records, taking three district championships, and winning the state title in 1995, when he was also the top-ranked 18-year-old pole vaulter in the world. Stevenson later went on to graduate from Stanford University. He currently coaches pole vault and multi-event athletes, at the University of Washington. Among the athletes he has coached is 2016 Olympic Champion Ekaterini Stefanidi.\n\nSince the fall of 2002, Stevenson has been a resident athlete at the U.S. Olympic Training Center in Chula Vista, California. He won the 2004 Olympic silver medal in pole vaulting, the 2003 Pan American Games gold medal, and the 2004 USA Indoor gold medal.\n\nHe is known for his emotional antics after a successful vault. He played his pole like a guitar after his silver medal vault.\n\nOn Friday, January 29, 2010, he officially retired from pole vaulting at the 2010 National Pole Vault Summit in Reno, NV.\n\nFrom February, 2014, he is working as Head of Activity for Hammarby Athletics in Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nAfter a four-year stint coaching at the University of Kentucky, where he coached Olivia Gruver to her second straight NCAA outdoor title, as well as coaching decathlete Tim Duckworth to both the NCAA decathlon and heptathlon crowns, Stevenson was named associate head track & field coach in charge of the jumps and multi-events at the University of Washington on July 11, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1985965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985965", "title": "Jordan Mancino", "text": "Jordan Mancino\n\nJordan Mancino is an American drummer who was born in Escondido, California. Mancino has played with several notable acts, as the official or as a live member, including As I Lay Dying, Killswitch Engage, and Wovenwar. Mancino, alongside the rest of AILD, have stated that the band may consist of Christians but their music is not just for Christians.\n\nJordan Mancino started his musical career with the band Edge of Mortality which played shows with Born Blind and Cast in Stone, one member went on to join Bleeding Through. He later met his longtime friend Tim Lambesis. The duo were in several acts together including Point of Recognition. The two friends left that band and then formed As I Lay Dying. The two formed the band and released six albums, as well as a compilation of cover songs. In 2009, Mancino joined the supergroup Souls of We.\n\nWhen Lambesis plotted to kill his wife, Mancino, along with AILD's guitarists Phil Sgrosso and Nick Hipa and bassist Josh Gilbert formed a new band called Wovenwar with Shane Blay, Oh, Sleeper's guitarist and vocalist. Mancino recently stated that there is no ill will towards Lambesis. Wovenwar has released two albums, \"Wovenwar\" (2014) and \"Honor Is Dead\" (2016). In 2016, Mancino filled in for Unearth drummer Nick Pierce for a brief time. Mancino has released several play-through videos, including \"Anodyne Sea\". In 2017, it was reported that Lambesis resurrected AILD with all new members. It was also stated that none of the original members, including Mancino, would return to the lineup. However in June 2018, it was confirmed the lineup of Mancino, Hipa, Sgrosso, Gilbert and Lambesis have reunited.\n\nCurrent\n\n\nLive\n\n\nFormer\n\n\nAs I Lay Dying\n\nWovenwar\n\nSworn Enemy\n\n"}
{"id": "1985984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985984", "title": "Big Brother (British series 1)", "text": "Big Brother (British series 1)\n\nBig Brother, also retrospectively known as Big Brother 1, was the first series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\". The show followed eleven contestants, known as housemates, who were isolated from the outside world for an extended period of time in a custom built House. Each week, one or more of the housemates were evicted by a public vote. The last remaining housemate, Craig Phillips, was declared the winner, winning a cash prize of £70,000.\n\nThe series lasted 64 days and was presented by Davina McCall. It launched on Channel 4 on 18 July 2000 and ended on 15 September 2000. Ten housemates entered on the first day, with one additional housemate being introduced in the sixth week. The series was watched by an average of 4.5 million viewers. It became the subject of intense press attention throughout its broadcast, and gained particular notoriety after one housemate, Nick Bateman, was ejected from the House for breaking the rules.\n\nThe series first launched in Netherlands, with editions in countries such as Germany proving to be hits with the public. Following the success of the show, it was confirmed that editions for the United States and the United Kingdom were in the works. Andre Anten, who was one of the directors for the original show, said the show was \"like live soap... you don't know what is going to happen and that is amazing.\" In March 2000, it was confirmed that the show had been picked up by Channel 4, and would air in July. Casting for the series began that same month, with applications being available on the official website. Applicants who were shortlisted during the casting process underwent psychological analysis and received a nominal fee for the process. It was reported that the show received over 40,000 applications, and the housemates selected to compete in the series were kept secret until they entered the House. The series featured a live feed, which provided 24-hour coverage of the housemates. To comply with broadcasting standards, the live feed was under an estimated ten-minute delay. Commissioning editor Liz Warner said of the feeds \"There's a delay on the web feed, so there's an over-ride [...] We will observe the family viewing policy before the watershed, and make sure we stick to ITC guidelines all the time.\"\nDavina McCall was announced as the host of the show in April 2000. When asked on her feelings when joining the show, McCall stated \"It's a lottery whether you take a show on or not, but you have to ask yourself, 'Would I be interested in seeing the show?' I saw a copy of the show from Holland and I loved it - fascinating viewing.\" The housemates entered the House on 14 July 2000. The live feed launched that day, though the series did not premiere on television until 18 July 2000. The series featured five men and five women who entered the House on the first night, however, a female later entered the house to replace an ejected housemate. Among the group was Anna Nolan, a lesbian who had previously been a nun prior to entering the House. Housemate Andrew \"Andy\" Davidson admitted to appearing on a live sex show, while Caroline O'Shea had previously worked in a gay bar and sold sex toys. Craig Phillips owned his own building company, while Nick Bateman was a broker. Darren Ramsay was the only housemate this series to have a child. The logo for the series featured a close-up of Melanie Hill's eye, with this being the only season to use a housemate for the official logo.\n\nThe first series aired for a total of six days per week, with an episode airing every night excluding Saturday. The shows airing each week were all highlights from the previous day in the House. Two episodes of the series aired on Friday. During the first episode, viewers were shown the highlights from the previous day and McCall revealed the housemate who had been evicted from the House. Two hours following this, the second episode of the night aired which saw the evicted housemate exit the House and participate in an interview with McCall. One of the highlight episodes per week featured a team of psychologists discussing the events of the previous week from their viewpoint. \"Big Brother 1\" lasted for a total of 64 days, officially ending on 15 September 2000. Lasting for 64 days, the series is tied with the second, third, fourth, and twelfth series as the shortest series of the show since its inception. The series had a total of 52 episodes, the fewest episodes for any series thus far. The theme song for the series was produced by Elementfour, and was used for the series intro as well as promotional tools. The series saw the \"Little Brother\" segment air during select episodes.\n\nFor the first series, the House was located in Bow, London near the 3 Mills Studios. The House used was a one-story house with two bedrooms, a kitchen and dining room, and one bathroom. Throughout the House, there were cameras and microphones spread throughout the rooms, making all areas of the House visible to the cameras. During their stay in the House, the housemates were required to wear microphones at all times, ensuring everything they said in the House was heard. Throughout the House there were two way mirrors lined against the walls, with a production team filming behind them. The bedrooms featured infrared imaging cameras, allowing the cameras to continue filming while the lights were off. The bedrooms in the house were divided amongst the men and women. The Diary Room was where housemates were required to share their thoughts on the events in the house, and were often given tasks. The backyard of the house featured a patio area where the housemates could sit outside. The backyard also featured a chicken coop, and the housemates were able to use the eggs from the chickens as food. The housemates discovered a jacuzzi in the garden several weeks into the series.\n\n\"Big Brother\" was a game show in which a group of contestants, referred to as housemates, lived in isolation from the outside world in a custom built \"house\", constantly under video surveillance. During their time in the House, the housemates were required to nominate two of their fellow contestants for potential eviction, and the two or more with the most votes would be nominated. This process was mandatory for all housemates, and failure to comply could result in ejection from the house. Despite this, should a housemate enter the House following the launch, they are immune from the first round of nominations they are present for. The public, through a vote conducted by phone, would vote to evict one of the nominated housemates from the House, and the housemate with the most votes from the viewers would be evicted from the House. When only three housemates remained, the public would vote for which of them should win the series, and the housemates with the most votes would become the winner. The housemates were competing for a £70,000 cash prize.\n\nDuring their time in the House, housemates were given weekly tasks to perform. The housemates would wager a portion of their weekly shopping budget on the task, and would either win double their wagered fund or lose the wagered fund depending on their performance in the task. The housemates were required to work as a group to complete the task, with the format of the tasks varying based on the number of remaining housemates. Should the housemates run out of the food provided for them, an emergency ration was available to them. The housemates were forbidden from discussing nominations, and doing so could result in punishment. The format of the series was mainly seen as a social experiment, and required housemates to interact with others who may have differing ideals, beliefs, and prejudices. Housemates were also required to make visits to the Diary Room during their stay in the House, where they were able to share their thoughts and feelings on their fellow housemates and the game. While in the House, the housemates are free to leave at any time, however, will not be allowed to return to the House. Similarly, a housemate can be removed from the House by production should they repeatedly break the rules set for the housemates. Should a housemate choose to leave the House or be ejected, a replacement housemate will enter the House sometime after their departure. Upon entering the House, new housemates are exempt from the first round of nominations they are present for.\n\nFollowing its premiere, \"Big Brother 1\" was met with a positive commercial response. The first eviction episode of the series saw a total of 3.4 million viewers, and an estimated 387,000 votes for that week's eviction. The number of voters for the second eviction saw a dramatic increase, with over 900,000 votes being cast between Andrew and Caroline. It was later reported that over 1.4 million viewers voted during the third round of nominations, with evicted housemate Caroline receiving nearly two-thirds of the vote. Nick's ejection was noted as a key point in the series, and helped bring further attention to the series. The episode featuring Nick's ejection was viewed by an estimated 6.9 million viewers, while a previous episode airing that same week garnered 3.4 million viewers. The fourth eviction vote received slightly over 1 million votes. The following week's eviction vote garnered over 1.2 million votes. During the month of July, the series' main website, where the live feeds were viewable, had been viewed by 874,000 users since it began. In August, it was reported that the website was receiving up to 150,000 viewers per day for an estimated fifteen minutes. During the eighth week, a total of 3.3 million votes were cast, with an estimated 2.2 million of them being cast against housemate Melanie Hill. The live series final brought in some of the channel's highest ratings at the time, with an estimated ten million viewers watching the final.\n\nThe series quickly became a source of controversy following its launch, with the show's format being noted as physically and mentally straining. Housemate Nick Bateman was the source of much controversy during his stay in the house. It was later reported that Nick had smuggled a mobile phone into the House, and was using it to receive information from the outside world. Production later searched the House, including Nick's belongings, though no mobile phone was found. On Day 24, a model helicopter was flown over the garden and dropped approximately forty leaflets into the House requesting that Nick be nominated for eviction; the leaflets were removed before the housemates discovered them. On Day 35, it was revealed that Nick had attempted to manipulate the nomination process, which is strictly forbidden in the rules, and Nick was subsequently removed from the house for his actions. Following the revelation that Nick had manipulated the voting, a pen and paper were found in his belongings. Nick's ejection from the house garnered much media attention.\n\nDuring the eighth week in the House, housemates Craig, Darren, and Melanie were nominated for eviction. Following the announcement, a rogue e-mail was sent out to random e-mail addresses promising a holiday vacation to anyone who dialed the listed number; in actuality, the number was the line to evict Melanie from the House. Despite some controversy over the vote, it was confirmed that the e-mail had had only a small effect on the voting process as Melanie had received nearly 1.8 million more votes than Darren, who came in second in the vote. Upon exiting the House, numerous housemates expressed their disappointment with the series. Housemate Sada criticized the show following her eviction, and claimed that she had been portrayed as a \"dippy hippy\" rather than her true self. Melanie expressed similar displeasure with the way she was depicted on the show, and later criticized the series for \"making storylines that weren't happening.\" She elaborated by stating \"When I watched the tapes I understood that stories and storylines were made to fit any piece of footage into the storyboard and or the caricature that we were portrayed or playing. [...] It was foolish of me to think that they would give a fair portrayal of every single person.\" Housemate Nick Bateman later criticized Endemol for \"leaving them high and dry\", and later stated that they were unprepared for the way that the series affected their personal lives. He later commented that they only received one visit from the show's psychiatrist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985985", "title": "Big Brother (British series 2)", "text": "Big Brother (British series 2)\n\nBig Brother 2001, also known as Big Brother 2, was the second series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\". The show followed eleven contestants, known as housemates, who were isolated from the outside world for an extended period of time in a custom built House. Each week, one or more of the housemates were evicted by a public vote. The last remaining housemate, Brian Dowling, was declared the winner, winning a cash prize of £70,000.\n\nAs with the previous series, \"Big Brother 2\" lasted 64 days. It launched on Channel 4 on 25 May 2001 and ended on 27 July 2001. Davina McCall returned as presenter for her second consecutive year. Ten housemates entered on launch night, with one additional housemate being introduced in the third week. The series was watched by an average of 4.5 million viewers, matching the average viewership of the first series. The Final however attracted Big Brother's most watched rating ever, Which attracted 13.7 million viewers - making it Channel 4's second most watched broadcast. It also spawned \"Big Brother\"'s first ancillary show entitled \"Big Brother's Little Brother\", presented by Dermot O'Leary.\n\nIn 2010, Dowling was voted by the public as Big Brother's \"Ultimate Housemate\", after winning \"Ultimate Big Brother\", the final series of the show to air on Channel 4. When \"Big Brother\" moved to Channel 5 in 2011, he replaced McCall as presenter, and remained in the role until 2013.\n\n\"Big Brother\" first began airing in the Netherlands, while editions in countries such as Germany proving to be hits with the public. Following the success of the show, it was confirmed that editions for the United States and the United Kingdom were in the works. \"Big Brother 1\" (2000) proved to be a ratings success for Channel 4, leading to the announcement of a second series. Prior to \"Big Brother 2\", a celebrity edition of the show aired on Channel 4. Rumors of a second series began in September 2000, when it was confirmed that Channel 5 and ITV were both interested in acquiring the series. Casting for \"Big Brother 2\" began in late 2000. Candidates for the new series were able to apply at open casting calls, sending in a video audition, or a telephone hotline. In December 2000, it was reported that more than 250,000 applications had been sent in; the first season received an estimated 40,000 applications. The live feed returned for this series, with a total of four feeds available on the Channel 4 site. The feed was cut for an estimated two hours nightly, and featured a delay for privacy reasons.\n\nDavina McCall returned to present the series after presenting the prior series. The original ten housemates entered the house on 25 May 2001. Amongst the cast this series was Amma Antwi-Agyei, a stripper who wanted to \"show Britain that not all strippers are the Jerry Springer stereotype.\" Housemate Elizabeth Woodcock was dating an older man prior to appearing on the series, while Dean O'Laughlin had been in a band that toured across the United States before being dropped by their record label. Brian Dowling was the first openly gay male to appear on the series, with Josh Rafter also being gay. This season featured a total of five women and six men.\n\nThe series launched on 25 May 2001 on Channel 4. There were a total of four highlight shows airing Monday through Thursday, with Friday being a live eviction episode presented by Davina McCall. Two episodes of the series aired on Friday. During the first episode, viewers were shown the highlights from the previous day and McCall revealed the housemate who had been evicted from the House. Two hours following this, the second episode of the night aired which saw the evicted housemate exit the House and participate in an interview with McCall. One of the highlight episodes per week featured a team of psychologists discussing the events of the previous week from their viewpoint. The series lasted for 64 days, concluding on 27 July 2001. There were a total of 55 episodes this series. This was the first season to feature the spin-off series \"Big Brother's Little Brother\" (2001–10), presented by Dermot O'Leary; Natalie Casey co-presented the series with O'Leary during the first week. \"Big Brother Reveals More\" (2001) aired solely during this series, and saw the major plot points of the past week being recapped.\n\nThe series was the first to be sponsored by BT Cellnet (who have, since 2002, been called O2) they remained sponsors until the fourth series in 2003.\n\nFor the first two series, the house was located in Bow, London near to the 3 Mills Studios. The second series had a bigger budget, and the house used was renovated for a new look. Despite a similar layout to the original house, the decorations and furniture were completely different. The new House had a \"Cabin fever\" theme, as the format of the show was similar to the feeling of having cabin fever. With this theme, there were wooden walls throughout the majority of the house. There was a living room, where important news such as nominations were revealed to the housemates. The kitchen remained simple, with only necessities such as an oven, fridge, and sink. In the \"Diary Room\", in which housemates may speak privately and reveal their true feelings to the public, there is a more interesting look to it. The background of the room has the appearance of a garage door, with the \"Big Brother\" eye logo imprinted on it. Like the previous season, there is a men's and women's bedroom, each with five beds in them. One of the five in each room is larger than all of the others. Unlike the previous season, however, the men and women were allowed to choose which bedroom belonged to which gender. The outside of the house features a chicken coop, with seven hens and one rooster. The housemates must care for the chickens during their stay in the house, and must also use the eggs from the chickens to eat, otherwise they must use some of their budget to buy eggs. The house also features a garden, which the housemates use to grow plants and vegetables to eat. The Housemates were later given a hot tub to use in the backyard, placed close to the garden. A new feature this year was the addition of the den outside, a small area in the backyard in which housemates could enter to lounge and speak to one another. There were no couches or seats, but there were various pillows scattered around.\n\n\"Big Brother\" was a game show in which a group of contestants, referred to as housemates, lived in isolation from the outside world in a custom built \"house\", constantly under video surveillance. During their time in the House, the housemates were required to nominate two of their fellow contestants for potential eviction, and the two or more with the most votes would be nominated. This process was mandatory for all housemates, and failure to comply could result in ejection from the house. Despite this, should a housemate enter the House following the launch, they are immune from the first round of nominations they are present for. The public, through a vote conducted by phone, would vote to evict one of the nominated housemates from the House, and the housemate with the most votes from the viewers would be evicted from the House. When only four housemates remained, the public would vote for which of them should win the series, and the housemates with the most votes would become the winner. The housemates were competing for a £70,000 cash prize.\nBooks, allowed in Series 1, were banned in Series 2.\nDuring their time in the House, housemates were given weekly tasks to perform. The housemates would wager a portion of their weekly shopping budget on the task, and would either win double their wagered fund or lose the wagered fund depending on their performance in the task. The housemates were required to work as a group to complete the task, with the format of the tasks varying based on the number of remaining housemates. Should the housemates run out of the food provided for them, an emergency ration was available to them. The housemates were forbidden from discussing nominations, and doing so could result in punishment. The format of the series was mainly seen as a social experiment, and required housemates to interact with others who may have differing ideals, beliefs, and prejudices. Housemates were also required to make visits to the Diary Room during their stay in the House, where they were able to share their thoughts and feelings on their fellow housemates and the game. While in the House, the housemates are free to leave at any time, however, will not be allowed to return to the House. Similarly, a housemate can be removed from the House by production should they repeatedly break the rules set for the housemates. Should a housemate choose to leave the House or be ejected, a replacement housemate will enter the House sometime after their departure. Upon entering the House, new housemates are exempt from the first round of nominations they are present for.\n\nOn Day 1, the original ten housemates - Bubble, Amma, Helen, Narinder, Stuart, Dean, Brian, Penny, Paul and Elizabeth - entered the house. During the first night, the housemates were informed by Big Brother that the Den had been unlocked, and they could now enter it. Upon entering, they found a dummy and a note, stating that an eleventh housemate would enter shortly after the first eviction. The public then learned that they could vote for either Anne, Josh, or Natasha to enter the game. On Day 2, they were given their first weekly task. They were required to build a fire in the backyard by noon, and had to keep it lit for a consecutive 120 hours - five days. The fire had to be watched by two or more housemates at all times. They wagered 30% of their weekly budget on the task. On Day 5, the group failed the task as Helen left Elizabeth alone with the fire. They were informed of their loss a few days later. On Day 6, Helen celebrated her 23rd birthday in the house. She was given the choice of two presents: either taking a Gucci handbag and shoes or taking a party for the house. She decided to take the party for the house, which they had later that night.\n\nOn Day 8, it was revealed that the public had chosen Josh to enter the game, and that he would remain cut off from the outside world until he entered the game. Later that night, the Housemates participated in the first live nominations of the series, which resulted in Helen and Penny being the first Housemates to be nominated for eviction this season. Brian, Stuart, and Dean had no nominations cast against them, while Penny and Helen had the most nominations with five each. The task for this week was to learn first-aid, something which Brian had already had to learn as a flight attendant. The housemates had to treat injured \"people\" on the assessment day. Due to Brian's knowledge on the topic, the Housemates felt confident in their ability to do well, and wagered 60% of their weekly budget on the task. The Housemates passed this task a few days later. On Day 14, Bubble celebrated his 25th birthday in the house. This made him the second person this season to celebrate their birthday in the house, after Helen. On Day 15, Penny became the first Housemate to be evicted, receiving 58% of the public vote.\n\nOn Day 16, new Housemate Josh entered the game through the Diary Room. His entrance came as a surprise for the other Housemates, who were not aware he would be entering that day. On Day 17, the house were given a jacuzzi in the backyard, which they could use on their own free will. Later that day, they were given their new task which required them to learn ten facts about their fellow Housemates. They wagered 40% of the shopping budget on this task. On Day 18, the Housemates participated in the second nominations of the season. As a new housemate, Josh was exempt from making nominations or being nominated this week. Ultimately, both Stuart and Paul received four nominations each, and were nominated for eviction. Elizabeth, Dean, and Brian received no nominations this week, while Stuart and Paul both had the highest number of nominations. On Day 20, Brian celebrated his 23rd birthday in the house. The Housemates passed this task, as only Josh failed his part of the task. On Day 22, Stuart became the second HouseGuest to be evicted, having received 86% of the public vote.\n\nOn Day 23, Housemates were given their fourth weekly task, which was to adopt an individual dance and perform it on request from Big Brother at any time between 8am and 2am for 5 days. Each Housemate would grab a partner when instructed, and would have 20 minutes to make it to the stage. Each Housemate would pick a genre, and had to be outside for that genre. Each genre of music also had a specific dance move that the participants had to perform at least three times during the dance. They wagered 10% of their weekly budget on this task. On Day 25, the Housemates participated in the third set of weekly nominations. This week resulted in Paul being nominated for the second time in a row, this time with Narinder. Helen, Dean, and Elizabeth had no nominations cast against them this week, while Narinder received the most with six nominations. That night, Bubble injured himself in an attempt to get to the stage in time, and thus no longer had to participate in the task. On Day 27, the Housemates performed a task in which they had to design hats for one another. They later earned food and drinks for the task. The housemates failed their weekly task when Josh was not on the platform on time during a group dance. Narinder became the third Housemate evicted on Day 29, having received 62% of the public vote against Paul.\n\nThe fifth weekly task was for Housemates to attempt to set a new Guinness World Record by the end of the week. There were four records total that they could break, and they would perform one task each day in an attempt to break the record. They would only pass the task if they broke one or more of the records. The group decided to wager 10% of their weekly shopping budget on the task. On Day 32, Housemates participated in the fourth set of nominations. Paul was revealed to be a nominee this week for the third consecutive time, having received a nomination from everyone except for Helen. He was nominated against Bubble, who had received three nominations this week. Elizabeth was the only Housemate to receive no nominations this week, making this the third week in a row she has received no nominations. On Day 34, the housemates passed their weekly task because Dean had set the record for the highest sugar cube tower. Though he did not break the world record, Bubble did break the UK record for most sweet corn kernels eaten, breaking the record that had been set since 1988. Elizabeth also celebrated her birthday in the house on this day. Bubble was evicted on Day 36, having received 53% of the public vote. This became the closest eviction vote of the season.\n\nOn Day 37, the Housemates received their new task, in which a dog, a white poodle named Paddy, would be released into the house for four hours every day. While Paddy was in the house, they were required to teach him tricks. They randomly selected eight tricks, which were the tricks they had to teach him. They were provided with a clicker and pieces of chicken to help train Paddy. They wagered 50% of the weekly shopping budget on the task. The Housemates failed their weekly task, as Paddy didn't know how to fetch. Paddy died in June 2008, and 26 June 2008 episode of \"Big Brother 9\" was dedicated to him. On Day 38, Housemates were given the task of making a soap opera based on their time in the house. On Day 39, Housemates participated in their fifth set of nominations. Amma and Paul were nominated for eviction this week, making it the fourth time in a row that Paul has been nominated for eviction. Every Housemate received at least one nomination this week, with Amma and Paul both tying for the most with four nominations each. Brian told the other Housemates that if he wasn't nominated for eviction this week that he would shave his head. On Day 40, following the reveal of the nominations, Dean shaved his head for him. Later that day, two intruders got into the backyard, causing a lockdown to be held. The intruders were immediately taken off the premises, and had no contact with the other Housemates. On Day 43, Amma became the fifth person evicted from the house, having received 64% of the vote against Paul.\n\nOn Day 44, Housemates were given their new weekly task, in which they had to dismantle a drum kit, move it over an obstacle course, and then reassemble it. They were required to complete this task in eight minutes and fifteen seconds, otherwise they would fail the task. Housemates wagered 36.4% on the task. On Day 46, Housemates participated in the sixth round of nominations. For the first time since the first week, Paul was not nominated for eviction. This week, Housemates Helen and Josh were nominated for eviction. Josh received the most nominations that week, having received four, while Helen received three nominations. For the fourth week in the game, Elizabeth received no nominations this week from her fellow Housemates. The Housemates later passed their weekly task, as they finished the course and put together the kit in eight minutes and one second. On Day 50, it was revealed that Josh had been evicted from the house, having received 84% of the public vote.\n\nOn Day 51, Housemates were given their eighth weekly task, which was to play playground games. This included games such as skipping, riding a pogo stick, using a hula-hoop, and using a space hopper. The Housemates had six minutes to complete the task this week. On Day 53, Housemates took part in the final nominations of the season. Helen and Paul were nominated against each other for eviction, with both of them receiving three nominations. All of their fellow Housemates nominated them together for eviction. All of the Housemates received at least one nomination this week. The Housemates failed their weekly task this week, taking over nine minutes to complete the given challenge. On Day 57, Paul became the seventh person evicted from the house, having received 84% of the public vote against Helen. Voting for the winner of the series began following Paul's eviction. On Day 63, in a surprise eviction, Elizabeth was evicted from the house as she received only 2% of the public vote to win. On Day 64, Dean exited the house in third place, receiving 5% of the vote to win. Helen left as the Runner-Up with 39% of the vote, and Brian left as the winner, having received 61% of the public vote to win the series.\n\nWeekly ratings for each show on Channel 4. All numbers are in millions and provided by BARB.\n\nIn the fifth week, when Bubble was nominated against Paul for eviction, Bubble was evicted from the house. His eviction was seen as controversial, when it was uncovered that a phone number posted on the internet advertising news for rival football clubs had actually been falsely set-up, and would register voters to evict Bubble from the House. The vote to evict Bubble was only 53%, thus excluding the votes that were falsely cast, Bubble could have stayed in the game over Paul, who went on to receive fifth place in the series. In total, Bubble received 534,574 votes, while Paul received 470,059. This marked the second time in the series that the voting process had been tampered with, when last series a mass email was sent out that featured a link to evict Housemate Melanie, though it appeared to be a link to claim a free vacation. Much like the previous series as well, this season had controversial moments due to outside interference. A few days before the first round of nominations, two fireworks were let off near the house, and the housemates were immediately sent inside for fear that it could be a secret message for a Housemate. In the fifth week of the game, two intruders broke into the house, and got into the hot tub. The remaining Housemates were put on lockdown, and security removed the intruders from the house immediately. The intrusion led to more security being put on the house. Some controversy also affected the Housemates personal lives. Penny, who was a teacher before entering the house, reportedly upset her boss, who felt her showering nude in the house \"set a bad example for her pupils.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1985986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985986", "title": "Big Brother (British series 3)", "text": "Big Brother (British series 3)\n\nBig Brother 2002, also known as Big Brother 3, was the third series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\". The show followed fourteen contestants, known as housemates, who were isolated from the outside world for an extended period of time in a custom built House. Each week, one or more of the housemates were evicted by a public vote. The last remaining housemate, Kate Lawler, was declared the winner, winning a cash prize of £70,000.\n\nAs with the previous two series, \"Big Brother 3\" lasted 64 days. It launched on Channel 4 on 24 May 2002 and ended on 26 July 2002. Davina McCall returned as presenter for her third consecutive year. Twelve housemates entered on launch night, with two additional housemates being introduced in later weeks.\n\nThe series was watched by an average of 5.8 million viewers, making it the highest viewed series of the show to date. Its finale peaked at 10 million viewers - making it both the 2nd most watched episode of \"Big Brother UK\" and the tenth most watched broadcast by Channel 4 to date.\n\nThe potential housemates applied via home video, successful candidates were invited to further auditions.\n\nDavina McCall returned as host of the weekly eviction show, launch night and finale night. Marcus Bentley narrated the highlight shows, McCall narrated the highlights shown on Friday night, which she did not continue the following year. Dermot O'Leary returned as host of spin-off show Big Brother's Little Brother on E4.\n\nThe series was the first to be sponsored by the newly named O2, the mobile network had sponsored the previous series however with their old name BT Cellnet.\n\nThe series premiered on 24 May 2002, on Channel 4. The contestants were recorded 24 hours a day with cameras fixed around the house, and had to wear portable microphones. \"Big Brother 3\" was the first of the main series to feature a live launch. Previously, \"Celebrity Big Brother 1\" had featured a live launch. The launch night saw Davina give a house tour, as well as discuss rumors that had been going on about the series. She then introduced the new Housemates, and they entered the house live. Channel 4 broadcast a daily highlights show, and from the first week there was a live eviction show hosted by Davina McCall, where the evicted housemate was interviewed. In the nightly highlight episodes, viewers are shown various highlights of a specific day in the house. \"Big Brother 3\" saw the return of the psychiatrists providing commentary on events in the game, with the episodes featuring them being the highlights show after the most recent eviction. The live eviction episode was held on Friday, with a pre-eviction episode and an official eviction episode being held with a 60-minute gap between them. Live coverage was a major part of E4's schedule for the second year running. The season ended on 26 July 2002, lasting for a total of 64 days. \"Big Brother 3\" saw numerous spin-off series' occur while it was on air. The \"Saturday Night Live\" spin-off began this season, and saw Housemates competing in live tasks. It would last until midway through \"Big Brother 5\", when it was axed due to poor ratings. Though not introduced this season, the \"Big Brother's Little Brother\" spin-off continued throughout this season, giving the show its second season. Following this season, the special \"What the Housemates Did Next\" aired, and would later air after every season until \"Big Brother 9\".\n\nThe eye logo for the series was an orange eye with circular shapes evolving from the pupil, with a green background.\n\nThis series saw a number of changes and a number of firsts which would continue in future series: it was the first and only series to issue a 'three strikes and you're out' form of disciplinary, all succeeding series have simply issued formal warnings to a housemate who breaks the rules. Big Brother 3 also started the eviction process not being limited to housemate nominations, in Week 1, the public made the nominations and the housemates made the final decision on who would go, in Week 7, two housemates faced eviction simply for being given video messages from home, future series also began experimenting with the eviction process. The first eviction took place a week earlier than the previous two series', rather than wait two weeks to evict a housemate, the first eviction took place just one week after the housemates entered, evictions in the first week have since become common in subsequent seasons. It was the first non-celebrity series to feature a Live Launch Show - although the previous celebrity series featured one. Previously, 10 housemates would enter the house on Day 1, usually with one other housemate arriving later on in the series, Big Brother 3, saw the arrival of 12 housemates on launch night, two housemates left the house voluntarily - this was the first time this happened, but quitting has become more common over the years - both were replaced by standby contestants, making it the first time to feature more than one non-original housemate, again late entry housemates have become more common in subsequent series. Big Brother 3 saw the house divided into 'Rich/Poor' for four weeks, a live task broadcast on Saturday nights would determine which side the housemates would end up living for the week. The Rich/Poor divide was not used again until the ninth series in 2008, where it was renamed Heaven/Hell.\n\n\"Big Brother 3\" was the first series to be filmed at Elstree Studios, where it still operates as of 2017; interviews with the housemates took place inside the George Lucas Stage and remained here until Ultimate Big Brother in 2010.\n\nThe fourteen Housemates in the game are competing for the grand prize of £70,000. Each week, the Housemates attempted to complete various tasks assigned by Big Brother in exchange for a weekly budget, which they used to buy food and luxuries; this included buying things such as alcohol and cigarettes. \"Big Brother 3\", much like the previous seasons, did not feature luxury competitions or prizes throughout the season. \"Big Brother 3\" did offer prizes to the Housemates such as phone calls and video messages from home.\n\n\"Big Brother 3\" saw the series move to a different location, as Newham London Borough Council ordered the complex to be returned to a natural habitat after planning permissions expired in 2002 for the former house. The \"Big Brother\" house has been located at Elstree Studios, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire since \"Big Brother 3\" onward. The house this season featured a completely different layout and look when compared to the two previous seasons. The house featured vibrant colors such as reds and oranges for both the walls and the furniture. This house was the first to feature stairs going from the front door to the house. On the launch night, host Davina McCall stated that there were numerous arguments over the sofa in the house, and that the one selected was the third to be placed in the house. The kitchen remained simple, with only necessities such as an oven, fridge, and sink. In the \"Diary Room\", in which housemates may speak privately and reveal their true feelings to the public, there is a more interesting look to it. The background of the room has the features the Big Brother logo of an eye in the background, with the chair this season big a bright red. Like the previous editions, there are two bedrooms this season, with Davina referring to one of them as the \"uncomfortable bedroom.\" Like the last season, the men and women chose to sleep in separate bedrooms, though this was not required by the rules. \"Big Brother 3\" saw the return of chickens in the backyard, which was also a feature used in the first two seasons. The chickens are used as a source to get eggs, thus Housemates are not required to buy eggs as part of their shopping list. The house also features a garden, which the housemates use to grow plants and vegetables to eat. This season had a pool in the backyard, making it the first season in which one was provided. Before the season began, there were rumors that a twist this season would see two houses being former, however, Endemol confirmed that this was just a rumor. During the third to sixth week in the house, there was a large plastic gate separating the Poor and Rich sides of the house.\n\n\"Big Brother\" is a game show in which a group of contestants, called housemates, live in isolation from the outside world in a custom built \"house\", which includes everyday facilities such as a fully equipped kitchen, garden, two bedrooms, and a bathroom. The house is also a television studio with cameras and microphones in most of the rooms to record the activities of the housemates. The only place where housemates can escape the company of the other contestants is the Diary Room, where they are encouraged to voice their true feelings. Not all Diary Room footage is broadcast due to the privacy of the contestants. Each week all housemates nominate two of their fellow contestants for potential eviction. Failure to do so may result in a punishment, such as a reduction in the prize fund. The two, or more, housemates with the highest number of nominations face a public vote conducted by phone, with the contestant receiving the most votes being evicted from the house. The last contestant remaining in the house is declared the winner and is awarded a cash prize of £70,000. On eviction night, there were two live eviction shows held. In the first, host Davina McCall would reveal to the housemates who had been evicted from the house, though the percentages were withheld from the group. Following the announcement, the evicted housemate had two hours to pack their belongings and prepare to leave the house. At the start of the second episode, McCall would inform the evicted housemate that they had only moments to walk out the door. Upon exiting through the house's front door, McCall led the evictee into a studio where they met with their family and friends. While in the studio, McCall had an interview with the evicted housemate, and showed their best bits - a video compilation of their time in the house.\n\nOver the duration of the series, the Housemates are given a series of tasks by Big Brother which test them in many ways. They are also put to the test by their own ideals, prejudices and opinions against other people from different walks of life; something that has survived from the original \"social experiment\" of \"Big Brother 1\". They live in the communal House and share cooking and cleaning chores among themselves, which usually provides plenty of tension. Housemates are forbidden to sleep during daylight hours (unless unwell) - Big Brother plays the wake-up call persistently in the morning if housemates do not wake up and will play an alarm clock noise into the house if a housemate falls asleep during the day. Housemates must also live by the fundamental rules of Big Brother; if the rules are broken it can result in formal warnings, various punishments or even a housemate's removal from the House. They must wash their own clothes by hand, and they have to make their own bread from scratch. Each week Big Brother sets the Housemates a task in order to determine the shopping budget for the following week. They must work together to win the tasks in order to win a luxury shopping budget which changed based on the number of people remaining in the house. If all food runs out in the House, Big Brother provides emergency rations of chickpeas and rice. Housemates are responsible for their own shopping and decide which items the budget will allow them to have. Only a small percentage of the overall budget can be spent on alcohol. Each night, the housemates were also given a discussion topic, and they would have group discussions in the living room.\n\nMuch like \"Big Brother 2\", this series featured a twist in the format in an attempt to keep the series interesting. On the first night, it was revealed that all of the Housemates were nominated for eviction, and the public then began voting for who they would like to see leave the house. It was later revealed that the two Housemates with the highest number of eviction votes would be nominated for eviction, and that their fellow Housemates would vote to evict one of them. This resulted in the first eviction of the season occurring on Day 8, the first time that an eviction had occurred this early in the series. Another change in the format this season was the addition of the Rich and Poor sides of the house, in which one side would feature more benefits and luxuries than the other. This season also began using the \"strikes\" system, in which Housemates were allowed to have only three strikes before they were expelled from the series.\n\nWeekly ratings for each show on Channel 4. All numbers are in millions and provided by BARB.\n\nMuch like the previous two editions of the series, \"Big Brother 3\" had controversial moments and issues as well. The main issue this season was with Housemates voluntarily choosing to leave the game. On Day 7, Housemate Sunita chose to walk from the game, stating she \"was feeling claustrophobic\" and the show had effectively deprived contestants of their rights. Housemate Sandy decided to walk from the game on Day 20. Despite agreeing to leave that night through the door, he later climbed over the wall in the backyard and escaped the house. On his decision to walk, Sandy stated \"I went on to the show with no preconceptions. I did what I feel was right and left when I felt it was right to leave.\" Housemates Lee and Sophie also talked about quitting the series, though neither of them did. The Rich and Poor divide caused numerous issues in the house, mainly when Housemate Tim became the only Housemate living on the Rich side for a week. The other Housemates were upset, with PJ later stating that the group should all walk; however, no Housemates left the game due to this issue. The production this season has also been criticized as being too edited, mainly in terms of Housemate Jade Goody. British newspaper \"The Sun\" reported that an insider for the series stated there \"was a deliberate move to keep Jade in the house, because she stirs things up—and to avoid criticism they have turned Jade into a monster.\" They also wrote that \"[p]roducers were ordered to tone down their coverage of her antics amid fears she may crack up or try to sue when she leaves the show and learns how viewers see her.\" These statements were later denied by production. This season was also the first to have controversy surrounding sexual relations in the series. Though no actual sexual intercourse occurred in the house, Housemate Jade later gave Housemate PJ oral sex under the covers, and that same night Housemate Sophie was believed to have done the same with Housemate Lee. There was a debate on whether or not to show the events occurring on the highlight episode, eventually they chose to show them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985987", "title": "Jan Hoffmann", "text": "Jan Hoffmann\n\nJan Hoffmann (born 26 October 1955) is a German figure skater who represented East Germany in competition. A four-time Olympian, he is the 1980 Olympic silver medalist, the 1974 & 1980 World Champion, and a four-time (1974, 1977–1979) European Champion.\n\nJan Hoffmann was born on 26 October 1955 in Dresden, East Germany. He is married and has one daughter.\n\nHoffmann's first coach was Annemarie Halbach in Dresden. He later switched to Jutta Müller in Karl-Marx-Stadt (today Chemnitz). He represented the former East Germany in competition. He was one of a handful of figure skaters who rotated clockwise, landing on his left foot.\n\nAt the age of 12, Hoffmann competed at the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble and placed 26th. He finished sixth at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, having ranked fourth in figures and tenth in the free skate.\n\nHoffmann's first gold medal at an ISU Championship came at the 1974 European Championships in Zagreb, where he defeated Sergey Volkov of the Soviet Union and John Curry of the United Kingdom. At the 1974 World Championships in Munich, he placed first in figures, second in the short program, and fifth in the free skate. Technically gifted, he landed a triple Lutz in the free skate, the most difficult triple jump done at the time. Finishing ahead of Volkov and Canada's Toller Cranston, he stood atop the world podium for the first time. Later that year, he injured his knee on the trampoline. He had surgery on his meniscus and subsequently missed the entire 1974–75 season.\n\nHoffmann finished fourth at the 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck after placing fourth in figures, ninth in the short program, and fifth in the free skate.\n\nAt the 1979 European Championships in Zagreb, Hoffmann finished ahead of the Soviet Union's Vladimir Kovalev and the United Kingdom's Robin Cousins to win his fourth continental title. He took bronze behind the same skaters at the 1979 World Championships in Vienna.\n\nIn January 1980, Hoffmann placed second to Cousins at the European Championships in Gothenburg. The 1980 Winter Olympics took place in February in Lake Placid, New York. In his fourth Olympics, Hoffmann ranked first in figures, second in the short, and second in the free, winning the silver medal behind Cousins and ahead of Charles Tickner of the United States. At these Games, he became the first man to land a triple lutz jump in the Olympics. He ended his amateur career in March at the 1980 World Championships in Dortmund. Ranked first in figures and second in the next two segments, he finished ahead of Cousins and Tickner and was awarded his second World title.\n\nHoffmann studied medicine and became an orthopaedic specialist. He served on the managing board of the Deutsche Eislauf-Union and has appeared as a figure skating judge. He judged the ladies' event at the 1994 Winter Olympics and was one of five judges who placed Oksana Baiul ahead of Nancy Kerrigan. Hoffman also judged the ladies competition at the 1998 Winter Olympics and gave his first-place ordinal to Michelle Kwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985988", "title": "Big Brother (British series 4)", "text": "Big Brother (British series 4)\n\nBig Brother 2003, also known as Big Brother 4, was the fourth series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\". The show followed thirteen contestants, known as housemates, who were isolated from the outside world for an extended period of time in a custom built House. Each week, one or more of the housemates were evicted by a public vote. The last remaining housemate, Cameron Stout, was declared the winner, winning a cash prize of £70,000.\n\nAs with the previous three series, \"Big Brother 4\" lasted 64 days. It launched on Channel 4 on 23 May 2003 and ended on 25 July 2003. Davina McCall returned as presenter for her fourth consecutive year. Twelve housemates entered on launch night, with one additional housemate being introduced in the sixth week. The series was watched by an average of 4.6 million viewers, the fourth highest viewed series of the show to date (joint with \"Big Brother 6\").\n\n\"Big Brother 4\" has since been regarded as one of the most \"boring\" series of the British edition of the show. It did, however, become memorable for a bomb scare that led to the temporary evacuation of the House, and for being the first UK series of \"Big Brother\" to feature a double eviction, foreign housemate exchange and a return of a previously evicted housemate.\n\nPotential housemates applied by sending producers a home video that stated why they should be housemates. Successful candidates were invited to further rounds of auditions. This was the last year to feature this audition format as from Big Brother 5, open auditions were used to select housemates.\n\n\"Big Brother 4\" had more than 10,000 applicants apply to be a housemate.\n\nDavina McCall continued to host the main show and Dermot O'Leary continued to host the spin-off show, \"Big Brother's Little Brother\". Marcus Bentley continued to narrate the show.\n\nThis series was promoted as being a 'Back to Basics' edition; following the twists to the format introduced within the past series.\n\nTo promote the series, a large 210 ft hill figure of the eye logo was painted on the top of White Horse Hill, Oxfordshire, right above the famous Uffington White Horse, believed to be around 3,000 years old. The eye first appeared on 1 May 2003 and was created by seven circlemakers. Although permission for the figure's construction was agreed to by The National Trust, the figure angered local residents. It was washed off the day after completion.\n\nThis figure was one of several examples of the eye being presented as a geoglyph to promote the fourth series. Others included another hill figure, approximately half the size of that at Uffington, being placed next to Urquhart Castle, Loch Ness, Scotland, which appeared from 3–5 May, alongside a crop circle in a secret location in Southern England and as a depiction on a beach in Kidwelly, Wales.\n\nThe series premiered on 23 May 2003, on Channel 4. The contestants were recorded 24 hours a day with cameras fixed around the house, and the wearing of portable microphones mandatory. \"Big Brother 4\" was the second regular series to feature a live launch. The series ended on 25 July 2003, lasting for a total of 64 days. Channel 4 broadcast a 30-minute highlights show nightly, with each Friday episode being a live episode that saw one of the housemates evicted from the house. Live coverage from the house also remained a huge part of E4's daily and nightly schedule. A new show named \"Nominations Uncut\" was broadcast on E4 every Tuesday, in which it would show housemates nominations in full, rather than edited clips as seen in the main show. During Cameron's visit to Africa, E4 showed highlights of his stay straight after the main Channel 4 show.\n\nThe shape of the eye remained the same as the previous year, but a different art design was used. The eye was multi-coloured with black and white stripes beaming from the pupil of the eye.\n\nThe series was the last to be sponsored by O2. The mobile network had sponsored \"Big Brother\" since \"Big Brother 2\" in 2001.\n\nThe \"Big Brother\" house has been located at Elstree Studios, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire since the third series of the show. The house featured a completely new look compared to the previous series. The living room for this series was one-third smaller than the one featured in the previous series, and features red and green couches and chairs. The kitchen remained simple in design, with only necessities such as an oven, fridge, and sink included. The dining table was located beside the kitchen and was coloured yellow and white. The Diary Room featured a soft pink coloured background and contained a large blue chair. Like previous editions of the series, there were two bedrooms in this series, with the two being located beside one another for the first time. \"Big Brother 4\" saw the return of the chicken coop in the garden, a feature used in the first two series'. The chickens were used as a source of food (eggs), thus the housemates were not required to buy eggs as a part of their weekly shopping list. The house garden also included a large seating area and a vegetable patch which the housemates could use to grow plants and vegetables to eat. This series introduced the Rewards Room, where the winning housemates of the weekly live task were invited and were often thrown a party.\n\n\"Big Brother 4\" featured an opening night twist, alike the previous two series'. Housemates had to nominate one housemate for eviction on the first night, and any housemates who received even one nomination were automatically up against the public vote.\n\nLater in the series, housemate, Cameron Stout, accepted a challenge from Big Brother and discovered it meant spending a week in the Big Brother Africa house. Housemate Gaetano spent time in the \"Big Brother 4\" house while Cameron was in Africa.\n\n\"Big Brother 4\" was the first series to feature a double eviction, with two out of the three nominated housemtes being evicted on Day 29. On Day 37, Lisa entered the house as part of a twist. This series was also the first to allow previously evicted housemates to return, with ex-housemate Jon entering the house for a second time on Day 50. He remained in the house until the finale, but was ineligible to win the grand prize.\n\nHousemates from \"Big Brother 4\" failed to make many appearances in future regular series' since their evictions. However, Anouska was a participant in the 2004 spin-off series \"Big Brother Panto\", along with other housemates from the first five series'. Housemate Federico later appeared in \"Big Brother 10\", participating in a task celebrating ten years of the series, and \"Ultimate Big Brother\" saw housemate Lisa make an appearance participating in a task inspired by her time in \"Big Brother 4\", and Jon also made a short appearance in a task.\n\nOn Day 1, Anouska, Cameron, Federico, Gos, Jon, Justine, Nush, Ray, Scott, Sissy, Steph and Tânia all entered the house. That same night, they learned that they would each be required to nominate one Housemate for eviction. If a Housemate received even one vote, they were automatically nominated for the public vote; Anouska, Federico, Jon, and Scott were all nominated for eviction. Anouska received the most nominations with six total, while Jon received four and Federico and Scott received one each. On Day 3, housemates began their first weekly task; powering a pedalo non-stop for 72 hours. The housemates failed the task. Anouska was evicted on Day 8.\n\nOn Day 9, housemates took part in teams in a game of tug of war; Gos, Jon, Justine, Scott and Steph were all on the green team, Cameron, Federico, Nush, Ray and Tania were all on the yellow team, and Sissy was the umpire. The green team won the challenge, meaning they gained access to the reward room. On Day 10, the housemates began their second weekly task; a chance to become honorary members of the Cub Scouts. The housemates failed the task. Justine was evicted on Day 15.\n\nOn Day 16, housemates took part in a game of pass the parcel. Cameron, Federico, Gos, Jon, Nuch, Tania and Scott all won access to the reward room. On Day 17, housemates were set their third weekly task; housemates had to memorise and perform a musical tune on a set of handbells. The housemates failed the task. Sissy was evicted on Day 22.\n\nOn Day 23, housemates took part in a game of charades. Cameron, Federico, Jon, Nush, Ray, Steph and Tania all won access to the reward room. On Day 24, housemates began their fourth weekly task; creating superhero alter egos and performing tasks within their chosen alter ego. The housemates passed the task. Federico and Jon were both evicted on Day 29, in a double eviction.\n\nGaetano entered the House, as a guest, on Day 32. On Day 30, housemates took part in a geography quiz. As Cameron was the winner of the quiz, he had to pick five of the remaining six housemates to join him in the reward room; he chose Gos, Ray, Scott, Steph and Tania. On Day 31, Cameron travelled to the Big Brother House in South Africa; he returned to the Big Brother UK House on Day 36. On Day 33, housemates began their fifth weekly task; memorising facts about each other. The housemates passed the task. Gaetano left the House on Day 35. Tania was evicted on Day 36. Lisa entered the House on Day 37.\n\nOn Day 37, housemates each drew straws in order to determine who entered the reward room. All housemates eventually drew long straws, meaning they all entered the reward room. On Day 38, housemates were set the sixth weekly task; a gymkhana. The housemates passed the task. Gos was evicted on Day 44. On Day 50, Jon was chosen by the public to re-enter the House as a guest.\n\nOn Day 45, housemates chose a robot animal to represent them in a race. Ray won the challenge, this meant he became the \"Head of House\". Cameron lost the challenge, this meant he was the only housemate not permitted to enter the reward room for the entire week. On Day 46, Ray was the only housemate permitted to nominate. On Day 48, Ray had to gamble money from the shopping budget on the spin of a roulette wheel. Ray won the group a shopping budget of £2. Lisa was evicted on Day 50.\n\nOn Day 51, housemates took part in a game of bingo. As the winner of the task, Ray chose Cameron to join him in the reward room. On Day 52, housemates took part in another game of bingo. As the winner of the task, Scott chose Nush to join him in the reward room. On Day 54, housemates were set the eighth weekly task; housemates had to write and perform six songs based on their experiences in the House. The housemates passed the task. Nush was evicted on Day 57.\n\nOn Day 58, housemates had five minutes to find five needles in a hay stack that Big Brother had placed in the garden. Housemates found two needles in the hay stack; this meant they gained two nights in the reward room. On Day 59, the group were set their final weekly task; housemates were given various topics which they had to discuss with Big Brother for a minimum of ten minutes. The group failed the task. Steph and Scott both left the house separately as evictees (4th and 3rd place) on Day 64. Ray was the runner up and Cameron was the winner. Both also left on Day 64.\n\n\"Big Brother 4\" had a bomb scare on Day 43, and numerous events occurred to ensure the safety of the housemates.\n\nThat night, at 19:58, all housemates were asked to go to the boys' bedroom until further notice, being told that there was a security alert in the studio. At 20:43, police advised that the house should be evacuated. Production then entered the house, and removed the housemates. They were taken to a secure area on the perimeter of the studio complex, with high levels of security accompanying them. At 21:35, narrator Marcus Bentley informed the viewers that the cameras were being shut off, and that as a result archive footage of the series was to be played. At 12:49 the following day, a few hours after their initial departure, the housemates were allowed to re-enter the house. However, the live eviction originally scheduled for broadcast later that day was pulled and moved to air on the following night.\n\n\"Big Brother 4\" averaged a total of 4.6 million viewers throughout the course of the series, a decrease from the 5.8 million series average from \"Big Brother 3\", however \"Big Brother 4\" did have a slightly higher series average than the first two series of \"Big Brother UK\".\n\nThe series is often regarded the 'most boring' series to be broadcast in the United Kingdom.\nWeekly ratings for each show on Channel 4. All numbers are in millions and provided by BARB.\n\n"}
{"id": "1985990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985990", "title": "Big Brother (British series 5)", "text": "Big Brother (British series 5)\n\nBig Brother 2004, also known as Big Brother 5, was the fifth series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\". The show followed thirteen contestants, known as housemates, who were isolated from the outside world for an extended period of time in a custom built House. Each week, one or more of the housemates were eliminated from the competition and left the House. The last remaining housemate, Nadia Almada, was declared the winner, winning a cash prize of £63,500.\n\nThe series launched on Channel 4 on 28 May 2004 and ended on 6 August 2004. It lasted 71 days - the longest series of \"Big Brother\" at the time and the eighth longest series to date. Davina McCall returned as presenter for her fifth consecutive year. Twelve housemates entered on launch night, with one additional housemate being introduced in the fifth week.\n\nFollowing the negative reception of the \"boring\" previous series, several changes were made to the format. Big Brother became \"evil\", resulting in a higher-pressure environment for the housemates, more difficult tasks, fewer luxuries and more twists. \"Big Brother 5\" ultimately became most memorable, and the subject of viewer complaints and press attention, for a physical altercation between housemates in the early hours of Day 20, which later became referred to by fans and in the press as \"Fight Night\".\n\nThe series was watched by an average of 5.1 million viewers, the second highest viewed series of the show to date (after \"Big Brother 3\").\n\nFor the first time ever, housemates were selected via open auditions rather than via home video. The open audition process would go on to feature in each subsequent series until the thirteenth series in 2012.\n\nThe series followed the same format as previous series of the programme. Twelve housemates lived in isolation from the outside world in a custom built house for a period of 71 days, hoping to be the last one to leave the house as the winner, and walk away with a large cash prize.\n\nPromoted as \"Big Brother goes evil\", \"Big Brother 5\" saw numerous changes occurring to the game. The main twist this series was that the grand prize had been increased to £100,000 for the winner, but was gradually taken away as the series went on based on Housemates' performances in various tasks. Nadia Almada, as the winner of the series, received a total of £63,500, meaning that the housemates lost £36,500 across the series. This series also became known for featuring the Big Brother Bedsit, in which Michelle and Emma were evicted from the Big Brother house, and sent to the BB Bedsit instead. Whilst in the Bedsit, they had a live feed of the house, which aired in the room non-stop for their viewing pleasure. They were granted access back into the house after five days. Yet another change in the format occurred on Day 69, when the Housemate with the fewest votes to win, was secretly evicted from the house through the Diary Room. This meant that only four Housemates would appear at the final, instead of five.\n\nThe series premiered on 28 May 2004, on Channel 4. The contestants were recorded 24 hours a day with cameras fixed around the house, and had to wear portable microphones. \"Big Brother 5\" was the third of the main series to feature a live launch. The launch night saw Davina give a house tour, as well as discuss rumors that had been going on about the series. She then introduced the new Housemates, and they entered the house live.\n\nChannel 4 broadcast a daily highlights show, and from the first week there was a live eviction show hosted by Davina McCall, where the evicted housemate was interviewed. In the nightly highlight episodes, viewers are shown various highlights of a specific day in the house. \"Big Brother 5\" saw the return of the psychiatrists providing commentary on events in the game, with the episodes featuring them being the highlights show after the most recent eviction. The live eviction episode was held on Friday, with a pre-eviction episode and an official eviction episode being held with a 30-minute gap between them. The series ended on 6 August 2004, lasting for a total of 71 days. This made it the longest season of the series at the time.\n\nSpin-off programme \"Big Brother's Little Brother\" returned for a fourth year and second year on Channel 4, and was hosted once again by Dermot O'Leary. Live coverage continued to be a major part of E4's daily and nightly schedule.\n\nThe \"Saturday Night Live\" spin-off series, first introduced in \"Big Brother 3\", saw Housemates competing in live tasks. It would last until midway through this, when it was axed due to poor ratings.\n\nA new spin-off programme entitled \"Big Brother's E-Fourum\", a nod to the network, was hosted by comedian Russell Brand, and featured an audience and viewer discussion and debate on housemates and events going on inside the house. The latter programme returned in subsequent series under a retooled format and was renamed \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\". E4 once again screened Nominations Uncut on Tuesdays featuring extended nominations. Another new show Diary Room Uncut was broadcast on Thursday evening, featuring extra material from the Diary Room, if no nominations took place, Diary Room Uncut would be shown in place of Nominations Uncut.\n\nThe thirteen Housemates in the game are competing for the grand prize, which eventually amounted to £63,500. Each week, the Housemates attempted to complete various tasks assigned by Big Brother in exchange for a weekly budget, which they used to buy food and luxuries; this included buying things such as alcohol and cigarettes.\n\nThe \"Big Brother\" house has been located at Elstree Studios, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire since \"Big Brother 3\" onward. To go along with the format change of the \"evil\" Big Brother this year, the house was much smaller in size. The house was one-third smaller, and featured an elevated floor and a lowered ceiling, adding a feeling of claustrophobia. The kitchen remained simple, with only necessities such as an oven (on which the only reference of time was located in the entire house), fridge, and sink. There was only one bedroom, and housemates were required to go through the garden to get to the bedroom. With eight single beds and two double beds, housemates were forced to share beds, and when a Housemate was evicted from the series, their bed was removed from the house, effectively preventing bed swapping. The showers in the bathroom this season were made of glass which led out into the garden, thus providing Housemates with no privacy. The Diary Room this season featured a red and blue background, with a large red chair which was attached to the wall. \"Big Brother 5\" was the first series to not feature the chickens in the backyard. The house for this series was later described as being \"horrible\", with a member of production stating it was \"designed to be as uncomfortable as possible, with none of the luxury gadgets of previous years.\"\n\nLocated behind the Diary Room, the bedsit contains one double bed, a small kitchen, a small bathroom, tattered armchairs, a telephone and flowery wallpaper, the only modern feature of the bedsit is the plasma screen where housemates can view the main house. Outside the bedsit is a corridor leading to the Diary Room. Due to the close proximity of the bedsit to the main house, housemates were required to speak quietly in the bedsit to avoid detection. The bedsit was resurrected six years later in Ultimate Big Brother.\n\nOn Day 1, Housemates Marco, Ahmed, Jason, Daniel, Stuart, Victor, Vanessa, Emma, Kitten, Michelle, Shell and Nadia entered the house. The Housemates were not allowed to bring their luggage into the house with them, and it was later revealed that one Housemate would not receive their luggage throughout their entire stay in the house. On Day 2, the Housemates were individually called to the Diary Room, and had to nominate the Housemate they felt was least deserving of their suitcase; Kitten was selected, receiving seven votes total. Kitten chose not to go in the Diary Room and vote, thus automatically selected herself. Only five Housemates did not vote for Kitten; Nadia and Ahmed voted for Michelle, Emma voted for Victor, Daniel voted for Marco and Stuart voted for Ahmed. That same night, it was revealed that an eviction would occur that week, however, the evicted Housemate would not actually be evicted, but would be able to watch the Housemates before returning to the house. On Day 5, the Housemates moved the alcohol fridge into the bedroom, and were reprimanded by Big Brother. Following this, Kitten received a second warning, and it was revealed that an eviction would occur should she break another. On Day 6, Kitten received her third strike for painting the mirrors in the house. Housemates were not told when the eviction would be, or who would be evicted. On Day 8, it was revealed that Kitten had been expelled from the house, and had to immediately leave. Kitten refused to leave the house, thus Big Brother revealed that the grand prize of £100,000 would decrease by £1,000 for each minute Kitten spent in the house. Kitten left the house only a minute later, though she lost the group £9,000, despite the rule being they would lose £1,000 per minute. This brought the grand prize to a total of £91,000.\n\nOn Day 9, Housemates were given their new task. They had to select one Housemate who they felt was the smartest, and had to select another Housemate who they felt was the strongest person; Stuart and Jason were selected, respectively. Stuart had to answer nine general knowledge questions in the Diary Room, with the grand prize fund being reduced by £1,000 for each incorrect answer he gave. Outside, the other Housemates were strapped onto a turntable, which Jason was required to spin around in circles. For each question Stuart answered correctly, a Housemate could be removed from the turntable, thus making it easier to spin. Stuart answered four questions incorrectly, and Ahmed cost the group £1,000 by not participating. This brought the grand prize fund to £85,000 by the end of the task. On Day 10, the Housemates received their first weekly task. During the \"Big Brother Food to Go\" task, Housemates were required to run a fast food restaurant in which Big Brother could place an order at any time, and Housemates were required to make the order and take it to the Diary Room within thirty minutes. The task lasted for a total of four days. Completion of the task would result in the Housemates receiving a Privilege pass, which they could redeem for a privilege in the house. Housemates failed this task. That night, Emma and Victor engaged in an argument that required Big Brother to request that they be separated from one another; no warnings were given out. Due to the fake Double Eviction that would occur this week, a total of three nominees were required. Housemates Ahmed, Emma, and Michelle were nominated for eviction. Ahmed received a total of seven nominations, while Emma and Michelle received three each. Had three nominees not been required this week, the tie between Michelle and Emma would have caused there to be three anyway. On Day 15, Emma and Michelle were fake evicted from the House, and were instead taken to the \"Big Brother Bedsit\", where they could see and hear what was going on in the house.\n\nOn Day 16, Emma and Michelle were given their first decision to make. They had to select one Housemate that would be required to take cold showers while in the house; they chose Victor. That night, the Housemates were given their third live task to complete. Daniel, Jason, Stuart, and Vanessa took part in the first portion of the challenge, which was a human wheelbarrow race. Each pair took turns collecting tokens, with each token being worth ten seconds. The number of tokens collected determine how long Housemates will have to complete the second part of the challenge. The second half required Housemates to hang over the garden for the time that they earned in the first part of the challenge. If a Housemate fell, then the prize fund was reduced by £2,000, and if they succeeded it stayed the same. Following this task, the prize fund was £77,000. On Day 17, Housemates were given their second weekly task, which had a football theme to coincide with the Euro 2004 championships that were occurring at the time. The first portion of the task required Housemates to select a country and make a mascot for the team. They had to perform an opening ceremony later that night. That same day, Emma and Michelle were asked to bake a cake for their fellow Housemates. They chose to add chilli powder to the cake, which was delivered to the house for the opening ceremony. On Day 18, Housemates participated in their second set of weekly nominations. Emma and Michelle could not be nominated this week, but could make nominations. This week saw Daniel and Vanessa being nominated for eviction, receiving five nominations each. For the second week in a row, Stuart and Shell received no nominations from their fellow Housemates. That same night, Emma and Michelle chose to vandalize Jason's bed. On Day 19, the two chose to put itching powder in one of Vanessa's shirts. On Day 20, Emma and Michell returned to the house during a party in the main house. Their return led to a string of highly controversial fights in the house, which fans have since labeled \"Fight Night.\" The fights resulted in numerous warnings being given out, and Emma was sent to the Bedsit again; ultimately, she was ejected from the game on Day 23.\n\nDue to the various fights and instances of physical violence on Day 20, the planned eviction for Day 22 was postponed until the following week; Daniel and Vanessa still remained nominated for eviction. Throughout Day 21, Housemates were called into the Diary Room and were given their first official warnings about violence in the house. On Day 23, after spending the past few days in the Big Brother Bedsit, Emma was officially ejected from the house after much consideration from Big Brother. On Day 25, Housemates were given their new task, in which they had to cast their own body parts in plaster, and attach them to a chicken-wire frame, thus creating the \"perfect Housemate.\" The Housemates finished this task by the following day. On Day 26, Housemates were given a task in which they had to create a film based on their time in the house, with the Housemates portraying one another. Housemates performed their film for Big Brother later that night, dressed in their costumes. On Day 29, it was revealed that Vanessa had become the first official Housemate to be evicted from the house, receiving 86% of the public vote. This made it the highest percentage of eviction votes received by a Housemate since \"Big Brother 2\", when Stuart received the same amount.\n\nOn Day 30, Housemates were given their fourth live task. The Housemates were required to stake £10,000 on the outcome of three different tests; if they fail a test, they will lose the amount they wagered on this. They wagered a total of £3,000 on the first part of the task, which required Victor to unscramble a word; he failed this task. The second portion saw the Housemates wagering £1,000 on their success. Victor and Jason had to roll Michelle around in a giant ball, knocking over obstacles within the time limit; they passed this task. They wagered £6,000 on the final portion of the task, and were required to guide a loop around wires attached to a helmet on Shell's head. They passed this task, thus only lost a total of £3,000 on this night. The prize fund therefore stood at £74,000. On Day 31, new Housemate Becki entered the house as a replacement for Emma, who had been ejected eight days prior. On Day 32, Housemates were given their new weekly task, for which Big Brother provided them with costumes. For the first part, Housemates had twenty seconds to gather their costumes and get on the stage before a song begins. That same day, Housemates participated in their third set of nominations. Marco and Nadia were nominated for eviction by their fellow Housemates, both of them receiving five nominations each. In a twist this week, Becki was allowed to secretly select one Housemate to nominate for eviction by kissing them on both cheeks, with this Housemate automatically being nominated for eviction; she selected Michelle. The kiss was later dubbed the \"Judas kiss\" by the media. This meant that Marco, Michelle, and Nadia were nominated for eviction. On Day 36, Marco was evicted from the house, having received 52% of the public vote.\n\nOn Day 40, a plane flew over the house with a banner flying behind it explaining that only Becki had nominated Michelle for the previous week's eviction. Some housemates saw it before Big Brother was able to return them to the bedroom and close the blinds. The housemates speculated on the message and Becki was forced to lie to them, telling them that the banner was false, in order to keep her nomination a secret, as instructed by Big Brother. Michelle, who was in the Diary Room at the time, had to stay there until the plane was confirmed to have left the airspace above the house.\n\nHousemates weekly task was based around going back to school. Housemates had to attend registration in the morning, and were set several mini-tasks based on school subjects. They failed the task after Nadia misspelled \"balloon\" in a spelling bee task, causing the housemates to protest as English was not her first language. The housemates staged a silent protest after failing the shopping task, and in the afternoon started to rebel against Big Brother. Michelle decided to steal the Diary Room camera and unsuccessfully attempted to incinerate it using a match. As punishment for this, Michelle was given her \"first and final warning\". Daniel, Shell, Stuart, and Nadia were also each issued warnings because Daniel, Shell, and Nadia helped Michelle steal the camera and Stuart gathered the hay that Michelle tried to ignite. Stuart was also individually punished by being made to watch a video of the cowboy hat he had cherished being burned outside of the house. Prize money dropped by £2,500 to £71,500 during a farmer/cow task. Becki was evicted on Day 43.\n\n\"Big Brother\" gave the housemates a boot camp task. Jason and Michelle were selected as sergeants while the rest of the housemates were privates. In the Diary Room, Jason and Michelle were told that if the privates passed the task, then they would be up for eviction, and if the privates failed the task, then the two sergeants would be nominated. The privates passed, and all six were automatically nominated for eviction. On Day 48, the housemates participated in a dating service. The prize money remained at £71,500. Ahmed was evicted on Day 50.\n\nThe housemates were set a wedding task, and Shell and Victor were chosen as the bride and groom. Nadia was the bridesmaid, Daniel was the best man, Jason held the service and Michelle sang at the service. The housemates took part in all traditional events of a wedding including a hen and stag night, and the service itself, but failed the task on the first day. The wedding became memorable for sparking the argument between Shell and Victor, and for Michelle's rendition of the song \"Pie Jesu\" at the service. Prize money dropped to £56,500 after a fish-guts task. The housemates could have won the £15,000 back if Michelle (who is a vegetarian) drank a glass of fish milkshake or £5,000 if anyone else did, but it was thrown away amid speculation that it was not a good idea healthwise. Later on that week, three people failed a task, losing £1,000 each, resulting in the prize dropping further to £53,500. Victor was evicted on Day 57. It was reported that before the argument between Victor and Shell, Jason was considerably far ahead in the votes, but Victor had overtaken him in the aftermath of the fight.\n\nThe housemates were weighed, and were then chained together in pairs based on their weight. Daniel and Nadia, the heaviest man and woman were shackled together by the foot, Jason and Michelle were chained together by the arm, and the lightest man and woman - Stuart and Shell were shackled together by the waist. Housemates were made to stay shackled together except for when they were in the diary room or in the bathroom, and had to apply each other's makeup and brush each other's teeth, as well as competing in mini-tasks, including making pottery and writing a short story as a pair, typing only one letter each at a time. Housemates passed the task. Michelle was evicted on Day 64.\n\nHousemates were given a chance to win back £10,000 by drinking shots, some of which included fish guts. Their total was then £63,500. Stuart was secretly evicted during a party on Day 69 having received the fewest votes to win at that point. He was not given a chance to say goodbye to his fellow housemates, who all initially felt that he had won the series after hearing the crowds reaction to him when he left the building. Nadia, as expected by all the bookmakers (she was favourite for six weeks), won \"Big Brother\" (UK) 2004 with 74% of the vote. She was greeted by an adoring crowd who chanted her name.\n\n\nThese viewing figures are taken from BARB.\n\nOn Day 20 in the House, a series of altercations began in the House, which eventually escalated and became physical. The incident was subsequently referred to as \"Fight Night\" by the press, by fans of the show, and, in a live episode the night after the incident was shown, by presenter Davina McCall.\n\nOn Day 15, Emma and Michelle were sent to a secret room in the House named \"the Bedsit\" as part of a fake eviction. They were given access to live streaming from the House, were able to observe housemates' conversations and play pranks on them. Under the impression that they had been evicted, some of the remaining housemates spoke poorly of Emma and Michelle.\n\nOn 16 June, which was Day 20 in the House, Emma and Michelle were returned to the House from the Bedsit. Upon their return, the housemates were provided with fancy dress costumes, party food and alcohol.\n\nIn the early hours of 17 June, some of the housemates engaged in a playful food fight, leaving the communal living area in a mess. When Jason insisted that they tidy up their mess, Marco refused, prompting an argument between the pair. Nadia and Emma intervened in defence of Marco, with Nadia flipping over a table and, at one point, she slapped Jason.\n\nThe argument continued to escalate, with Emma and Victor squaring up to each other. Emma and Victor began throwing more food at each other, with Emma eventually throwing an empty tray at him. When Victor retaliated by throwing the same tray at Emma, hitting her in the back of the head, she raced towards him, and a scuffle ensued, while other housemates attempted to separate them. Big Brother repeatedly called Victor to the Diary Room and, as Stuart attempted to get him to comply, Emma was physically carried to the bedroom by Dan, whilst she screamed \"I'll fucking kill you\" at Victor.\n\nThe arguments led to Shell becoming very emotional, and she hid in the bathroom where she was comforted by Vanessa. Nadia entered the bathroom with the intent of apologising for upsetting Shell, but ended up having an argument with Vanessa.\n\nAt the beginning of the altercations, Big Brother placed security guards into the camera runs surrounding the House. Approximately twenty minutes after the altercations began, Big Brother sent the guards into the House via the bedroom. Housemates were then separated and monitored throughout the night by guards stationed within the House.\n\nThe events of the night led Jason to decide to walk from the game, though he was later talked out of it. Emma was placed back in the Bedsit, in an attempt to separate her from the rest of the housemates. Housemates Jason, Marco, Nadia, Vanessa, and Victor were all given formal warnings by Big Brother as a result of their behaviour during the incident.\n\nDue to the incident, the planned eviction for Day 22 was postponed until the following week; Daniel and Vanessa still remained nominated for eviction. On Day 23, after spending two days in the Bedsit, Emma was officially ejected from the House by Big Brother. In a statement released by the show, which was also read to the housemates, Big Brother clarified that there was no suggestion that she was \"any more to blame\" than anyone else for the incident, but that reintroducing her to the House \"may [have increased] the risk of a repeat incident\".\n\nThe event caused much controversy outside the House. Some of the incident was streamed live on Channel 4's sister channel E4, and online. Once the major scuffle between Emma and Victor ensued, the video stream cut to a \"safety shot\" of the garden. However, the audio continued, and screaming, shouting, glass breaking and Big Brother's repeated requests for Victor to come to the Diary Room could be heard. At approximately 2am, live streaming was suspended, and did not resume until 3:06am. A number of viewers of the live streaming called the police over the incident, who arrived at the scene and requested a tape of the event. A spokeswoman for the Hertfordshire Constabulary stated: \"Our officers are currently in liaison with members of the Big Brother production team to see whether further action needs to be taken.\"\n\nThe incident led to backlash from viewers, who criticized Channel 4. At 6pm on 17 June, Channel 4 and Endemol issued the following statement:\n\nThe welfare and safety of the housemates is always our overriding concern, and with that in mind, the production team decided to intervene last night at a point where they felt the confrontation between the housemates had reached an unacceptable level. Our on site security team diffused the confrontation and the housemates were calmed down and sent to bed. The Big Brother production team has been talking to all housemates individually over the course of today with a view to sorting out tensions in the house and are closely monitoring them. They will be encouraging the housemates to work through their issues as a group. If they do not feel this is feasible they will consider an alternative course of action to guarantee the welfare of the housemates. As always, professional psychologists are monitoring the situation and are on hand if any of the housemates wish to speak to them. The local police have made enquiries about events in the house last night following a handful of calls from members of the public. At present they have given us no indication of any issues arising from last night's broadcast.\n\nProfessor David Wilson, a criminologist working as a consultant on the series, decided to leave \"Big Brother\".\n\nOn 19 June, two days after the incident, Hertfordshire Constabulary released a joint statement with Channel 4 and Endemol, noting that they were \"happy with the steps that Channel 4 and Endemol have taken since [the incident] to guarantee the safety of the housemates\".\n\nMedia regulator Ofcom received over 300 complaints from viewers about the incident. After conducting an investigation, they concluded that the highlights show had been \"appropriately edited and scheduled\", and had therefore not breached the Broadcasting Code. However, they also concluded that the live streaming of the event had breached the Code. They opined that \"Channel 4 was continuing to treat as entertainment, a situation that had, from what viewers could see, become serious\", and \"the intensity and repetition of verbal and physical violence exceeded viewers’ expectations\".\n\nOn the same day as Ofcom's adjudication was published, Channel 4 responded, stating: \"The producers at the Elstree studio were very confident that the situation in the house was under their control [...] they decided that the events in the house should be relayed to viewers until the shouting had abated to reassure viewers that the outcome was not as bad as they might otherwise have imagined. Ofcom took a different view and we must accept their decision.\"\n\nThe fight was later spoofed on the MTV series \"TRL\", during which Emma, Marco, Vanessa, and Victor were present.\n\nSince their appearance on \"Big Brother 5\", numerous housemates have gone on to appear in later editions of the programme. Housemates Kitten, Marco, and Victor all appeared on the spin-off series \"Big Brother Panto\" in 2004, along with housemates from the previous four editions. Housemate Michelle later appeared on \"Big Brother 10\" to participate in a task celebrating ten years of the programme. Housemates Nadia, Michelle, and Victor were all official housemates on \"Ultimate Big Brother\" in 2010, with Nadia and Michelle being the third and fourth evicted housemates, respectively. Victor made it to the finale of the season, where he came in fourth place. Housemates Ahmed and Marco both made appearances in that series, though they were not competing to win.\n"}
{"id": "1985991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1985991", "title": "Big Brother (British series 6)", "text": "Big Brother (British series 6)\n\nBig Brother 2005, also known as Big Brother 6, was the sixth series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\". The show followed sixteen contestants, known as housemates, who were isolated from the outside world for an extended period of time in a custom built House. Each week, one or more of the housemates were evicted by a public vote. The last remaining housemate, Anthony Hutton, was declared the winner, winning a cash prize of £50,000. Runner-up Eugene Sully also won the same amount during a task, two days before the final.\n\nThe series launched on Channel 4 on 27 May 2005 and ended on 12 August 2005, lasting 78 days – the fifth longest British edition of \"Big Brother\" to date. Davina McCall returned as presenter for her sixth consecutive year. Thirteen housemates entered on launch night, with an additional three being introduced in the fourth week. The series was watched by an average of 4.6 million viewers, the fourth highest viewed series of the show to date (joint with \"Big Brother 4\").\n\n\"Big Brother 6\" was the subject of viewer complaints and press attention regarding a variety of controversial scenes.\n\nThe sixth series of \"Big Brother\" was first confirmed in 2002, when Channel 4 made a deal with franchise owner Endemol to keep the show on the air until at least 2005. In early 2005, Channel 4 confirmed that \"Big Brother\" would return for its sixth series in the summer of that year. After speculation that the \"evil\" theme from the previous series would not return, executive producer Sharon Powers told the press that Big Brother would \"continue to be evil this year\".\n\nFor the fifth year in a row, Channel 4 commissioned graphic designer Daniel Eatock to create the \"\"Big Brother\" eye\". The eye was a sliced mirror of alternating black and blue strips, in reality, two eyes on top of each other. It was publicly revealed on 30 April 2005. Promotional material included an art installation of the eye at the Truman Brewery in East London, constructed out of over 1000 cardboard boxes (some of which contained televisions).\n\nOn 9 May 2005, Channel 4 began airing countdown bumpers, eighteen days before the launch.\n\nDavina McCall, who had presented the show since its inception in 2000 was confirmed to return to the sixth series as presenter of the live shows, such as launch night, weekly evictions, the finale and other special live shows. Nightly highlights were broadcast on Channel 4, narrated by Marcus Bentley. Dermot O'Leary returned as presenter of \"Big Brother's Little Brother\" weekdays on Channel 4 and Sunday lunchtime. On E4, live coverage once again dominated its daily and nightly schedule, with additional live streaming online. \"Nominations Uncut\" and \"Diary Room Uncut\" also returned. \"Big Brother's EFourum\" – introduced in the previous year – was revamped and its name changed to \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\", with Russell Brand continuing as presenter of that show. It was also announced that E4 would be available on the Freeview platform from May 2005, to coincide with the beginning of the series.\n\nFor the second year, open auditions were used to select housemates; these took place between 5 February and 6 March 2005. The broadcaster told the press that there would be thirteen housemates with a theme of \"unlucky thirteen,\" inspired by triskaidekaphobia.\n\nThe winner stood to earn £100,000, however two days before the final, housemate Eugene was offered half of the prize money by Big Brother. He was unaware that refusing the money would have doubled the prize fund to £200,000. He took the money which meant eventual winner Anthony won the same amount as Eugene.\n\nThe House for \"Big Brother 2005\" was a radical change from the oppressive and angled House from the previous year. House designer Patrick Watson described the design as \"aspirational and yet not wildly practical.\" Although the House was still quite small, light pale colours and high camera angles gave the viewer the impression that the House is larger than it actually is. Watson also revealed that he accomplished this by extensively utilising mirrors for an airier and cooler atmosphere. Channel 4 described the House as the boldest one at the time and Watson stated it to be complementary to \"iPod neutrality.\"\n\nPictures of the House were released on 24 May 2005, revealing the outdoor shower and pool. There was a row of three outdoor showers that replace the need for a complete bathroom; two other toilets were contained indoors, one in the living room and one in the bedroom. The tiled floor lead onto the wooden deck of the pool, this year a circular pool positioned in a corner of the garden. The other side of the showers lead towards the slightly elevated glass-box lounge that originally had multi-levelled green couches but were eventually replaced with low orange ones.\n\nMore pictures were released to the press later in the day. These depicted the exterior of the Diary Room: a chaotic web of sliced and angled mirrors giving housemates a distorted reflection of the rest of the House. These pictures also showed that the House was composed of one main, column-free, airy room with cream-coloured carpeting on which the dining table rested and an elevated kitchen containing a row of yellow cabinets. For the first time, an American-style refrigerator was utilised, giving the housemates more space for food and located next to the store-room. However, the glass wall that allowed housemates to view the bedroom from the living area was disguised as a mirror to ensure that viewers would not be able to count how many housemates would be in the House. Finally, only a few days before launch night, pictures of a loft in the garden leaked to the press. On Day 1, it was shown that it was painted green rather than the pink shown in the pictures. It was also revealed that the bedroom would contain a \"heat-seeking\" thermal camera.\n\nOn the opposite side of the main Diary Room entrance was another door, which lead to the \"Secret Garden\". The Secret Garden was an indoor room decorated like a jungle, and contained a fridge, basic cooking utensils and crockery, a hatch, three beds, a decorative stag head (which was revealed to be able to speak), a television screen and an adjoining toilet. The Garden also contained a telephone that Big Brother used to communicate quietly with the secret housemates, and a \"Quiet\" sign that illuminated whenever one of the main housemates occupied the Diary Room.\n\nIt was first used on Day 29, when housemates Kinga Karolczak, Orlaith McAllister and Eugene Sully secretly entered the House, minutes after Roberto Conte was evicted. For several days, the three housemates had to live in the Secret Garden, with only Makosi knowing their existence. The only clothing initially supplied to the three secret housemates was fig-leaf underwear. With Makosi's help, they had to steal clothes and food from the main Big Brother House when the other housemates were asleep, and to make sure that the other housemates did not find out about them. The secret housemates stayed in the Secret Garden until Day 32, when Orlaith and Eugene were selected by Makosi to enter the main House and become true housemates.\n\n13 housemates entered the House on Day 1. In week 5, three other housemates entered the Secret Garden. Makosi then chose two of them to enter the main House, Orlaith and Eugene. When Orlaith voluntarily left weeks later, Kinga who was the third housemate from the Secret Garden re-entered the House.\n\n\"Big Brother 6\" received mixed reviews from professional critics. While one critic called the show \"dull and unlikeable\", another called it \"refreshing viewing\". Charlie Brooker called the series \"foul and unsettling\",and wrote an article criticising most of the housemates individually.\n\nEleven years after the conclusion of \"Big Brother 6\", columnist Rupert Hawksley opined that the series potentially marked \"the moment when Big Brother began its ongoing gurgle in the gutter\".\n\nThese viewing figures are taken from BARB.\n\nThroughout the sixth series, \"Big Brother\" was subject to numerous complaints from the viewing public. While some were generalised concerns about the welfare of the housemates, others referred to specific incidents, including but not limited to: Maxwell's claim to have put scabs from his feet into Science's food; scenes filmed in the pool that led some viewers, and housemates, to believe that Anthony and Makosi had sex; Craig allegedly making \"unwelcome advances\" towards Anthony; Kinga allegedly masturbating with a wine bottle; hostility directed towards Makosi by the live crowd and, allegedly, Davina McCall during the Live Final; and Channel 4 breaking the Advertising Standards Authority's code. There was also commentary by some viewers, and by some housemates themselves, on what appeared to be a clear racial divide between groups that formed in the House. In one group were Anthony, Craig ,Maxwell , and Saskia (all of whom are white British). In the other were Derek (Jamaican descent), Kemal (Turkish Cypriot), Makosi (Zimbabwean), Roberto (Italian), Science (black) and Vanessa (black).\n\nMedia regulator Ofcom, which received over 900 complaints about the series, opined in response that \"Big Brother\" \"offers viewers, unpalatable though it may be, a window on what some complainants believed to be the unacceptable attitudes of some members of society\". Although Ofcom did not uphold any of the viewers' complaints about the series as a whole, they were particularly critical of the pool scenes and the scene involving Kinga and the wine bottle, stating that such scenes \"operated at the limits of acceptability in terms of potential harm and/or offence for a programme of this nature, broadcast on this channel and at this time\".\n\nIn 2008, Charlie Brooker created and wrote the horror mini-series \"Dead Set\", set during a fictional series of \"Big Brother\". It featured several former \"Big Brother\" contestants in cameo roles, including Eugene Sully, Kinga Karolczak, Makosi Musambasi and Saskia Howard-Clarke from \"Big Brother 6\".\n\nHousemates Makosi and Craig returned to \"Big Brother\" in 2009 as part of a retrospective week of that series, involving tasks from all previous series of \"Big Brother\". They competed against Siavash Sabbaghpour in a recreation of the sixth series' Box task, where housemates had to remain in a cardboard box for the longest period of time.\n\nIn 2010, Makosi was a contestant in the show's final series, entitled \"Ultimate Big Brother\", which featured memorable housemates from the first 11 series of \"Big Brother\" and its celebrity spin-off. She entered on Day 1 and became the second Ultimate housemate to be evicted on Day 11. Anthony also returned as a guest to have a picnic date with Makosi.\n\nThe first three seasons of the Serbian \"Big Brother\" series, \"Veliki brat\", used the \"Big Brother\" eye logo and the opening titles from this series.\n"}
{"id": "1986000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986000", "title": "Sláine", "text": "Sláine\n\nSláine (sometimes anglicized as Slaine) is an Irish given name. Notable persons and characters with this name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1986004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986004", "title": "Tietam Brown", "text": "Tietam Brown\n\nTietam Brown is wrestler Mick Foley's first novel, published in 2003.\n\nThe book is about a period of time in the life of Antietam (Andy) Brown V and his father Antietam (Tietam) Brown IV (the names span across five generations, being taken from the Battle of Antietam). After 16 years of being tossed from foster home to foster home, and spending time in Juvenile Detention for killing a teenager who tried to rape him, his father then shows up to take him home.\n\nAndy was molested by his foster father, who was also a member of the KKK, and physically abused by his father. He puts up with cruel treatment from adults and older students at school. Every now and then in his life he cracks, and in a rage causes terrible harm to his tormentors. He draws strength from the love he gets from Terri, a beautiful girl in his grade at school.\n\nOn WWE.com, the author Mick Foley wrote in his blog \"Foley is Blog\" that Paul Haggis, the director of the Oscar-winning movie \"Crash\", was interested in making \"Tietam Brown\" into a feature film.\n"}
{"id": "1986005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986005", "title": "Guy Côté", "text": "Guy Côté\n\nGuy Côté (born December 30, 1965) is a Canadian politician and salesman. Côté was the Member of Parliament for the riding of Portneuf—Jacques-Cartier from 2004–2006.\n\nBorn in Quebec City, Quebec, Côté has been involved in many non-profit organizations in Portneuf, among other things, serving as a School commissioner in Portneuf, Quebec (2003–2004) before being elected to the House of Commons of Canada in the 2004 federal election for the Bloc Québécois, a left-wing separatist party, in the riding of Portneuf—Jacques-Cartier. Côté is a former salesman. He worked briefly as a salesman for CKNU a local radio station of his riding. He has also been assistant to the former Bloc MP of Portneuf. During the 1980s, at the time of the \"beau risque\" and the Meech Lake constitutional reform, he was a member of the local association of the PC party in the riding of Langelier (now Quebec), under Gilles Loiselle, a strong believer in Canadian federalism.\n\nAfter the 2004 election, Côté soon became an important player of the Bloc opposition in Parliament as assistant Finance critic for the Bloc. In September 2005, he became the Intergovernmental Affairs and Privy Council critic. He sat on the Finance committee, on the subcommittee on Fiscal Imbalance and on the Official Languages committee. According to www.howdtheyvote.ca, during the 38th Legislature, he was the new Quebec MP who spoke the most in the House of Communs and ranked 38th among all MPs.\n\nCôté was defeated by one of Quebec City's most notorious shock-radio hosts, André Arthur, who ran as an independent. Arthur officially became a candidate on January 2, 2006, three weeks before election day, and spent less than $1000 for his campaign but ran an intensive pre-campaign every day for about two months during his morning and noon shows.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986010", "title": "Dirty Hands", "text": "Dirty Hands\n\nDirty Hands () is a play by Jean-Paul Sartre. It was first performed on 2 April 1948 at the Theatre Antoine in Paris, directed by Pierre Valde and starring François Périer, Marie Olivier and André Luguet.\n\nA political drama set in the fictional country of Illyria between 1943 and 1945, the story is about the assassination of a leading politician. The story is told mainly in the form of a flashback, with the killer describing how he carried out his mission. The killer's identity is established from the beginning, but the question is whether his motivations were political or personal. Thus, the play's main theme is not on \"who\" did it but on \"why\" it was done.\n\nThe action takes place in Illyria, a fictional Eastern European country, during the latter stages of World War II. (Illyria was an actual country of classical antiquity, whose territory included modern Yugoslavia and surroundings.) The country, an ally of Nazi Germany, is on the verge of being annexed to the Eastern Bloc.\n\nA young Communist, Hugo Barine, is told that Hoederer, a party leader, has proposed talks with non-Socialist groups, including the Fascist government and the liberal- and Nationalist-led resistance. The idea is to set up a joint resistance group opposing the Germans, and plan for a post-war coalition government. Hugo feels that Hoederer's policy smacks of treachery. Louis, another party leader, has decided that Hoederer must die. He grudgingly agrees to let Hugo, who has more commitment than experience, do the job.\n\nHugo and his wife Jessica move in with Hoederer, who is charming and trusting by nature. Hugo becomes his secretary. Although he tries to convince Jessica that he is in earnest about the murder, she treats the whole thing as a game. Indeed, at first she sees the gun not as a murder weapon but as a metaphor for a phallus, as Hugo perhaps suffers from erectile dysfunction and is unable to please her. Ten days pass and then the negotiations begin with the other parties. With Hoederer coming close to a deal with the members of the class that he loathes, Hugo is on the point of reaching for his gun when a bomb explodes.\n\nNobody is killed but Hugo is furious. This attack shows that those who sent him do not trust him to do the job. He gets drunk and almost gives the game up to Hoederer's bodyguards. Jessica covers up for him by claiming to be pregnant.（Here Sartre cites the behavior of Lucie Aubrac, a heroine in the French resistance who helped her husband, Raymond Aubrac, another leading resistant, escape from the control of Nazis by claiming that she was pregnant.)\n\nOlga Lorame, one of those who sent Hugo to commit the murder, discreetly visits him and Jessica. It was she who threw the bomb and warns Hugo to get on with killing Hoederer since the others are getting impatient.\n\nSo far Jessica has looked at the killing as a game, but the bomb convinces her that things are in earnest and that Hugo will kill Hoederer. She persuades the two of them to argue their points out in order to prevent any killing.\n\nHoederer's plan is to enter government with the other parties but to leave them with the key ministerial posts. Once the war is over a number of unpopular but necessary policies will have to be implemented in order to rebalance the economy. This will cause problems for the right-wing government, allowing the left-wing, including the Communists, to take over more easily. At the moment, the Communists do not have the necessary support to gain power, and the expected arrival of the Soviet forces may only make things worse. Hoederer points out that people do not like occupying foreign armies, even liberating ones, and the feeling will be passed on to the government introduced by the invaders.\n\nHugo insists that the party must remain pure. Power is the goal, but Hoederer's expedient methods are not acceptable, especially as they involve collaborating with \"class\" enemies and lying and deceiving to their own forces. Once they are alone Jessica tries to convince Hugo that he was taken in by Hoederer's point of view, but he twists this around saying that it is all the more the reason to kill Hoederer since he could convince others.\n\nOver time, however, both Hugo and Jessica have succumbed to Hoederer's charm and manner. Although he disagrees with Hoederer's policies, Hugo seems to think that Hoederer could help him cross from boyhood to manhood and sort out his internal conflicts. Hoederer, who is now aware that Hugo is there to kill him on Louis' orders, is willing to help the young man sort out his problems. He is not, however, so keen on Jessica, whose attraction to him seems more physical. When he kisses her as a way of getting it out of her system, Hugo catches them in the act and kills him.\n\nWhile in prison Hugo receives gifts from the outside, which he guesses are from those who sent him to kill Hoederer. This keeps him going, but some of the gifts turn out to be poisoned chocolates. What's more, when he is released on parole, he finds himself stalked by the party's killers and takes refuge with Olga.\n\nOlga listens to Hugo's version of events. Hugo did not kill Hoederer out of jealousy for Jessica but because he thought that Hoederer was not sincere when he said that he wanted Hugo to stay with him in order to mentor him: \"I killed him because I opened the door. That's all I know\", \"Jealous? Perhaps. But not for Jessica.\"\n\nOlga concludes that Hugo will be more useful alive than dead. However she also reveals that the policy that Hoederer proposed has been adopted after all. On Moscow's orders, the party has formed an alliance with the other groups. In fact Hugo realizes that the very setup that Hoederer was negotiating in his presence, and which he was supposed to prevent, has been carried out. The whole thing was over a matter of timing: Hoederer's initiative was too premature, so the party had to kill him. Later, after Hoederer's plan was adopted, the party rehabilitated his image and after the war he will be remembered as a great leader and hero.\n\nHugo is incensed, especially since the party has lied and deceived its own members. The fact that they are at war and have probably saved a hundred thousand lives makes no difference. What matters now, he decides, is that Hoederer should die not for a woman like Jessica but for his policies: because he lied to the rank and file and jeopardized the soul of the party. Hugo decides all the party leaders—Hoederer, Louis, and Olga—are alike. This is why he has been targeted by hitmen sent by Louis.\n\nHugo realizes that, despite Olga's statements to the contrary, if he remains alive and continues with the party his earlier assassination of Hoederer will mean nothing and bring dishonor. Thus, while Olga tries desperately to save him, it is Hugo himself who lets the killers in to finish the job.\n\nHoederer, a former member of the Illyrian parliament and a leading figure in the Socialist Proletarian Party. He has a very trusting nature and even remains friendly with Hugo after he realizes the young man is there to kill him. He offers to help Hugo sort out his internal conflicts. His plans are based on the political reality of the situation.\n\nHugo Barine, a young 23-year-old bourgeois intellectual who joined the party's Communist faction under the name of Raskolnikov (from Dostoevsky's \"Crime and Punishment\"). His father is a leading businessman and, since he comes from a wealthy background, most members of the party dismiss him as an intellectual who does not even know what poverty is really like. Hugo is anxious to prove his worth to them, especially Louis and Olga, and he sees killing Hoederer as a way to achieve this.\n\nJessica, Hugo's 19-year-old wife. She keeps out of politics, referring to herself as someone brought up to simply \"put flowers in vases\". At first, she treats the approaching murder as a game, which does not help Hugo's confidence, but then she tries desperately to prevent it. When Hugo is jailed she at first keeps in touch but then breaks off communication and stops using her married name.\n\nLouis, another leading figure in the Proletarian Party, but opposed to Hoederer's plan.\n\nOlga, a member of Louis' faction and one of the few friends Hugo has.\n\nKarsky, the leader of the Pentagon, a group that includes Liberals and Nationalists, fighting the Regent of Illyria and his pro-Fascist government.\n\nThe Prince, the son of the Regent and his representative in the negotiations.\n\nSlick, Georges and Leon, Hoederer's bodyguards.\n\nCharles and Frantz, Communist assassins sent to kill Hugo after his release from prison.\n\nIvan, a saboteur for the Communists.\n\nWorld War II has a lot to do with this play and how it was written. Illyria (also the location of Shakespeare's \"Twelfth Night\") was presumably based upon Hungary. The 'Parti Proletarian' is the communist party to which most of the main characters in the story belong. They are fighting for \"une société sans classes\" (\"a classless society\"). The other two parties mentioned in this play are the Regent's Fascist government which supports Germany and the 'Pentagone' which is made up of the middle classes.\n\nHungary at that time was ruled by a Regent, Miklós Horthy who appointed Prime Minister Gyula Gömbös in 1932. Gömbös wanted to co-operate with Nazi Germany, and, although this ended Hungary's depression, it made it economically dependent on Germany. The Hungarian government supported the policies and goals of Nazi Germany.\n\nIn 1938, the new Prime Minister, Kálmán Darányi, decided to make his new policies very pro-Germany and pro-Italy, a bit like how Hoederer wanted to join with the other parties to try to evolve as a country and stay on everyone's good side to get his own party's point across.\n\n\"Les mains sales\" is based mainly on the theme of existentialism which Sartre espoused, but many have taken it as a straightforward political drama. Right-wingers welcomed it as anti-communist, and left-wingers attacked it for the same reason. When the was released in France in 1951 Communists threatened the cinemas showing it. In fact the play itself was not re-staged in France until 1976.\n\nIt was not even staged in a socialist state until November 1968 when it was shown in Prague after the invasion of Czechoslovakia by fellow Warsaw Pact forces. This was appropriate given that differences in Communist doctrine is one of its themes.\n\nUnderlying the critics' response to \"Les mains sales\" is the extent to which it is a play too rooted in themes of politics and existentialism, and whether, as a consequence, it becomes inaccessible for the average spectator.\n\nNon-French versions of the play have had other titles, including \"Dirty Hands\", \"The Assassin\", \"Red Gloves\" and \"Crime Passionnel\".\n\nIn 1982, the play was performed at the Greenwich Theatre in London (UK) under the title of \"The Assassin\", starring Edward Woodward and Michele Dotrice. Eighteen years later in 2000 it was performed again in Britain under the title of \"The Novice\", starring Jamie Glover as Hugo and Kenneth Cranham as Hoederer. The director was Richard Eyre, who used it to raise conflicting differences in contemporary British political life, such as the Northern Ireland peace process or the Old and New factions of Britain's Labour Party government. In 2017, the play was also adapted by Leopold Benedict for the Pembroke Players, under the title of a \"Dirty Hands: A Brexistential Crisis\", to comment on the politics of the Post-Brexit era.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986011", "title": "Simply typed lambda calculus", "text": "Simply typed lambda calculus\n\nThe simply typed lambda calculus (formula_1), a form\nof type theory, is a typed interpretation of the lambda calculus with only one type constructor: formula_2 that builds function types. It is the canonical and simplest example of a typed lambda calculus. The simply typed lambda calculus was originally introduced by Alonzo Church in 1940 as an attempt to avoid paradoxical uses of the untyped lambda calculus, and it exhibits many desirable and interesting properties.\n\nThe term \"simple type\" is also used to refer to extensions of the simply typed lambda calculus such as products, coproducts or natural numbers (System T) or even full recursion (like PCF). In contrast, systems which introduce polymorphic types (like System F) or dependent types (like the Logical Framework) are not considered \"simply typed\". The former, except full recursion, are still considered \"simple\" because the Church encodings of such structures can be done using only formula_2 and suitable type variables, while polymorphism and dependency cannot.\n\nIn this article, we use formula_4 and formula_5 to range over types. Informally, the \"function type\" formula_6 refers to the type of functions that, given an input of type formula_4, produce an output of type formula_5.\nBy convention, formula_2 associates to the right: we read formula_10 as formula_11.\n\nTo define the types, we begin by fixing a set of \"base types\", formula_12. These are sometimes called \"atomic types\" or \"type constants\". With this fixed, the syntax of types is:\n\nFor example, formula_14, generates an infinite set of types starting with formula_15formula_16formula_17formula_18formula_19formula_20\n\nWe also fix a set of \"term constants\" for the base types. For example, we might assume a base type nat, and the term constants could be the natural numbers. In the original presentation, Church used only two base types: formula_21 for \"the type of propositions\" and formula_22 for \"the type of individuals\". The type formula_21 has no term constants, whereas formula_22 has one term constant. Frequently the calculus with only one base type, usually formula_21, is considered.\n\nThe syntax of the simply typed lambda calculus is essentially that of the lambda calculus itself. We write formula_26 to denote that the variable formula_27 is of type formula_5. The term syntax, in BNF, is then:\n\nwhere formula_30 is a term constant.\n\nThat is, \"variable reference\", \"abstractions\", \"application\", and \"constant\". A variable reference formula_27 is \"bound\" if it is inside of an abstraction binding formula_27. A term is \"closed\" if there are no unbound variables.\n\nCompare this to the syntax of untyped lambda calculus:\n\nWe see that in typed lambda calculus every function (\"abstraction\") must specify the type of its argument.\n\nTo define the set of well-typed lambda terms of a given type, we will define a typing relation between terms and types. First, we introduce \"typing contexts\" or \"typing environments\" formula_34, which are sets of typing assumptions. A \"typing assumption\" has the form formula_35, meaning formula_27 has type formula_4.\n\nThe \"typing relation\" formula_38 indicates that formula_39 is a term of type formula_4 in context formula_41. In this case formula_39 is said to be \"well-typed\" (having type formula_4). Instances of the typing relation are called \"typing judgements\". The validity of a typing judgement is shown by providing a \"typing derivation\", constructed using typing rules (wherein the premises above the line allow us to derive the conclusion below the line). Simply-typed lambda calculus uses these rules:\n\nIn words,\n\nExamples of closed terms, \"i.e.\" terms typable in the empty context, are:\nThese are the typed lambda calculus representations of the basic combinators of combinatory logic.\n\nEach type formula_5 is assigned an order, a number formula_68. For base types, formula_69; for function types, formula_70. That is, the order of a type measures the depth of the most left-nested arrow. Hence:\n\nBroadly speaking, there are two different ways of assigning meaning to the simply typed lambda calculus, as to typed languages more generally, sometimes called \"intrinsic\" vs. \"extrinsic\", or \"Church-style\" vs. \"Curry-style\".\nAn intrinsic/Church-style semantics only assigns meaning to well-typed terms, or more precisely, assigns meaning directly to typing derivations. This has the effect that terms differing only by type annotations can nonetheless be assigned different meanings. For example, the identity term formula_73 on integers and the identity term formula_74 on booleans may mean different things. (The classic intended interpretations\nare the identity function on integers and the identity function on boolean values.)\nIn contrast, an extrinsic/Curry-style semantics assigns meaning to terms regardless of typing, as they would be interpreted in an untyped language. In this view, formula_73 and formula_74 mean the same thing (\"i.e.\", the same thing as formula_77).\n\nThe distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic semantics is sometimes associated with the presence or absence of annotations on lambda abstractions, but strictly speaking this usage is imprecise. It is possible to define a Curry-style semantics on annotated terms simply by ignoring the types (\"i.e.\", through type erasure), as it is possible to give a Church-style semantics on unannotated terms when the types can be deduced from context (\"i.e.\", through type inference). The essential difference between intrinsic and extrinsic approaches is just whether the typing rules are viewed as defining the language, or as a formalism for verifying properties of a more primitive underlying language. Most of the different semantic interpretations discussed below can be seen through either a Church or Curry perspective.\n\nThe simply typed lambda calculus has the same equational theory of βη-equivalence as untyped lambda calculus, but subject to type restrictions. The equation for beta reduction\nholds in context formula_41 whenever formula_80 and formula_81, while the equation for eta reduction\nholds whenever formula_83 and formula_27 does not appear free in formula_85.\n\nLikewise, the operational semantics of simply typed lambda calculus can be fixed as for the untyped lambda calculus, using call by name, call by value, or other evaluation strategies. As for any typed language, type safety is a fundamental property of all of these evaluation strategies. Additionally, the strong normalization property described below implies that any evaluation strategy will terminate on all simply typed terms.\n\nThe simply typed lambda calculus (with formula_86-equivalence) is the internal language of Cartesian closed categories (CCCs), as was first observed by Lambek. Given any specific CCC, the basic types of the corresponding lambda calculus are just the objects, and the terms are the morphisms. Conversely, every simply typed lambda calculus gives a CCC whose objects are the types, and morphisms are equivalence classes of terms.\n\nTo make the correspondence clear, a type constructor for the Cartesian product is typically added to the above. To preserve the categoricity of the Cartesian product, one adds type rules for \"pairing\", \"projection\", and a \"unit term\". Given two terms formula_87 and formula_88, the term formula_89 has type formula_90. Likewise, if one has a term formula_91, then there are terms formula_92 and formula_93 where the formula_94 correspond to the projections of the Cartesian product. The \"unit term\", of type 1, is written as formula_95 and vocalized as 'nil', is the final object. The equational theory is extended likewise, so that one has\nThis last is read as \"\"if t has type 1, then it reduces to nil\"\".\n\nThe above can then be turned into a category by taking the types as the objects. The morphisms formula_100 are equivalence classes of pairs formula_101 where \"x\" is a variable (of type formula_4) and \"t\" is a term (of type formula_5), having no free variables in it, except for (optionally) \"x\". Closure is obtained from currying and application, as usual.\n\nMore precisely, there exist functors between the category of Cartesian closed categories, and the category of simply-typed lambda theories.\n\nIt is common to extend this case to closed symmetric monoidal categories by using a linear type system. The reason for this is that the CCC is a special case of the closed symmetric monoidal category, which is typically taken to be the category of sets. This is fine for laying the foundations of set theory, but the more general topos seems to provide a superior foundation.\n\nThe simply typed lambda calculus is closely related to the implicational fragment of propositional intuitionistic logic, i.e., minimal logic, via the Curry–Howard isomorphism: terms correspond precisely to proofs in natural deduction, and inhabited types are exactly the tautologies of minimal logic.\n\nThe presentation given above is not the only way of defining the syntax of the simply typed lambda calculus. One alternative is to remove type annotations entirely (so that the syntax is identical to the untyped lambda calculus), while ensuring that terms are well-typed via Hindley–Milner type inference. The inference algorithm is terminating, sound, and complete: whenever a term is typable, the algorithm computes its type. More precisely, it computes the term's principal type, since often an unannotated term (such as formula_77) may have more than one type (formula_105, formula_106, etc., which are all instances of the principal type formula_107).\n\nAnother alternative presentation of simply typed lambda calculus is based on bidirectional type checking, which requires more type annotations than Hindley–Milner inference but is easier to describe. The type system is divided into two judgments, representing both \"checking\" and \"synthesis\", written formula_108 and formula_109 respectively. Operationally, the three components formula_41, formula_39, and formula_5 are all \"inputs\" to the checking judgment formula_108, whereas the synthesis judgment formula_109 only takes formula_41 and formula_39 as inputs, producing the type formula_5 as output. These judgments are derived via the following rules:\n\nObserve that rules [1]–[4] are nearly identical to rules (1)–(4) above, except for the careful choice of checking or synthesis judgments. These choices can be explained like so:\nObserve that the rules for synthesis are read top-to-bottom, whereas the rules for checking are read bottom-to-top. Note in particular that we do not need any annotation on the lambda abstraction in rule [3], because the type of the bound variable can be deduced from the type at which we check the function. Finally, we explain rules [5] and [6] as follows:\n\nBecause of these last two rules coercing between synthesis and checking, it is easy to see that any well-typed but unannotated term can be checked in the bidirectional system, so long as we insert \"enough\" type annotations. And in fact, annotations are needed only at β-redexes.\n\nGiven the standard semantics, the simply typed lambda calculus is strongly normalizing: that is, well-typed terms always reduce to a value, i.e., a formula_132 abstraction. This is because recursion is not allowed by the typing rules: it is impossible to find types for fixed-point combinators and the looping term formula_133. Recursion can be added to the language by either having a special operator formula_134of type formula_135 or adding general recursive types, though both eliminate strong normalization.\n\nSince it is strongly normalising, it is decidable whether or not a simply typed lambda calculus program halts: in fact, it \"always\" halts. We can therefore conclude that the language is \"not\" Turing complete.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986020", "title": "Senigallia", "text": "Senigallia\n\nSenigallia (or Sinigaglia in Old Italian, Romagnol: \"S’nigaja\") is a \"comune\" and port town on Italy's Adriatic coast. It is situated in the province of Ancona in the Marche region and lies approximately 30 kilometers north-west of the provincial capital city Ancona. Senigallia's small port is located at the mouth of the river Misa. It is one of the endpoints of the Massa-Senigallia Line, one of the most important dividing lines (isoglosses) in the classification of the Romance languages.\n\nSenigallia was first settled in the 4th century BC by the gallic tribe of the Senones who first settled this coastal area. In 284 BC, the settlement was taken over by Romans, who established the colony \"Sena Gallica\" there\". \"\"Sena\"\"\" is probably a corrupted form of \"Senones\" and \"Gallica\"\"\" (meaning \"Gaulish\") distinguished it from \"Saena\" (Siena) in Etruria.\n\nIn the prelude to the Battle of the Metaurus between Romans and Carthaginians in 207 BC, \"Sena Gallica\" was the southernmost point of Carthaginian General Hasdrubal Barca's invasion of Italy. Senigallia was ravaged by Alaric during the decline of the Roman Empire and fortified when it became part of the Byzantine Empire. It was again laid waste by the Lombards in the 8th century and by the Saracens in the 9th. It was one of the five cities of the medieval Adriatic duchy of Pentapolis.\n\nThe diocese and the bishopric had long been established, and the city saw economic development, including the establishment of the so-called Magdalena Fair around the 13th century. The fair's popularity grew when Sergius, count of Senigallia, became engaged to the daughter of the count of Marseilles. On his engagement, the count of Marseilles presented Sergius with relics, said to be of Mary Magdalene. The fair was visited by merchants from both Europe and the Levant.\n\nIn the 15th century, Senigallia was captured and recaptured many times by opposing sides during the Guelph and Ghibelline war. Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta of Rimini fortified the town in the years 1450-1455. Pope Pius II made his nephew Antonio Piccolomini Lord of Senigallia in [?] but in 1464 the residents pledged loyalty to Pope Paul II. In 1472, Giacomo Piccolomini tried but failed to seize the town. In 1503 Cesare Borgia, the brother of the famous Lucrezia Borgia and illegitimate son of the Pope Alessandro VI, carried out a bloody coup at Senigallia against some of his disloyal supporters. Pope Sixtus IV assigned the lordship to the Della Rovere family. In 1516 this was temporarily revoked by Pope Leo X who transferred the Lordship to his nephew Lorenzo II de Medici, then again the Della Rovere family came back since 1624, when Senigallia definitively became part of the Papal States' legation (province) of Urbino.\n\nSenigallia was the birthplace of Giovanni Maria Mastai Ferretti, the future Pope Pius IX. He was born here in 1792, became pope in 1846, and was the last pope to rule the Papal States before Italian unification.\n\nDuring the First World War, the town and its port suffered intensive bombardment by units of the Austro-Hungarian navy led by the battleship SMS \"Zrínyi\", causing severe damage.\nThe town was also badly damaged by a powerful earthquake in 1930 and in the Second World War.\n\nAfter the war, Senigallia became one of the most important holiday resorts in Italy.\n\nOne of the recent most important citizens was the international photographer Mario Giacomelli.\n\nThe municipality borders Belvedere Ostrense, Mondolfo (PU), Monte San Vito, Montemarciano, Morro d'Alba, Ostra and Trecastelli.\n\nThe municipality includes the hamlets (\"frazioni\") of Bettolelle, Borgo Bicchia, Borgo Catena, Borgo Passera, Brugnetto, Cannella, Castellaro, Cesanella, Cesano, Ciarnin, Filetto, Gabriella, Grottino, Mandriola, Marzocca, Montignano, Roncitelli, Sant'Angelo, San Silvestro, Scapezzano and Vallone.\n\nThough traces of the city's history are still visible, much of today's city is modern. Visitor attractions include:\n\nSenigallia is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986021", "title": "Ōtomo no Tabito", "text": "Ōtomo no Tabito\n\nIn the year 720, the Hayato Rebellion erupted in Kyushu. Otomo was ordered to lead Japanese forces to suppress the rebellion. The imperial forces were successful after little more than a year of fighting, and returned to the capital with prisoners of war. As a result, southern Kyushu was firmly brought under the control of the Imperial court under Empress Genmei.\n\nTabito was a contemporary of Hitomaro, but lacked his success in the Imperial Court. While serving as Governor-General of Dazaifu, the military procuracy in northern Kyūshū from 728-730, Tabito hosted a plum-blossom party, encouraging the composition of poetry among his subordinates in imitation of Chinese style elegance. He also showed his Chinese education in his set of thirteen \"tanka\" in praise of sake.\n"}
{"id": "1986025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986025", "title": "Natural religion", "text": "Natural religion\n\nNatural religion most frequently means the \"religion of nature\", in which God, the soul, spirits, and all objects of the supernatural are considered as part of nature and not separate from it. Conversely, it is also used in philosophy, specifically Roman Catholic philosophy, to describe some aspects of religion that are said to be knowable apart from divine revelation through logic and reason alone (see natural theology and Deism), for example, the existence of the unmoved Mover, the first cause of the universe.\n\nMost authors consider natural religion as not only the foundation of monotheistic religions such as Judaism, Christianity, and Islam but also distinct from them. According to some authors, aspects of natural religion are found universally among all peoples, often in such forms of shamanism and animism. They are still practiced in many parts of the world. The religions of Native American societies for example are considered as possessing some aspects of natural religion.\n\nNatural religion might have the following meanings:\n\n\nThe basic tenets of natural religion were outlined by Aristotle, whose \"hylomorphism\" considered all things as made of matter and form. The form of all living things is the soul, which guides and directs their development. Many natural religions consider God as the \"soul of the universe\".\n\nEarly monotheism had many naturalistic elements. Heaven and hell were considered physical places above and below the earth. \"Salvation\" was considered resurrection of the body.\n\nIn the fourth century, Christians were concerned that Jesus had not returned and wondered what happened to those who died before the Second Coming of Christ. Christians, led by Augustine of Hippo and under the influence of both gnosticism and neoplatonism, developed a new belief in the soul as capable of a separate existence abstract from the material world. The human souls, unlike those of animals, would survive death and, depending on God's judgment, be transferred to the non-material realms of heaven or hell and the new realm of limbo for unbaptized persons and purgatory for those who do not deserve hell but are not purified for heaven..\n\nAnother distinction from monotheism is found in the Christian belief in miracles, in which God intervenes in history from outside nature. Ancient Roman philosophers and others since objected to this Christian doctrine as God violating his own natural laws. Christians had to separate God more completely from the natural universe in order to show how this could be possible. There were similar neoplatonist tendencies in Judaism and Islam, which also saw God as acting in history.\n\nNatural religions, on the contrary, consider the supernatural as part of the natural universe.\n\nOne of the first attempts to develop a science of religion was \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" by the American philosopher William James. James saw the basic experience which unified all religions as a sometimes life-changing personal event in which one perceives the connectedness of all things as one unified whole.\n\nJames defined the basics of all religion, including natural religion, when he wrote: \"Were one to characterize the life of religion in the broadest and most general terms possible, one might say that it exists of the belief that there is an unseen order, and that our supreme good lies in harmoniously adjusting ourselves hereto.\"\n\nCertain aspects of natural religion (that is, religious truths that are knowable by human reason alone) are found among different cultures, though not always entirely intact, and to varying degrees, according to philosophers such as Thomas Aquinas and Malebranche.\n\nA few modern scientists such as UK biologist Rupert Sheldrake believe new discoveries coincide with Aristotle's belief in the soul. Forces such as magnetism, gravity, and quantum mechanics also point to non-material forces acting in nature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986039", "title": "Blue Eyed Six", "text": "Blue Eyed Six\n\nThe Blue Eyed Six were a group of six men, all of them coincidentally blue-eyed, who were arrested and indicted on first degree murder charges in Lebanon County, Pennsylvania, in 1879.\n\nThe Six were Charles Drews, Frank Stichler, Henry F. Wise, Josiah Hummel, Israel Brandt, and George Zechman. This group of friends and unsavory business associates conspired to murder their neighbor, Joseph Raber, for an insurance pay-off. Raber, age 65, lived in poverty with his housekeeper in a charcoal burner's hut in the Blue Mountain area of northern Lebanon County. Raber had no steady employment and depended mainly on the charity of his equally impoverished neighbors.\n\nIn early July 1878, four of the conspirators met at Brandt's hotel at St. Joseph Spring and agreed to insure Raber for a total of $8,000. The men told the insurance agent that they had agreed to take care of Raber for the rest of his life and wanted the policy to cover his eventual burial expenses. Several assessment-type life insurance policies were sold on Joseph Raber, with his cooperation, with the men named as the beneficiaries.\n\nLater that year they enlisted two other men to drown Raber in Indiantown Creek. Without any evidence to the contrary, the coroner ruled the death accidental. Although the local citizenry suspected foul play, it wasn't until two months later, when Drews' son-in-law Joseph Peters reported to the constable that he was an eye-witness to the murder, that the six men were arrested and held over for trial.\n\nIn a highly unusual move, the Six were tried together. Due to this and, perhaps, to the fanciful nickname that the conspirators were given by the newspapers, the trial gained more than its share of attention. Reporters from throughout the east coast descended on the city of Lebanon, the county seat of Lebanon County, and the story was carried worldwide. The trial began on 18 April. The Commonwealth's main witness was Drews' son-in-law, but he was only one of thirty-six witnesses called by the prosecution.\n\nThe defense called twenty-two witnesses. The witnesses on both sides were mainly friends, neighbors, and family members who contradicted each other at every turn. It became evident that there were many people who knew of, or suspected, the plot before and after Raber's death, but who did not come forward for fear of mortal retaliation. At 3:30 p.m. on 24 April 1879, the fate of the Blue Eyed Six was left in the hands of the twelve men of the jury.\n\nThe wait was not long. Five hours later the courthouse bell rang out, announcing that they had reached their verdicts. The jury returned verdicts of guilty of first degree murder for all six of the defendants. Defense requested that the jury be polled, and so the word \"Guilty\" was uttered seventy-two times, once for each defendant from each juror.\n\nThe local newspaper noted that it was the first time in the recorded history of common law of the United States and England that six people were convicted of murder on a single indictment. On appeal, the judge awarded Zechman a new trial, based on the lack of direct evidence presented by the Commonwealth against him personally. He was acquitted in his second trial on essentially the same evidence. The other five defendants were sentenced to death by hanging.\n\nDrews and Stichler, who had committed the crime, were hanged first. After all other appeals were exhausted, the accomplices Wise, Hummel, and Brandt were hanged the following year. The acquitted Zechman died of natural causes within the decade. Apart from the actual murder trial, the whole proceeding turned out to be an indictment of the murky business of assessment life insurance, which led to major changes in insurance law, particularly with regard to the practice of insuring people in whom one had no legal interest.\n\nThe Blue Eyed Six are sometimes reported to have been hanged and to be buried in the cemetery at Moonshine United Zion Church (Moonshine is the name of the family who donated the land the church and cemetery occupy) near the village of Green Point at Indiantown Gap, near the site of the murder. In actuality, the hangings all took place at the county prison in Lebanon. Although Joseph Raber, the victim, is buried at Moonshine Church, the six conspirators were all buried separately by their families elsewhere in the county.\n\nBrandt and Drews are buried side by side in the veteran's section of Mt. Lebanon Cemetery in Lebanon. Hummel and Zechman are buried at Sattazahn Lutheran Church cemetery in Union Township, Lebanon County. Wise is buried at Evangelical United Brethren Church cemetery in the village of Green Point, Union Township, Lebanon County. Stichler is buried in the family plot on McLean Road, now within the bounds of Ft. Indiantown Gap.\n\nHummel was hanged May 13, 1880, along with Wise and Brandt. Zechman was acquitted and therefore escaped hanging. He was released from prison and died in 1887.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986042", "title": "Andrew Odlyzko", "text": "Andrew Odlyzko\n\nAndrew Michael Odlyzko (Andrzej Odłyżko) (born 23 July 1949) is a Polish-American mathematician and a former head of the University of Minnesota's Digital Technology Center and of the Minnesota Supercomputing Institute. He began his career in 1975 at Bell Telephone Laboratories, where he stayed for 26 years before joining the University of Minnesota in 2001.\n\nOdlyzko received his B.S. and M.S. in mathematics from the California Institute of Technology and his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1975. In the field of mathematics he has published extensively on analytic number theory, computational number theory, cryptography, algorithms and computational complexity, combinatorics, probability, and error-correcting codes. In the early 1970s, he was a co-author (with D. Kahaner and Gian-Carlo Rota) of one of the founding papers of the modern umbral calculus. In 1985 he and Herman te Riele disproved the Mertens conjecture. In mathematics, he is probably known best for his work on the Riemann zeta function, which led to the invention of improved algorithms, including the Odlyzko–Schönhage algorithm, and large-scale computations, which stimulated extensive research on connections between the zeta function and random matrix theory.\n\nAs a direct collaborator of Paul Erdős, he has Erdős number 1.\n\nMore recently, he has worked on communication networks, electronic publishing, economics of security and electronic commerce.\n\nIn 1998, he and Kerry Coffman were the first to show that one of the great inspirations for the Internet bubble, the myth of \"Internet traffic doubling every 100 days,\" was false.\n\nIn the paper \"Content is Not King\", published in \"First Monday\" in January 2001, he argues that\n\nIn 2012 he became a fellow of the International Association for Cryptologic Research and in 2013 of the American Mathematical Society.\n\nIn the paper \"Metcalfe's Law is Wrong\", Andrew Odlyzko argues that the incremental value of adding one person to a network of \"n\" people is approximately the \"n\"th harmonic number, so the total value of the network is approximately \"n\" log \"n\". Since this curves upward (unlike Sarnoff's law), it implies that Metcalfe's conclusion – that there is a critical mass in networks, leading to a network effect – is qualitatively correct. But since this linearithmic function does not grow as rapidly as Metcalfe's law, it implies that many of the quantitative expectations based on Metcalfe's law were excessively optimistic.\n\nFor example, by Metcalfe, if a hypothetical network of 100,000 members has a value of $1M, doubling its membership would increase its value (200,000/100,000) times, or in other words quadruple to $4M.\nHowever, per Odlyzko, that its value would only grow by 200,000 log (200,000) / 100,000 log (100,000) times, or in other words, slightly more than double to $2.1M.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986044", "title": "Sláine mac Dela", "text": "Sláine mac Dela\n\nSláine (Sláinge, Slánga), son of Dela, of the Fir Bolg was the legendary first High King of Ireland, who cleared the forest around Brú na Bóinne. He reportedly came ashore at Wexford Harbour at the mouth of the River Slaney. \n\nThe Fir Bolg invaded Ireland with five thousand men. Sláine and his four brothers, who were descended from one of the sons of Nemed, divided Ireland amongst themselves. Sláine, the youngest of the five, took Leinster, Gann north Munster, Sengann south Munster, Genann Connacht and Rudraige Ulster. They elected Sláine as ruler over them.\n\nHis wife was Fuad. His portion of the Fir Bolg were known as the Gailióin variant Gaileanga, named after their spears (Old Irish \"gáe\").\n\nHe ruled only one year. He died at Dind Ríg in County Carlow and was buried at Slane, County Meath. He was succeeded by his brother Rudraige mac Dela.\n\nSláine (comics)\n\n"}
{"id": "1986051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986051", "title": "Joe Nedney", "text": "Joe Nedney\n\nJoseph Thomas Nedney (born March 22, 1973) is a former American football placekicker. Born and raised in San Jose, California, Nedney played college football at San Jose State and signed as an undrafted player with the Miami Dolphins in 1996. He played for the 49ers from 2005 to 2010 after having played for the Dolphins, Arizona Cardinals, Baltimore Ravens, Oakland Raiders, Denver Broncos, Carolina Panthers, and Tennessee Titans\nNedney was born in San Jose, California and attended Santa Teresa High School. He lettered in football as a kicker/punter and basketball as a guard/forward.\n\nNedney played college football at San Jose State University, where he was a four-year letterman. He graduated as the school's all-time leading scorer with 236 points, going 39-for-70 in field goal attempts (including a school record 62-yarder) and 119-of-132 extra points. He also punted as a senior, averaging 37.8 yards per punt on 70 punts. In 1998, San Jose State awarded him a degree in recreation after Nedney completed an internship at the Arizona Cardinals community relations department.\n\nNedney started his NFL career in 1996, bouncing around practice squads for the Green Bay Packers, Oakland Raiders, and Miami Dolphins. He then joined the Dolphins full-time for the 1996 NFL season, and led the team in scoring with 89 points. The following season, he signed with the Arizona Cardinals, who he stayed with for two and a half seasons, and at one point sharing kicking duties with veteran Chris Jacke. In 1999, he was waived by the Cardinals, and then picked up by the Raiders, where he finished the season before being released. He was picked up by the Denver Broncos at the start of the 2000 NFL season to fill in for the injured Jason Elam, but was waived after three games and then signed by the Carolina Panthers. Nedney went on to join the Tennessee Titans the following year, and was their kicker for four years, until injuring his hamstring during the 2004 NFL season. During the 2002 playoffs, he was involved in a controversial running into the kicker penalty against the Steelers during overtime. Nedney had just missed a 31-yard field goal, but was given another opportunity by the penalty. He made his second try, thus winning the game. After the game Nedney said, \"He got a pretty good hit on me, but when I'm done playing ball I might try acting.\" \n\nHe signed with the 49ers in March 2005. Nedney went 26 for 28 in 2005, and kicked a career high 56-yard field goal against the St. Louis Rams on Christmas Eve. He was the Co-MVP for the 49ers, and quickly re-signed with the team during the offseason.\n\nIn the final game of the 1999 NFL season while Nedney was with the Oakland Raiders, the Chiefs were denied a trip to the playoffs and an AFC West division title in the final game of the season when Nedney kicked a field-goal in overtime, giving the division to the Seattle Seahawks instead. Ironically, Nedney, with the San Francisco 49ers in 2006, kicked a field goal in overtime against the Denver Broncos, knocking them from the playoff picture and giving the Chiefs the final wild-card spot in the playoffs.\n\nOn October 31, 2007, the NFL fined Nedney $7,500 for giving a fan the middle finger during the team's loss to the Saints on October 28.\n\nOn July 28, 2011, he was released by the 49ers. and retired the next day.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2014, Nedney was varsity special teams coach for the Scotts Valley High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986055", "title": "The Shepheardes Calender", "text": "The Shepheardes Calender\n\nThe Shepheardes Calender was Edmund Spenser's first major poetic work, published in 1579. In emulation of Virgil's first work, the \"Eclogues\", Spenser wrote this series of pastorals at the commencement of his career. However, Spenser's models were rather the Renaissance eclogues of Mantuanus. The title, like the entire work, is written using deliberately archaic spellings, in order to suggest a connection to medieval literature, and to Geoffrey Chaucer in particular.\nThe poem introduces Colin Clout, a folk character originated by John Skelton, and depicts his life as a shepherd through the twelve months of the year. The \"Calender\" encompasses considerable formal innovations, anticipating the even more virtuosic \"Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia\" (The \"Old\" \"Arcadia,\" 1580), the classic pastoral romance by Sir Philip Sidney, with whom Spenser was acquainted. It is also remarkable for the extensive commentary included with the work in its first publication, ascribed to an \"E.K.\" E.K. is an intelligent, very subtle, and often deeply ironic commentator, who is sometimes assumed to be an alias of Spenser himself. The term sarcasm is first recorded in English in Spenser's poem.\n\nThe twelve eclogues of \"The Shepheardes Calender,\" dealing with such themes as the abuses of the church, Colin's shattered love for Rosalind, praise for Queen Elizabeth, and encomia to the rustic Shepherd's life, are titled for the months of the year. Each eclogue is preceded by a woodcut and followed by a motto describing the speaker. The opening line of each eclogue expresses characteristics of the month, and the poem as a whole charts common accuracy of the seasons, the toil and celebrations of the village year. The precision of the description of birds, flowers, and harvests is balanced by an underlying theme of the hardships and rituals that each season entails. Each pastoral in the poem can be classified into one of three categories, identified as moral, plaintive, or re-creative.\nThe plaintive and re-creative poems are each devoted to presenting Colin Clout in his double character of lover and poet, whereas the moral poems are mixed with mocking bitterness, which moves Colin from a dramatic personae to a more homely style. While the January pastoral tells of the unhappy love of Colin for Rosalind, the springtime of April calls for a song in praise of Elizabeth. In May, the shepherds, who are rival pastors of the Reformation, end their sermons with an animal fable. In summer, they discourse on Puritan theology. October brings them to contemplate the trials and disappointments of a poet, and the series ends with a parable comparing life to the four seasons of the year.\n\n\"The Shepheardes Calender\" is a poem that consists of twelve eclogues. Each eclogue is named after a different month, which represents the turning of seasons. An eclogue is a short pastoral poem that is in the form of a dialogue or soliloquy. This is why, while the months come together to form a whole year, each month can also stand alone as a separate poem. The months are all written in a different form. For example, April has a lyrical \"laye\" which honors the Queen. Maye gives off characterization and greater description. As the reader passes through each month and gets closer to the end of the year, the wording becomes less beautifully lyrical and more straightforward; closing together the poem the way the month of December closes up the year. Spenser uses rhyme differently in each month. There is a very cyclical pattern that shows off the kind of style that Spenser was going for, making the reader feel as though they are going through the cycle of each year just as the narrator does. The months all have repetition of elements and arguments. The style of the poem is also influenced by writers such as Chaucer and Skelton.\n\nEdmund Spenser's involvement with the Earl of Leicester set the groundwork for the influential effect that \"The Shepheardes Calender\" would have. A year after working together, the two of them, joined by Sir Philip Sidney, Edward Dryer, and Fulke Greville, created the literary group called \"Areopagus\". The group they formed supported Leicester's views on religion and politics (Bear). When \"The Shepheardes Calender\", which was Spenser's first ever published piece, was published it was around the same time that Leicester proposed marriage between the Queen and the Duc d'Alençon. \nThe poem served as a type of propaganda to the proposal. Spenser recognized that the poem was for his own financial and political gains, but it also sets the idea of standing behind one's work. The work was a success; between 1579 and 1597 five editions were published. One thing that separates the poem from others of its time is Spenser's use of allegory and his dependence on the idea of antiquity. The poem also set the groundwork for Spenser's best known work \"The Faerie Queene\". \"The Shepheardes Calender\" was also crucial to the naturalization of the English Language and the introduction of vocabulary along with literary techniques. \n\nThe Irish composer Ina Boyle composed \"Colin Clout\", a pastoral for orchestra (1921).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986057", "title": "Blockbusting", "text": "Blockbusting\n\nBlockbusting is a business process of U.S. real estate agents and building developers to convince white property owners to sell their house at low prices, which they do by promoting fear in those house owners that racial minorities will soon be moving into the neighborhood. The agents then sell those same houses at much higher prices to black families desperate to escape the overcrowded ghettos. Blockbusting became possible after the legislative and judicial dismantling of legally protected racially segregated real estate practices after World War II. By the 1980s it largely disappeared as a business practice, after changes in law and the real estate market.\n\nFrom 19001970, around 6 million African Americans from the rural Southern United States moved to industrial and urban cities in Northern and Western United States during the Great Migration in effort to avoid the Jim Crow laws, violence, bigotry, and limited opportunities in the South. Resettlement to these cities peaked during World War I and World War II as northern and western cities recruited tens of thousands of blacks and whites including those from the South to work in the war industry and shipyards. Racial and class antagonisms heightened across the urban United States as a result of this influx of black residents and in part due to the over-crowding of cities. As American soldiers returned home in the aftermath of World War I and World War II, they struggled to find adequate housing and jobs in the cities that they left.\n\nWhite homeowners in many U.S. cities regarded blacks as a social and economic threat to their neighborhoods. If blacks moved into a neighborhood, home values in that neighborhood would decrease. Since white homeowners took great pride in their homes and often viewed them as their life's investment, they feared that allowing one black family to move into their neighborhood would ruin their life investments. To prevent their neighborhoods from becoming racially mixed, many cities kept their neighborhoods segregated with local zoning laws. Such laws required people of non-white ethnic groups to reside in geographically defined areas of the town or city, preventing them from moving to areas inhabited by whites.\n\nThis belief was substantiated by both racism and legislation. In 1934, the National Housing Act was signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, establishing the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). The FHA was commissioned by the Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC) to look at 239 cities and create \"residential security maps\" to indicate the level of security for real-estate investments in each surveyed city. These maps marked neighborhoods by quality from 'A' to 'D', with 'A' representing the higher income neighborhoods and 'D' representing the lower income neighborhoods. Every neighborhood with some black population was given a 'D' rating and residents of those areas were refused loans. This practice, called redlining, gave whites an economic incentive to keep blacks out of their communities.\n\nThe areas that non-whites were allowed to live in were substandard. This was in part due to the over-crowding, which was exacerbated by the Great Migration. Often, several families were crowded into one unit. Because non-whites were confined to these small areas of the city, landlords were able to exploit their residents by charging high rents and ignoring repairs.\n\nIn 1917, in the case of \"Buchanan v. Warley\", the Supreme Court of the United States voided the racial residency statutes that forbade blacks from living in white neighborhoods. The court ruled that the statutes violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. However, whites found a loophole in this case by using racially restrictive covenants in deeds, and real estate businesses informally applied them to prevent the sale of houses to Black Americans in White neighborhoods. To thwart the Supreme Court's \"Buchanan v. Warley\" prohibition of such legal business racism, state courts interpreted the covenants as a contract between private persons, outside the scope of the Fourteenth Amendment. However, in the \"Shelley v. Kraemer\" case in 1948, the Supreme Court ruled that the Amendment's Equal Protection Clause outlawed the states' legal enforcement of racially restrictive covenants in state courts. In this event, decades of segregation practices were annulled, which had compelled blacks to live in over-crowded and over-priced ghettos. Freed by the Supreme Court from the legal restrictions, it became possible for non-whites to buy homes that had previously been reserved for white residents.\n\nGenerally, \"blockbusting\" denotes the real estate and building development business practices yielding double profits from anti-black racism. Real estate companies used deceitful tactics to make white homeowners think that their neighborhood was being \"invaded\" by non-white residents, which in turn would encourage them to quickly sell their houses at below-market prices. The companies then sold that property to blacks who were desperate to escape inner-city ghettos at higher-than-market prices.\n\nDue to redlining, African-Americans usually did not qualify for mortgages from banks and savings and loan associations. Instead, they resorted to land installment contracts at above market rates to buy a house. The harsh terms of these contracts often led to foreclosure, so these houses had a high turnover rate. With blockbusting, real estate companies legally profited firstly from the arbitrage (the difference between the discounted price paid to frightened white sellers and the artificially high price paid by black buyers), secondly from the commissions resulting from increased real estate sales, and thirdly from their higher than market financing of the house sales to blacks.\n\nThe term \"blockbusting\" might have originated in Chicago, Illinois, where real estate companies and building developers used \"agents provocateurs\". Those were non-white people hired to deceive the white residents of a neighborhood into believing that black people were moving into the neighborhood. The houses that became vacant in that way enabled accelerated emigration of economically successful racial minority residents to better neighborhoods beyond the ghettos. The white residents were encouraged to quickly sell (at a loss) and emigrate to generally more racially homogeneous suburbs. Blockbusting was most prevalent on the West Side and South Side of Chicago, and also was heavily practiced in Bedford–Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, New York City; in the West Oak Lane and Germantown neighborhoods of Northwest Philadelphia; and on the East Side of Cleveland.\n\nThe tactics included:\n\nSuch practices can be described as psychological manipulation that usually frightened the remaining white residents into selling at a loss.\n\nBlockbusting was very common and very profitable. For example, by 1962, when blockbusting had been practiced for some fifteen years, the city of Chicago had more than 100 real estate companies that had been, on average, \"changing\" two to three blocks a week for years.\n\nIn 1962, \"blockbusting\"real estate profiteeringwas nationally exposed by \"The Saturday Evening Post\" with the article \"Confessions of a Block-Buster\", wherein the author detailed the practices, emphasizing the profit gained from frightening white people to sell at a loss, in order to quickly resettle in racially segregated \"better neighborhoods\". In response to political pressure from the cheated sellers and buyers, states and cities legally restricted door-to-door real estate solicitation, the posting of \"FOR SALE\" signs, and authorized government licensing agencies to investigate the blockbusting complaints of buyers and sellers, and to revoke the real estate sales licenses of blockbusters. Likewise, other states' legislation allowed lawsuits against real estate companies and brokers who cheated buyers and sellers with fraudulent representations of declining property values, changing racial and ethnic neighborhood populations, increasing crime, and the \"worsening\" of schools, because of race mixing.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act of 1968 established federal causes of action against blockbusting, including illegal real estate broker claims that blacks, Hispanics, \"et al.\" had or were going to move into a neighborhood, and so devalue the properties. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity was charged with the task of administering and enforcing this law. In the case of \"Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co.\" (1968), the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Thirteenth Amendment authorized the federal government's prohibiting racial discrimination in private housing markets. It thereby allowed black American legal claims to rescind the usurious land contracts (featuring over-priced houses and higher-than-market mortgage interest rates), as a discriminatory real estate business practice illegal under the Civil Rights Act of 1866, thus greatly reducing the profitability of blockbusting. Nevertheless, the said regulatory and statutory remedies against blockbusting were challenged in court; thus, towns cannot prohibit an owner's placing a \"FOR SALE\" sign before his house, in order to reduce blockbusting. In the case of \"Linmark Associates, Inc. v. Willingboro\" (1977), the Supreme Court ruled that such prohibitions infringe freedom of expression. Moreover, by the 1980s, as evidence of blockbusting practices disappeared, states and cities began rescinding statutes restricting blockbusting.\n\nThe serious-comic television series \"All in the Family\" (1971–1979) featured \"The Blockbuster\", a 1971 episode about the practice, illustrating some real estate blockbusting techniques.\n\nIn the 2011 historical fantasy novel \"Redwood and Wildfire\", author Andrea Hairston depicts actors being hired for blockbusting in Chicago, as well as the sense of betrayal experienced by others when they realized some black people were getting rich by participating in these exploitative schemes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986064", "title": "Ayres Natural Bridge Park", "text": "Ayres Natural Bridge Park\n\nAyres Natural Bridge Park is a county park in Converse County, Wyoming in the United States. It occupies 150 acres (0.6 km²) between the towns Glenrock and Douglas about 6 kilometers south of Interstate 25 exit 151. The park's name is derived from the rock formation of the same name. Ayres is the surname of the family who donated the land which had been part of their ranch.\n\nOver the course of millions of years, a bend in LaPrele Creek (originally known as Bridge Creek) wore away at a wall of solid rock, creating a natural opening. The creek eventually shifted course through the opening, forming a 30-foot (10 m) high and 50-foot (15 m) wide arch, today known as Ayres Natural Bridge.\n\nLocated about a mile (2 km) south of the Oregon Trail, the Natural Bridge was often visited by emigrants traveling west. It is considered one of Wyoming's first tourist attractions. In 1843, a pioneer described it as \"a natural bridge of solid rock, over a rapid torrent, the arch being regular as tho' shaped by art.\"\n\nThe park is free to visit. There is a small campground in the park, as well as open picnic areas and covered tables. It is opened from April 15 through October 15, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., with registered campers allowed to stay overnight. No pets are allowed in the park.\nAt the park entrance, the old power house, a gray concrete building from the early 1900s build by \"North Platte Irrigation Company\" to supply power to pump water from North Platte River for irrigation is still preserved. The company went bankrupt before the project was completed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986066", "title": "Hansard Society", "text": "Hansard Society\n\nThe Hansard Society was formed in 1944 to promote parliamentary democracy. Founded and chaired by Commander Stephen King-Hall, the first subscribers were Winston Churchill and Clement Attlee. The Society's co-Presidents are the Speaker of the House of Commons Sir Lindasy Hoyle and the Lord Speaker Baron Fowler, and the Vice-Presidents are the leaders of the Labour (Jeremy Corbyn), Conservative (Boris Johnson) and the Liberal Democrat (Jo Swinson) parties. The Society is named after the Hansard Parliamentary Record, which publishes the proceedings of the British parliament.\n\nMore than 60 years on, the Hansard Society claims to be universally recognised as the independent and non-partisan authority on Parliament and democracy. Their work encompasses a wide range of areas, from citizenship education to the role of Parliament, from devolution to the impact of new media on politics. In addition, the Society organises a variety of events in Westminster with high-profile speakers, influential seminars and popular fringe events at Party Conferences.\n\nThe society has an Advisory Council who support the staff and work of the Society in an advisory capacity and across all the various programmes of work. It is composed of MPs and Lords, journalists, business people and academics. Within the council there is an Executive Committee, which acts as a Board of Trustees. The current Chair of the Advisory Council is Peter Riddell. \n\nThe Hansard Society functions through a number of different project teams, whose work includes:\n\n\nThe Citizenship Education programme works with young people through schools and colleges to educate and inform them about parliamentary democracy and develop innovative ways to involve them in participatory democratic activities. It aims to ensure that teachers have free access to knowledge, training sessions and stimulating resources for political education.\n\nThe programme organises Mock Elections in schools across the UK and runs a number of student-focused projects.\n\nEstablished in 1997, the Digital Democracy programme (until 2010 known as the eDemocracy Programme) was the first research unit dedicated to examining the political and social impact of information and communications technology (ICT). They also conduct research and evaluation; producing commentary and analysis on the latest new media developments and their impact on parliament, government and civil society, including digital participation, engagement, political campaigning and the parliamentary process. The programme was led from 2007 until 2011 by Dr Andy Williamson, a well known researcher and commentator on digital democracy. Previous Directors included Ross Ferguson (2005 - 2007) and Professor Stephen Coleman (until 2005).\n\nThe Digital Democracy programme, in conjunction with the House of Lords, established the Lords of the Blog website in 2008 to educate, raise awareness and engage with the public on a range of issues regarding the role and business of the House of Lords. Lord Norton, one of the contributors to the blog, has since been described as \"a new star of the blogosphere.\"\n\nThe Ministry of Justice commissioned the programme in 2005 to conduct \"an independent review of ways in which central government can use information and communication technology (ICT) to enable and enhance public engagement\", called Digital Dialogues.\n\nThe Parliament & Government programme undertakes research on political and constitutional reform. In recent years, they have worked on the issues of Parliamentary scrutiny and government accountability, political representation, the process of law making, and public engagement.\n\nWorking closely with parliamentarians, government, the media and the public to consider a range of issues relevant to parliamentary democracy, the programme has made many influential recommendations for parliamentary reform. The Society's publication, \"The Fiscal Maze: Parliament, Government and Public Money\", encouraged the House of Commons Liaison Committee to examine the issue of parliamentary scrutiny of government expenditure, and the research \"A Year in the Life: From member of public to Member of Parliament\" was quoted at length by the Modernisation Committee in its inquiry \"Revitalising the Chamber: the role of the back bench Member\".\n\nThe programme also publishes an annual \"Audit of Political Engagement\", examining the characteristics and trends in public attitudes to politics.\n\nIn 1985 the Society, in conjunction with the London School of Economics, established the Hansard Scholars and Hansard Research Scholars programme, which organise study programmes at LSE and internships in Westminister. The prestigious and selective Scholars programme recruits students who have demonstrated a commitment to public service and to the improvement of democratic systems of government.\n\nThe Study and Scholars programme also works with the Foreign Office and the British Council to provide courses for future political leaders from around the world.\n\nIn addition to this core work, the programme has expanded to include training for charities, journalists, companies and other organisations that need to understand how the parliamentary system works.\n\nAs a registered charity, the Hansard Society relies on funding from individual donations, grants from charitable trusts and foundations, corporate sponsorship, and donations from individual parliamentarians from Westminster and the devolved institutions.\n\nThe Hansard Society has been a given a B grade for funding transparency by Who Funds You?\n\n\nThe journal \"Parliamentary Affairs\" is jointly published by Oxford University Press and the Hansard Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986069", "title": "Cambridgeshire County Cricket Club", "text": "Cambridgeshire County Cricket Club\n\nCambridgeshire County Cricket Club is one of twenty minor county clubs within the domestic cricket structure of England and Wales. It represents the historic county of Cambridgeshire including the Isle of Ely.\n\nThe original Cambridgeshire club, established in 1844, is classified as a first-class team from 1857 to 1871. The present club, founded in 1891, has always had minor status although it has played List A matches occasionally from 1964 until 2004 but is not classified as a List A team \"per se\".\n\nThe club is based at The Avenue Sports Club Ground, March, though they have played a number of matches at Fenner's, Cambridge University's ground, and occasionally play games there still. In recent years, matches have also been held at Wisbech and Saffron Walden (in northeastern Essex).\n\n\nCricket must have reached Cambridgeshire in the 17th century. The earliest reference to the game being played there is at Cambridge University in 1710.\n\nOutside the university, the earliest reference is a game in 1744 in the Isle of Ely, between the gentlemen of March and the gentlemen of Wisbeach, eleven of a side, for five pounds a man.\n\nCambridge Town Club and Cambridgeshire were effectively the same team as the town club teams were representative of the county as a whole. The town club's earliest known match was against Cambridge University Cricket Club in 1819 and the county name was first used for the match against Surrey in 1857.\n\nThe town club was formed sometime before 1819 and eventually evolved into the original county club, which was formally established on 13 March 1844, playing under the name of \"Cambridge Town and County Club\". After 1847, the name reverted to Cambridge Town.\n\nThe county club did not play matches outside East Anglia until 1857 when it played Surrey. From 1857 until 1871, the county club was recognised as holding first-class status. The club itself was dissolved in 1869 (according to \"James Lillywhite's Cricketers' Companion\" of that year) but two matches arranged in 1869 and 1871 involved playing members of the former club and the team in both these games was called Cambridgeshire by \"Wisden\" and other sources.\n\nThe club played 39 first-class matches in all, winning thirteen, losing 21 and drawing five. The most successful season was 1864, when all 3 matches played were won. The regular home ground was Fenner's. Thomas Hayward made the most appearances, playing in 35 of the matches. He also made most runs, with 1,934 at 33.34, and scored two of the four centuries made for the county, both in 1861. He and Robert Carpenter put on 212 for the 3rd wicket against Surrey at The Oval in 1861, both scoring centuries. This was the highest partnership for the county. George Tarrant took the most wickets: 197 at 12.25, plus a further 22 wickets for which the runs conceded are not known. He had match figures of 15-56 against Kent at Chatham in 1862, including 8-16 in an innings. He also took 8-45 in an innings against Surrey at Fenner's the same year.\n\nAccording to Simon Wilde, in the early 1860s Carpenter and Hayward were rated as two of the three finest batsmen in England along with Richard Daft. Daft himself ranked Carpenter and Hayward as being equal, but George Parr reckoned Carpenter to be the better. Wilde's own estimation was that Carpenter was the best batsman in England from 1860 to 1866.\n\nThe present club was founded on 6 June 1891.\n\nCambridgeshire first took part in the Minor Counties Championship in the competition's fourth season, 1898, and has competed every season since with the exception of 1902 and 1920. The club was revived in 1921 with HB Hart as Secretary and HC Tebbutt as captain, despite the club’s financial situation being precarious. War veteran Tebbutt had debuted in 1901, but this was his final season. He later became notorious for murdering his partner and three children before killing himself.\n\nIt has won the Minor Counties Championship once, in 1963. Cambridgeshire has won the MCCA Knockout Trophy twice since its inception in 1983. It won in 1995 and 2003.\n\nThe following Cambridgeshire cricketers also made an impact on the first-class game:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986076", "title": "Jean-Claude D'Amours", "text": "Jean-Claude D'Amours\n\nJean-Claude \"J.C.\" D'Amours (born December 19, 1972) is a Canadian politician and former Member of Parliament for Madawaska—Restigouche.\n\nBorn in Edmundston, New Brunswick, D'Amours served as a city councillor in Edmundston from 1998 to 2004. D'Amours is a former account executive, development manager and a financial agent/adviser/consultant.\n\nIn the 2004 federal election, D'Amours was elected to the House of Commons of Canada as a member of the Liberal Party of Canada. During his first mandate, he was a member of the Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills Development, Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities, the Standing Committee on Official Languages and the Subcommittee on the Employment Insurance Funds of the Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills Development, Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.\n\nHe was re-elected in the 2006 federal election after a close race with Conservative candidate Jean-Pierre Ouellet. His campaign focused on improving the Employment Insurance Program, transferring federal government jobs to rural regions, creating a community development fund and creating a national forum on the forest industry.\n\nD'Amours was defeated by Conservative Bernard Valcourt in the 2011 Federal election on May 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986083", "title": "San Pedro Bay (California)", "text": "San Pedro Bay (California)\n\nSan Pedro Bay is an inlet on the Pacific Ocean coast of southern California, United States. It is the site of the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach, which together form the fifth-busiest port facility in the world (behind the ports of Shanghai, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Shenzhen) and the busiest in the Americas. The community of San Pedro, Los Angeles forms the western side of the bay, and shares the name.\n\nMost of the bay is between deep. The seabed near Long Beach has experienced considerable subsidence as a result of oil extraction in the Wilmington Field from the 1950s onward. Ironically, this helped the Port of Long Beach surpass the Port of Los Angeles as the leading port in the United States for a time in the 1980s and 1990s, since the deeper seafloor meant that Long Beach could accommodate ships with deeper drafts than could Los Angeles. Dredging operations related to the construction of a gigantic new marine terminal at the Port of Los Angeles have since made both sides of the bay accessible to even the largest existing container ships. Concerns regarding subsidence increased until Operation \"Big Squirt,\" a water injection program, halted any progression of sinking land in 1960.\n\nNatural islands in San Pedro Bay include Terminal Island (actually an augmented mudflat), the site of much of Los Angeles' and Long Beach's port facilities, and Mormon Island, the site of an abortive settlement attempt by San Bernardino-based Mormon pioneers in the 1850s. Land reclamation operations by Los Angeles have considerably enlarged Terminal Island, as well as linking Mormon Island to the mainland. Deadman's Island sat at a landmark at the foot of the Bay, but was removed in 1928 as part of the effort to enlarge the harbor. In 1927 an airport was built on Terminal Island.\n\nFour small artificial islands containing oil wells (the THUMS Islands) are scattered around the bay near Long Beach. The oil drilling equipment itself is masked by tropical landscaping, architectural features and fake high-rise \"buildings\" in an attempt to improve their appearance from shore. These islands, named Oil Islands Freeman, Grissom, White, and Chaffee, are named for Theodore Freeman, the first United States NASA astronaut to die during flight, and for Gus Grissom, Ed White, and Roger B. Chaffee, who were killed by a fire during the Apollo 1 mission.\n\nAs Los Angeles developed as an economic and trading hub, the need for a deep harbor became apparent. In the late 1890s, the Southern Pacific Railroad started purchasing large parcels of land in Santa Monica near its terminus, and the Huntington family advocated for a Santa Monica harbor, which would have monopolized Southern Pacific freight. In opposition, the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce and a newly formed Harbor League advocated for a harbor to be built in San Pedro, where the Southern Pacific would have competition with Phineas Banning's Los Angeles and Harbor Railroad. The resulting Free Harbor Fight and 1906 annexation of the Harbor Gateway ensured San Pedro would serve as the main port of Los Angeles. It also explains the considerable distance between the harbor and the city's main rail yards, a situation not addressed until the construction of the Alameda Corridor, nearly a century later.\n\nThree breakwaters extend across most of the bay, with two openings to allow ships to enter the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach. The San Pedro Breakwater was constructed between 1899 and 1911 at San Pedro; the Middle Breakwater was completed over the next twenty-five years, and the Long Beach Breakwater was finished after World War II.\n\nThe breakwaters provided the ports considerable protection in the 1939 California tropical storm.\n\nThe Long Beach breakwater is the target of controversy within the harbor towns and Greater Los Angeles conservationists community; with various environmental groups, including the Long Beach chapter of the Surfrider Foundation, proposing modifying or removing the breakwater to promote better water flows and a more natural coastal environment at the mouth of the Los Angeles River. This restoration ecology based removal is opposed by waterfront property owners and shippers, who consider that the breakwater provides needed protection from storm damage.\n\nA short documentary addressing the issues surrounding the reconfiguration of the Long Beach breakwater is available.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986096", "title": "Dengeki Comic Gao!", "text": "Dengeki Comic Gao!\n\n, also known as Dengeki Gao! as was a Japanese shōnen manga magazine that primarily contained manga and information about series featuring bishōjo characters. It was published from December 1992 to February 2008 by MediaWorks. The \"Gao\" in the magazine's title is a childish form of the sound \"Grr\". Many manga serialized in \"Dengeki Comic Gao!\" were adapted from light novels published under MediaWorks' \"Dengeki Bunko\" label. The magazine was sold every month on the twenty-seventh.\n\nWhen \"Dengeki Comic Gao!\" was first published, many of the manga that ran in the magazine had transferred from Kadokawa Shoten's \"Comic Comp\" magazine, though many of the titles were slightly altered. This caused the readers of \"Comic Comp\" to become interested in \"Dengeki Comic Gao!\" and in October 1994, \"Comic Comp\" ceased publication. Gradually, it became apparent that MediaWorks' similar manga magazine \"Dengeki Daioh\" was much more popular, and in response, \"Dengeki Comic Gao!\" was reformatted starting with the February 2007 issue on December 27, 2006. This was also when the \"Gao\" as printed on the magazine cover was changed from being spelled in katakana to being spelled in English stylized as \"gao\". On December 9, 2006, the first issue of a special edition version of \"Dengeki Comic Gao!\" called \"Comic Sylph\" was published, and is sold quarterly; starting with volume six, \"Comic Sylph\" became a special edition version of \"Dengeki Daioh\" on March 21, 2008.\n\nThe last issue, nicknamed , was sold on February 27, 2008 with most of the currently serialized titles reaching their final chapters, while some others continued publication in MediaWorks's similarly themed magazine \"Dengeki Daioh\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1986103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986103", "title": "Dengeki Daioh", "text": "Dengeki Daioh\n\nThe publication originated from Bandai's \"Cyber Comix\" magazine, which later became the short-lived \"Media Comix Dyne\" — it lasted three issues. After the publication of \"Media Comix Dyne\" was canceled, MediaWorks launched \"Dengeki Daioh\" as a quarterly publication in 1994. It eventually developed into a bimonthly magazine in 1996, and later into a monthly publication when its name was changed to its current title, \"Monthly Comic Dengeki Daioh\". In recent years, the magazine has taken to publishing information on anime and video games as well where half the magazine contains such information. \"Dengeki Daioh\" celebrated its thirteenth year of publication in 2007. Starting with the August 2008 issue, sold on June 27, 2008, \"Dengeki Daioh\" increased the number of manga series serialized in each issue which expanded the page count from about 700 to 900 pages per issue.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986104", "title": "Dylan Patton", "text": "Dylan Patton\n\nDylan Michael Patton (born July 13, 1992) is an American former actor and former child model. He is best known for portraying the role of Will Horton on the NBC soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\" from February 27, 2009 to January 20, 2010.\n\nHe currently plays Ultimate Frisbee for the Los Angeles Organization of Ultimate Teams called Kong and does production assistant work in art department.\n\nIn early 2009, he was cast in the role of Will Horton on the NBC soap opera \"Days of Our Lives for 4 years, but due to the change in story line, after playing the role for eleven and a half months, the role was recast and he was let go from the show. In 2010, he was nominated for an award at the 37th annual Daytime Emmy Awards in the Outstanding Younger Actor category for his role in Days of Our Lives.\n\nPatton currently plays Ultimate Frisbee for the Los Angeles Organization of Ultimate Teams team \"Kong\". In January 2016, he participated in an American Ultimate Disc League team \"Los Angeles Aviators\" Tryouts session in Group C in hopes to get to play for \"2016 Los Angeles Aviators Roster\", but did not make it through.\n\nDylan was born in Texas, United States on July 13, 1992. His family consists of his parents David Patton, Deborah Patton and younger brother Julian. He studied at Agoura High School. He spent his youngest years in Texas, then moved to Los Angeles to pursue his acting career. On May 14, 2013, Patton was arrested for selling cocaine out of his parents' Agoura Hills home in California. On June 13, 2013, he was sentenced to three years probation after pleading no contest to selling cocaine out of his family's Agoura Hills home.\n\n2008\n\n2010\n\n2011\n"}
{"id": "1986108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986108", "title": "Jurm (2005 film)", "text": "Jurm (2005 film)\n\nJurm (English: \"Crime\") is an Indian Hindi mystery-thriller film written and directed by Vikram Bhatt and was released in 2005. The plot of the movie is similar to the 1999 movie \"Double Jeopardy\". The movie was a flop at the Box Office.\n\nAvinash Malhotra, a rich businessman, is arrested for murdering his wife Sanjana. All the evidence points towards his guilt, but Avinash himself is unsure whether he really killed her. A guilt-ridden and distraught Avinash asks the help from his friend and lawyer Rohit to escape from sure punishment. But Avinash doesn't know that he is going to get in an even bigger mess than he is trying to get out from.\n\nAvinash and Sanjana's married life goes downhill when he realizes that she has been lying to him, even about petty things. Even though there is no concrete evidence, he is convinced that Sanjana is cheating on him. His attitude towards her changes, which becomes a cause of concern for his friends. They try in all futility to talk sense into him, but his anger towards Sanjana increases. Things come to an ugly turn when Avinash abuses and embarrasses Sanjana in a party they are attending.\n\nSanjana heads back to their home and Avinash follows. Next day, Avinash learns that he brutally killed Sanjana in front of her uncle. A case stands in the court and he is given a life sentence. Unconvinced of his guilt, he asks his lawyer and friend Rohit for help. Avinash promises Rohit the power of attorney of his property in lieu of helping him escape. Rohit helps him escape, but backstabs him by fleeing with the money and leaving him for dead.\n\nAvinash is saved by his friend Sonia and nurtured back to safety and health. Determined to exact his revenge on Rohit, Avinash zeroes the location of latter in Malaysia. However, he is stunned to see Sanjana there, hale and alive, living with Rohit. He also narrows down and confronts Sanjana's uncle, who confirms that Sanjana was having an affair with Rohit and that he helped the duo to remove Avinash from their life.\n\nAn enraged Avinash kills Sanjana's uncle and sets out to seek revenge. First, he confronts her, creating fear and panic in her heart. She tells about him to Rohit, who is sceptical and thinks that Sanjana is losing it. After Sanjana realizes this, she has a fight with him. Later, Avinash creates a rift between them, paying them back in their own coin. Unaware of all this drama, an Inspector is sent to find Avinash, who is still assumed to be missing.\n\nThe Inspector also turns up in Malaysia, following the trail. Here, Rohit accidentally runs into Avinash and realizes that Sanjana was right. Sanjana is on the verge of breaking up, and Rohit becomes afraid that she might spill the beans. Rohit and Sanjana attend a party, where she almost lets the secret out. They have a confrontation and turn to go home, just like it happened with Avinash. They go into the parking lot, where Avinash is patiently waiting for them.\n\nAvinash knocks Sanjana unconscious and kills Rohit. Next day, Sanjana regains consciousness and finds that she has been arrested for killing Rohit. Based on the circumstances, Sanjana is found guilty and given life imprisonment. The Inspector, who has deduced all the story by now, meets her in her cell and expresses his satisfaction over her plight. Avinash too meets her one last time, after which he meets Sonia, indicating that he will start his life afresh with her.\n\n\nAnu Malik composed 2 songs, authored by Rahat Indori but later Anand Raj Anand was brought on board to complete the score. Lyrics were penned by Dev Kohli and Rahat Indori.\n"}
{"id": "1986113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986113", "title": "Tse-whit-zen", "text": "Tse-whit-zen\n\nTse-whit-zen (\"č̕ixʷícən\" in the Klallam language, meaning \"inner harbor\") is a 1,700- to 2,700-year-old village of the Lower Elwha Klallam tribe located along the Port Angeles, Washington waterfront. It is located at the base of Ediz Hook on the Olympic Peninsula. During construction in August 2003 of a graving dock associated with replacement of the Hood Canal Bridge, the village's cemetery and other prehistoric remains were discovered. The construction project was abandoned at this site because of the importance of the find, as the village was intact. It is the largest pre-European contact village site excavated in Washington State.\n\nArchaeological excavation has revealed more than 10,000 artifacts and more than 335 intact skeletons. The Washington State Department of Transportation decided to halt all construction efforts related to the graving dock on December 21, 2004. Since then it has worked to ensure the preservation of remains and artifacts already uncovered by the construction. \n\nAs a result of a legal settlement with Washington State, the tribe received the land of the village site, as well as $2.5 million to build a cultural center or museum at the site. The tribe intended to begin construction around 2012.\n\nThe Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe occupied the village of Tse-whit-zen for more than 2,700 years, according to radiocarbon dating. Their territory extended from this area along the Hoko River on the Strait of Juan de Fuca into the present-day Hood Canal, and this was one of several villages throughout the area. The earliest confirmed settlement at the village site dates to 750 B.C., about the same time as the founding of Rome, Italy.\n\nThis village site, which includes longhouse areas, ceremonial areas, places for fish and clam drying, was occupied by the Klallam until the 1930s. During the early 20th century, businesses owned by European Americans built a number of lumber mills on top of the village site at the waterfront during the expansion of the lumber industry. Because the ground was covered with of fill, the village and cemetery site was preserved through this period. \n\nArchaeological excavation has revealed possibly eight long house structures.\n\nElder Adeline Smith of the Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe championed the preservation of Tse-whit-zen. As a child, Smith had been warned by adults never to walk on or play on the site of Tse-whit-zen, as it was considered sacred by her people. She was also instrumental in gaining removal of the Elwha Dam and contributing to preservation of the Klallam language through creating a dictionary and written form.\n\nThe site is the largest ancient (pre-contact) Native American village discovered in Washington state to date (as of 2013).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986121", "title": "Final Cut Studio", "text": "Final Cut Studio\n\nFinal Cut Studio is a discontinued professional video and audio production suite for Mac OS X from Apple Inc., and a direct competitor to Avid Media Composer in the high-end movie production industry. It was developed from 2005 to 2011. Three of its primary applications - Final Cut Pro X (not compatible with previous versions of Final Cut), Motion, and Compressor - continue to be developed and are published as separate applications on the Mac App Store. The legacy boxed version of Final Cut Studio was last made available only through Apple's phone sales, and therefore not online or in Apple Stores. As of 2017, Final Cut Pro 7 no longer runs on macOS High Sierra or later.\n\nFinal Cut Studio version 3, the final release upon discontinuation of the suite, contains six main applications and several smaller applications used in content creation.\n\n\nThe applications are designed to integrate as a suite, to form a workflow. In particular:\n\nFinal Cut Pro and Motion also integrate directly with Apple's discontinued Shake, a digital compositing package.\n\nProduction Suite is a software compilation by Apple used for digital video editing. Production Suite contains Final Cut Pro HD, DVD Studio Pro 3, and Apple Motion. The compilation's component applications were announced at the National Association of Broadcasters in April 2004, and the compilation was released in August 2004.\n\nFinal Cut Studio was introduced at the National Association of Broadcasters in April 2005, as the successor to Production Suite. It added new versions of all the Production Suite applications: Final Cut Pro, DVD Studio Pro and Motion. It also introduces a new application, Soundtrack Pro, which is a new version of Soundtrack, formerly included with Final Cut Pro. In January 2006, Final Cut Studio became the only way to purchase any of the individual major applications. In March 2006, Apple released the Universal Binary version as Final Cut Studio 1.1.\n\nFinal Cut Studio has been positioned as an all-in-one production workflow system because of its integration of film, motion graphics and audio post-production tools in one suite. It is analogous to the iLife suite, which is aimed at consumers, insomuch as iMovie is the consumer counterpart of Final Cut Pro; GarageBand 3 is a consumer version of Logic Pro and Soundtrack Pro; and iDVD is the cut-down version of DVD Studio Pro. Like Motion, iMovie includes Core Image effects that can be applied in real time.\n\nIn the Macworld Conference and Expo 2005, Steve Jobs, former CEO of Apple, declared 2005 to be the \"Year of HD\". To this end, the HD features of Final Cut Studio were emphasized, such that a little HD logo was placed on the box for each individual Studio application, as well as the Final Cut Studio box.\n\nFinal Cut Pro supports nearly all High Definition formats (HDV, DVCPRO HD, AVCHD, and uncompressed HD) and Soundtrack Pro and Motion can import these formats too, where they can be played back on an external monitor. DVD Studio Pro supports the HD DVD 1.0 specification. See DVD Studio Pro.\n\nThe design for the packaging and websites for each application are consistent to a demonstration video shown at the product's introduction at NAB 2005. This video also includes reference to Shake 4 – a high-end digital compositing application that integrates with Final Cut Pro but is not included in Final Cut Studio.\n\nTo market the Studio components, Apple compiled a set of case studies of real-world users of the applications. For Final Cut Pro, they used Bunim-Murray Productions' uses of the program in their \"The Real World\" reality television show. For Soundtrack Pro, Walter Murch became their advocate – a film editor and sound designer who worked on \"Cold Mountain\" and \"The Godfather\". For Motion, Apple used the example of Mekanism and their creation of a TV spot designed to persuade young people to vote. And for DVD Studio Pro, the example of Relevant was used, who used the application in a unique, interactive movie called \"Backwoods to Brooklyn\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1986127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986127", "title": "Ruda Real", "text": "Ruda Real\n\n\"Ruda Real\" (June 5, 1977 - January 29, 2006) was the stage name of Kairuba Brown, an American hip-hop soul singer\n\nBrown was born and raised in New Orleans, Louisiana. He started singing very early in his life, and was performing professionally by his teens. In 1996, he attracted the attention of legendary R&B group, Boyz II Men, who wanted to sign him as the first act on their new label, Stonecreek Recordings. Brown turned down the deal, instead opting to try his hand at building his own record label, citing the low royalties a new artist receives as part of the reason. He eventually recorded and sold his material in the New Orleans underground (which also included artists such as Kane and Abel and 5th Ward Weebie, and started Master P), working with other underground artists such as Magic, building somewhat of a name for himself.\n\nHe is probably best known for the song \"Bounce Ya on My Pole\", a sexually charged club song of late 1999. The low-budget video for the song featured a model named Nichole. Teaming up with his younger brother, who lived in Flint, Michigan, he attempted to expand his popularity by first reaching out to the demographic in Flint that was New Orleans-bred, and ultimately the Detroit hip-hop scene (which produced such acts as D12, Eminem, and Kid Rock). Although his label, Dynamite Records (now defunct), was initially profitable, disputes and unprofessional behavior caused Jive Records to pass.\n\nHis popularity was shaky, and after more touring, he still failed to reach mainstream attention. Ruda Real was working on a new album in 2005 after numerous problems, including run-ins with the law; his whereabouts were uncertain for a time after Hurricane Katrina, however, he turned up fine with his family in Texas.\n\nOn 29 January 2006, Brown was struck and killed by a car in Houston, Texas. He was about to embark on a tour to debut new songs.\n"}
{"id": "1986129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986129", "title": "Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola", "text": "Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola\n\nThe Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola (Latin original: \"Exercitia spiritualia\"), composed 1522–1524, are a set of Christian meditations, contemplations, and prayers written by Ignatius of Loyola, a 16th-century Spanish priest, theologian, and founder of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits). Divided into four thematic \"weeks\" of variable length, they are designed to be carried out over a period of 28 to 30 days. They were composed with the intention of helping participants in religious retreats to discern the will of God in their lives, leading to a personal commitment to follow Jesus whatever the cost. Their underlying theology has been found agreeable to other Christian denominations who make use of them and also for addressing problems facing society in the 21st century.\n\nA review of the publication history of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" may be found on the website of Loyola Press. The first printed edition of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" was published in Latin in 1548, after being given papal approval by Pope Paul III. However, Ignatius's manuscripts were in Spanish, so this first edition was in fact a translation, although it was made during Ignatius's lifetime and with his approval. Many subsequent editions in Latin and in various other languages were printed early on with widely differing texts. \n\nArchival work on the authentic text of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" was undertaken at the initiative of the 19th century Jesuit Superior General Jan Roothaan, who himself published a translation and notes from the original manuscripts of St. Ignatius. The culmination of this work was a \"critical edition\" of the \"Exercises\" published by the Jesuit order in 1919, in the \"Monumenta Historica Societatis Jesu\" series. A critical edition from 1847 that incorporates Roothaan's studies can be found online. An authoritative Spanish-Latin text, based on the critical edition, was published in Turin by Marietti, in 1928. This was edited by the editor of the critical edition, and included convenient marginal numbers for every section, which can be found in all contemporary editions (and inline in this article).\n\nAn English translation by Louis J. Puhl, S.J., published in 1951, has been widely used by Jesuits, spiritual directors, retreat leaders, and others in the English-speaking world. Puhl translated directly from studies based on the original manuscripts.\n\nAfter recovering from a leg wound incurred during the Siege of Pamplona in 1521, Ignatius made a retreat with the Benedictine monks at their abbey high on Montserrat in Catalonia, northern Spain, where he hung up his sword before the statue of the Virgin of Montserrat. The monks introduced him to the spiritual exercises of Garcia de Cisneros, which were based in large part on the teachings of the Brothers of the Common Life, the promoters of the \"devotio moderna\". From Montserrat, he left for Barcelona but took a detour through the town of Manresa, where he eventually remained for several months, continuing his convalescence at a local hospital. During this time he discovered \"The Imitation of Christ\" of Thomas à Kempis, the crown jewel of the \"devotio moderna\", which, unlike the focus on labor in the Lord's vineyard which Ignatius will give to his \"Constitutions\", gave little grounding for an apostolic spirituality. He also spent much of his time praying in a cave nearby, where he practiced rigorous asceticism. During this time Ignatius experienced a series of visions, and formulated the fundamentals of his \"Spiritual Exercises\". He would later refine and complete the \"Exercises\" when he was a student in Paris. \nThe \"Spiritual Exercises\" of Saint Ignatius form the cornerstone of Ignatian Spirituality: a way of understanding and living one's relationship with God in the world as practiced by members of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits). Although he originally designed them to take place in the setting of a secluded retreat, during which those undergoing the exercises would be focused on nothing other than the \"Exercises\", Ignatius also provided a model in his introductory notes for completing the \"Exercises\" over a longer period without the need of seclusion. The \"Exercises\" were designed to be carried out while under the guidance of a spiritual director, but they were never meant only for monks or priests: Ignatius gave the \"Exercises\" for 15 years before he was ordained, and years before the Society of Jesus was founded. He saw them as an instrument for bringing about a conversion or change of heart, in the Reformation times in which he lived. After the Society of Jesus was formed, the \"Exercises\" became the central component of its training program. They usually take place during the first year of a two-year novitiate and during a final year of spiritual studies after ordination to the priesthood. The \"Exercises\" have also impacted the founders of other religious orders, even becoming central to their work.\n\nIgnatius considered the examen, or spiritual self-review, to be the most important way to continue to live out the experience of the \"Exercises\" after their completion.\n\nIgnatius identified the various motives that lead a person to choose one course of action over another as \"spirits\". A major aim of the \"Exercises\" is the development of discernment (\"discretio\"), the ability to discern between good and evil spirits. A good \"spirit\" can bring love, joy, peace, but also desolation, to bring one to re-examine one's life. An evil spirit usually brings confusion and doubt, but may also prompt contentment to discourage change. The human soul is continually drawn in two directions: towards goodness but at the same time towards sinfulness.\n\nAccording to the theologian Hans Urs von Balthasar, \"choice\" is the center of the \"Exercises\", and they are directed to choosing God's choice, i.e., ultimately to a self-abandonment to God. The \"Exercises\" \"have as their purpose the conquest of self and the regulation of one’s life in such a way that no decision is made under the influence of any inordinate attachment.\"\n\n\"Discernment\" is very important to Ignatian thought. Through the process of discernment, the believer is led toward a direct connection between one's thought and action and the grace of God. As such, discernment can be considered a movement toward mystical union with God, and it emphasizes the mystical experience of the believer. This aspect of the \"Spiritual Exercises\" reflects the trend toward mysticism in Catholic thought which flourished during the time of the counter-reformation (e.g., with Teresa of Ávila, Francis de Sales, and Pierre de Bérulle). However, while discernment can be understood as a mystical path, it can also more prosaically be understood as a method of subjective ethical thought. The \"Exercises\" emphasize the role of one's own mental faculties in deciding what is right and wrong.\n\nThe original, complete form of the \"Exercises\" is a retreat of about 30 days in silence and solitude. The \"Exercises\" are divided into four \"weeks\" of varying length with four major themes: sin and God's mercy, episodes in the life of Jesus, the passion of Jesus, and the resurrection of Jesus together with a contemplation on God's love. This last is often seen as the goal of Ignatian spirituality, to find God in all things. The \"weeks\" represent stages in a process of wholehearted commitment to the service of God. \n\nMorning, afternoon, and evening will the be times of the examinations. The morning is to guard against a particular sin or fault, the afternoon is a fuller examination of the same sin or defect. There will be a visual record with a tally of the frequency of sins or defects during each day. In it, the letter 'g' will indicate days, with 'G' for Sunday. \n\nThree kinds of thoughts: \"my own\" and two from outside, one from the \"good spirit\" and the other from the \"bad spirit\". \n\nIgnatius' book is not meant to be used by the retreatant but by a director or spiritual guide. Each day the exercitant uses the material proposed by the director for four or five hour-long periods, each followed by a review of how the period went. The exercitant reports back to the spiritual director who helps interpret the exercitant's experiences and proposes material for the next day. Ignatius observes that God \"deals directly\" with the well-disposed person and the director should not give advice to the retreatant that might interfere with God's workings. \n\nAfter the first week Ignatius recommends a form of contemplation which he calls \"application of the senses.\" For this you “place yourself in a scene from the Gospels. Ask yourself, \"What do I see? What do I hear? What do I feel, taste and smell?” The purpose of these \"Exercises\" is that we might gain the empathy to \"follow and imitate more closely our Lord.\" From this comes the widespread use of the \"Magis\" concept in Ignatian circles.\n\nThe \"Spiritual Exercises\" of Ignatius of Loyola are considered a classic work of spiritual literature. Many Jesuits are ready to direct the general public in retreats based on the \"Exercises\".\n\nSince the 1980s there has been a growing interest in the \"Spiritual Exercises\" among people from other Christian traditions. The \"Exercises\" are also popular among lay people both in the Catholic Church and in other denominations, and lay organizations like the Christian life community place the \"Exercises\" at the center of their spirituality. The \"Exercises\" are seen variously as an occasion for a change of life and as a school of contemplative prayer.\n\nThe most common way for laypersons to go through the \"Exercises\" now is a \"retreat in daily life\", which involves a five- to seven-month programme of daily prayer and meetings with a spiritual director. Also called the \"19th annotation exercises\" based on a remark of St. Ignatius in the 19th \"introductory observation\" in his book, the retreat in daily life does not require an extended stay in a retreat house and the learned methods of discernment can be tried out on day-to-day experiences over time.\n\nAlso, some break the 30 days into two or three sections over a two-year period. Most retreat centers offer shorter retreats with some of the elements of the \"Spiritual Exercises\". Retreats have been developed for specific groups of people, such as those who are married or engaged. Self-guided forms of the \"Exercises\" are also available, including online programs.\n\n\nOnline text\n\nOthers\n"}
{"id": "1986135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986135", "title": "Dengeki hp", "text": "Dengeki hp\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986143", "title": "Matthew 4:3", "text": "Matthew 4:3\n\nMatthew 4:3 is the third verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This verse opens the section in Matthew dealing with the temptation of Christ by Satan. Jesus has been fasting for forty days and forty nights and in this verse the devil gives Christ his first temptation and encourages him to use his powers to get food.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:3.\n\nThis verse is very similar to , but it is not found in Mark. Mark mentions that Jesus was \"put to the test\" but goes into no details about what those tests were. It is thus generally believed to have come from the Q document. One change is that Luke has \"this stone\" while Matthew has stones. Albright and Mann ascribe this to the writing style of the author of Matthew, noting that this gospel has a tendency to pluralize words that are singular in the other synoptics. Gundry notes that Jesus, as one person, would not need multiple loaves. He argues the pluralization is to link the verse to in an attempt to link Satan to the Pharisees and Sadducees. Another difference is that Matthew calls Satan \"the tempter\" while Luke more directly refers to him as \"the devil.\" Gundry feels this is for the same purpose as in , , and the Pharisees and Sadducees are similarly presented as tempters.\n\nMost scholars agree that the word \"if\" does not mean that Satan is doubting Jesus' status and the line should be read as \"since you are the Son of God\" not as \"if you are really the Son of God.\" Gundry states that the devil has no interest in making Jesus doubt his sonship, and rather tries to use the exalted position to undermine him. This line is a direct reference to and it is clear that Matthew is implying that Satan heard the announcement made after Jesus' baptism.\n\nThe wording is unclear on whether Satan is asking Jesus to miraculously transform the stones himself, or if he is asking Jesus to command God to do so.\n\nThe standard loaf of bread in this period was a round, flat loaf, and it seems likely that the stones being referred to in this verse are of a similar size and shape.\n\nThis is the second mention in Matthew of stones being transformed, with stones to people being threatened in . Nolland believes that this earlier reminder of God's power served to make this verse more plausible.\n\nSome early manuscripts containing the text of this verse are:\n"}
{"id": "1986147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986147", "title": "Angela Kincaid", "text": "Angela Kincaid\n\nAngela Kincaid, formerly known by her married name of Angela Mills, is a children's book illustrator best known for \"The Butterfly Children\" series of picture books. With her then husband, Pat Mills, she created the Celtic comics character Sláine for \"2000 AD\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1986152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986152", "title": "Johanne Deschamps", "text": "Johanne Deschamps\n\nJohanne Deschamps (born April 2, 1959 in Saint-Jovite, Quebec) is a Canadian politician.\n\nShe is a former administrative assistant and political attaché. She served as a councillor in Val-Barrette, Quebec from 1994 to 2004 and was Commissioner of the Pierre-Neveu School Board in Mont-Laurier, Quebec from 1998 to 2004. After that, she was elected as a Bloc Québécois member of the House of Commons of Canada in the 2004 Canadian federal election. She represents the riding of Laurentides—Labelle. She had also run in the 2000 Canadian federal election for the Bloc in the riding of Pontiac—Gatineau—Labelle but lost. She was re-elected in 2006 and 2008, but lost to NDP candidate Marc-André Morin in the 2011 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986153", "title": "Grunion", "text": "Grunion\n\nGrunion are two fish species of the genus Leuresthes: the California grunion, \"L. tenuis\", and the Gulf grunion, \"L. sardinas\". They are sardine-sized teleost fishes of the New World silverside family Atherinopsidae, found only off the coast of California, USA, and Baja California, Mexico, where the species are found on both the Pacific Ocean and Gulf of California coasts. Many people enjoy catching grunion at events called \"grunion runs.\"\n\nGrunion are known for their unusual mating ritual wherein at very high tides, the females come up on to sandy beaches where they dig their tails into the sand to lay their eggs. The male then wraps himself around the female to deposit his sperm, and for the next 10 days the grunion eggs remain hidden in the sand. At the next set of high tides, the eggs hatch and the young grunion are washed out to sea.\n\nA related species, the false grunion (\"Colpichthys regis\") lives in the Gulf of California. Although the fish looks and acts similarly, it does not have the same breeding method.\n\nThe currently recognized species in this genus are:\n\nGrunion were originally classified as part of the Old World silverside family, Atherinidae, but are now classified in the family Atherinopsidae along with other New World silversides including the jacksmelt and topsmelt.\n\nThe California grunion, \"L. tenuis\", is found along the Pacific Coast from Point Conception, California, to Punta Abreojos, Baja California Sur. They are rarely found between San Francisco in the north and San Juanico Bay, Baja California Sur, in the south. The Gulf grunion, \"L. sardina\", is found along the coast of Baja California in the Gulf of California. Inhabiting the nearshore waters from the surf to a depth of , marking experiments indicate they are not migratory.\n\nThey are small, slender fish with bluish-green backs and silvery sides and bellies. Their snouts are bluntly rounded and slippery. Silversides differ from true smelts of the family Osmeridae in that they lack the trout-like adipose fin.\n\nYoung grunion grow rapidly and are about five inches long by the time they reach one year old and are ready to spawn. Adult fish normally range in size from with a maximum recorded size of (San Diego, CA., 05-11-05).\n\nAverage body lengths for males and females are , respectively, at the end of one year; at the end of two years; and at the end of three years.\n\nThe normal lifespan of the grunion is three to four years, although individuals up to five years old have been found. Their growth rate slows after the first spawning and stops completely during the spawning season. Consequently, adult fish grow only during the fall and winter. This growth rate variation causes annuli to form on the scales, which have been used for determining ages.\n\nCalifornia grunion spawn on beaches from two to six nights after the full and new moon beginning soon after high tide and continuing for several hours. As a wave breaks on the beach, the grunion swim as far up the slope as possible. The female arches her body while keeping her head up and excavates the semifluid sand with her tail. As her tail sinks, the female twists her body and digs tail first until she is buried up to her pectoral fins. After the female is in the nest, up to eight males attempt to mate with her by curving around the female and releasing their milt as she deposits her eggs about four inches below the surface. After spawning, the males immediately retreat toward the ocean. The milt flows down the female’s body until it reaches the eggs and fertilizes them. The female twists free and returns to the sea with the next wave. The whole event can happen in 30 seconds, but some fish remain on the beach for several minutes. Spawning may continue from March through August, with occasional extensions into February and September. However, peak spawning is from late March through early June. Once mature, an individual may spawn during successive spawning periods at about 15-day intervals. Most females spawn about six times during the season. Counts of maturing ova to be laid at one spawning ranged from about 1,600 to about 3,600, with the larger females producing more eggs. A female might lay as many as 18,000 eggs over an entire season. The milt from the male might contain as many as one million sperm. Males may participate in several spawnings per run.\n\nThe eggs incubate a few inches deep in the sand above the level of subsequent waves. They are not immersed in seawater, but are kept moist by the residual water in the sand. While incubating, they are subject to predation by shore birds and sand-dwelling invertebrates. Under normal conditions, they do not have an opportunity to hatch until the next tide series high enough reaches them 10 or more days later. Grunion eggs can extend incubation and delay hatching if tides do not reach them for an additional four weeks after this initial hatching time. Most of the eggs will hatch in 10 days if provided with seawater and the agitation of the rising surf. The mechanical action of the waves is the environmental trigger for hatching. The rapidity of hatching, which occurs in less than one minute, indicates it is probably not an enzymatic function of a softening of the chorion as in some other fishes.\n\nThe Gulf grunion, with its smaller eggs, is unique in that it spawns during both night and daytime.\n\nAlthough some other fish species leave their eggs in locations that dry out (a few, such as plainfin midshipman, may even remain on land with the eggs during low tide) or on plants above the water (splash tetras), jumping onto land \"en masse\" to spawn is unique to the grunion, capelin and grass puffer.\n\nGrunion feeding habits are not well known. They have no teeth and feed on very small organisms such as plankton. In a laboratory setting, grunion eat live brine shrimp.\n\nAn isopod, two species of flies, sandworms, and a beetle have been found preying on the eggs. Some shorebirds such as egrets and herons prey on grunion when the fish are on shore during spawning. Seagulls, sea lions, and larger fish such as sand sharks have also been observed feeding on grunion during a grunion run. The reduction of spawning habitat due to beach erosion, harbor construction, and pollution is believed to be the most critical problem facing the grunion species.\n\nDespite local concentrations, the grunion is not an abundant species. While the population size is not known, all research points to a restricted resource that is adequately maintained at current harvest rates under existing regulations.\n\nIn the 1920s, recreational fishing of grunion caused definite signs of depletion resulting in a regulation passed in 1927 that established a closed season of three months from April until June. Grunion stocks improved and in 1947 the closed season was shortened to the months of April and May. This closure is still in effect to protect grunion during their peak spawning period.\n\nThe periodic appearance of the grunion on Southern California beaches, and the act of catching them, is locally known as a \"grunion run\". A fishing license is required for persons 16 years and older to catch grunion, and they may be taken by sport fishermen using their hands only. No appliances of any kind may be used to catch grunion, and no holes may be dug in the beach to entrap them. Grunion may be taken on specified dates between March and the end of August, but not during the months of April and May. There is no limit, but fishermen may take only what they can use, as under Californian law it is unlawful to waste fish. With these regulations, the resource seems to be maintaining itself at a fairly constant level.\n\nThe coastal Indians in California harvested grunion during spawning runs. Archeologists have found fossil grunion otoliths (tiny, bonelike particles or stony platelike structures in the internal ear of lower vertebrates) at various Indian campsites.\n\nGrunion were mentioned by Spanish explorer Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo in his ship's log dated around 1542.\n\nScientists first identified grunion in San Francisco Bay in 1860.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986156", "title": "Tango &amp; Cash", "text": "Tango &amp; Cash\n\nTango & Cash is a 1989 American buddy cop action comedy film starring Sylvester Stallone, Kurt Russell, Jack Palance, and Teri Hatcher. Stallone and Russell star as Raymond Tango and Gabriel Cash respectively, two rival LAPD narcotics detectives, who are forced to work together after the criminal mastermind Yves Perret (Palance) frames both of them for murder.\n\nThe film was chiefly directed by Andrei Konchalovsky, with Albert Magnoli and Peter MacDonald taking over in the later stages of filming, with Stuart Baird overseeing post-production. The multiple directors were due to a long and troubled production process, that included numerous script rewrites and clashes between Konchalovsky and producer Jon Peters over creative differences.\n\nThe film was released by Warner Bros. in the United States on December 22, 1989, the same day as \"Always\". Both films were the last to be released in the 1980s.\n\nBeverly Hills LAPD Lieutenant Raymond Tango and Downtown Los Angeles Lieutenant Gabriel Cash are considered the two best cops in Los Angeles. They are opposites in almost every way, and have an intense rivalry with each considering himself to be the best. Their actions often make headlines for their large drug busts through the Southern California area. Unbeknownst to them all the shipments actually belong to a single criminal organization headed by Yves Perret. After Tango's latest bust Perret's associates convince him that the two officers have become a problem and it must be addressed.\n\nPerret, believing that having them killed is too \"quick and easy\", develops an elaborate scheme to discredit and humiliate them before finally torturing them to death. Individually informed of a drug deal taking place later that night, the detectives meet for the first time at the location and discover a dead, wire-tapped body just as the FBI arrive and surround the duo. Agent Wyler finds Cash's backup pistol with attached suppressor on the floor and arrests them. At their murder trial, Tango and Cash are incriminated by an audio tape; verified in court by Skinner, an audio expert, it appears to reveal them shooting the undercover FBI agent after discussing a drug purchase. With the evidence stacked against them, they plead no contest to a lesser charge in exchange for reduced sentences in a minimum-security prison; instead, they get transported to a maximum-security prison and are housed with many of the criminals they had each arrested.\n\nOnce in prison, Tango and Cash are roused from their beds and tortured by Requin, Perret's henchman, and a gang of prisoners, until Matt Sokowski, the assistant warden and Cash's former commanding officer, rescues them. Sokowski recommends that they escape and provides them with a plan, but Tango opts out. When Cash tries to escape, he finds Sokowski murdered and is pursued by the guards. Tango rescues him and they head to the roof; Cash ziplines outside the prison walls, but Tango is attacked by the inmate \"Face\" before he can follow. Tango manages to electrocute Face by knocking him into a transformer before escaping. To clear their names, they separate; Tango tells Cash that if he needs to contact him, he can go to the Cleopatra Club and ask for \"Katherine\".\n\nThe detectives visit the witnesses who framed them in court. Tango intercepts Wyler, who admits that Requin was in charge of the setup; Wyler gets killed in a car bomb while trying to escape. Cash discovers that Skinner made the incriminating tape himself; he starts destroying Skinner's expensive equipment until he agrees to help exonerate them. Cash finds Katherine, Tango's sister, but is quickly surrounded by cops; she helps Cash escape the night club by dressing him as a female. Later that night, Tango reunites with Cash and the duo are met at Katherine's house by Schroeder, Tango's commanding officer. He gives them Requin's address and tells them they have 24 hours to find out who he works for; Tango and Cash apprehend Requin and trick him into telling them Perret's name. Cash's weapons expert friend Owen lets them borrow a high-tech assault vehicle and the duo storm into Perret's headquarters to confront the crime lord. However, Perret has kidnapped Katherine and starts a timer that will trigger the building's automatic self-destruct procedure. After killing Perret's core security personnel and fellow crime lords, Requin appears, holding Katherine at knifepoint. He throws her aside to fight the detectives hand-to-hand and Cash kills him. Perret appears in a hall of mirrors holding a gun to Katherine's head; both detectives pick out the correct Perret and shoot him in the forehead. They gather Katherine and barely escape as the building explodes. They joke half-seriously about Cash's desire to date Katherine as a newspaper headline announces they've been completely vindicated and return to the LAPD as heroes.\n\nThe film was known as \"The Set Up\" and was based on a script by Randy Feldman which was based on an idea by Jon Peters and Peter Guber. Sylvester Stallone and Patrick Swayze were signed to star. In March 1989 Andrei Konchalovsky signed to direct. Then Swayze dropped out and went on to star in \"Road House\" (1989). He was replaced by Kurt Russell.\n\nSylvester Stallone had the original director of photography, Barry Sonnenfeld, fired. Donald E. Thorin, who had shot Stallone's movie \"Lock Up\" earlier that year, was Sonnenfeld's replacement.\n\nAfter nearly three months of filming, director Andrei Konchalovsky was fired by producer Jon Peters in a dispute over the movie's ending. In his 1999 book of memoirs, \"Elevating Deception\", Konchalovsky said that the reason he was fired was because he and Stallone wanted to give the film a more serious tone and make it more realistic than the producers wanted, especially Jon Peters, who kept pushing for the film to be goofier and campier, and as such, his relationship with Peters became untenable.\n\nAnother reason why Konchalovsky was fired was his refusal to agree to what he referred to as the \"increasingly insane\" demands that Peters had. Konchalovsky said that he was initially hired to make a buddy cop movie with plenty of humor, but Peters basically wanted to turn it into a spoof, without any semblance of seriousness, and Konchalovsky refused. Essentially, Konchalovsky argued that they were simply trying to make two different movies, and when Peters realized his inability to bend Konchalovsky to his will, he fired him. According to supporting actor Brion James (in a 1999 interview with Louis Paul), the film was in disarray from the very beginning and by the half-way point of the shoot, when the film was several months behind schedule, Peters and Konchalovsky were no longer speaking.\n\nJames agreed that the official reason Konchalovsky was fired was because of the budget, but he also said that going over budget was not Konchalovsky's fault, and that Konchalovsky did not deserve to be fired. Konchalovsky, however, had nothing but praise for Sylvester Stallone, and both he and James said that despite Stallone's ego and decision to fire the original cinematographer, and the fact that he had a hand in Konchalovsky's firing, Stallone was the one person who held the project together, and that he was a constant voice of reason on an increasingly chaotic set. According to Konchalovsky, by the end of principal photography, Stallone was unofficially working as producer, director and writer, as well as star, and Konchalovsky believes that had it not been for Stallone, Peters would have fired him much sooner than he did. Production sources said that Konchalovsky had been given impossible scheduling demands, and was then made the scapegoat when he fell behind.\n\nThe director was replaced with Albert Magnoli, who filmed all the chase and fight scenes in the ending.\n\nReportedly, executive producer Peter MacDonald, who was also one of the film's second unit directors, took over directing the movie before Magnoli was brought in. (A year earlier, MacDonald had to step in as director on Stallone's previous movie, \"Rambo III\", after the original director was fired by Stallone.)\n\nThere was also a legal battle between producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters and Warner Bros. studio. Guber and Peters complained in Los Angeles Superior Court that Warner had replaced them on the project and, over Peters' objections, \"advanced the release date of the film by many months\".\n\nThe film went into production on June 12, 1989, and was originally scheduled to wrap by August 25, 1989.\n\nIn late August, the directors were switched and after principal photography was finished in September, replacement director Magnoli called everyone back to the set for two more weeks of additional re-shoots, which included filming a completely new opening sequence. Filming was finally finished on October 20, 1989, eight weeks before its original scheduled theatrical opening in 1600 theatres across the United States.\n\nThe movie was racing to make its December 15 release, but due to the Warner Bros. studio's complaints on every different cut that was edited before they approved the final (theatrical) version, it barely made the deadline and ended up being shipped to theaters in \"wet prints\" – an industry term meaning that it was just barely completed before its release date.\n\nBecause Warner Bros. wanted no risk of the same problems with the MPAA as it had had with \"Cobra\", its previous Stallone movie, it ordered the editors to cut some death scenes in the last part of the movie while it was being re-edited, which explain the usage of \"jump cuts\" every time someone is shot in the movie.\n\nOne of the writers who worked on the constantly changing script for the film was Jeffrey Boam, who also worked on the scripts for the Lethal Weapon films. He did a re-write of the script, which he described as being long, incredible and awful, that didn't change anything in the film. Even though he completed many re-writes, he hated both the script and the film and did not want to be credited for his work.\n\nBehind-the-scenes problems (including filming, script changes, and later constant cuts and re-editing of the movie) were so big and so bad that one of the more experienced crew members said in an interview: \"This was the worst-organized, most poorly prepared film I've ever been on in my life. From the first day we started, no one knew what the hell anyone was doing.\" This same crew member also mentioned some reasons why director Konchalovsky was fired; \"He found himself in over his head. There were scenes scheduled for three days that were so complicated they should have been scheduled for six or seven days. They were trying to do a 22-week movie in 11 weeks.\"\n\nThe film ultimately missed its budget by over $20 million, and had to be completely re-edited by editor Stuart Baird prior to its theatrical release. \"Tango & Cash\" was one of many films to be turned over to Baird, who came onto projects as an editing \"doctor\" when studios such as Warner Bros. were displeased with the first cut turned in by the filmmakers. Baird was also called in by Warner Bros to re-edit another Stallone action movie, \"Demolition Man\" (1993), for the same reasons.\n\nAfter Baird was brought in by Warner Brothers to save the movie in the editing room, it was he who hired Hubert de La Bouillerie to edit the film and Harold Faltermeyer and Gary Chang to compose the music. Chang provided additional music near the end of the movie, because Faltermeyer could not return to re-score the final reel of the film, as it was constantly being edited because of constant complaints from Warner Bros. Because of the massive re-editing, some plot points and even some action scenes were deleted.\n\nThe theatrical trailer was made using the footage from one of the earlier cuts of the movie. This is why it shows some deleted and alternate scenes, which were changed or cut from the movie during the re-editing, which include: an alternate cut of the scene where Tango and Cash first meet in the warehouse; an alternate cut of the shower scene between Tango and Cash; a deleted or alternate fight scene between Cash and a Chinese assassin, during which Cash says \"I hate you karate guys\"; and a deleted scene in which Tango is reading the newspaper and then pulls out a shotgun and shoots at a car. The trailer also shows extra shots from other scenes.\n\nThe film's title during production was \"The Set Up\".\n\nIn a 1999 interview with Louis Paul at the Chiller Theatre Convention, Brion James said this about working on \"Tango & Cash\", and the production problems that the movie had;\n\nBJ: TANGO AND CASH, I had two scenes when I started the film. Konchalovsky wanted to work with me for years, he worked for Cannon, they couldn't pay me, so I couldn't work for them. He wanted me to work with him on RUNAWAY TRAIN. Finally, I get to work with him and he calls me in and I meet Stallone and Russell and they say 'Yeah, he's great.' I just had two scenes with these guys, they chase me around, and I get beat up and that's it. So, I get there and I'm acting with Stallone and made my character have a cockney accent just to add something . I said I'm in a movie with all of these guys, how am I going to chew the scenery with all of these fuckers? So, I created the cockney, I'm not just another hit man from Cleveland. They loved it. They played off of it, they got into it. So Stallone started re-writing the script, the script wasn't really ready, but they were there to go, so when you got to go, you go. The script was ready, and when it was not, he would fix it. The film was twenty million dollars over budget and I wound up being on the film for fourteen weeks. My part went from a few days, to much bigger. So, I became the main bad guy, and not Jack Palance.\n\nLP: Konchalovsky lost that picture, didn't he?\n\nBJ: He did a great job, but Sly got him fired. Sly is very protective about his films. He got his own DP in, and the film went twenty million dollars over budget. So the studio had to justify it, and fired him, saying it was the director's fault. It wasn't his fault. They didn't have a script. I was even re-writing at the end of the day, over and over. They only had three weeks left and they brought in Albert Magnoli. He did rock videos and a Prince movie (PURPLE RAIN). They gave this guy three quarters of a million dollars to do three weeks. By the time he got there, I was like don't talk to me, stay back. I knew this character for weeks, I know what I'm doing. It wound up being a great film, that eventually made a lot of money. It's one of the biggest pirated videos in the history of Russia. There were 80,000 pirated copies. Warner Bros. was crazy not to market it properly, but that film was huge. I went to the Ukraine when I was shooting another film, and I was mobbed. I was in the Black Sea and I had no idea that people even knew who I was.\n\nStallone later said \"I had a lot of great times on that film. Kurt nailed some of those scenes, like the pro he is.\"\n\nStallone also said his opinion about both Konchalovsky and Magnoli;\n\nAndrei was a real gentleman and I thought his take on \"Tango and Cash\" was very good and would've been infinitely more realistic had he been allowed to continue. His replacement was more attuned to comic pop culture so the film had a dramatic shift into a more light hearted direction.\n\nA soundtrack was never released, as the songs were already released on the artists' albums. The film score, which was composed by Harold Faltermeyer, was released for the first time on January 30, 2007 by La-La Land Records (LLLCD 1052) in 3000 Limited Sets.\n\n\nThe film opened on December 22, 1989, and during its opening weekend, the movie grossed $6,628,918 from 1,409 theaters, averaging $4,704 per theater, and ranking #2 at the box office. The film ultimately earned $63,408,614 in the United States, above its $54 million production budget. The film also sold well on VHS. The film was reviewed by Nathan Rabin for his column \"Forgotbusters\" at The Dissolve website, which consists of Rabin analyzing how films that were among the top 25 grossing titles of a given year have not had lasting cultural influence. Rabin said that there was more affection and attention to \"Tango & Cash\" than he had expected, based on feedback from people who had seen the film since 1990.\n\nThe film has a score of 30% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 46 reviews, and an average rating of 4.3 out of 10. The critical consensus states: \"Brutally violent and punishingly dull, this cookie-cutter buddy cop thriller isn't even fun enough to reach 'so bad it's good' status\". \"The New York Times\" criticized the plot, the screenplay, and the acting. Michael Wilmington of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"a waste of talent and energy on all levels\", criticizing the film as both illogical and predictable. Dave Kehr of the \"Chicago Tribune\" wrote that one interpretation of the film is \"a crafty foreigner's sly parody of the current state of American culture\".\n\nAudiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n\"Tango & Cash\" was nominated for three Golden Raspberry Awards for Worst Actor (Sylvester Stallone), Worst Supporting Actress (Kurt Russell in drag) and Worst Screenplay, and it lost all three.\n\nIn 2012, The Flop House podcast dedicated their 100th episode to \"Tango & Cash\". They praised it as an enjoyably bad movie and the \"last film before irony was created\". \"Slate\" later listed the episode as one of \"The 25 Best Podcast Episodes Ever\".\n\nIn September 2019, Stallone revealed that he has a story written for a potential sequel. The filmmaker stated he is trying to convince Kurt Russell to sign onto the project, though he anticipates the film will be made.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986159", "title": "Corno (river)", "text": "Corno (river)\n\nThe Corno is a small river of the northern Lazio and eastern Umbria in Italy. Its source is on the upper slopes of Mount Corno, at an approximate altitude of 1700 m (5575 ft), and it flows for about , almost always due north, past the towns of Leonessa, Ocre, Ruscio, Monteleone di Spoleto, Roccaporena, Cascia to Serravalle where it receives the waters of the Sordo; from there the last 11 km in a northwesterly direction to Triponzo, where it flows into the Nera at 420 m (1378 ft) altitude. Of the towns mentioned, only Serravalle and Triponzo are actually on the river, since in its upper course the Corno's torrential nature is not such as to make it safe for the siting of towns.\n"}
{"id": "1986161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986161", "title": "Cambria Somerset Authority", "text": "Cambria Somerset Authority\n\nThe Cambria Somerset Authority (CSA) was formed in 1999, in anticipation of acquiring water interests and related land properties of Manufacturers Water Company, a subsidiary of Bethlehem Steel Corporation. Transfer of ownership occurred in August, 2000. The CSA now owns and manages 5,200 acres (21 km²) in Cambria County and Somerset County Pennsylvania, including managing recreation, conservation, open space and water supply uses of the lands and water encompassing the Wilmore Dam and Reservoir, Hinckston Run Dam and Reservoir, and South Fork Dam and impoundment, all in Cambria County; and Border Dam and impoundment, and Quemahoning Reservoir and Dam, both in Somerset County.\n\nThe Authority has been operating at a loss, with subsidies from Cambria County and Somerset County. Each county contributed $60,000 in 2006, and $75,000 each in 2005. \n\nRecreational activities include boating, fishing, hiking, hunting, camping, whitewater rafting and nature watching. Conservation of the water and lands includes protection of riparian buffers; water quality improvements to local waterways; sustainable forest management practices; and protection of aquatic species.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986163", "title": "Mons Hadley Delta", "text": "Mons Hadley Delta\n\nMons Hadley Delta (δ) is a massif in the northern portion of the Montes Apenninus, a range in the northern hemisphere of the Moon adjacent to Mare Imbrium. It has a height of 3.6 km above the plains to the north and west.\n\nTo the north of this mountain is a valley that served as the landing site for the Apollo 15 expedition. To the northeast of this same valley is the slightly larger Mons Hadley peak with a height of about 4.6 km. To the west of these peaks is the sinuous Rima Hadley rille.\n\nThese features were named after John Hadley.\n\nOn the Apollo 15 mission in 1971, the astronauts David Scott and James Irwin explored the lower reaches of the north slope of Mons Hadley Delta, and collected many samples which were returned to earth. Station 2 was near St. George crater, and Stations 6, 6A, and 7 were at or near Spur crater. They found the famous \"Genesis Rock\", sample 15415, at Spur. A clast of anorthosite within this rock is likely to be a piece of the primordial lunar crust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986166", "title": "Courthouse and Jail Rocks", "text": "Courthouse and Jail Rocks\n\nCourthouse and Jail Rocks are two rock formations located near Bridgeport in the Nebraska Panhandle.\n\nThe Oregon-California Trail, the Mormon Trail, the Pony Express Trail and the Sidney-Deadwood Trail all ran near the rocks. The pair of rock formations served as a landmark along the trails for many pioneers traveling west in the 19th century. Many travelers would stray as much as five miles (8 km) from the Oregon Trail just to get a glimpse of the rocks.\n\nHundreds of westward-bound emigrants mentioned Courthouse Rock (originally also McFarlan's Castle) in their travel logs and journals. The name \"Courthouse\" was first used in 1837. In 1845, one traveler described the rock as \"resembling the ruins of an old castle [which] rises abruptly from the plain...It is difficult to look upon it and not believe that art had something to do with its construction. The voyagers have called it the Courthouse; but it looks infinitely more like the Capitol.\"\n\nCourthouse and Jail Rocks, which rise 400 feet (121 m) above the North Platte Valley, are composed of Brule clay, Gering sandstone and volcanic ash. The rock formations are listed in the National Register of Historic Places and in the Nebraska Natural Areas Register.\n\nRobert Stuart (explorer) first recorded Court House and Jail House Rock in 1812. By 1849 and the California Gold Rush, the promontories had been described as Castles, a Church, and Coffins. The name Court House and Jail House became the most common. .\nPumpkin Creek forms an oxbow near the buttes where a meadow with trees make an suitable campsite. There is evidence that fur trappers, Indians, gold seekers on their way to California and the Black Hills, and the military once camped in this bend. Further to the southeast on Pumpkin Creek, is the site of a Pony Express Station. The Pony Express and the military used a shorter route on the west side as did the Sidney-Black Hills Trail.\nThe buttes are the first promontories along the trail coming from the east. Even for those emigrants who used the Julesburg, Colorado crossing of the South Platte River, the buttes are mentioned in their diaries.\n\nCourt House and Jail House Rocks are remnants of an ancient plateau, that was split by the North Platte River. They are remnants of the nearby hills that have become separated over time. At an elevation of above sea level they rise above Pumpkin Creek. Courthouse and Jail Rocks, which rise 400 feet (121 m) above the North Platte Valley, are composed of Brule clay, Gering sandstone and volcanic ash. The rock formations are listed in the National Register of Historic Places and in the Nebraska Natural Areas Register.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986167", "title": "Sean Nelson", "text": "Sean Nelson\n\nSean Nelson (born June 12, 1973) is an American musician, journalist, music critic, and filmmaker. He is best known as the lead singer of the alternative rock group Harvey Danger and as the arts editor for \"The Stranger\" newspaper in Seattle, Washington.\n\nNelson is a graduate of Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Virginia and was a classmate of Paul DePodesta and Courtenay Bram Anderson.\n\nNelson joined Harvey Danger in 1993 and played with the band through to its farewell show in 2009. In addition to being the band's lead singer, he was also its songwriter and keyboardist. The band's debut album \"Where Have All the Merrymakers Gone?\" was released in 1997 and was certified Gold by the RIAA for sales of 500,000 copies. The album contained the hit single \"Flagpole Sitta\", which was featured in the 1999 film \"American Pie\" and was later used as the theme song for the British sitcom \"Peep Show\".\n\nIn 2001, Nelson formed a second band, The Long Winters, with John Roderick. He left the band in 2004, and Roderick has continued the group as a largely solo effort.\n\nNelson has also recorded and performed with Death Cab for Cutie, The Decemberists, Robyn Hitchcock, Nada Surf, The Minus 5, and others. In 2006, he recorded \"Nelson Sings Nilsson,\" an album of songs by the late American composer Harry Nilsson, accompanied by a 25-piece-orchestra. Nelson was also a member of the short-lived side project The Vernacular, along with Chris Walla and Nathan Good of Death Cab For Cutie.\n\nOn June 4, 2013, Nelson released his first official batch of recordings to bear his name, \"Make Good Choices\", which includes contributions from Chris Walla (Death Cab for Cutie), Peter Buck (R.E.M./Minus 5), Matt Pence & Scott Danbom (Centro-Matic), Howard Draper (Shearwater), Dave Depper (Loch Lomond, Fruit Bats), Rachel Blumberg (The Decemberists/M. Ward), Adam Selzer (Norfolk & Western), Steve Fisk (player: Pell Mell, Pigeonhed; producer: Nirvana, Beat Happening, Unwound), and others. Sessions arose over the course of several years between Nelson and his collaborators' other projects.\n\nIn June of 2019, Nelson released the decades-in-the-making album of Harry Nilsson covers, titled \"Nelson Sings Nilsson,\" a play on Nilsson's classic album of Randy Newman covers, Nilsson Sings Newman.\n\nIn December 2019, Sean released the \"Viral Love\" 7\" which contained the first song released from a new full-length album he made with producer Shane Tutmarc. The b-side contained an alternate version of Harvey Danger's Carlotta Valdez.\n\nNelson joined the staff of the Seattle alternative weekly newspaper \"The Stranger\" in 1996 while still a member of Harvey Danger. He has held several positions at the publication, including web editor, film editor, copy editor and associate editor. He is currently the paper's arts editor.\n\nIn 2006, Nelson published his first book, an entry in the 33⅓ series on Joni Mitchell's \"Court and Spark\". His essay \"Dead Man Talking\" was published in the Da Capo anthology \"Best Music Writing 2008\".\n\nIn addition to his writing work, Nelson has taught a songwriting class at the University of Washington Extension and co-hosted \"Audioasis\" on KEXP-FM for five years.\n\nIn 2008, Nelson co-wrote and played a supporting role in \"Humpday\" director Lynn Shelton's third feature film \"My Effortless Brilliance,\" which enjoyed a successful run on the film festival circuit and was released on DVD by IFC Films in November 2009. He has also acted in David Russo's cult film festival hit \"The Immaculate Conception of Little Dizzle\" and alongside Dax Shepard in Kathryn Aselton's \"The Freebie,\" which was released in September 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986197", "title": "Elizabeth Fama", "text": "Elizabeth Fama\n\nElizabeth Fama is a young adult author, best known for her book \"Monstrous Beauty\" (Farrar, Straus and Giroux Books for Young Readers, 2012), a fantasy novel for teens. Her third book is \"Plus One\", which published in April 2014.\n\nElizabeth attended University of Chicago Laboratory Schools. She has a BA (1985) in biology with honors from the University of Chicago, and an MBA (1991) and PhD (1996) in economics and finance from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.\n\nElizabeth is the daughter of Eugene Fama. She is married to John H. Cochrane and together, they have four children.\n\n\nFama's works have generally been well received. Kirkus Reviews wrote about \"Overboard\", \"Although some scenes seem implausible, particularly Emily’s ability to carry on complete conversations and sing in her weakened state, first-time author Fama skillfully conveys the impact of survival in human nature\" and \"Inspired by an actual ferry accident caused by lax safety standards, this is a powerful exploration on the will to live\", while \"Publishers Weekly\" asserted \"Such muddled, cumbersome prose weighs down the chronicle of Emily's nightlong struggle to survive in the sea, heavily reliant upon coincidences.\"\n\nKirkus was also positive about \"Monstrous Beauty\" writing \"Not so much romance as suspense, this stylish fantasy mesmerizes\", and while \"Publishers Weekly\" called it \"a chilling and original story\", they also found \"The alternating narrative device can make for stutters in the momentum, and there are stretches (notably when genealogy is rehearsed) where the plot trudges.\" but \"The horror and humanity are adroitly handled, however, and Fama never lapses into cliché.\"\n\nFor \"Plus One\", \"Publishers Weekly\" noted \"Fama smoothly unspools the details of her alternate Earth’s history in conversational flashbacks that never impede the brisk pacing, yet enhance the sense of connection with her very human characters.\"\n\nThe American Library Association included \"Monstrous Beauty\" on its 2013 list of Best Fiction for Young Adults, and it won a silver Odyssey Award for best audiobook produced for children and/or young adults. It was also a 2012 Nerdies Book Award nominee. Fama's first novel, \"Overboard\" (Cricket Books, 2002), was for ages 11 and up, and set in Indonesia. It was named a 2003 Best Book for Young Adults by the American Library Association (one of only eleven books selected unanimously by the committee that year), it received the 2002–2003 honor award for children's fiction from the Society of Midland Authors, and it was nominated for five state readers' choice awards (New Hampshire, Texas, Illinois, Utah, and Florida).\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1986201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986201", "title": "Massimo Belardinelli", "text": "Massimo Belardinelli\n\nMassimo Belardinelli (5 June 1938 – 31 March 2007) was an Italian comic artist best known for his work in the British science fiction comic \"2000 AD\".\n\nBelardinelli was born in Rome. His father was an amateur oil painter. Inspired by the Disney film \"Fantasia\", Belardinelli went into animation in the 1960s, painting backgrounds for films produced by the Sergio Rosi studio. He then moved into comics, again through the Rosi studio, drawing backgrounds for \"The Steel Claw\" in the British weekly \"Valiant\" in a team which also included Giorgio Cambiotti on pencils and Sergio Rosi himself on inks. In 1969 he moved to the Giolitti Studio, which got him work in Italy, Germany, the UK and the USA. He collaborated with Alberto Giolitti on Gold Key Comics' \"Star Trek\" series in the USA, with Giolitti drawing the characters and Belardinelli the spaceships. In the UK in the mid-1970s he drew \"Rat Pack\" for \"Battle Picture Weekly\" and \"Death Game 1999\" and \"Green's Grudge War\" for \"Action\".\n\nWhen \"2000 AD\" was in preparation in 1977, an artist was needed for the revamped \"Dan Dare\", and Belardinelli tried out for no pay and got the job, and the rare honour of a byline, despite editor Pat Mills' reservations: although he excelled at visualising aliens, alien technology and alien landscapes, Mills thought \"the hero looked awful\". Belardinelli's work on the strip was not popular, and after a year he was switched to future sports series \"Inferno\", the sequel to the popular \"Harlem Heroes\", while former \"Harlem Heroes\" artist Dave Gibbons took over \"Dan Dare\".\n\nBelardinelli then drew the second series of \"Flesh\", in which the time-travelling meat-farmers moved into the prehistoric oceans, in 1978–79. He also drew \"The Angry Planet\", a sci-fi serial set on colonised Mars, written by Alan Hebden, for \"Tornado\" in 1979, and then took over \"Blackhawk\", Gerry Finley-Day's strip about a Nubian slave who became a Roman centurion, when \"Tornado\" merged into \"2000 AD\" later in the year. The strip was given a sci-fi twist by new writers Alan Grant and Kelvin Gosnell, with the hero being abducted by aliens and forced to fight in a galactic arena. Grant believes the strip's popularity was down to Belardinelli's art.\n\n\"Meltdown Man\", a year-long cliffhanger serial written by Alen Hebden, followed in 1980–81, in which an SAS officer was caught in a nuclear explosion and blasted into a future where humans have enslaved genetically-engineered humanoid animals, and leads the fight for their liberation. In 1981 writers John Wagner and Alan Grant created a new series for him, space haulage comedy \"Ace Trucking Co.\". Grant says they wanted to exploit Belardinelli's \"fevered imagination\" and wrote a series which featured \"as few actual human beings as possible\" - almost all the characters were aliens.\n\nBelardinelli also drew several storylines of the Celtic barbarian strip \"Sláine\" in 1983–84, whose writer, Pat Mills, selected him to visualise the hero's body-distorting \"warp spasm\". Although his strips were popular with the general readership, the fan audience never really took to him, and his \"Sláine\" stories were not collected by Titan Books.\n\nHis last major \"2000 AD\" strips were \"The Dead\", written by Peter Milligan (1987) - a philosophical yet psychedelic series set in a future where an evolved human race thinks it has conquered death, until demons start erupting from their bodies, and the hero, Fludd, has to travel to the land of the dead to save mankind - violent future sport series \"Mean Team\" (1985, 1987) and space opera \"Moonrunners\" (1988–89). He also drew \"Joe Alien\" for short-lived younger-readers sci-fi comic \"Wildcat\", in 1988. Among his last comic work in the UK was for Fleetway's \"Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles\" comic in the early 1990s.\n\nHe stopped working in British comics in 1993 when his agent, Alberto Giolitti, died. Having suffered from heart problems, Belardinelli died on 31 March 2007.\n\nComics work includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986205", "title": "Socialism and LGBT rights", "text": "Socialism and LGBT rights\n\nThe connection between left-leaning ideologies and LGBT rights struggles has a long and mixed history. Prominent socialists who were involved in early struggles for LGBT rights include Edward Carpenter, Oscar Wilde, Harry Hay, Bayard Rustin, Emma Goldman and Daniel Guérin among others.\n\nThe first currents of modern socialist thought emerged in Europe in the early 19th century. They are now often described with the phrase utopian socialism. Gender and sexuality were significant concerns for many of the leading thinkers, such as Charles Fourier and Henri de Saint-Simon in France and Robert Owen in Britain, as well as their followers, many of whom were women. For Fourier, for example, true freedom could only occur without masters, without the ethos of work, and without suppressing passions; the suppression of passions is not only destructive to the individual, but to society as a whole. Writing before the advent of the term 'homosexuality', Fourier recognised that both men and women have a wide range of sexual needs and preferences which may change throughout their lives, including same-sex sexuality and \"androgénité\". He argued that all sexual expressions should be enjoyed as long as people are not abused, and that \"affirming one's difference\" can actually enhance social integration.\n\nFrom the earliest European homosexual rights movements, activists such as Karl-Heinrich Ulrichs and Magnus Hirschfeld approached the Left for support. During the 1860s, Ulrichs wrote to Karl Marx and sent him a number of books on Uranian (homosexual/transgender) emancipation, and in 1869 Marx passed one of Ulrich's books on to Engels. Engels responded with disgust to Marx in a private letter, lashing out at \"pederasts\" who are \"extremely against nature\", and described Ulrichs' platform of homosexual rights as \"turning smut into theory\". He worried that things would go badly for heterosexuals like himself should homosexual rights be gained.\n\nKnown to both Ulrichs and Marx was the case of Jean Baptista von Schweitzer, an important labor organiser who had been charged with attempting to solicit a teenage boy in a park in 1862. Social democrat leader Ferdinand Lassalle defended Schweitzer on the grounds that while he personally found homosexuality to be dirty, the labor movement needed the leadership of Schweitzer too much to abandon him, and that a person's sexual tastes had \"absolutely nothing to do with a man’s political character\". Marx, on the other hand, suggested that Engels use this incident to smear Schweitzer: \"You must arrange for a few jokes about him to reach Siebel, for him to hawk around to the various papers.\" However, Schweitzer would go on to become President of the German Labor Union, and the first Social Democrat elected to a parliament in Europe.\n\nAugust Bebel's \"Woman under Socialism\" (1879), the \"single work dealing with sexuality most widely read by rank-and-file members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD)\", can be seen as another example of the ambiguous position towards homosexuality in the German labor movement. On the one hand, Bebel warned socialists of the dangers of same-sex love. Bebel attributed \"this crime against nature\" in both men and women to sexual indulgence and excess, describing it as an upper-class, metropolitan and foreign vice. On the other hand, he did publicly support the efforts to legalize homosexuality. For example, he signed the first petition of the \"Wissenschaftlich-humanitärer Kreis\", a study group led by Magnus Hirschfeld, trying to explain homosexuality from a scientific point of view and pushing for decriminalization. In an article for Gay News in 1978, John Lauritsen considers August Bebel as the first important politician \"to speak out in public debate\" in the favor of gay rights since he attacked the criminialization of homosexuality in a Reichstag debate in 1898.\n\nThe leading figure of the LGBT movement in Germany from the turn of the 20th century until the Nazi government came to power in 1933 was undoubtedly Magnus Hirschfeld. Hirschfeld, who was also a socialist and supporter of the Women's Movement, formed the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee to campaign against German Penal Code Section 175 which outlawed male-male sex. Hirschfeld's organisation did a deal with the SPD (of which Lassalle and Schweitzer had been members) to get them to put forward a bill in the Reichstag in 1898, but it was opposed in the Reichstag and failed to pass. Most of Hirschfeld's circle of homosexual activists had socialist politics, including Kurt Hiller, Richard Linsert, Johanna Elberskirchen and Bruno Vogel. After the toppling of the German monarchy, the struggle against § 175 was continued by some social democrats. The German Minister of Justice Gustav Radbruch, member of the Social Democratic Party, tried to erase the paragraphe from the German penal law. However, his efforts were to no avail.\n\nIn Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man Under Socialism\", he advocates for an egalitarian society where wealth is shared by all, while warning of the dangers of authoritarian socialism that would crush individuality. He later commented, \"I think I am rather more than a Socialist. I am something of an Anarchist, I believe.\". \"In August 1894, Wilde wrote to his lover, Lord Alfred Douglas, to tell of \"a dangerous adventure.\" He had gone out sailing with two lovely boys, Stephen and Alphonso, and they were caught in a storm. \"We took five hours in an awful gale to come back! [And we] did not reach pier till eleven o’clock at night, pitch dark all the way, and a fearful sea. . . . All the fishermen were waiting for us.\"...Tired, cold, and \"wet to the skin,\" the three men immediately \"flew to the hotel for hot brandy and water.\" But there was a problem. The law stood in the way: \"As it was past ten o’clock on a Sunday night the proprietor could not sell us any brandy or spirits of any kind! So he had to give it to us. The result was not displeasing, but what laws!\"...Wilde finishes the story: \"Both Alphonso and Stephen are now anarchists, I need hardly say.\"\"\n\nEdward Carpenter was a leading figure in late 19th- and early 20th-century Britain being instrumental in the foundation of the Fabian Society and the Labour Party. The 1890s saw Carpenter in a concerted effort to campaign against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. He strongly believed that same-sex attraction was a natural orientation for people of a third sex. His 1908 book on the subject, \"The Intermediate Sex\", would become a foundational text of the LGBT movements of the 20th century. \"The Intermediate Sex: A Study of Some Transitional Types of Men and Women\" expressed his views on homosexuality. Carpenter argues that \"uranism\", as he terms homosexuality, was on the increase marking a new age of sexual liberation. He continued to work in the early part of the 20th century composing works on the \"Homogenic question\". The publication in 1902 of his groundbreaking anthology of poems, \"Ioläus: An Anthology of Friendship\", was a huge underground success, leading to a more advanced knowledge of homoerotic culture. In April 1914, Carpenter and his friend Laurence Houseman founded the British Society for the Study of Sex Psychology. Some of the topics addressed in lecture and publication by the society included: the promotion of the scientific study of sex; a more rational attitude towards sexual conduct and problems and questions connected with sexual psychology (from medical, juridical, and sociological aspects), birth control, abortion, sterilization, venereal diseases, and all aspects of prostitution.\n\nIn Europe and North America, the free love movement combined ideas revived from utopian socialism with anarchism and feminism to attack the \"hypocritical\" sexual morality of the Victorian era, and the institutions of marriage and the family that were alleged to enslave women. Free lovers advocated voluntary sexual unions with no state interference and affirmed the right to sexual pleasure for both women and men, sometimes explicitly supporting the rights of homosexuals and prostitutes. For a few decades, adherence to \"free love\" became widespread among European and American anarchists, but these views were opposed at the time by Marxists and social democrats. Radical feminist and socialist Victoria Woodhull was expelled from the International Workingmen's Association in 1871 for her involvement in the free love and associated movements. Indeed, with Marx's support, the American branch of the organisation was purged of its pacifist, anti-racist and feminist elements, which were accused of putting too much emphasis on issues unrelated to class struggle and were therefore seen to be incompatible with scientific socialism.\n\nThe \"Verband Fortschrittlicher Frauenvereine\" (League of Progressive Women's Associations), a turn of the 20th century left-wing organisation led by Lily Braun campaigned for the decriminalisation of homosexuality in Germany and aimed at organising prostitutes into labour unions. The broader labour movement either attacked the League, saying they were utopians, or ignored it, and Braun was driven out of the international Marxist movement. Helene Stöcker, another German activist from the left wing of the women's movement, became heavily involved in the sexual reform movement in 1919, after World War I, and served on the board of the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft. She also campaigned to protect single mothers and their children from economic and moral persecution. Anarcho-syndicalist writer Ulrich Linse wrote about \"a sharply outlined figure of the Berlin individualist anarchist cultural scene around 1900\", the \"precocious Johannes Holzmann\" (known as Senna Hoy): \"an adherent of free love, [Hoy] celebrated homosexuality as a 'champion of culture' and engaged in the struggle against Paragraph 175.\" The young Hoy (born 1882) published these views in his weekly magazine, (\"\", in English \"Struggle\") from 1904 which reached a circulation of 10,000 the following year. German anarchist psychotherapist Otto Gross also wrote extensively about same-sex sexuality in both men and women and argued against its discrimination. Heterosexual anarchist Robert Reitzel (1849–98) spoke positively of homosexuality from the beginning of the 1890s in his German-language journal \"Der arme Teufel\" (Detroit).\n\nAcross the Atlantic, in New York's Greenwich Village, Bohemian feminists and socialists advocated self-realisation and pleasure for women (and also men) in the here and now, as well as campaigning against the First World War and for other anarchist and socialist causes. They encouraged playing with sexual roles and sexuality, and the openly bisexual radical Edna St. Vincent Millay and the lesbian anarchist Margaret Anderson were prominent among them. The Villagers took their inspiration from the mostly anarchist immigrant female workers from the period 1905-1915 and the \"New Life Socialism\" of Edward Carpenter, Havelock Ellis and Olive Schreiner. Discussion groups organised by the Villagers were frequented by the Russian anarchist Emma Goldman, among others. Magnus Hirschfeld noted in 1923 that Goldman \"has campaigned boldly and steadfastly for individual rights, and especially for those deprived of their rights. Thus it came about that she was the first and only woman, indeed the first and only American, to take up the defense of homosexual love before the general public.\" In fact, prior to Goldman, heterosexual anarchist Robert Reitzel (1849–98) spoke positively of homosexuality from the beginning of the 1890s in his German-language journal \"Der arme Teufel\" (Detroit). During her life, Goldman was lionized as a free-thinking \"rebel woman\" by admirers, and derided by critics as an advocate of politically motivated murder and violent revolution. Her writing and lectures spanned a wide variety of issues, including prisons, atheism, freedom of speech, militarism, capitalism, marriage, free love, and homosexuality. Although she distanced herself from first-wave feminism and its efforts toward women's suffrage, she developed new ways of incorporating gender politics into anarchism. After decades of obscurity, Goldman's iconic status was revived in the 1970s, when feminist and anarchist scholars rekindled popular interest in her life.\n\nMujeres Libres was an anarchist women's organization in Spain that aimed to empower working-class women. It was founded in 1936 by Lucía Sánchez Saornil, Mercedes Comaposada and Amparo Poch y Gascón and had approximately 30,000 members. The organization was based on the idea of a \"double struggle\" for women's liberation and social revolution and argued that the two objectives were equally important and should be pursued in parallel. In order to gain mutual support, they created networks of women anarchists. Flying day-care centres were set up in efforts to involve more women in union activities. Lucía Sánchez Saornil was a Spanish poet, militant anarchist and feminist. She is best known as one of the founders of \"Mujeres Libres\" and served in the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and Solidaridad Internacional Antifascista (SIA). By 1919, she had been published in a variety of journals, including \"Los Quijotes\", \"Tableros\", \"Plural\", \"Manantial\" and \"La Gaceta Literaria\". Working under a male pen name, she was able to explore lesbian themes at a time when homosexuality was criminalized and subject to censorship and punishment. Writing in anarchist publications such as \"Earth and Freedom\", the \"White Magazine\" and \"Workers' Solidarity\", Lucía outlined her perspective as a feminist. Although quiet on the subject of birth control, she attacked the essentialism of gender roles in Spanish society. In this way, Lucía established herself as one of the most radical of voices among anarchist women, rejecting the ideal of female domesticity which remained largely unquestioned. In a series of articles for \"Workers' Solidarity\", she boldly refuted Gregorio Marañón's identification of motherhood as the nucleus of female identity.\n\nAnarchism's foregrounding of individual freedoms made for a natural marriage with homosexuality in the eyes of many, both inside and outside of the Anarchist movement. Emil Szittya, in \"Das Kuriositäten-Kabinett\" (1923), wrote about homosexuality that \"very many anarchists have this tendency. Thus I found in Paris a Hungarian anarchist, Alexander Sommi, who founded a homosexual anarchist group on the basis of this idea.\" His view is confirmed by Magnus Hirschfeld in his 1914 book \"Die Homosexualität des Mannes und des Weibes\": \"In the ranks of a relatively small party, the anarchist, it seemed to me as if proportionately more homosexuals and effeminates are found than in others.\" Italian anarchist Luigi Bertoni (who Szittya also believed to be gay) said that \"Anarchists demand freedom in everything, thus also in sexuality. Homosexuality leads to a healthy sense of egoism, for which every anarchist should strive.\"\n\nAnarcho-syndicalist writer Ulrich Linse wrote about \"a sharply outlined figure of the Berlin individualist anarchist cultural scene around 1900\", the \"precocious Johannes Holzmann\" (known as Senna Hoy): \"an adherent of free love, [Hoy] celebrated homosexuality as a 'champion of culture' and engaged in the struggle against Paragraph 175.\" The young Hoy (born 1882) published these views in his weekly magazine, (\"Kampf\") from 1904 which reached a circulation of 10,000 the following year. German anarchist psychotherapist Otto Gross also wrote extensively about same-sex sexuality in both men and women and argued against its discrimination. In the 1920s and 1930s, French individualist anarchist publisher Emile Armand campaigned for acceptance of free love, including homosexuality, in his journal \"L'en dehors\".\n\nThe individualist anarchist Adolf Brand was originally a member of Hirschfeld's Scientific-Humanitarian committee, but formed a break-away group. Brand and his colleagues, known as the Gemeinschaft der Eigenen, were heavily influenced by homosexual anarchist John Henry Mackay. The group despised effeminacy and saw homosexuality as an expression of manly virility available to all men, espousing a form of nationalistic masculine \"Lieblingminne\" (chivalric love) that would later be linked to the rise of Nazism. They were opposed to Hirschfeld's medical characterisation of homosexuality as the domain of an \"intermediate sex\". Brand \"toyed with anti-Semitism\", and disdained Hirschfeld on the grounds that he was Jewish. Ewald Tschek, another gay anarchist writer of the era, regularly contributed to Adolf Brand's journal \"Der Eigene\", and wrote in 1925 that Hirschfeld's Scientific Humanitarian Committee was a danger to the German people, caricaturing Hirschfeld as \"Dr. Feldhirsch\".\n\nWhilst these prohomosexual stances had begun to surface; many members of the anarchist movement of the time still believed that nature/a divine Creator had provided a perfect answer to human relationships; an editorial in an influential Spanish anarchist journal from 1935 argued that an Anarchist must even avoid any relationship with homosexuals: \"If you are an anarchist, that means that you are more morally upright and physically strong than the average man. And he who likes inverts is no real man, and is therefore no real anarchist.\" However, despite that view, many present-day anarchists accept homosexuality.\n\nMcCarthyism in the US believed a \"homosexual underground\" was abetting the \"communist conspiracy\", which was sometimes called the Homintern. A number of homosexual rights groups came into being during this period. These groups, now known as the \"homophile\" movement, often had left-wing or socialist politics, such as the communist Mattachine Society and the Dutch COC which originated on the left. In the context of the highly politicised Cold War environment, homosexuality became framed as a dangerous, contagious social disease that posed a potential threat to state security. This era also witnessed the establishment of widely spread FBI surveillance intended to identify homosexual government employees.\nHarry Hay, who is seen by many as the father of the modern gay rights movement in the United States, was originally a trade union activist. In 1934, he organised an important 83-day-long workers' strike of the port of San Francisco with his lover, actor Will Geer. He was an active member of the Communist Party. Hay and the Mattachine Society were among the first to argue that gay people were not just individuals but in fact represented a \"cultural minority\". They even called for public marches of homosexuals, predicting later gay pride parades. Hay's concept of the \"cultural minority\" came directly from his Marxist studies, and the rhetoric that he and his colleague Charles Rowland employed often reflected the militant Communist tradition. The Communist Party did not officially allow gays to be members, claiming that homosexuality was a 'deviation'; perhaps more important was the fear that a member's (usually secret) homosexuality would leave them open to blackmail and made them a security risk in an era of red-baiting. Concerned to save the party difficulties, as he put more energy into the Mattachine Society, Hay himself approached the CP's leaders and recommended his own expulsion. However, after much soul-searching, the CP, clearly reeling at the loss of a respected member and theoretician of 18 years' standing, refused to expel Hay as a homosexual, instead expelling him under the more convenient ruse of 'security risk', while ostentatiously announcing him to be a 'Lifelong Friend of the People'. The Mattachine Society was the second gay rights organization that Hay established, the first being \"'Bachelors for Wallace\" (1948) in support of Henry Wallace's progressive presidential candidacy. The \"Encyclopedia of Homosexuality\" reports that \"As Marxists the founders of the group believed that the injustice and oppression which they suffered stemmed from relationships deeply embedded in the structure of American society\".\n\nIn 1951, the Socialist Party USA was close to adopting a platform plank in favor of gay rights, with one article in the Youth Socialist Party press supporting such a move. African American socialist and civil rights activist Bayard Rustin was arrested in Pasadena, California, in 1953 for homosexual activity with two other men in a parked car. Originally charged with vagrancy and lewd conduct, he pleaded guilty to a single, lesser charge of \"sex perversion\" (as consensual sodomy was officially referred to in California then) and served 60 days in jail. This was the first time that his homosexuality had come to public attention. He had been and remained candid about his sexuality, although homosexuality was still criminalized throughout the United States. In 1957, Rustin and Martin Luther King Jr. began organizing the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). Many African-American leaders were concerned that Rustin's sexual orientation and past Communist membership would undermine support for the civil rights movement. U.S. Representative Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., who was a member of the SCLC's board, forced Rustin's resignation from the SCLC in 1960 by threatening to discuss Rustin's morals charge in Congress. A few weeks before the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in August 1963, Senator Strom Thurmond railed against Rustin as a \"Communist, draft-dodger, and homosexual,\" and had the entire Pasadena arrest file entered in the record. Thurmond also produced a Federal Bureau of Investigation photograph of Rustin talking to King while King was bathing, to imply that there was a same-sex relationship between the two. Both men denied the allegation of an affair. Rustin was instrumental in organizing the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on August 7, 1963. He drilled off-duty police officers as marshals, bus captains to direct traffic, and scheduled the podium speakers. Eleanor Holmes Norton and Rachelle Horowitz were aides. Despite King's support, NAACP chairman Roy Wilkins did not want Rustin to receive any public credit for his role in planning the march. Nevertheless, he did become well known. On September 6, 1963, Rustin and Randolph appeared on the cover of \"Life\" magazine as \"the leaders\" of the March. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Rustin worked as a human rights and election monitor for Freedom House. He also testified on behalf of New York State's Gay Rights Bill. In 1986, he gave a speech \"The New Niggers Are Gays,\" in which he asserted,\n\nThe Soviet Government of the Russian Soviet Republic decriminalised homosexuality in December 1917, following the October Revolution and the discarding of the Legal Code of Tzarist Russia. Effectively the Soviet government decriminalised homosexuality in Russia and Ukraine after 1917. However other states in the USSR continued to ascribe legal punishments on sodomy. This policy of decriminalising homosexuality in the Russian SSR and Ukrainian SSR endured for the bulk of the 1920s - until the Stalinist era. In 1933 the Soviet government, under Stalin, recriminalised homosexuality. On March 7, 1934, Article 121 was added to the criminal code, for the entire Soviet Union, that expressly prohibited only male homosexuality, with up to five years of hard labor in prison. There were no criminal statutes regarding lesbianism.\n\nThe lowest point in the history of the relationship between socialism and homosexuality begins with the rise of Joseph Stalin in the USSR, after Lenin's death, and continues through the era of state socialism in the Soviet Union, East Germany, China and North Korea. In all cases the conditions of sexual minorities, including transgender people, worsened in communist states after the arrival of Stalin. Hundreds of thousands of homosexuals were interned in gulags during the Great Purge, where many were beaten to death. Some Western intellectuals withdrew their support of Communism after seeing the severity of repression in the USSR, including the gay writer André Gide.\n\nHistorian Jennifer Evans reports that the East German government \"alternated between the view [of homosexual activity] as a remnant of bourgeois decadence, a sign of moral weakness, and a threat to social and political health of the nation.\" Homosexuality was legalized in East Germany when Article 174 was repealed in 1968.\n\nThere were a variety of attitudes to homosexuality in the socialist countries. Some states (such as the early Soviet Union prior to 1929-1933) practiced a degree of toleration. Others maintained negative policies towards homosexuals throughout their history, or gradually evolved to positions of relative toleration or official ignorance after the 1960s (East Germany, the USSR, etc.) In less tolerant periods effeminate men and homosexuals were sometimes forced to participate in programs of 'reeducation' involving forced labor, conversion therapy, psychotropic drugs or confinement in psychiatric hospitals.\n\nThe revolutionary Cuban gay writer Reinaldo Arenas noted that, shortly after the communist government of Fidel Castro came to power, \"persecution began and concentration camps were opened [...] the sexual act became taboo while the \"new man\" was proclaimed and masculinity exalted.\" Homosexuality was legalized in Cuba in 1979. Fidel Castro apologized for Cuba's poor historical record on LGBT issues in 2010.\n\nWhile there had been no law against sodomy at the time of the USSR's creation, such a law was introduced in 1933, added to the penal code as Article 121, which condemned homosexual relations with penalties of imprisonment up to five years. With the fall of the Soviet regime and the repeal of the law against sex between consenting adult men, prisoners convicted under that part of the law were released very slowly.\n\nHomosexuality was legalized in several Eastern Bloc countries under Communism, such as Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia and Hungary.\nDuring the emergence of the new social movements of the 1960s and 1970s, the socialist left began to review its relationship to gender, sexuality and identity politics. The writings of the French bisexual anarchist Daniel Guérin offer an insight into the tension sexual minorities among the Left have often felt. He was a leading figure in the French Left from the 1930s until his death in 1988. After coming out in 1965, he spoke about the extreme hostility toward homosexuality that permeated the left throughout much of the 20th century. \"Not so many years ago, to declare oneself a revolutionary and to confess to being homosexual were incompatible,\" Guérin wrote in 1975. In 1954, Guérin was widely attacked for his study of the Kinsey Reports in which he also detailed the oppression of homosexuals in France. \"The harshest [criticisms] came from marxists, who tend seriously to underestimate the form of oppression which is antisexual terrorism. I expected it, of course, and I knew that in publishing my book I was running the risk of being attacked by those to whom I feel closest on a political level.\" After coming out publicly in 1965, Guérin was abandoned by the Left, and his papers on sexual liberation were censored or refused publication in left-wing journals. From the 1950s, Guérin moved away from Marxism-Leninism and toward a synthesis of anarchism and marxism close to platformism which allowed for individualism while rejecting capitalism. Guérin was involved in the uprising of May 1968, and was a part of the French Gay Liberation movement that emerged after the events. Decades later, Frédéric Martel described Guérin as the \"grandfather of the French homosexual movement.\" Meanwhile, in the United States late in his career the influential anarchist thinker Paul Goodman came out as bisexual. The freedom with which he revealed, in print and in public, his romantic and sexual relations with men (notably in a late essay, \"Being Queer\"), proved to be one of the many important cultural springboards for the emerging gay liberation movement of the early 1970s.\n\nEmerging from a number of events, such as the May 1968 insurrection in France, the anti-Vietnam war movement in the US and the Stonewall riots of 1969, militant Gay Liberation organisations began to spring up around the world. Many saw their roots in left radicalism more than in the established homophile groups of the time, such as British and American Gay Liberation Front, the British Gay Left Collective, the Italian Fuori!, the French FHAR, the German Rotzschwule, and the Dutch Red Faggots.\n\nThe then styled Gay Lib leaders and writers also came from a left-wing background, such as Dennis Altman, Martin Duberman, Steven Ault, Brenda Howard, John D'Emilio, David Fernbach (writing in the English language), Pierre Hahn and Guy Hocquenghem (in French) and the Italian Mario Mieli. Some were inspired by Herbert Marcuse's \"Eros and Civilization\", which attempts to synthesise the ideas of Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud. 1960s and 1970s radical Angela Davis (who officially came out as a lesbian in 1999) had studied under Marcuse and was greatly influenced by him.\nIn France, gay activist and political theorist Guy Hocquenghem, like many others, developed a commitment to socialism through participating in the May 1968 insurrection. A former member of the French Communist Party, he later joined the Front Homosexuel d'Action Révolutionnaire (FHAR), formed by radical lesbians who split from the Mouvement Homophile de France in 1971, including the left ecofeminist Françoise d'Eaubonne. That same year, the FHAR became the first homosexual group to demonstrate publicly in France when they joined Paris's annual May Day march held by trade unions and left-wing parties.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the 1980s saw increased opposition to LGBT rights from the right wing Conservative government led by Margaret Thatcher, who introduced Section 28 in 1988 in order to prevent what they saw as the \"promotion\" of homosexuality as an acceptable lifestyle in schools. However, the Conservatives' main opposition, the Labour Party, did little to address the issue of LGBT rights, ignoring calls from left-wingers such as Ken Livingstone, to do so. Meanwhile, the popular right-wing press featured pejorative references to lesbians, supposedly especially associated with the all-female anti-nuclear protest camp at Greenham Common, and individuals such as Peter Tatchell, the Labour candidate in the 1983 Bermondsey by-election.\n\nHowever, the growing commercialisation of the western gay subculture in the late 20th and early 21st centuries (the \"pink pound\") has come under heavy criticism from socialists, for instance, Hannah Dee remarked that it had reached \"the point that London Pride - once a militant demonstration in commemoration of the Stonewall riots - has become a corporate-sponsored event far removed from any challenge to the ongoing injustices that we [the LGBT community] face.\" At the same time, an anti-war coalition between Muslims (many organized through Mosques) and the Socialist Workers Party led a leading member Lindsey German to reject the use of gay rights as a \"shibboleth\" that would automatically rule out such alliances.\n\nThe American Revolutionary Communist Party's policy that \"struggle will be waged to eliminate [homosexuality] and reform homosexuals\" wasn't abandoned until 2001. The RCP now strongly supports gay liberation. Meanwhile, the American Socialist Workers Party (SWP) in the US released a memo stating that gay oppression had less \"social weight\" than black and women's struggles, and prohibited members from being involved in gay political organisations. They also believed that too close an association with gay liberation would give the SWP an \"exotic image\" and alienate it from the masses.\n\nAs the Gay Liberation movement began to gain ground, Socialist organizations' policies evolved, and many groups actively campaigned for gay rights. Notable examples are the feminist Freedom Socialist Party, the Party for Socialism and Liberation, the International Socialist Organization, Socialist Alternative (United States) and the Socialist Party USA. The Socialist Party USA was the first American political party to nominate an openly gay man for President, running David McReynolds in 1980.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986210", "title": "Milestone (project management)", "text": "Milestone (project management)\n\nMilestones are tools used in project management to mark specific points along a project timeline. These points may signal anchors such as a project start and end date, or a need for external review or input and budget checks.\n\nIn many instances, milestones do not impact project duration. Instead, they focus on major progress points that must be reached to achieve success.\n\nMilestones can add significant value to project scheduling. When combined with a scheduling methodology such as Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT) or the Critical Path Method (CPM), milestones allow project managers to much more accurately determine whether or not the project is on schedule. By constraining the dates associated with milestones, the critical path can be determined for major schedule intervals in addition to the entire project. Slack/float can also be calculated on each schedule interval. This segmentation of the project schedule into intervals allows earlier indication of schedule problems and a better view into the activities whose completion is critical.\n\nMilestones are like dashboard reviews of a project. Number of activities which were planned at the beginning of the project with their individual timelines are reviewed for their status. It also gives an opportunity to check the health of the project.\n\nMilestones are frequently used to monitor the progress, but there are limitations to their effectiveness. They usually show progress only on the critical path, and ignore non-critical activities. It is common for resources to be moved from non-critical activities to critical activities to ensure that milestones are met. This gives the impression that the project is on schedule when actually some activities are being ignored.\n"}
{"id": "1986227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986227", "title": "Kill Switch...Klick", "text": "Kill Switch...Klick\n\nKill Switch...Klick, also known as KsK and Kill Switch (the original) is the name of an American industrial rock band. The band is best known for its releases on Cleopatra Records and Go-Kustom Rekords. KsK was formed in 1991 by D.A. Sebasstian (born Devin Edward Chastain on February 27, 1964), a writer, film maker, musician and artist who had relocated from San Bernardino, California, to Seattle, Washington, late in 1989 where he currently resides.\n\nSebasstian had been in numerous bands in San Bernardino starting in 1981 as bassist and lyricist for the hardcore punk band Xijix. This band played party and small club shows around the area, but broke up one year later when their guitarist joined the Marine Corps. In 1983 Sebasstian joined Latin avant-garde band Freaks Amor as trombonist, bassist and keyboard synthesist. Said Sebasstian, \"That was way before MIDI synths and home computers had been invented or popularized. We literally had to mark each sound setting on the synth with grease pencils, then twist knobs like crazy in-between songs to get the right sounds.\" Freaks gigged regularly in Los Angeles and San Bernardino, playing alongside contemporaries Kommunity FK and the Suburban Lawns. Sebasstian left Freaks Amor shortly after their first self-titled E.P. was released to join Montage as lyricist and singer. This U2-, The Alarm- and Simple Minds-influenced band headlined some of the biggest clubs in L.A. at the time, including Gazzarri's, Madam Wong's East and Club Lingerie. In 1984 Montage released a four-song vinyl E.P. entitled \"Celebrate The Misery\". Shortly thereafter Sebasstian left to form his own electronic music project Aside/Beside. This project released several cassette albums but only played one show. Frustrated and strung out from drug and alcohol abuse Sebasstian left San Bernardino and moved to Waldorf, Maryland, Atlanta, and eventually Seattle. Early in 1991, Sebasstian got sober and began seriously writing music again and contemplating forming a new band.\n\nSebasstian came up with the band name while working at Microsoft as a landscape grunt. As the story goes, the mower he was using started to sputter and cough- so he thought aloud \"Better hit the Kill Switch.\" Says Sebasstian:\n\nThe band name subsequently inspired novelist William Gibson to entitle his first X-files episode \"Kill Switch\" after a chance meeting with Sebasstian during a book tour. Later when \"Kill Switch\" aired it inspired the naming of the metalcore band Killswitch Engage. Sebasstian used the acronym KsK for Kill Switch...Klick with a lower case \"s\", paying homage to PiL, one of his biggest musical influences.\n\nKill Switch...Klick's sound was very different at that time from a Seattle music scene steeped in the then current grunge sound. Sebasstian's main musical influences were from late 1970s and early 1980s bands like Killing Joke, Public Image Ltd., Cabaret Voltaire and SPK. Sebasstian produced a Kill Switch...Klick demo tape recorded solo in his studio apartment on a four track tape deck. The cassette demo received airplay on Seattle's newly reformatted KNDD 107.7-FM. The End, as KNDD was now called, embraced local artists like college radio stations of the day. The End, as well as the University Of Washington's radio station KCMU, would both play key roles in Kill Switch...Klick becoming one of the Northwest's best known electronica acts.\n\nEncouraged by the attention and airplay of the KsK demo recording, Sebasstian began the task of putting together a live band to bring these recordings onto the stages of Seattle. He found drummer Mike Ditmore from an add in \"The Rocket\", a once popular Seattle musicians resource and classified monthly. They were soon joined by Avette Avery on keyboards and backing vocals. Their first show was an art gallery opening at the Art/Not Terminal. As luck would have it, \"The Seattle Times\" was at the event doing a feature article on the gallery and thus the band's very first gig garnished them a bit of local publicity. The band decided rather than re-recording their demo they would concentrate on making a music video. Enlisting the help of Ditmore's long time friend, director Sylvia Szabo, KsK made their first music video for the song \"Follow Me\". Shot entirely on location in 16 mm black & white film, this highly controversial and artistic video made the rounds on the international gothic-industrial club circuits and was even banned for commercial airplay in Canada due to its \"adult graphic content.\" Soon after the videos release, Avery left the band. The core of Kill Switch...Klick remained Sebasstian and Ditmore for nearly five years after.\n\nThe next year Sebasstian got a phone call from Chris Massey and Robert Riscassi of the Seattle grindcore band And Christ Wept. They were looking for other like-minded bands to play area shows with. Riscassi mentioned another Seattle band who might be interested in gigging called Noise Box. Sebasstian immediately called 'Dre of said band and after a few minutes on the phone they all decided to have a meeting at the Puss Puss Cafe in the Capitol Hill area of Seattle. This meeting became the foundation for the N.E.C. or Northwest Elektro-Industrial Coalition. Over 30 musicians showed up in 10 different projects. These included Kill Switch...Klick, Noise Box, And Christ Wept, SMP, Terminal, The Same, Sex WIth Sarah and many others. The purpose of the N.E.C. and its monthly meetings was to help promote electronic music in the Northwest by giving similar influenced artists a network of bands to play shows with. This was right in the middle of the Grunge explosion and electronic music was still not very popular in the Seattle area. The N.E.C. was a huge success with national articles written in \"Keyboard Magazine\", \"Industrialnation\" and \"Axcess\" magazines as well as regular club showcases of N.E.C. bands at well-known clubs like The Weathered Wall and Coulorbox. The N.E.C. also released compilation tapes of its members and put out a monthly newsletter. By sharing mailing lists the N.E.C. bands quickly made a network of area electronic music enthusiasts. Many of the founding bands and artists were later signed to national record deals.\n\nKsK originally signed with Urge Ltd in 1993, a label founded by Russell Ziecker (former bandmate of Charlie Sexton and before starting Urge working at Virgin Records Publishing). This relationship did not produce anything more than demo tapes and a rumored track \"Big Dub\" in the movie \"Headless Body Topless Bar\". The duo then signed to Cleopatra Records in 1994. The following year the band released the albums \"Beat it to Fit, Paint it to Match\" and \"Oddities & Versions\", and went on their first US tour with bassist Paul Wynia. The tour was entitled \"Muzak for the Masses\", and also included grindcore artists And Christ Wept. This tour was a success for the band and added to their growing fan base. When Sebasstian returned from tour he released his first solo CD on his own imprint INDVSTA MVSIC. The disc was entitled One Minute Endless and showcased a more classical and experimental side to Sebasstians song writing. Each disc was signed and numbered and encased in pieces of orange plastic fence material held together with electrical zip ties. The title track was a twenty-minute ambient piece that used vague movie samples and textures washed together in a stream of reverbs and delays. Said Jester in \"Sonic Boom\" Magazine, \"This album is the solo work of Sebasstian the lead vocalist from Kill Switch... Klick. The CD itself arrives in a nifty package consisting of two pieces of orange barrier fence twist tied together and the CD itself is individually signed, hand numbered and inserted into a liner sleeve. The music is quite unlike anything that D.A. has written for KsK and borders more on classical piano in some places rather than the traditional grinding electronic industrial that you might expect. Overall the music is much mellower, more emotional and deeply personal compared to other material Sebasstian has been responsible for writing. D.A. utilizes an inordinately large amount of keyboard work on this album. The keyboards ranges from classical piano to other classical keyboard instruments as well as various wacky samples.\" In 1996 the KsK began work on its second music video for the single \"Produkt (Mass Market Mix)\". They hired director Brent Watanabe to animate and direct this lo-fi animated homage to \"consumerist corporate America\". Sebasstian had worked with Watanabe on several short film project previously as both actor and sound designer. In 1997 Kill Switch...Klick added former Transilvia bassist Jeremy Moss, releasing the highly acclaimed album \"deGenerate\" released on Cleopatra. Said \"The Stranger\", \"deGenerate is not a great album in a local or industrial sense. It's a great album period!\" Later that year, and right before their second US tour, Ditmore quit the band to pursue a career with American aviation giant Boeing. KsK's 1997 tour was financially devastating to Sebasstian, when their tour van blew up just before their very first gig in San Francisco. Determined to finish the tour across the United States, Sebasstian borrowed additional money from Cleopatra Records, with the promise of a quick \"no recording cost\" release when the band returned from tour. This album was \"ALT.\" a b-sides and alternative versions CD that actually garnished decent reviews and in fact paid back the borrowed tour money to Cleopatra Records.\n\nIn 1998 Sebasstian formed Irregular Records (later Go-Kustom Rekords) and in 1999 released Kill Switch...Klick's most controversial album, \"Organica\". This album featured new songs and re-recorded versions of KsK classics using only acoustic sound sources. Said \"CMJ\" Magazine in Issue 67 \"D.A. Sebasstian has taken to using only acoustic instruments, recorded in his studio and sampler- processed appropriately, to write new songs and recreate older KsK material. The convention-busting instrumentation makes Organica a surprisingly flirtatious, personality-driven album. Just listen to \"5 Hotwheels In My Box,\" which rhythmically alters a sample of a child blurting \"five\" and juxtaposes the soundbite with the bleating of bagpipes. Organica is a testament to the ingenuity of Sebasstian as well as to the viability of acoustic instruments in making great dance records.\" Organica was later licensed and reissued by Invisible Records.\n\nIn 2001 Kill Switch...Klick came out with a \"Best Of\" collection called \"Milkin' It For All It's Worth\" on Cleopatra Records, which included remixes by Spahn Ranch and Sigue Sigue Sputnik. The next year Invisible Records released Almost Ambient Collection Volume One. Said \"Keyboard Magazine\", \"The accent in the title is on \"almost.\" Though much of the music is warm and gauzy, there's generally a beat prowling around. The sound effects, while subdued, are sometimes disturbing- love the squidgy filter stuff. The cluster-chord piano solo in \"Feeding the Machine (Day to Day)\" is downright rude, and \"A/B Continuity (Resurgence)\" is a full-on industrial/techno song. For my money, mastermind D.A. Sebasstian finds a good balance between energetic and mellow. Eleven of the tracks are previously unreleased, eight are reissues.\"\n\nSebasstian also began releasing and producing music and remixes for other bands, including DragStrip Riot, The Wages of Sin, Faith & Disease, The Bad Things, Melene Marie Brown, OmBili Troupe, The Flathand 5, Billy Dwayne & The Creepers, Gary Numan, Gene Loves Jezebel, and his own solo project D.A. Sebasstian & The Inner Demons. He also expanded his Go-Kustom Records into the realm of public-access television cable TV with a popular weekly Seattle-based show called \"Go-Kustom TV\" with Hostess Lindsay Calkins. \"GKTV\" ran for four seasons and has recently been issued as a DVD series and on internet video sites like Blip.tv and YouTube. The show features interviews with Northwest Hot Rod builders, Pin-Up Models, Artists & Musicians.\n\nIn 2003 Sebasstian began filming \"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\", a Black & White B-movie style independent film, which includes original soundtrack music by Kill Switch...Klick, as well as many other Seattle area musicians. Filming was completed in 2006. The film went into post-production that same year, and is set for tentative a 2008 release.\n\nSebasstian started writing feature articles for the national kustom kulture publications- CK Deluxe and Ol' Skool Rodz Magazine in 2004.\n\nIn 2006 Go-Kustom Rekords began reissuing the Kill Switch...Klick back catalog including ALT., deGenerate and Almost Ambient Collection Volume One as well as the edgy collection Mechanoid Collection. Says Sebasstian about Mechanoid Collection, \"Most of the disc is older material repackaged yet again- but released more for strategic reasons than anything else. I wanted to get some of my favorite songs on a single collection on my own label and quickly up on iTunes. Mechanoid was the vehicle to do this.\"\n\nSebasstian teamed up with YouTube starlet Super Amanda in late 2007 to record \"Killing Machine,\" a song featured prominently in \"Hot Rod Girls Save The World\". \"Killing Machine\" includes five different versions of the title song, in styles ranging from straight ahead rock, electro-industrial and acoustic. Sebasstian also published the \"Hot Rod Girls Save The World Screenplay\" with the announced intention of making it into a full blown three part novel series called \"The Anywhere Trilogy\" (with \"Hot Rod Girls Save The World\" being Book Number Two). Part One of the series is entitled \"The Legend Of D.B. Petty\" and is a prequel to the \"Hot Rod Girls Save The World\" story line.\n\nIn 2008 KsK released Sterile, It & All (seven disc box set), Ugly.Noises, Nominal, The Killing Machine E.P. (with Super Amanda) and The Hemi Charger E.P. (also with Super Amanda on vocals) as well as recording the original movie soundtrack for Hot Rod Girls Save The World. Sebasstian also released the third D.A. Sebasstian & The Inner Demons disc entitled \"House Party\" (with Super Amanda on backing vocals). Sebasstian's film Hot Rod Girls Save The World was completed on October 31, 2008 with its first private screening held November 15, 2008, to a sold-out audience at the 911 Media Arts Center in Seattle, WA.\n\n\"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\" came out on DVD November 2008, and the original movie soundtrack (on Go-Kustom Rekords) was available early 2009. Said Sebasstian, \"The hardest part of creating an original score for \"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\" was musically creating a collision between old rockabilly styles representative of the townsfolk of Anywhere, Washington and the high tech soundscapes for the aliens from the planet Moosha Maa. I came up with several recurring themes that were woven between the two musical genres and then culminate in the end theme for the film. The idea is the old meets the new, both visually and musically.\"\n\n\"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\" premiered in Seattle at 911 Media Arts November 2008. The film's East Coast premiere was at the Seventh Annual Backseat Film Festival in Philadelphia on March 6, 2009. Also screening at the festival were Sex Galaxy and a film by Bam Margera entitled \"\".\n\nMidway through 2009, Portland, Oregon's DJ Prophetnoise remixed the \"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\" title theme in a dubstep-style single entitled \"Hot Rod Girls Save the World Theme (Prophetnoise Dubstep Remix)\". Sebasstian also made a special movie mix video to go with the song that is featured on the special features disc of the \"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\" (Kustom Edition) DVD, that was released in 2010. Sebasstian also premiered his second feature film \"Rat Rod Rockers!\" at the historic Everett Theater in Everett, Washington, on November 13, 2010, to over 400 patrons. Although Sebasstian did the film's soundtrack himself, he did not credit it as KsK (like he did with \"Hot Rod Girls Save the World\"), but rather as D.A. Sebasstian & The Inner Demons.\n\nIn 2011 Sebasstian began filming his first feature documentary, \"Rats & Gassers: Kustom Kulture Takes a Ride\", a movie about the underground fabricators and builders building rat rods and gassers. Michael Ditmore, longtime KsK drummer, started a new Rock and Roll band called The Demolition Kings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986228", "title": "Syston railway station", "text": "Syston railway station\n\nSyston railway station ( ) is a railway station serving the town of Syston in Leicestershire, England. The station is on the Midland Main Line from Leicester to Loughborough, down the line from London St Pancras.\n\nThe station was opened on 5 May 1840 as a minor intermediate station on the Midland Counties Railway line from Leicester to Nottingham and Derby. Shortly afterwards, the Midland Counties merged with the North Midland Railway and the Birmingham and Derby Junction Railway to form the Midland Railway.\n\nSyston became a junction station on 1 September 1846 with the opening of the Syston and Peterborough Railway to Melton Mowbray, which was extended in 1848 to Peterborough. The north to east curve was opened in 1854.\n\nA replacement station was opened in 1874 when the Midland Main Line was increased from two to four tracks.\n\nThe station closed on 4 March 1968. The station building, having been hidden by fencing for many years, was later dismantled and rebuilt at Midland Railway - Butterley with the help of David Wilson Homes, who erected a housing estate over the old station land in 2006.\n\nThe station reopened on 27 May 1994 as part of phase one of the Ivanhoe Line. It is served hourly in both directions by East Midlands Railway local services, running between Leicester and Lincoln via Loughborough, Nottingham and Newark. There is no Sunday service.\n\nExpress trains do not stop at Syston, as the single platform is on the bidirectional \"slow\" line, adjacent to the main line. Trains on the line to and from Peterborough do not call at the station either, although it is possible for them to do so.\n\nNetwork Rail adopted a Route Utilisation Strategy for freight in 2007 which will create a new cross country freight route from Peterborough (East Coast Main Line) to Nuneaton (West Coast Main Line). One of the next stages (around 2013) will create additional lines through Leicester during a re-signalling scheme, during this time Syston station will be rebuilt.\n\nThere is an hourly service between Leicester and Nottingham on Monday to Saturday. There is no Sunday Service. Services are formed using diesel multiple units of class 153, 156 or 158\n"}
{"id": "1986229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986229", "title": "Ian Porterfield", "text": "Ian Porterfield\n\nIan Porterfield (11 February 1946 – 11 September 2007) was a Scottish professional footballer, and an experienced football coach who worked at both club and international level for almost 30 years. At the time of his death, he was the coach of the Armenian national team.\n\nAs a player, Porterfield scored the only goal of the 1973 FA Cup Final as Sunderland memorably overcame the odds to beat Leeds United. As a manager, he has the dubious honour of being the first manager to be sacked in the FA Premier League era, when he was fired by Chelsea. He had earlier succeeded Alex Ferguson as manager of Aberdeen in 1986.\n\nAt the age of 15, the Dunfermline-born Porterfield had a trial for Leeds United but returned, homesick, to Scotland where he joined Raith Rovers. Moving south of the border in 1967 he signed for Sunderland where he experienced his finest moment as a player when he scored the winner at Wembley in the 1973 FA Cup final, giving them a shock victory over Leeds United, who were among the finest club sides in Europe at that time. He stayed at Sunderland for ten years, with a brief loan spell at Reading in 1976, before moving on to Sheffield Wednesday in July 1977, first as a player and then as player-coach.\nHe was inducted in to the Raith Rovers Hall of Fame in 2018.\n\nUpon retirement as a player he went on to manage Rotherham United winning the Third Division Championship before joining Sheffield United on 6 June 1981. He was given the task of getting the Blades, newly relegated to the Fourth Division back into the First Division in five seasons with a long-term contract exceeding that particular time-frame.\n\nGiven funds by new Chairman, Reg Brealey, Porterfield strengthened the team and achieved the first step of his mission at the first time of asking, winning the Fourth Division championship in his first season. Despite huge financial losses, Brearley continued to provide transfer funds for United's march toward the top division. However, United were never in the hunt for promotion, finishing 11th.\n\nThe following season, the playing staff was cut and promotion was achieved, but only due to Hull City only beating Burnley 2–0. A third goal would have seen the Humberside club promoted instead. However, ground improvement required by promotion to the Second Division meant there was no further funds for new players. Porterfield was unable to complete the final step into the First Division and finally paid the price being replaced by Billy McEwan on 27 March 1986.\n\nIn November 1986, he was appointed as manager of Aberdeen in the Scottish Premier Division following the departure of Alex Ferguson to Manchester United. In his 2 years at Pittodrie, Aberdeen reached the Scottish League Cup Final, and qualified for Europe twice. After resigning in 1988, he made a quick comeback to football as assistant manager to Bobby Campbell at Chelsea and oversaw their promotion back to the First Division and Second Division champions in 1988–89.\n\nIn October 1989, Porterfield was named manager of Third Division side Reading but was sacked 18 months later, having failed to mount a promotion challenge.\n\nPorterfield returned to Chelsea as manager for the 1991–92 season, following Bobby Campbell's decision to resign as manager and become personal assistant to owner Ken Bates. 1991–92 was an uneventful season, but 1992–93 began with Chelsea looking like surprise contenders for the first Premier League title. However, the good form had gone by Christmas and Porterfield was dismissed on 15 February 1993 after 12 games without a win, gaining the distinction of being the first manager to be sacked by a Premier League club.\n\nPorterfield was named manager of the Zambia in the summer of 1993 and later managed Saudi Arabia and Zimbabwe, all very much developing countries on the football map.\n\nHe was given the task of rebuilding the Zambian team following a tragic air crash in 1993 that claimed the lives of many of the nation's most gifted players. With the Zambia national team, he finished second at the 1994 African Nations Cup.\n\nIn January 1996, he returned to British football to become the assistant manager of struggling Premier League team Bolton Wanderers. The club had been rooted to the bottom of the table for the most part of the season and Bolton's new manager Colin Todd was looking to his former Sunderland teammate Porterfield to assist an unlikely escape from relegation, but survival was not achieved.\n\nA drink-driving charge in May 1996 prompted his hasty resignation from Bolton and he returned abroad to manage both the Oman and Trinidad & Tobago national teams. He led the latter to the Caribbean Cup in 2001 before leaving in June 2001.\n\nIn 2003, he was appointed as the manager of Korean club side Busan I'Park and he led them to a Korean FA Cup victory in 2004. The team went on to claim the K-League first stage title, as it simultaneously continued its unbeaten run through the group stage of the AFC Champions League.\n\nPorterfield left Busan I'Park on 4 April 2006. He signed a contract to coach the Armenian national team in August 2006.\n\nHe died, aged 61, on 11 September 2007, as a result of colon cancer, which had been diagnosed earlier that year. A minute's silence was held before Sunderland's next home game, by coincidence against another of his former clubs, Reading. A pub named The Porterfield is named in his honour in Sunderland.\n\nSunderland\n\n\nRotherham United\n\n\nSheffield United\n\n\nTrinidad & Tobago\n\n\nBusan I'Park\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986232", "title": "Nitta Oyako", "text": "Nitta Oyako\n\nNitta Oyako (新田親子) is a father-son shamisen duo from Japan. (Oyako means \"parent and child\" in Japanese.) Nitta Hiroshi and Nitta Masahiro specialize in Tsugaru shamisen, a fast-paced style of shamisen playing originating in Hokkaido, where the two men are from. Nitta Hiroshi, the father, trained and coached Nitta Masahiro when he was a teenager. Nitta Masahiro eventually won several national Japanese competitions. The duo has produced three albums and gone on several Japanese and international tours. They play traditional songs, original compositions, and some contemporary pop music.\n"}
{"id": "1986237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986237", "title": "The Night Watchman (1938 film)", "text": "The Night Watchman (1938 film)\n\nThe Night Watchman is a Merrie Melodies cartoon released to theaters on November 19, 1938. This short is the very first film directed by Chuck Jones after he was promoted from an animator (where he was under Fred Avery and Robert Clampett's units). This is the first cartoon to use the green-yellow color scheme for the Merrie Melodies rings and a red WB shield since \"Toy Town Hall\".\n\nA feline watchman gets sick, so his kitten son is enlisted to watch the kitchen. When the gangland-style rats find out that he's the one on duty, they try to take over.\n\n\"The Night Watchman\" is available with its original opening and ending titles restored on the Disc 4.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986238", "title": "Polarity item", "text": "Polarity item\n\nIn linguistics, a polarity item is a lexical item that can appear only in environments associated with a particular grammatical polarity – affirmative or negative. A polarity item that appears in affirmative (positive) contexts is called a positive polarity item (PPI), and one that appears in negative contexts is a negative polarity item (NPI) (redundantly: (negative) NPI item).\n\nThe environment in which a polarity item is permitted to appear is called a \"licensing context\". In the simplest case, an affirmative statement provides a licensing context for a PPI, while negation provides a licensing context for an NPI. However, there are many complications, and not all polarity items of a given type need necessarily have exactly the same set of licensing contexts.\n\nAs examples of polarity items, consider the English lexical items \"somewhat\" and \"at all\", as used in the following sentences:\n\nAs can be seen, \"somewhat\" is licensed by the affirmative environment of sentence (1), but it is forbidden (anti-licensed) by the negative environment of sentence (4). It can therefore be considered to be a positive polarity item (PPI). On the other hand, \"at all\" is licensed by the negative environment of sentence (2), but anti-licensed by the positive environment of sentence (3), and is therefore considered a negative polarity item (NPI). \n\nBecause standard English does not have negative concord, that is, double negatives are not used to intensify each other, the language makes frequent use of certain NPIs that correspond in meaning to negative items, and can be used in the environment of another negative. For example, \"anywhere\" is an NPI corresponding to the negative \"nowhere\", as used in the following sentences:\nNote that the alternative form with the double negative, *\"I was not going nowhere\", is ungrammatical in the standard language, although such forms are used in some colloquial English, and parallel the constructions used in certain other languages which have negative concord. (\"Anywhere\", like most of the other NPIs listed below, is also used in other senses where it is not an NPI, as in \"I would go anywhere with you\".) Similar pairs of negatives and corresponding NPI are listed below.\n\nSee also , and .\n\nThe actual set of contexts that license particular polarity items is not as easily defined as a simple distinction between affirmative and negative sentences. Baker noted that double negation may provide an acceptable context for positive polarity items:\n\nHowever, licensing contexts can take many forms besides simple negation/affirmation. To complicate matters, polarity items appear to be highly idiosyncratic, each with its own set of licensing contexts.\n\nEarly discussion of polarity items can be found in the work of Otto Jespersen and Edward Klima. Much of the research on polarity items has centered around the question of what creates a negative context. In the late 1970s, William Ladusaw (building on work by Gilles Fauconnier) discovered that most English NPIs are licensed in downward entailing environments. This is known as the Fauconnier–Ladusaw hypothesis. A downward entailing environment, however, is not a necessary condition for an NPI to be licensed—they may be licensed by some non-monotone (and thus not downward entailing) contexts, like \"exactly N\", as well. \nNor is a downward entailing environment a sufficient condition for all negative polarity items, as first pointed out by Zwarts (1981) for Dutch \"ook maar\".\n\nLicensing contexts across languages include the scope of n-words (negative particles, negative quantifiers), the antecedent of conditionals, questions, the restrictor of universal quantifiers, non-affirmative verbs (doubt), adversative predicates (be surprised), negative conjunctions (without), comparatives and superlatives, \"too\"-phrases, negative predicates (unlikely), some subjunctive complements, some disjunctions, imperatives, and others (finally, only). Given this wide range of mostly non-downward entailing environments, the Fauconnier-Ladusaw Hypothesis has gradually been replaced in favor of theories based on the notion of nonveridicality (proposed by Zwarts and Giannakidou).\n\nDifferent NPIs may be licensed by different expressions. Thus, while the NPI \"anything\" is licensed by the downward entailing expression \"at most two of the visitors\", the idiomatic NPI \"lift a finger\" (known as a \"minimizer\") is not licensed by the same expression.\n\nWhile NPIs have been discovered in many languages, their distribution is subject to substantial cross-linguistic variation; this aspect of NPIs is currently the subject of ongoing research in cross-linguistic semantics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986239", "title": "Apollodorus of Pergamon", "text": "Apollodorus of Pergamon\n\nApollodorus () of Pergamon was a rhetorician of ancient Greece who was the author of a school of rhetoric called after him \"Apollodoreios Hairesis\" (Ἀπολλοδωρειος αἵρεσις), which was subsequently opposed by the school established by Theodorus of Gadara (Θεοδώρειος αἵρεσις).\n\nIn his advanced age Apollodorus taught rhetoric at Apollonia, and here the young future Roman emperor Augustus was one of his pupils and became his friend. The geographer Strabo ascribes to him scientific works (τέχνας) on rhetoric, but Quintilian on the authority of Apollodorus himself declares only one of the works ascribed to him as genuine, and this he calls \"Ars\" (τέχνη) \"edita ad Matium\", in which the author treated on oratory only insofar as speaking in the courts of justice was concerned.\n\nApollodorus himself wrote little, and his whole theory could be gathered only from the works of his disciples, Gaius Valgius and Atticus. Lucian states that Apollodorus died at the age of eighty-two.\n"}
{"id": "1986244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986244", "title": "Sileby railway station", "text": "Sileby railway station\n\nSileby railway station is a railway station serving the village of Sileby in Leicestershire, England. The station is located on the Midland Main Line, north of London St Pancras.\n\nThe original station was built in 1840 for the Midland Counties Railway, which in 1844 joined the North Midland Railway and the Birmingham and Derby Junction Railway to form the Midland Railway\n\nThe line cut the village in two connecting the halves with a substantial stone bridge.\n\nThere were complaints from local residents about the facilities provided at the station. In 1897 the parish council were petitioning the company for improvements, but the Midland Railway company were resistant. By 1910 the council raised a petition to the company to resolve 5 issues\nThis time the council were more successful as early in 1912 they received a letter from the Railway Company confirming the improvements which would be made.\nThe platform structures were of timber and very little remains after closure in 1968 apart from the station house.\n\nIt reopened on 27 May 1994 as part of phase one of the Ivanhoe Line.\n\n\nFor journeys beginning at Sileby, the full range of tickets for travel for any destination in the country are purchased from the guard on the train at no extra cost. It is a penalty fare station however, so a permit to travel must be bought from the machine installed on the Leicester-bound platform before joining the train.\n\nOn Monday to Saturdays, there is an hourly service southbound to Leicester and northbound to Nottingham continuing onwards to Lincoln Central. There is no Sunday service.\n\nServices are operated by East Midlands Railway.\n"}
{"id": "1986248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986248", "title": "Nguyen Van Nghi", "text": "Nguyen Van Nghi\n\nNguyễn Văn Nghị (11 January 1909 in Hanoi – 17 December 1999 in Marseille) was a Vietnamese-French physician who was prominent among those credited with bringing Chinese medicine to the West\n\nBorn in Hanoi, French Indochina (present-day Vietnam), Nghi was educated in Vietnam, China and France. Completing his medical degree from the Montpellier University, he began a combined Eastern and Western medical practice in 1940.\n\nIn 1954 he devoted his practice entirely to acupuncture based on the classical texts: Huangdi Neijing (Suwen, Lingshu) and the Nan Jing. He was a doctor, author, teacher and scholar of the classic texts of Chinese Medicine (acupuncture-moxibustion). Much of his life's work revolved around translating and adding his own commentary to an unmolested Tang Dynasty copy of the Huangdi Neijing (Yellow Emperor's Internal Classic) from an ancient script into the French language. \n\nHe was insistent that Western medicine and Chinese Medicine were not separate scientific pursuits, but that there was \"One Medicine\". \n\nIt would appear likely that some of this account is legend rather than history. The commentary referred to as that of 'Ma Yuan Tai (Ma Shi)' would most likely be Ma Xuan Tai (c.1580). The commentary attributed to Zhang Yan Yin (Zhang Shi)' would most likely be Zhang An Yin (Zhang Zhi Cong) (1619–1674). These dates would be consistent with the transmission of Chinese medicine to Vietnam in the 1700s.\n\nVan Nghi began to collaborate with Albert Chamfrault and M. Ung Kan Sam. The beginning of this school can be attributed to George Soulié de Morant who is the founder of the French school of acupuncture. By 1966 Chamfrault had become President of the French Acupuncture Association, and had succeeded in gathering all the physician acupuncturists - followers of De la Fuÿe, Niboyet and others under the same umbrella (The National Confederation of Medical Acupuncturists, founded in 1969. Chamfrault died in 1969 and Dr. Van Nghi inherited his mantle.\n\nVan Nghi's brother was director of the Institute of Traditional Medicine in Hanoi, and through him, Van Nghi had access to the North Vietnamese teaching text \"Trung Y Hoc\" (Studies of Chinese Medicine)and teaching materials from Beijing and Nanjing which explain the strong TCM flavor of much of his (especially later) writing. His contributions were incorporated into the syllabus of the British College of Acupuncture by Keith Lamont, Royston Low and colleagues.\n\nHe died on 17 December 1999, aged 90, in Marseille, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986249", "title": "Barrow-upon-Soar railway station", "text": "Barrow-upon-Soar railway station\n\nBarrow-upon-Soar railway station serves the large village of Barrow-upon-Soar in Leicestershire, England. The station is located on the Midland Main Line between Leicester and Loughborough, north of London St Pancras.\n\nThe first station at Barrow was opened in 1840 by the Midland Counties Railway, which shortly joined the North Midland Railway and the Birmingham and Derby Junction Railway to form the Midland Railway.\n\nIt was originally known simply as Barrow, but became Barrow-upon-Soar in 1871. When Quorn and Woodhouse was opened by the rival Great Central Railway on the opposite (western) side of Quorn, it became Barrow-upon-Soar and Quorn in 1899. Neither station, in fact, was ideally located for Quorn being about equidistant from its centre.\n\nBarrow was the only station on the line to retain much of its original MCR architecture. However it was completely demolished following its closure in 1968.\n\nA new station was opened a little to the southeast of the original site on 27 May 1994 as part of phase one of the Ivanhoe Line.\n\nIn August 2016, a road bridge by the station partially collapsed during maintenance work, severely disrupting train services.\n\n\nServices are formed using diesel multiple units of Classes 153, 156 or 158.\n\nFor journeys beginning at Barrow upon Soar, the full range of tickets for travel for any destination in the country are purchased from the guard on the train at no extra cost. It is a penalty fare station however, so a permit to travel must be bought from the machine installed at the entrance to the station before joining the train.\n"}
{"id": "1986251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986251", "title": "Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet", "text": "Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet\n\nOslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet is one of the four main campuses of Oslo University Hospital in Oslo, Norway. It was an independent hospital, \"Rigshospitalet\", later spelled \"Rikshospitalet\" (\"The National Hospital\"), from 1826 to 2009, when it merged with other university hospitals in Oslo.\n\nIt is a highly specialized university hospital with special assignments in research and the development of new methods of treatment. Rikshospitalet is a part of Southern and Eastern Norway Regional Health Authority, and is affiliated with the University of Oslo.\n\nAbout 60% of the patients admitted to Rikshospitalet are referred from other hospitals in Norway for more specialized investigations and treatment. In Norway, Rikshospitalet plays an important part with expert knowledge of the treatment of rare and complicated disorders. Rikshospitalet covers the whole country in various fields, including organ and bone marrow transplants, advanced neurosurgery, and treatment of children with congenital malformations. Rikshospitalet is also responsible for health care to the Norwegian Royal Family.\n\nRikshospitalet had 585 beds as of 2005. It is renowned for its architecture. Rikshospitalet merged in 2005 with the Norwegian Radium Hospital to create Rikshospitalet–Radiumhospitalet. The English form of the name was \"The University Hospital Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet\". Later (in October 2007) the notation was changed to \"Rikshospitalet HF\" (Rikshospitalet University Hospital HF) and that name now covers what used to be 12 different governmental hospitals (Rikshospitalet, Radiumhospitalet, Geilomo, Strålesatelitt ved Sykehuset Innlandet, Hjertesenteret i Oslo, Epilepsisenteret SSE, Spesialsykehuset for rehabilitering i Stavern, Voksentoppen, Spesialsykehuset for rehabilitering i Kristiansand, Nordagutu opptreningssenter og kvinneklinikken Føderiket), each with their own specialities and now under the same \"branding\".\n\nThe hospital is the last stop on the Ullevål Hageby Line of the Oslo Tramway. Rikshospitalet Station is served by lines 17 and 18. Oslo Heliport, Rikshospitalet consists of a diameter helipad from the emergency department.\n\nIt was previously located between Ullevålsveien and Pilestredet—roads in Oslo.\n\n1 April 1944, a radio station of The Resistance, located in the loft of Women's Clinic, was raided on 1 April 1944. (Knut Haugland shot four, and escaped.)\n\nIt moved to its current location in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "1986258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986258", "title": "Val Anderson", "text": "Val Anderson\n\nVal Anderson was a politician in British Columbia, Canada. He was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in the 1991 general election, as a candidate of the BC Liberal Party, and was re-elected in the 1996 and 2001 elections.\n\nDuring his youth, Anderson had been a member of the Saskatchewan Older Boys' Parliament (now the Saskatchewan Youth Parliament).\n\nHe earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Saskatchewan and a Bachelor of Divinity from St. Andrew's College. He has a Master of Theology degree from Princeton Theological Seminary and has completed two years on a doctoral program at Boston School of Theology.\n\nPrior to serving as a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA), Anderson was a minister in the United Church of Canada and a former professor at the Vancouver School of Theology. He was coordinator and editor of Canadian Multi Faith Action.\n\nAnderson had been active in community work. He was the founding chair of the Vancouver Food Bank and the Pacific Youth and Family Addiction Service Society. He received the Good Neighbour Award in 1990 along with honors from the Social Justice Foundation of BC.\n\nWhen first elected, Anderson served as the Deputy Critic for Social Services. He served on the Government Caucus Committee on Communities & Safety. He was also a member of the Legislative Select Standing Committees on Aboriginal Affairs and Health, as well as serving on the Multicultural Committee. He had previously served as a member of the Legislative Select Standing Committee on Parliamentary Reform, Ethical Conduct.\n\nAnderson died on 30 March 2006 after a long battle with bowel cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986263", "title": "Symbolic dynamics", "text": "Symbolic dynamics\n\nIn mathematics, symbolic dynamics is the practice of modeling a topological or smooth dynamical system by a discrete space consisting of infinite sequences of abstract symbols, each of which corresponds to a state of the system, with the dynamics (evolution) given by the shift operator. Formally, a Markov partition is used to provide a finite cover for the smooth system; each set of the cover is associated with a single symbol, and the sequences of symbols result as a trajectory of the system moves from one covering set to another.\n\nThe idea goes back to Jacques Hadamard's 1898 paper on the geodesics on surfaces of negative curvature. It was applied by Marston Morse in 1921 to the construction of a nonperiodic recurrent geodesic. Related work was done by Emil Artin in 1924 (for the system now called Artin billiard), Pekka Myrberg, Paul Koebe, Jakob Nielsen, G. A. Hedlund.\n\nThe first formal treatment was developed by Morse and Hedlund in their 1938 paper. George Birkhoff, Norman Levinson and the pair Mary Cartwright and J. E. Littlewood have applied similar methods to qualitative analysis of nonautonomous second order differential equations.\n\nClaude Shannon used symbolic sequences and shifts of finite type in his 1948 paper \"A mathematical theory of communication\" that gave birth to information theory.\n\nDuring the late 1960s the method of symbolic dynamics was developed to hyperbolic toral automorphisms by Roy Adler and Benjamin Weiss, and to Anosov diffeomorphisms by Yakov Sinai who used the symbolic model to construct Gibbs measures. In the early 1970s the theory was extended to Anosov flows by Marina Ratner, and to Axiom A diffeomorphisms and flows by Rufus Bowen.\n\nA spectacular application of the methods of symbolic dynamics is Sharkovskii's theorem about periodic orbits of a continuous map of an interval into itself (1964).\n\nConcepts such as heteroclinic orbits and homoclinic orbits have a particularly simple representation in symbolic dynamics.\n\nItinerary of point with respect to the partition is a sequence of symbols. It describes dynamic of the point. \n\nSymbolic dynamics originated as a method to study general dynamical systems; now its techniques and ideas have found significant applications in data storage and transmission, linear algebra, the motions of the planets and many other areas. The distinct feature in symbolic dynamics is that time is measured in \"discrete\" intervals. So at each time interval the system is in a particular \"state\". Each state is associated with a symbol and the evolution of the system is described by an infinite sequence of symbols—represented effectively as strings. If the system states are not inherently discrete, then the state vector must be discretized, so as to get a coarse-grained description of the system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986265", "title": "Subshift of finite type", "text": "Subshift of finite type\n\nIn mathematics, subshifts of finite type are used to model dynamical systems, and in particular are the objects of study in symbolic dynamics and ergodic theory. They also describe the set of all possible sequences executed by a finite state machine. The most widely studied shift spaces are the subshifts of finite type.\n\nLet formula_1 be a finite set of formula_2 symbols (alphabet). Let \"X\" denote the set formula_3 of all bi-infinite sequences of elements of \"V\" together with the shift operator \"T\". We endow \"V\" with the discrete topology and \"X\" with the product topology. A symbolic flow or subshift is a closed \"T\"-invariant subset \"Y\" of \"X\" and the associated language \"L\" is the set of finite subsequences of \"Y\".\n\nNow let formula_4 be an formula_5 adjacency matrix with entries in {0,1}. Using these elements we construct a directed graph \"G\"=(\"V\",\"E\") with \"V\" the set of vertices and \"E\" the set of edges containing the directed edge formula_6 in \"E\" if and only if formula_7. Let \"Y\" be the set of all infinite admissible sequences of edges, where by \"admissible\" it is meant that the sequence is a walk of the graph, and the sequence can be either one-sided or two-sided infinite. Let \"T\" be the left shift operator on such sequences; it plays the role of the time-evolution operator of the dynamical system. A subshift of finite type is then defined as a pair (\"Y\", \"T\") obtained in this way. If the sequence extends to infinity in only one direction, it is called a one-sided subshift of finite type, and if it is bilateral, it is called a two-sided subshift of finite type.\n\nFormally, one may define the sequences of edges as\n\nThis is the space of all sequences of symbols such that the symbol \"p\" can be followed by the symbol \"q\" only if the (p,q) entry of the matrix \"A\" is 1. The space of all bi-infinite sequences is defined analogously:\n\nThe shift operator \"T\" maps a sequence in the one- or two-sided shift to another by shifting all symbols to the left, i.e.\n\nClearly this map is only invertible in the case of the two-sided shift.\n\nA subshift of finite type is called transitive if \"G\" is strongly connected: there is a sequence of edges from any one vertex to any other vertex. It is precisely transitive subshifts of finite type which correspond to dynamical systems with orbits that are dense.\n\nAn important special case is the full \"n\"-shift: it has a graph with an edge that connects every vertex to every other vertex; that is, all of the entries of the adjacency matrix are 1. The full \"n\"-shift corresponds to the Bernoulli scheme without the measure.\n\nBy convention, the term shift is understood to refer to the full \"n\"-shift. A subshift is then any subspace of the full shift that is shift-invariant (that is, a subspace that is invariant under the action of the shift operator), non-empty, and closed for the product topology defined below. Some subshifts can be characterized by a transition matrix, as above; such subshifts are then called subshifts of finite type. Often, subshifts of finite type are called simply shifts of finite type. Subshifts of finite type are also sometimes called topological Markov shifts.\n\nA sofic system is a subshift of finite type where different edges of the transition graph may correspond to the same symbol. It may be regarded as the set of labellings of paths through an automaton: a subshift of finite type then corresponds to an automaton which is deterministic.\n\nA renewal system is defined to be the set of all infinite concatenations of some fixed finite collection of finite words.\n\nSubshifts of finite type are identical to free (non-interacting) one-dimensional Potts models (\"n\"-letter generalizations of Ising models), with certain nearest-neighbor configurations excluded. Interacting Ising models are defined as subshifts together with a continuous function of the configuration space (continuous with respect to the product topology, defined below); the partition function and Hamiltonian are explicitly expressible in terms of this function.\n\nSubshifts may be quantized in a certain way, leading to the idea of the quantum finite automata.\n\nA subshift has a natural topology, derived from the product topology on formula_3, where\n\nand \"V\" is given the discrete topology. \nA basis for the topology of formula_3, which induces the topology of the subshift, is the family of cylinder sets\n\nThe cylinder sets are clopen sets in formula_3. Every open set in formula_3 is a countable union of cylinder sets. Every open set in the subshift is the intersection of an open set of formula_3 with the subshift. With respect to this topology, the shift \"T\" is a homeomorphism; that is, with respect to this topology, it is continuous with continuous inverse.\n\nA variety of different metrics can be defined on a shift space. One can define a metric on a shift space by considering two points to be \"close\" if they have many initial symbols in common; this is the \"p\"-adic metric. In fact, both the one- and two-sided shift spaces are compact metric spaces.\n\nA subshift of finite type may be endowed with any one of several different measures, thus leading to a measure-preserving dynamical system. A common object of study is the Markov measure, which is an extension of a Markov chain to the topology of the shift.\n\nA Markov chain is a pair (\"P\",π) consisting of the transition matrix, an formula_18 matrix formula_19 for which all formula_20 and\n\nfor all \"i\". The stationary probability vector formula_22 has all formula_23 and has\n\nA Markov chain, as defined above, is said to be compatible with the shift of finite type if formula_25 whenever formula_26. The Markov measure of a cylinder set may then be defined by\n\nThe Kolmogorov–Sinai entropy with relation to the Markov measure is\n\nThe Artin–Mazur zeta function is defined as the formal power series\n\nwhere Fix(\"T\") is the set of fixed points of the \"n\"-fold shift. It has a product formula\n\nwhere γ runs over the closed orbits. For subshifts of finite type, the zeta function is a rational function of \"z\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986309", "title": "Glenn Fabry", "text": "Glenn Fabry\n\nGlenn Fabry is a British comics artist known for his detailed, realistic work in both ink and painted colour.\n\nGlenn Fabry's career began in 1985, drawing \"Slaine\" for \"2000 AD\", with writer Pat Mills. He also worked with Mills on the newspaper strip \"Scatha\" in 1987. Painted work followed in \"Crisis\", \"Revolver\" and \"Deadline\". In 1991 he took over painting the covers of \"Hellblazer\", then written by Garth Ennis.\n\nHe has continued his association with Ennis, painting the covers for his Vertigo series \"Preacher\", and drawing Ennis-written stories in \"The Authority\" and \"Thor\". In 2003 he drew a story in Neil Gaiman's Sandman anthology \"\", and in 2005 worked on the comics adaptation of Gaiman's TV series/novel \"Neverwhere\" with writer Mike Carey.\n\nRecent projects include providing the art for the Vertigo title \"Greatest Hits\", written by David Tischman.\n\nIn 2018, Fabry announced that he had been diagnosed with lung cancer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986315", "title": "Downward entailing", "text": "Downward entailing\n\nIn linguistic semantics, a downward entailing (DE) propositional operator is one that constrains the meaning of an expression to a lower number or degree than would be possible without the expression. For example, \"not\", \"nobody\", \"few people\", \"at most two boys\". Conversely, an upward entailing operator constrains the meaning of an expression to a higher number or degree, for example \"more than one\". A context that is neither downward nor upward entailing is \"non-monotone\", such as \"exactly five\".\n\nA downward entailing operator reverses the relation of \"semantic strength\" among expressions. An expression like \"run fast\" is semantically \"stronger\" than the expression \"run\" since \"John ran fast\" entails \"John ran\", but not conversely. But a downward entailing context reverses this strength; for example, the proposition \"At most two boys ran\" entails that \"At most two boys ran fast\" but not the other way around.\n\nAn upward entailing operator (and non-monotone operators) preserves the relation of semantic strength among a set of expressions; for example \"more than three ran fast\" entails \"more than three ran\" but not the other way around.\n\nLadusaw (1980) proposed that downward entailment is the property that licenses polarity items. Indeed, \"Nobody saw \"anything\"\" is downward entailing and admits the negative polarity item \"anything\", while *\"I saw \"anything\"\" is ungrammatical (the upward entailing context does not license such a polarity item). This approach explains many but not all typical cases of polarity item sensitivity. Subsequent attempts to describe the behavior of polarity items rely on a broader notion of nonveridicality.\n\nDownward entailment does not explain the licensing of \"any\" in certain contexts such as with \"only\":\n\nThis is not a downward entailing context because the above proposition does not entail “Only John ate kale for breakfast” (John may have eaten spinach, for example).\n\nVon Fintel (1999) claims that although \"only\" does not exhibit the classical DE pattern, it can be shown to be DE in a special way. He defines a notion of Strawson-DE for expressions that come with presuppositions. The reasoning scheme is as follows:\n\n\nHere, (2) is the intended presupposition. For example:\n\n\nHence \"only\" is a Strawson-DE and therefore licenses \"any\".\n\nGiannakidou (2002) argues that Strawson-DE allows not just the presupposition of the evaluated sentence but just any arbitrary proposition to count as relevant. This results in over-generalization that validates the use if \"any' in contexts where it is, in fact, ungrammatical, such as clefts, preposed exhaustive focus, and \"each\"/\"both\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986325", "title": "Carbon print", "text": "Carbon print\n\nA carbon print is a photographic print with an image consisting of pigmented gelatin, rather than of silver or other metallic particles suspended in a uniform layer of gelatin, as in typical black-and-white prints, or of chromogenic dyes, as in typical photographic color prints.\nIn the original version of the printing process, carbon tissue (a temporary support sheet coated with a layer of gelatin mixed with a pigment—originally carbon black, from which the name derives) is bathed in a potassium dichromate sensitizing solution, dried, then exposed to strong ultraviolet light through a photographic negative, hardening the gelatin in proportion to the amount of light reaching it. The tissue is then developed by treatment with warm water, which dissolves the unhardened gelatin. The resulting pigment image is physically transferred to a final support surface, either directly or indirectly. In an important early 20th century variation of the process, known as \"carbro\" (carbon-bromide) printing, contact with a conventional silver bromide paper print, rather than exposure to light, was used to selectively harden the gelatin. A wide variety of colored pigments can be used instead of carbon black.\n\nThe process can produce images of very high quality which are exceptionally resistant to fading and other deterioration. It was developed in the mid-19th century in response to concerns about the fading of early types of silver-based black-and-white prints, which was already becoming apparent within a relatively few years of their introduction.\n\nThe most recent development in the process was made by the American photographer Charles Berger in 1993 with the introduction of a non-toxic sensitizer that presented none of the health and safety hazards of the toxic (now EU-restricted) dichromate sensitizer.\n\n\"Carbon tissue\", a layer of unsensitized pigmented gelatin on a thin paper support sheet, was introduced by British physicist and chemist Joseph Swan in 1864. Marketing began in 1866. Initially, his ready-made tissues were sold in only three colors: black, sepia and purple-brown. Eventually, a wide array of hues became available. Carbon tissue was a stock item in Europe and the US well into the 20th century, but by the 1950s carbon printing was very rare and supplies for it became an exotic specialty item. Some companies produced small quantities of carbon tissue and transfer papers for monochrome and three-color work until around 1990.\n\nThe carbon process, initially a black-and-white process using lampblack (carbon black), was invented by Alphonse Poitevin in 1855. The process was later adapted to color, through the use of pigments, by Louis Ducos du Hauron in 1868. Carbon printing remained commercially popular through the first half of the 20th century. It was replaced over time by the dye-transfer process, chromogenic, dye-bleach (or dye destruction, i.e. Cibachrome) and, now, digital printing processes. The efficiencies gained through these more modern automated processes relegated carbon printing to the commercial backwaters in the latter half of the 20th century. It is now only found in the darkrooms of the rare enthusiast and a few exotic labs.\n\nCarbon printing is based on the fact that gelatin, when sensitized to light by a dichromate, is hardened and made insoluble in water when exposed to ultraviolet light. Because of the comparative insensitivity of the material, sunlight or another strong source of UV light is normally used to minimize the required exposure time. To make a full-color print, three negatives photographed through red, green and blue filters are printed on dichromate-sensitized sheets of pigmented gelatin (traditionally called \"carbon tissue\" regardless of the pigment incorporated) containing, respectively, cyan, magenta and yellow pigments. They are developed in warm water, which dissolves the unhardened gelatin, leaving a colored relief image that is thickest where it received the strongest exposure. The three images are then transferred, one at a time, onto a final support such as a heavy sheet of smooth gelatin-sized paper. Usually, the yellow image is transferred first, then the magenta image is applied on top of it, great care being taken to superimpose it in exact register, and then the cyan image is similarly applied. A fourth black pigment \"key\" layer is sometimes added, as in mechanical printing processes, to improve edge definition and mask any spurious color cast in the dark areas of the image, but it is not a traditional component.\n\nThe resulting finished print, whether composed of several layers and in full color or having only a single monochrome layer, exhibits a very slight bas-relief effect and a variation of texture on its surface, both distinctive characteristics of a carbon print. The process is time-consuming and labor-intensive. Each color carbon print requires three, or four, round trips in the darkroom to create the finished print. An individual, using existing pigmented sheets and separations, can prepare, print and process enough material, 60 sheets including the support, to produce about twelve 20\" x 24\" four-color prints in a 40-hour work week. However, this investment of time and effort can create prints of outstanding visual quality and proven archival permanence.\n\nThe carbon process can be used to produce:\nAny combination of layers, in any color, is possible to achieve whatever ends the printer desires.\nThere are two primary techniques used in carbon printing: single transfer and double transfer. This has to do with the negatives (separations) being right- or wrong-reading and the image \"flopping\" during the transfer process.\n\nBecause the carbon printing process uses pigments instead of dyes, it is capable of producing a far more archivally stable (permanent) print than any of the other color processes. Good examples of the color stability of pigments can be found in the paintings of the great masters, the true colors of which, in many cases, have survived all these centuries. A more contemporary example of the color stability of pigments is found in the paints used on automobiles today, which must survive intense daily exposure to very harsh lighting, under extreme conditions. The useful life of many (but not all) pigment formulations has been projected out to be several centuries and beyond (perhaps millennia, if cave paintings of Lascaux, the wall paintings in the tombs of the Valley of the Kings and the frescoes of Pompeii are relevant examples), often being limited only to the useful life of the particular support used. Additionally, the use of pigment also produces a wider color gamut than any of the other color processes, allowing for a greater range and subtlety of color reproduction.\n\nThough carbon printing always has been, and remains, a labor-intensive, time-consuming and technologically demanding process, there are still those that prefer the high aesthetic of its remarkable beauty and longevity over all other processes.\n\nChronological History of Carbon (Pigment) Printing\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986336", "title": "Brian Fitzpatrick (Canadian politician)", "text": "Brian Fitzpatrick (Canadian politician)\n\nBrian Fitzpatrick (born November 18, 1945 in Assiniboia, Saskatchewan) is a Canadian politician.\n\nAfter serving as a board of education trustee in Nipawin, Saskatchewan, Fitzpatrick ran in the 2000 Canadian federal election for the Canadian Alliance. He was elected to the House of Commons of Canada, and, after the Canadian Alliance merged into the Conservative Party of Canada, he ran again and won. In both elections, he ran in the riding of Prince Albert which he represents. Fitzpatrick also ran in the 1993 Canadian federal election for the Reform Party of Canada in the riding of Mackenzie but he lost. He is a lawyer and the former opposition critic of Litigation, Rural Development, Regional Development and New and Emerging Markets. He was one of the founding members of the Saskatchewan Party and was its first director of policy development and chaired the founding convention for the party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986343", "title": "General Stud Book", "text": "General Stud Book\n\nThe General Stud Book is a breed registry for horses in Great Britain and Ireland. More specifically it is used to document the breeding of Thoroughbreds and related foundation bloodstock such as the Arabian horse. Today it is published every four years by Weatherbys. Volume 47 was published in 2013. \n\nIn 1791, James Weatherby published \"Introduction to a General Stud Book\", which was an attempt to collect pedigrees for the horses racing then and that had raced in the past. It was filled with errors and was not at all complete, but it was popular and led in 1793 to the first volume of the \"General Stud Book\" which had many more pedigrees and was more accurate. Volume one was revised many times, the most important being in 1803, 1808, 1827, 1859 and 1891.\n\nThe General Stud Book has been owned by Weatherbys ever since; the two horse racing authorities that cover the United Kingdom, the British Horseracing Authority in Great Britain (historically the Jockey Club) and Horse Racing Ireland for all of the island of Ireland, including Northern Ireland, do not maintain the registry. This differs from the American Stud Book which is owned by the United States Jockey Club.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986346", "title": "Butch Miller", "text": "Butch Miller\n\nButch Miller may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1986350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986350", "title": "SoX", "text": "SoX\n\nSound eXchange (SoX) is a cross-platform audio editing software. It has a command-line interface, and is written in standard C. It is free software, licensed under the GNU General Public License version 2, with libsox licensed under GNU Lesser General Public License version 2, and distributed by Chris Bagwell through SourceForge.net.\n\nSoX was created in July 1991 by Lance Norskog and posted to the Usenet group alt.sources as \"Aural eXchange: Sound sample translator\". With the second release (in November the same year) it was renamed \"Sound Exchange\". Norskog continued to maintain and release SoX via Usenet, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), and then the web until early 1995, at which time SoX was at version \"11 (gamma)\". In May 1996, Chris Bagwell started to maintain and release updated versions of SoX, starting with version \"sox-11gamma-cb\". In September 2000, Bagwell registered the project at SourceForge with project name \"sox\". The registration was announced on 4 September 2000 and SoX 12.17 was released on 7 September 2000.\n\nThroughout its history SoX has had many contributing authors; Guido van Rossum, best known as creator of the programming language Python, was a significant contributor in SoX's early days.\n\nSome of SoX's features are:\n\nSoX being used to process some audio:\n\nPlaying some audio files:\n\nSoX has had several vulnerabilities listed in the National Vulnerability Database since its last public release in 2015. These vulnerabilities include stack and heap overflows and denial-of-service attacks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986353", "title": "On the Strength of All Convinced", "text": "On the Strength of All Convinced\n\nOn the Strength of All Convinced is Daphne Loves Derby's first physically released studio album. The album, released on July 26, 2005, is almost entirely original material except for Middle Middle, which was previously released on Purevolume.\n\nNote: \"What We Have Been Waiting For\" contains a 3:15 hidden track, entitled \"Dirt Doesn't Travel.\"\n"}
{"id": "1986357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986357", "title": "Cassandreia", "text": "Cassandreia\n\nCassandreia or Kassandreia (, \"Kassándreia\") was once one of the most important cities in Ancient Macedonia, founded by and named after Cassander in 316 BC. It was located on the site of the earlier Ancient Greek city of Potidaea, at the isthmus of the Pallene peninsula. The fact that Cassander named it after himself suggests that he may have intended it to be his capital, and if the canal which cuts the peninsula at this point was dug or at least planned in his time, he may have intended to develop his naval forces using it as a base with two harbours on the east and west sides. Cassandreia soon became a great and powerful city, surpassing the other Macedonian towns in wealth. Philip V of Macedon made Cassandreia his main naval base. At the end of the Roman Republic, around 43 BC by order of Brutus a Roman colony was settled by the proconsul Q. Hortensius Hortalus, which 30 BC was resettled by August with the installation of new settlers and took the official name \"Colonia Iulia Augusta Cassandrensis\". The territory of the colony had included within its boundaries the peninsula of Pallini and the district stretched north of the canal to the foot of the mountain Cholomontas. The colony enjoyed \"ius Italicum\", and is mentioned in Pliny the Elder's encyclopaedia and in inscriptions. It was destroyed by the Huns and Slavs around 540 AD.\n\nThe modern settlement of Kassandreia (named Valta before 1955) lies to the south of the ancient site. The ancient site of Cassandreia, near the town Nea Poteidaia, has not been excavated.\n\nThe Christian diocese based on the ancient town is mentioned in the early 10th-century \"Notitiae Episcopatuum\" of Byzantine Emperor Leo VI the Wise. Its bishop Hermogenes participated in both the Robber Council of Ephesus in 549 and the Council of Chalcedon in 551. No longer a residential bishopric, Cassandria is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986380", "title": "Junior Bonner", "text": "Junior Bonner\n\nJunior Bonner is a 1972 film directed by Sam Peckinpah and starring Steve McQueen, Joe Don Baker, Robert Preston and Ida Lupino. The film focuses on a veteran rodeo rider as he returns to his hometown of Prescott, Arizona, to participate in an annual rodeo competition and reunite with his brother and estranged parents. Many critics consider it to be the warmest and most gentle of Peckinpah's films.\n\nJunior \"JR\" Bonner is a rodeo rider who is slightly \"over the hill\". Junior is first seen taping up his injuries after an unsuccessful ride on an ornery bull named Sunshine.\n\nHe returns home to Prescott, Arizona, for the Independence Day parade and rodeo. When he arrives, the Bonner family home is being bulldozed by his younger brother Curly, an entrepreneur and real-estate developer, in order to build a trailer park.\nJunior's womanizing, good-for-nothing father, Ace, and down-to-earth, long-suffering mother, Elvira, are estranged. (Note: both Preston and Lupino were born in 1918, making them just twelve years older than McQueen.) Ace dreams of emigrating to Australia to rear sheep and mine gold, but he fails to obtain financing from Junior, who is broke, and refuses to ask Curly for it.\n\nAfter flooring his arrogant brother with a punch, Junior bribes rodeo owner Buck Roan to let him ride Sunshine again, promising him half the prize money. Buck thinks he must be crazy but Junior actually manages to pull it off this time, going the full eight seconds on the bull.\n\nJunior walks into a travel agent's office and buys his father a one-way, first-class ticket to Australia. The film's final shot shows JR leaving his hometown, his successful ride on Sunshine continuing to put off the inevitable end of his career.\n\n\nThe story explores one of Sam Peckinpah's favorite themes - the end of a traditional form of honor and the arrival of modern capitalism on the western frontier. In a memorable scene, Ace and Junior escape from the rodeo parade on Junior's horse, ending up at a deserted railway station where they drink and despair at the state of the world and their indigency. The film has enjoyed a resurgence of popularity in the mid-2000s because of retrospectives of Sam Peckinpah's work and the screenplay's predictions regarding capitalist development.\n\nIn May 1971, weeks after completing \"Straw Dogs\" in England, Sam Peckinpah returned to the United States to begin immediate work on \"Junior Bonner\". The lyrical screenplay by Jeb Rosebrook, depicting the changing times of society and binding family ties, appealed to Peckinpah's tastes. He accepted the project, concerned with being typed as a director of violent action (at the time, \"The Wild Bunch\" was his most renowned film and \"Straw Dogs\" was in preparation to be released to theaters). \"Junior Bonner\" would be his final attempt to make a low-key, dramatic work in the vein of \"Noon Wine\" (1966) and \"The Ballad of Cable Hogue\" (1970).\n\nFilmed on location in Prescott, Arizona, Peckinpah utilized many colorful locales and residents as extras in the film.\n\nDue to a glut of rodeo-themed films released at that time, including \"The Honkers\" (1972), \"J.W. Coop\" (1972) and \"When the Legends Die\" (1972), \"Junior Bonner\" fell through the cracks and performed poorly at the box office. It earned rentals of $1.9 million in North America and $900,000 in other countries, recording an overall loss of $2,820,000.\n\nThough the film was unwisely promoted as a typical Steve McQueen action vehicle, critical reception was still fairly good, but not enthusiastic. Peckinpah would remark, \"I made a film where nobody got shot and nobody went to see it.\" Stinging from the financial failure of \"Junior Bonner\" but eager to work with Peckinpah again, McQueen presented him Walter Hill's screenplay to \"The Getaway\", which they would film months after completing \"Junior Bonner\". The second collaboration proved to be a financially successful one, as the action film would become one of the biggest box office successes of their careers.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 2 stars out of 4 and called it \"a flat-out disappointment, despite Peckinpah’s track record and his proven ability to elegize the West...the movie simply never comes together and works as a whole. The material is terribly thin.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote \"'Junior Bonner,' which looks like a rodeo film and sounds like a rodeo film, is a superior family comedy in disguise.\" Arthur D. Murphy of \"Variety\" wrote \"The latterday film genre of misunderstood-rodeo-drifter gets one of its best expositions in 'Junior Bonner,' Sam Peckinpah's latest film, which makes another of his occasional shifts away from the bloodbath. Steve McQueen stars handily in the title role, with Robert Preston and Ida Lupino returning to pix in excellent well-turned characterizations as his estranged parents.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film 3 stars out of 4 and noted \"A decent picture from a fine director.\" Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote \"This lively, affectionate contemporary western, which stars Steve McQueen in one of his finest performances, is one of the most enjoyable pictures Peckinpah has ever made and surely is his most appealing. What's more, it marks the return to the screen of Robert Preston and Ida Lupino, who also are at their best.\" Gary Arnold of \"The Washington Post\" stated that McQueen was given \"precious little written character to play or emotion to express\" and that the film was \"easy to take, yet so insubstantial that there's no compelling reason to see or remember it. The film sort of drifts across the screen and fades from your mind an instant later.\"\n\n\"Junior Bonner\" was released to DVD on May 25, 2004 by MGM Home Entertainment as a Region 1 widescreen DVD and on May 17, 2005 as a part of the box set \"The Steve McQueen Collection\", with \"Junior Bonner\" as the fourth movie of a 4-disc set. The film was released on Blu-ray by Kino Lorber on November 6, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986381", "title": "WCW Cruiserweight Tag Team Championship", "text": "WCW Cruiserweight Tag Team Championship\n\nThe WCW Cruiserweight Tag Team Championship was a short-lived title created in 2001 just prior to World Championship Wrestling being sold to the World Wrestling Federation.\n\nThe WCW Cruiserweight Championship and the matches contested for that title had always been a unique feature on WCW programming. With the number of cruiserweights signed, it was decided to expand the visibility of the division, and create a tag team title for the cruiserweights in February 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986394", "title": "Saint Hilarion Castle", "text": "Saint Hilarion Castle\n\nThe Saint Hilarion Castle lies on the Kyrenia mountain range, in Cyprus. This location provided the castle with command of the pass road from Kyrenia to Nicosia. It is the best preserved ruin of the three former strongholds in the Kyrenia mountains, the others being Kantara and Buffavento.\n\nThe castle is not named after St. Hilarion, active in Palestine and Cyprus in the 4th century. It was named after an obscure saint, who is traditionally held to have fled to Cyprus after the Arab conquest of the Holy Land and retired to the hilltop on which the castle was built for hermitage. An English traveller reported the preservation of his relics in the 14th century. It has been proposed that a monastery built in his name preceded the castle, which was built around it. However, this view is not supported by any substantial evidence.\n\nStarting in the 11th century, the Byzantines began fortification. Saint Hilarion formed the defense of the island with the castles of Buffavento and Kantara against Arab pirates raiding the coast. Some sections were further upgraded under the Lusignan rule, who kings may have used it as a summer residence. During the rule of Lusignans, the castle was the focus of a four-year struggle between Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II and Regent John d' Ibelin for control of Cyprus.\n\nMuch of the castle was dismantled by the Venetians in the 15th century to reduce the up-keeping cost of garrisons.\n\nThe castle has three divisions or wards. The lower and middle wards served economic purposes, while the upper ward housed the royal family. The lower ward had the stables and the living quarters for the men-at-arms. The Prince John tower sits on a cliff high above the lower castle.\n\nThe upper ward was surrounded by a 1.4 metre-thick Byzantine wall, made of rough masonry. The entrance is through a pointed arch built by the Lusignans. This was protected by a semicircular tower to the east. Within the ward is a courtyard, with twin peaks being situated to either side of it. To the north-east is an extremely ruined kitchen. To the west are the royal apartments, dated by various sources to the 13th or 14th centuries. Although mostly ruined today, this was a structure in the northeast-southwest axis, with a length of 25 m and width of 6 m. It has a basement containing a cistern and two floors. The ground floor has a height of 7 m and a pointed barrel vault. The upper floor is known for its carved windows, one of which is dubbed the Queen's Window. These are placed on the western wall, which has a scenic view of the northern coast of Cyprus, especially the plains of Lapithos.\n\nFeatured in the 1999 novel “Race of Scorpions” by Dorothy Dunnett. \nThe Castle of Saint Hilarion appears in the 2009 action-adventure video game \"\", the 2015 novel \"The Lost Treasure of the Templars\" by James Becker, and is also featured in the 2016 crypto-thriller \"The Apocalypse Fire\" by Dominic Selwood.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986405", "title": "Palatua", "text": "Palatua\n\nPalatua was a Roman goddess who was provided an official priest or flamen, the \"Flamen Palatualis\", and was charged with guarding the Palatine Hill. Aside from this little else is known about her, and it is a safe assumption that her cult, like those of Falacer or Volturnus, had diminished during the late republican period, and that by the beginning of the Empire there were few, if any, followers aside from the flamen.\n"}
{"id": "1986406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986406", "title": "South Australian English", "text": "South Australian English\n\nSouth Australian English is the variety of English spoken in the Australian state of South Australia. As with the other regional varieties within Australian English, these have distinctive vocabularies. To a lesser degree, there are also some differences in phonology (pronunciation).\n\nThere are four localised, regional varieties of English in South Australia: \"Adelaide English\", \"Eyre and Yorke Peninsula English\", \"South East South Australia English\" and \"Northern South Australia English\". While there are many commonalities, each has its own variations in vocabulary.\n\nWhile some of the words attributed to South Australians are used elsewhere in Australia, many genuine regional words are used throughout the state. Some of these are German in origin, reflecting the origins of many early settlers. Such was the concentration of German speakers in and around the Barossa Valley, it has been suggested they spoke their own dialect of German, known as \"Barossa German\". The influence of South Australia's German heritage is evidenced by the adoption into the dialect of certain German or German-influenced vocabulary.\n\nOne such local word with German origins is \"butcher\", the name given to a 200 ml (7 imp fl oz) beer glass, which is believed to be derived from the German \"becher\", meaning a cup or mug. \"Butcher\" is more commonly attributed to publicans around Adelaide who kept these smaller glasses for abattoir workers coming in straight from work for a drink before heading home.\n\nProcessed luncheon meat is known as fritz in South Australia, whereas in other states it is referred to as devon, stras or polony.\n\nAnother uniquely South Australian word is \"stobie pole\", which is the pole used to support power and telephone lines. It was invented in South Australia by James Stobie in 1924.\n\nCornish miners represented another significant wave of early immigrants, and they contributed Cornish language words, such as \"wheal\" (mine), which is preserved in many place names.\n\nSouth Australian dialects also preserve other British English usages which do not occur elsewhere in Australia: for example, farmers use \"reap\" and \"reaping\", as well as \"harvest\" and \"harvesting\".\n\nIn Australian English, pronunciations vary regionally according to the type of vowel that occurs before the sounds nd, ns, nt, nce, nch, and mple, and the pronunciation of the suffix \"-mand\". In words like \"chance\", \"plant\", \"branch\", \"sample\" and \"demand\", the vast majority of Australians use the flat vowel. In South Australia however there is a high proportion of people who use the broad vowel in these words. For example, a survey of pronunciation in different cities found that 86% of those surveyed in Adelaide pronounced graph with an , whereas 100% of those surveyed in Hobart and 70% of those surveyed in Melbourne used .\n\nBecause of the prevalence of the South Australian broad A, the South Australian accent appears to be closer to Cultivated Australian English than other state dialects.\n\nThe tendency for some sounds to become vowels ( vocalisation) is more common in South Australia than other states. \"Hurled\", for example, in South Australia has a semi vocalised , leading to the pronunciation \"herwld\", whereas in other states the is pronounced as a consonant. The \"l\" is semi vocalised; for example, \"milk\" sounds like \"miuwlk\" and \"hill\" sounds like \"hiwl\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986408", "title": "St. Andrew's College", "text": "St. Andrew's College\n\nSt. Andrew's College may refer to:\n\nAustralia and New Zealand\n\nCanada\n\nGreat Britain\n\nIndia\n\nIreland\n\nSouth Africa\n\n"}
{"id": "1986418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986418", "title": "Roger Gaudet", "text": "Roger Gaudet\n\nRoger Gaudet (born May 26, 1945) is a Canadian politician and former restaurant owner.\n\nGaudet served as a councillor in Saint-Liguori from 1985 to 1989. In 1989 he was elected mayor of Saint-Liguoiri, and then in 1993 he became reeve of the Montcalm MRC. In 2002 he was elected to the House of Commons of Canada in a by-election for the \"Bloc Québécois\" in the riding Berthier—Montcalm. In the 2004 Canadian federal election he was re-elected- this time in Montcalm. He briefly was the Bloc's critic to Public Works and Government services in 2004.\n\nGaudet was born in Saint-Liguori, Quebec.\n"}
{"id": "1986419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986419", "title": "Stroud railway station", "text": "Stroud railway station\n\nStroud railway station is a railway station that serves the town of Stroud in Gloucestershire, England. Stroud railway station (on the Gloucester–Swindon Golden Valley Line) was designed by Isambard Kingdom Brunel.\n\nIt was opened on 12 May 1845 with the opening of the Kemble to Gloucester section of the Cheltenham and Great Western Union Railway, later part of the Great Western Railway. For a period between 1886 and 1947 when Stroud had two passenger railway stations, it was known as Stroud Great Western, Stroud Russell Street or Stroud Central. Stroud's second station, Stroud Wallbridge, was the terminus of a short branch line from the Midland Railway's Stonehouse and Nailsworth Railway, and freight services were always more important there than passengers.\n\nStroud station has two platforms and is served by Great Western Railway. The station has a ticket office, located on the Swindon bound platform, which is open for most of the day, seven days a week.\n\nGreat Western Railway operate services from London Paddington to Gloucester and Cheltenham using Class 800 trains, and limited local services from Swindon to Gloucester and Cheltenham using the former Class 165 two carriage sets. Trains call hourly each way Mon-Sat, with some additional weekday business peak services. On Sundays, there is a basic hourly service each way also, but with some two-hour gaps.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986427", "title": "Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut", "text": "Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\n\n\"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\" is the second episode of the second season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 15th episode of the series overall, it premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on April 22, 1998. The episode concludes the storyline of the season one finale \"Cartman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut\"; Mephesto is suddenly shot, just as he is about to reveal the identity of Eric Cartman's father. The four boys and Chef rush him to Hell's Pass Hospital while the town of South Park experiences a massive blizzard.\n\nThe episode aired after the season premiere \"Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus\" was aired in its place three weeks earlier as an April Fools' Day prank. Upset viewers wrote over 2,000 complaints to Comedy Central within a week of its premiere date. In 2013, fans voted \"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\" as the best episode of season two.\n\nJust as Mephesto is about to announce who Eric Cartman's father is, the electricity goes out, the room is darkened, and two gunshots are fired. As the lights come back on, everyone discovers that Mephesto has been shot. Chef notes that he is still alive and, along with the boys, rushes him to the hospital. Upon entering the hospital, they meet Dr. Doctor, and a nurse with no arms named Nurse Goodley; they are the only ones working in the hospital. He manages to get Mephesto on a life support system, but has many other patients to tend to. Outside, a terrible blizzard brews.\n\nWhile the rest of the adults in town and a visiting television crew film a reenactment for \"America's Most Wanted\", a tree falls on the power line causing the power to go out. All of the adults are now stuck in a building until the storm settles. The group hastily resort to cannibalism to survive. The power also goes out back at the hospital, and a plan is enacted to restore it. Dr. Doctor suggests that they split into two teams: team A, consisting of everyone in the room except Kenny, and team B, consisting of Kenny. His job is to reconnect the generator in the cold, while team A give advice to him via walkie-talkie as they enjoy some hot cocoa and TV.\n\nOnce Kenny gets to the generator, he discovers that there is no wire connecting the cords, so he decides to make the connection himself to restore the electricity, fatally electrocuting himself in the process. Thanks to his brave deed, the power is restored and Mephesto survives. After casually revealing his shooter was his brother, he gathers everyone in the emergency room for the revelation of Cartman's father: his mother Liane. Mephesto explains that Liane is a hermaphrodite, someone with both male and female genitalia. He also reveals that hermaphrodites cannot have children, so Liane must have impregnated another woman on her intercourse spree. An angered Cartman then demands who his mother is, but when a narrator questions who his mother might be, he quickly refuses to pursue the issue further.\n\nWritten by series co-creator Trey Parker and David Goodman, and directed by Parker, \"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\" originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on April 22, 1998. This episode was originally to air on April 1, 1998, four weeks after \"Cartman's Mom is a Dirty Slut\" was first broadcast, but instead of continuing the storyline from \"Cartman's Mom is a Dirty Slut\", Parker and co-creator Matt Stone made an episode regarding the \"South Park\" minor characters Terrance and Philip, called \"Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus\", as an April Fool's Day prank on viewers of the show. Upset fans wrote more than 2,000 angry e-mail complaints to Comedy Central within a week of the episode's original broadcast, and media outlets said some fans harbored a grudge against the show more than five years after the episode was broadcast.\n\nThe outcome of \"Cartman's Mom is Still a Dirty Slut\" was revisited in the season fourteen episode, \"200\", where it is revealed that Liane is not a hermaphrodite and is not Cartman's father after all, as revealed by Cartman's hand puppet persona, Mitch Conner. In the following episode, \"201\", it is revealed that Cartman's actual father is Jack Tenorman, the father of his personal rival Scott Tenorman.\n\nOn April 27, 1999, \"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\" was released on the \"\"South Park\": Volume 7\" VHS tape, which also contained \"Cartman's Mom is a Dirty Slut\", in a third series of \"South Park\" home video releases. Volume 7 was sold along with Volume 8, which contained \"Chickenlover\" and \"Ike's Wee Wee\", and Volume 9, which contained \"Conjoined Fetus Lady\" and \"The Mexican Staring Frog of Southern Sri Lanka\". All 18 episodes of the second season, including \"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\", were released on a DVD box set on June 3, 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986431", "title": "Freestyle to Music", "text": "Freestyle to Music\n\nFreestyle to Music, sometimes known as Musical Kur or simply kur (from German \"kür\", \"freestyle\") is a form of dressage competition where the horses paces are set to music to create a competitive \"dance\". Movements and figures are choreographed to meet the technical requirements of the particular level with carefully chosen music that highlights the horse/rider combination. Musical Freestyles are entertaining and offer great audience appeal. International level competition comprises Prix St. Georges for Young Riders, Intermediate I and Grand Prix through the Fédération Équestre Internationale (FEI).\n\nIn October 1980, GB Olympic Rider Jennie Loriston-Clarke and Musician and Grand Prix Rider Gaynor Colbourn did the very first Demonstration of Dressage to Music. Olympic horses Dutch Courage and Dutch Gold starred in the demo which showed horse, rider and musician working in total harmony. This event marked the beginnings of Dressage to Music Competitions, and Jennie Loriston-Clarke and Gaynor Colbourn still work together to promote the sport they kicked off in 1980.\n\nAs well as the international levels, Young Rider (Prix St. George), Intermediate I and Grand Prix, most National Federations (i.e. USDF, British Dressage have their own freestyle levels which usually correspond to their various levels of training. \nEach level has its own list of mandatory movements and paces that must appear in all programs, however their order and timing is free to the rider's discretion, albeit within certain margins. Additionally, movements of the same or lower level which are not listed as compulsory may be included to demonstrate the skills and harmony of horse and rider. Incorporating movements of a higher level than the intended level is forbidden, with penalties varying from elimination in lower levels to specific deductions and limits in FEI events. For example, an Intermediare I rider is not permitted to include passage, piaffe, or a pirouette greater than 360 degrees, and a Grand Prix rider may not do a pirouette that exceeds 720 degrees or advanced airs above the ground. If a rider does so, he or she receives a zero for the element, and in addition the score for Choreography and Degree of Difficulty will not receive a score higher than a 5.\n\nMusical Freestyles are a component of the dressage competition at the Olympics, and the World Equestrian Games, where the Grand Prix Freestyle is used.\n\nThe scoring of the freestyle is divided up into two major sections, known as Technical Execution, and Artistic Presentation.\n\nThe technical section is made up of scores for each of the compulsory movements. The technical requirements of each level mirror the level of training and balance expected in the compulsory tests at that level. Competence and ease in the execution of the movements is crucial to a successful program.\n\nWhile the Technical Execution is divided so as to make up half the final score (50%), the technical components of rhythm, energy and elasticity and harmony between horse and rider are scored on the artistic portion score sheet as replacement for the collective marks on a set test, additionally, poor technical execution can negatively affect the degree of difficulty, Choreography and Music scores, thus the technical execution make up nominally 70% of the final score, and can affect all of the marks.\n\nThe Artistic score is usually divided into 5 sections each with a coefficient of four at International competitions, They are:\nThe Rhythm, Energy and Elasticity mark comprises the first two collective marks from a set test, that being Paces and Impulsion, while the Harmony between Horse & Rider mark is made up of the second two: Submission and Rider. The remaining scores are somewhat connected to the technical execution, but are for the most part dependent on the artistic qualities of the test.\n\nThe choreography must incorporate all the technical requirements for the level but is otherwise open to creative choices and highlighting the horse's strong points. Good marks are awarded to inventive choreography which contains movements not taken directly out of the set tests, but has an element of surprise and adventure to their placement. However, there should still be a logical order and flow to the movements, such as symmetry and without too many changes between the paces. A chaotic freestyle would score worse than a basic one.\n\nThe music chosen will depend on the horse's movement, type, personality, and the rider's own musical tastes but should serve to accentuate all of them. Music for freestyles can be found in a variety of styles; Classical music, show tunes, movie scores, orchestral versions of pop and contemporary music are common choices.\n\nGenerally, it is preferred that the music for all three gaits should be of the same genre.\n\nThe interpretation of the music means that it should enhance the horse's way of going and match the tempos of his gaits. The music should suggest the movements; transitions should correspond to the transitions in the music. It is imperative that the choreography interpret the music. Movements and figures should be started and finished at obvious musical phrases.\n\nThe level of difficulty should correspond to the horse's abilities so that the ride looks easy. A horse which is more advanced horse for any given level will be able to perform more complex movement combinations, or more extreme movements (e.g. 720° pirouette, 2:3 Half-Pass etc.) which are rewarded as being more difficult. However, this comes at the increased risk of loss of rhythm or a mistake in sequence, which would result in more marks lost that would have been gained. A good freestyle program is entertaining to the audience and pleasing to perform.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986432", "title": "Beard (companion)", "text": "Beard (companion)\n\nBeard is a slang term describing a person who is used, knowingly or unknowingly, as a date, romantic partner (boyfriend or girlfriend), or spouse either to conceal infidelity or to conceal one's sexual orientation. The American slang term originally referred to anyone who acted on behalf of another, in any transaction, to conceal a person's true identity. The term can be used in heterosexual and homosexual contexts, but is especially used within LGBT culture. References to beards are seen in mainstream television and films, and other entertainment.\n\nThe usage of the term \"beard\", also known as \"lavender dating\" or \"front dating\", dates to the 20th century, prior to the gay rights movements. This was at a time when homosexual relationships had not yet gained public acceptance. Often, in the early to mid-20th century, a beard companion was used by homosexual individuals to conceal one’s sexual orientation through the disguise of a heterosexual relationship. This relationship typically was between a lesbian and a gay man in an attempt to dispel rumors of homo-orientation. Today, the term beard or lavender dating is used less as a result of greater acceptance of homosexuality in both the United States and Western Europe, but is still occasionally today used by young individuals from traditional communities or conservative countries.\n\nIn early usage of the term, a beard scenario involved concealing infidelity in a monogamous relationship. In a typical scenario, X and Y are in a supposedly exclusive relationship, but X is actually cheating with Z. However, to prevent Y from learning about X's infidelity, W, the \"beard\", pretends to be paired with Z. Such a scenario is a central premise of Woody Allen's 1984 film \"Broadway Danny Rose\". The titular talent agent is the beard, pretending to date Tina, a single woman who is actually having an affair with married singer Lou Canova, Danny's client. By posing as Tina's date, Danny can bring her to Lou's performance without drawing attention from Lou's suspicious wife. The term \"beard\" is a running gag, used four times (\"e.g.\", \"I'm only the beard\") when Tina's ex assumes Danny is Tina's previously mysterious lover.\n\nRecognized usage of \"beard\" applies to a person who serves to camouflage another's sexual orientation. An example is the woman a gay man pretends to date in an effort to conceal his sexuality. Though \"beard\" entered wider use in the 1960s, many of the reported lavender marriages of the 1920s in Hollywood, and the similar reported romantic marriage of Rock Hudson (mid-1950s) employed the same usage. In Hudson's case, Phyllis Gates acted as his beard to avert the damage that the disclosure of Hudson's homosexuality might have caused to his career. In a 2011 interview, Betty White stated that she often served as a beard to Liberace to counter rumors of his homosexuality. Such relationships can cause legal and emotional issues for both parties, particularly when they end.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986434", "title": "Trauma Center: Under the Knife", "text": "Trauma Center: Under the Knife\n\nTrauma Center: Under the Knife is a video game developed by Atlus for the Nintendo DS (DS). The debut entry in the \"Trauma Center\" series, it was published in Japan and North America by Atlus in 2005, and by Nintendo in Europe in 2006. Set in a near future where medical science can treat previously incurable diseases, the world's population panics when a new and seemingly incurable disease called GUILT begins to spread. Doctor Derek Stiles, a man possessing a mystical \"Healing Touch\", works with the medical group Caduceus to find a cure to GUILT. The gameplay combines surgery-based simulation relying on the DS's touchscreen controls with a story told as a visual novel.\n\nDesigned to take advantage of the DS's control options after planned development for earlier consoles stalled due to inadequate hardware, development lasted just over a year. Development proved challenging for the staff, who were veterans of the \"Megami Tensei\" franchise and had little experience with genres outside role-playing. The game was positively reviewed by journalists. While a commercial disappointment in Japan, it sold beyond expectations in both North America and Europe, boosting Atlus' profits for that year. A remake for the Wii, \"\", released the following year. A DS sequel, \"\", was released in 2008.\n\n\"Trauma Center: Under the Knife\" is a video game that combines surgical simulation gameplay with storytelling using non-interactive visual novel segments using static scenes, character portraits, and text with rare voice clips. The top screen of the Nintendo DS (DS) is dedicated to story sequences and level statistics displayed as 2D artwork, while the bottom touch screen is dedicated to the operations themselves rendered using 3D models. Players take on the role of protagonist Derek Stiles, a young surgeon with a mystical ability called the Healing Touch. Each operation tasks players with curing the patient of one or multiple ailments within a time limit.\n\nOperations take place from a first-person view over the affected area. The ten available surgical tools are required for different operations and injuries, selected using icons along the edges of the touch screen. Each operation is prefaced by a briefing, describing the patient's condition and possible treatments. Depending on the operation, players may need to drain blood pools obstructing the operating area, use a surgical laser to treat small tumors or virus clusters, a scalpel to open incisions or excise larger tumors, a scanner for detecting hidden ailments, forceps to close wounds and introduce or extract objects, a syringe to inject a variety of medications, and sutures to sew up both wounds and incisions. The player must frequently apply antibiotic gel to treat minor injuries and prevent infection. The player may also require the \"hand\" option for situations such as a heart massage or placing objects such as synthetic membranes. During one operation, several of these tools will be needed. Each operation ends with the sutured wound being treated and a bandage being applied. All of these actions are accomplished using the DS stylus.\n\nOperations range from treating surface wounds and extraction operations, to special operations where Stiles must confront strains of a man-made parasitic infection dubbed GUILT. These strains can be highly mobile, complicating the operation. Some operations are affected by environmental hazards, such as turbulence on a plane. A key story-based ability is Stiles's Healing Touch, triggered by drawing a five-pointed star on the touch screen. The Healing Touch slows down time for a limited period, allowing the player to perform operation actions without the patient dying. Points are awarded with how fast and efficiently an action is performed, and graded from \"Bad\" to \"Cool\". After each operation, the player is graded on their performances, with rankings going from \"C\" (the lowest) to \"S\" (the highest). After an operation is completed in the story mode, players can attempt it again in the Challenge mode for a higher score. The player can save their game after each story chapter. If the patient dies or the timer runs out, the game ends and the player must restart from their last save.\n\n\"Trauma Center\" is set in a near future Earth of 2018, where medical science has advanced to the point that previously major diseases such as AIDS and cancer are easily cured. The world's pioneering medical organization is Caduceus, a semi-covert group dedicated to curing intractable diseases. The story follows Derek Stiles, a young doctor who discovers his mystical Healing Touch during a difficult operation at a car crash. After treating a patient with an unknown parasitic disease, Stiles is brought into Caduceus. The parasite is known as GUILT (Gangliated Utrophin Immuno Latency Toxin), a manmade disease being distributed by a terrorist cell called Delphi. Along with his companion and assistant nurse Angie Thompson, Stiles begins confronting new strains of GUILT in different patients, along with surviving attempts on his life by Delphi. During their work, several Caduceus staff members are infected, including the director Richard Anderson. While the strain is eventually removed, Anderson does not survive for long and gives his position to Stile's old superior Hoffman.\n\nDuring one attempted raid by Delphi on Caduceus, the intruder is identified as Angie's father Kenneth Blackwell. Trailing him to a Delphi laboratory, Stiles and Angie successfully treat a powerful GUILT strain first in a nascent form in a test subject and then in Blackwell himself. Once cured, Blackwell offers his full cooperation and rejects Caduceus's offer of amnesty, wishing to serve out his term in prison to atone for his actions. Blackwell's information leads to the location of Delphi's headquarters. When Derek and Angie assist with a raid in cooperation with Caduceus Europe, they find that Delphi has been using children to incubate GUILT, and after curing the patients, they encounter Delphi's leader, Adam. Finding that Adam has become a vegetative host for GUILT, Stiles must remove all the strains. Due to his actions, Stiles is hailed as a hero.\n\nThe original plan for \"Trauma Center\" was created by the game's producer Katsura Hashino. During this early stage, many staff compared the game to similar surgery simulations for Windows. The concept behind \"Trauma Center\" originated several years before development started. While Atlus had explored the possibilities of a surgical simulation game, gaming hardware at the time was not able to realize their vision. This changed with internal previewing of the DS, which had the controls and functions to make the simulation elements work as intended. Planning for the game began in the summer of 2004. Most of the staff were veterans of Atlus's \"Megami Tensei\" role-playing (RPG) franchise, making the development a difficult one due to its thematic and gameplay differences. Production proved a challenge due to the new gaming hardware and its deviation from the RPG mechanics Atlus was known for. One of the more difficult elements was getting the gameplay to function, which they finally achieved after settling on a first-person perspective for surgery.\n\nAccording to director Kazuya Niinou, the team drew inspiration from Western series including \"ER\" and \"Chicago Hope\", and unspecified Japanese television series and comics during their early work. The scenario was written by Shogo Isogai, who faced problems when creating a narrative that would be respectful towards the medical profession while being fun, and confront very different themes to his work on the \"Megami Tensei\" series. While keeping in line with creating a medical drama, Isogai was told to add science fiction elements, which was a relief for him as he did not need to be accurate to a field he knew little about. The team needed to think carefully about the naming of GUILT strains, which were all derived from Greek words, which sharply contrasted their free borrowing of demon names for the \"Megami Tensei\" series. They also strove to push away from the common video game motif of seemingly glorifying death. The characters were designed by Maguro Ikehata. The art style was described as \"very anime-styled\". The operation graphics were originally very stylised, but Hashino disapproved. While they decided against being too realistic, they managed to strike an aesthetic balance between realistic and cartoon graphics.\n\nThe music was composed by Kenichi Tsuchiya, Shoji Meguro and Kenichi Kikkawa. Meguro and Tsuchiya were both veterans of the \"Megami Tensei\" franchise, particularly its \"Persona\" and \"\" subseries. The opening was one of the themes created by Meguro, who acted as sound director for the project. He found the limited sound environment even more of a challenge than earlier consoles he had composed for. Tsuchiya's work focused on environmental themes and general sound design, while Kikkawa's scores focused on orchestral tracks. While Merugo and Kikkawa composed standard-definition music and reduced it to fit into the DS sound environment, Tsuchiya composed his tracks within the sound environment. At the time, Atlus did not have a MIDI interface for DS composition, so the composers had to guess what the sound would be like when transplanted into the game.\n\nThe game was first announced in July 2004 alongside five other Atlus titles for the DS. The game was released in Japan on June 16, 2005. A commercial demo was released through Nintendo's online store on May 29. While it lacked the high amount of blood and gore that would have earned it a mature rating, the game was still given a CERO rating of \"12\". The game was first revealed under its English name at the 2005 Electronic Entertainment Expo. It released in North America on October 4. The game was localized for the West by Atlus USA. For the game's English version, the game's setting was changed from Japan to North America. Derek Style's English name was written as a pun on the word \"stylus\", referencing the DS stylus. Voice acting was restricted to shoutouts during operations, while Stiles himself did not have a voice actor. Due to their lacking a European branch, Atlus USA did not publish the game in the region. The game was instead published by Nintendo of Europe. It was released in Europe on April 28, 2006.\n\nIn Japan, \"Trauma Center\" did not appear in Japanese gaming magazine \"Famitsu\"s top 500 best-selling titles for 2005, indicating sales of less than 15,000 units. In contrast, the North American release was described by Atlus staff as \"absolutely fabulous\", with sales going \"off the charts\". The game's popularity prompted Atlus to issue further print runs of the game. The game also met with strong sales in Europe. While Atlus had seen financial losses prior to 2006, the international success of \"Trauma Center\" contributed to the company making a profit.\n\n\"Famitsu\" praised the game's innovative use of the touch screen, while Christian Nutt of \"1UP.com\" called the game a standout title for the DS due to its polished controls and unconventional premise. \"Eurogamer\"s Tom Bramwell praised the gameplay and, although he found faults in the game's presentation and confusing or arbitrary mechanics. \"GamePro\" called the game \"a cure for what has been a spell of mediocrity on the DS\". \"GameSpot\"s Alex Navarro praised the game's balancing of narrative and arcade-style gameplay.\n\nJustin Leeper, writing for \"GameSpy\", felt that \"Trauma Center\" could succeed in appealing to a broader audience than other titles with unconventional gameplay ideas. Craig Harris of \"IGN\" was surprised by how much he enjoyed his time playing. Tom East of \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" called \"Trauma Center\" \"engaging, fun and highly original\", and Matt Keller of \"PALGN\" generally enjoyed the gameplay experience despite its short length and other issues with the difficulty and graphics.\n\nThe use of the DS touch screen and stylus were generally lauded by critics; East called it a concept only made possible by the hardware, while Leeper had issues with stylus motions registering. The story was generally praised, with many calling it both silly and engaging, and a few noting its handling of mature themes. Others also negatively noted the large amount of text, which slowed the game's pace. Difficulty spikes in later portions of the game, lack of room for improvisation, and general repetitiveness were noted by reviewers as detrimental factors.\n\nDuring their 2005 gaming awards, \"GameSpot\" nominated \"Trauma Center\" in their \"Most Innovative Game\" category. In the years following its release, \"Trauma Center\" would become a notable success for Atlus, breaking into mainstream gaming when they had previously been restricted to niche success. In a feature by Jess Ragan for \"1UP.com\", \"Trauma Center: Under the Knife\" was described as having \"helped pull the Nintendo DS out of a debilitating software drought and demonstrated the system's potential to both hardcore gamers and skeptical outsiders alike\". Website \"VentureBeat\" listed \"Under the Knife\" as one of the most memorable games of 2005 due to breaking away from gaming trends and creating an experience focused on saving lives.\n\nFollowing the release of \"Under the Knife\", most of Hashino's team shifted to work on the \"Persona\" series, with a small number of staff being assigned to form a new team for further development of the series. This group would be known internally as \"CadukeTeam\". The \"Trauma Center\" series would be continued with three subsequent games on Nintendo hardware; \"\" for the Wii in 2007, the direct sequel \"\", released in 2008 for the DS; and \"Trauma Team\" for the Wii in 2010. A remake of \"Under the Knife\", \"\", was released for the Wii in 2006 as a launch title for the console.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986438", "title": "Jazz harmony", "text": "Jazz harmony\n\nJazz harmony is the theory and practice of how chords are used in jazz music. Jazz bears certain similarities to other practices in the tradition of Western harmony, such as many chord progressions, and the incorporation of the major and minor scales as a basis for chordal construction. In jazz, chords are often arranged vertically in major or minor thirds, although \"stacked fourths\" are also quite common. Also, jazz music tends to favor certain harmonic progressions and includes the addition of \"tensions\", intervals such as 9ths, 11ths, and 13ths to chords. Additionally, scales unique to style are used as the basis of many harmonic elements found in jazz. Jazz harmony is notable for the use of seventh chords as the basic harmonic unit more often than triads, as in classical music. In the words of Robert Rawlins and Nor Eddine Bahha, \"7th chords provide the building blocks of jazz harmony.\"\n\nThe piano and guitar are the two instruments that typically provide harmony for a jazz group. Players of these instruments deal with harmony in a real-time, flowing improvisational context as a matter of course. This is one of the greatest challenges in jazz.\n\nIn a big-band context, the harmony is the basis for horn material, melodic counterpoint, and so on. The improvising soloist is expected to have a complete knowledge of the basics of harmony, as well as their own unique approach to chords and their relationship to scales. A personal style is composed of these building blocks and a rhythmic concept.\n\nJazz composers use harmony as a basic stylistic element as well. Open, modal harmony is characteristic of the music of McCoy Tyner, whereas rapidly shifting key centers is a hallmark of the middle period of John Coltrane's writing. Horace Silver, Clare Fischer, Dave Brubeck, and Bill Evans are pianists whose compositions are more typical of the chord-rich style associated with pianist-composers. Joe Henderson, Woody Shaw, Wayne Shorter and Benny Golson are non-pianists who also have a strong sense of the role of harmony in compositional structure and mood. These composers (including also Dizzy Gillespie and Charles Mingus, who recorded infrequently as pianists) have musicianship grounded in chords at the piano, even though they are not performing keyboardists.\n\nThe authentic cadence (V-I) is the most important one in both classical and jazz harmony, though in jazz it more often follows a ii/II chord serving as predominant. To cite Rawlins and Bahha, as above: \"The ii-V-I [progression] provides the cornerstone of jazz harmony\"\n\nThe ii-V-I () may appear differently in major or minor keys, \"m7\"-\"dom\"-\"maj7\" or \"m75\"-\"dom9\"-\"minor\".\n\nOther central features of jazz harmony are diatonic and non-diatonic reharmonizations, the addition of the V7(sus4) chord as a dominant and non-dominant functioning chord, major/minor interchange, blues harmony, secondary dominants, extended dominants, deceptive resolution, related ii-V7 chords, direct modulations, the use of contrafacts, common chord modulations, and dominant chord modulations using ii-V progressions.\n\nBebop or \"straight-ahead\" jazz, in which only certain of all possible extensions and alterations are used, is distinguished from free, avant-garde, or post-bop jazz harmony.\n\nAnalytic practice in Jazz recognizes four basic chord types, plus diminished seventh chords. The four basic chord types are \"major\", \"minor\", \"minor-major\", and \"dominant\". When written in a jazz \"chart\", these chords may have \"alterations\" specified in parentheses after the chord symbol. An altered note is a note which is a deviation from the canonical chord tone.\n\nThere is variety in the chord symbols used in jazz notation. A jazz musician must have facility in the alternate notation styles which are used. The following chord symbol examples use C as a root tone for example purposes. \nMost jazz chord symbols designate four notes. Each typically has a \"role\" as \"root\", \"third\", \"fifth\", or \"seventh\", although they may be severely altered and possibly use an enharmonic spelling which masks this underlying identity. For example, jazz harmony theoretician Jim Knapp has suggested that the 9 and even the 9 alterations are functioning in the root role.\n\nThe jazz chord naming system is as deterministic as the composer wishes it to be. A rule of thumb is that chord alterations are included in a chart only when the alteration appears in the melody or is crucial to essence of the composition. Skilled improvisers are able to supply an idiomatic, highly altered harmonic vocabulary even when written chord symbols contain no alterations.\n\nIt is possible to specify chords with more than four notes. For example, the chord C-Δ9 contains the notes (C E G B D).\n\nMuch of jazz harmony is based on the melodic minor scale (using only the \"ascending\" scale as defined in classical harmony). The modes of this scale are the basis for much jazz improvisation and are variously named as below, using the key of C-minor as an example:\nThe VII chord in particular is rich with alterations. As it contains the notes and alterations (Ⅰ, 9, m3/9, M3, 5/11, 13, m7), it is particularly important in the jazz harmonic idiom, notably as a Ⅴ chord in a minor key. For our example key of C-minor, the V chord is G7, so the improviser would draw upon the G7 altered scale (mode VII of the A melodic minor). A complete ii-V-i progression in C-minor7 extended 9 flattened fifth might suggest the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1986440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986440", "title": "Kemble railway station", "text": "Kemble railway station\n\nKemble railway station is a railway station that serves the village of Kemble in Gloucestershire, England. The station is on the to \"Golden Valley\" line. Despite its rural location, Kemble station has a high number of passengers, due mainly to the proximity of Cirencester.\n\nThe station was opened by the Great Western Railway (GWR) as an exchange station on 12 May 1845 with the line opening from Swindon to Gloucester. Only on 1 May 1882 did it become a public station replacing the nearby .\n\nThe distance between the platforms and the large clearance between the remaining running lines is a legacy from when Kemble first opened because it originally accommodated Brunel's broad gauge tracks. These were changed to standard gauge tracks in 1892.\n\nUntil the 1960s the station was a junction, with services to the nearby market towns of (to the northeast) and (southwest). Both the Tetbury branch line and the Cirencester Branch Line were closed to traffic under \"The Reshaping of British Railways\", the first day without service being 6 April 1964.\n\nBritish Rail reduced the line to Swindon to single track in 1968 but the second track was reinstated in 2014 \"(see Golden Valley Line)\".\n\nThe station has two platforms in use. The former Tetbury bound platform remains but the track has been lifted. The building on the down platform (no. 2) has been out of use for several years, containing toilets and a waiting room, which are still \"in situ\". On the former Cirencester platform, a short stub of track remains for the occasional stabling of track machines. This ends at a buffer stop just before the station car park. In 2013, Cotswold District Council refused an application by Network Rail to demolish part of the Grade II listed Cirencester bay platform in connection with the redoubling of the line from Swindon. According to the Council, the platform was still in a good state of repair and any public benefit from the demolition would not outweigh the damage that would be caused to the historical significance of the station. The station has a ticket office and a small café. The limestone bridge, at the south end of the station, was Grade II listed from 5 Nov 2015 and the station and water tank from 27 Feb 1986.\nGreat Western Railway operates services from London Paddington to and using Class 800 trains and local services from to Gloucester and Cheltenham Spa using the Great Western Railway and DMUs.\n\nKemble station is served on a Monday to Friday by:\nMaking an off peak service of one train every two hours to London, with trains to Swindon, Cheltenham and Gloucester every hour. The station is occasionally served by Cardiff Central / services diverted during engineering works. On Sundays there are twelve trains each way, seven of which run to or from London.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986459", "title": "Kriyamana karma", "text": "Kriyamana karma\n\nKriyamana karma, in Hinduism, is the karma that human beings are creating in the present, the fruits of which will be experienced in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986466", "title": "Simeon Nelson", "text": "Simeon Nelson\n\nSimeon Nelson (born 1964) is an Australian sculptor and transdisciplinary artist.\n\nNelson was born in England in 1964 and came to Australia in 1967. Since 2001 he has lived and worked in London. He is Reader in Sculpture at The University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK and a fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts.\n\nSimeon Nelson was educated at Sydney Grammar School and obtained a Bachelor of Fine Art degree at the Sydney College of the Arts in 1987. Nelson has exhibited extensively since 1986, his most recent solo exhibitions being \"Mappa Mundi\", University of Hertfordshire Galleries, Hatfield, UK and \"Terroir/Boudoir\", Elastic Residence, London, UK (2005). He is currently inaugural artist-in-residence at the Royal Geographical Society, London. His first major London solo exhibition was at the RGS exhibition space on Exhibition Road, London.\n\nHis work has been selected for major national and international exhibitions, including the \"National Gallery of Australia Sculpture Prize\", Canberra 2005; \"The Jerwood Sculpture Prize\", London, 2003; \"Tempered Ground\", Museum of Garden History, London (2004); \"This was the future: Australian Sculpture of the 1950s, 60s 70s and Today\", Heide Museum of Modern Art, Melbourne (2003); \"Australian Perspecta; Between Art and Nature\", Ivan Dougherty Gallery, University of New South Wales, Sydney (1997); \"Systems End: Contemporary Art in Australia\", Hakone Museum, Tokyo, Japan and touring (1996–97).\n\nIn 1997 he was the Australian representative to the \"IX Triennial India\", New Delhi. Nelson was awarded the Australia Council’s New Work Project Grant in 1997, 1998 and 2003, the Australia Council Studio Residency in New York in 1994 and a Pollock-Krasner Foundation Grant in 2000.\n\nHe has worked on some major public art projects including \"Flume\", Ashford Kent, UK, \"Proximities:Local histories / Global entanglements\", a key public art project commissioned to celebrate the Melbourne 2006 Commonwealth Games; \"Chifley Square Commission\", Sydney 1997; \"The M4 Freeway Commission\", Sydney 2000 and the \"Progettomoderno Commission\", Treviso, Italy, 2002.\n\nHe is currently working on major projects in China, Saudi Arabia, Australia and Britain.\n\nHis work looks at relationships between nature and technology; how nature is mediated by technology and science on one hand and art on the other.\n\nNelson has deployed a range of materials, techniques and ideas in his oeuvre. Much of his work looks at the forms, systems and structures of nature, as described and represented by science. The branching of a tree, the root directory of a website or the infinitely intricate tracery of the lungs or vascular system of the human body form a set of important metaphors in his work. They are seen as structurally and conceptually analogous.\n\nThese works ask questions such as: how organic (natural) form is appropriated by art, science and design; how their visual codes and models of how the world works become fixed in public consciousness. This concern with the connection between the natural and the artificial manifested in a series of ecological installations in the 1990s including \"Landscope (The Machine in the Garden)\" . Representations of nature and nature itself were combined in large scale works that suggest that nature creates art as much as art creates nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986467", "title": "Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods", "text": "Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods\n\n\"Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods\" is the eleventh episode of the second season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 24th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on September 2, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker, along with David Goodman, and directed by Parker. It spoofs the \"\" episode \"Dagger of the Mind\". In the episode, the boys visit a planetarium; they soon discover that the operator has sinister intentions involving brainwashing. Meanwhile, Cartman auditions to sing on the Cheesy Poofs advertisement. \n\nDespite the title, the episode has nothing to do with Roger Ebert (who had given \"Orgazmo\" and \"Baseketball\" negative reviews, despite being complimentary of the show \"South Park\"), aside from a brief joke about a fictional \"Roger Ebert constellation\" during the tour of the planetarium, and another joke, obscured by other characters speaking over it, comparing the hot gas that composes stars to \"what comes out of Roger Ebert's mouth when he speaks\".\n\nThe class goes on a bus trip to the local planetarium. Once arriving, Cartman is tempted by a Cheesy Poofs truck parked outside, auditioning kids to sing the Cheesy Poofs song on their next television advertisement. The kids all think they will hate the planetarium, but after watching the star show, they want to go back again after the field trip. Not only do they go back, they all start volunteering to work at the planetarium. This turns out to be because the director, Dr. Adams, is using a brainwashing device on them. While doing so, he describes how stars are made up of hot gas \"which also comes out of Roger Ebert's mouth\".\n\nCartman sings the Cheesy Poofs song and gets selected to sing it on television, after cheating and browbeating his way past the other contestants. Stan and Kyle become concerned about the planetarium's star show. When they have Kenny go and witness the show while Stan and Kyle examine the controls, they casually increase the star projector's power, unexpectedly causing Kenny's head to explode. Stan and Kyle tell Officer Barbrady what has happened; Barbrady is skeptical but accompanies them to question Dr. Adams. Because of this, Dr. Adams brainwashes Barbrady to believe that he is Elvis Presley; he then reveals his brainwashing scheme to the boys: to have people work at the planetarium because nobody finds planetariums interesting.\n\nMeanwhile, school counselor Mr. Mackey and school nurse Nurse Gollum have learned of the mind control device through a child who earlier escaped the planetarium. They race to stop Dr. Adams, and a showdown occurs at the planetarium, with Stan, Kyle, Mr. Mackey, and Nurse Gollum against Dr. Adams and Barbrady. The boys, Mackey, and Nurse Gollum are quickly captured, tied down, and brainwashed into forgetting everything they found out.\n\nHowever, in the middle of the process, Cartman, upon discovering the other boys missed his commercial, angrily kicks the star projector, sending the full blast of the mind control machine into Dr. Adams' brain. Dr. Adams becomes a mindless shell collapsed against a wall. Cartman is elated that he not only was on television, but saved everyone as well.\n\nAll 18 episodes of the second season, including \"Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods\", were released on a DVD box set on June 3, 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986470", "title": "Provinces of Oman", "text": "Provinces of Oman\n\nThe administrative division of Oman contains Eleven Governorates (\"muhafazah\"):\nWithin the governorates, Oman is sub-divided into 61 provinces (\"wilayat\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986472", "title": "Lowry Hill East, Minneapolis", "text": "Lowry Hill East, Minneapolis\n\nLowry Hill East is a neighborhood in southwest Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States, part of the Calhoun Isles community. It is bounded on the east by Lyndale Avenue, on the west by Hennepin Avenue and on the south by Lake Street. Lyndale and Hennepin intersect on the northern side at Interstate 94. This creates a neighborhood roughly triangular in shape, which is how it gets its nickname, \"the Wedge.\" It is part of a larger area south of Franklin Avenue and west of Nicollet Avenue that is often considered Uptown, although officially Uptown is a smaller area centered on the intersection of Hennepin and Lake.\n\nLowry Hill East developed in the 1880s along a horse-drawn streetcar line built by Thomas Lowry. The interior of the neighborhood is zoned residential, with large early 20th century homes and multi-unit apartment buildings, while the border streets are lined with bars, restaurants, grocery stores, coffeeshops, and other small businesses. Most housing is renter-occupied.\n\nIn 2010, the population of the neighborhood was 6,150. The neighborhood was 83.5% White, 4.4% Black or African American, 0.6% American Indian or Alaska Native, 4.2% Asian or Pacific Islander, 4.1% Hispanic or Latino, 3.1% two or more races, and 0.2% other race. It had a much higher percentage of single residents than other neighborhoods in Minneapolis and a lower percentage of families with children. The median household income was $43,922, which was $1,703 lower than the city average.\n\nLowry Hill East is bordered by Loring Park and Stevens Square to the northeast, Whittier to the east, Lyndale to the southeast, CARAG to the south, ECCO to the southwest, East Isles to the west, and Lowry Hill to the northwest.\n"}
{"id": "1986476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986476", "title": "Donovan's Brain", "text": "Donovan's Brain\n\nDonovan's Brain is a 1942 science fiction novel by American writer Curt Siodmak.\n\nThe novel became an instant classic and was adapted to movie form three times. Since then the book has become something of a cult classic, with fans including Stephen King, who discussed the novel in his 1981 book \"Danse Macabre\" and mentions it in his novel/miniseries \"It\". Siodmak later wrote a sequel in 1968 titled \"Hauser's Memory\" and wrote a final sequel in 1991 titled \"Gabriel's Body\".\n\nThe novel was initially published as a three-part serial in the September - November 1942 issues of the pulp magazine \"Black Mask\". The first complete edition was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1943, and it was provided to U.S. military personnel as an Armed Services Edition during World War II. The work has since been translated into German, Portuguese, Italian, Japanese, and Dutch.\n\nThe novel is written in the form of diary entries by Dr. Patrick Cory, a middle-aged physician whose experiments at keeping a brain alive are subsidized by Cory's wealthy wife. Under investigation for tax evasion and criminal financial activities, millionaire megalomaniac W.H. Donovan crashes his private plane in the desert near the home of Dr. Cory. The physician is unable to save Donovan's life, but removes his brain on the chance that it might survive, placing the gray matter in an electrically charged, oxygenated saline solution within a glass tank. The brainwaves indicate that thought — and life — continue. Cory makes several futile attempts to communicate with it. Finally, one night Cory receives unconscious commands, jotting down a list of names in a handwriting not his own — it is Donovan's. Cory successfully attempts telepathic contact with Donovan's brain, much to the concern of Cory's occasional assistant, Dr. Schratt, an elderly alcoholic.\n\nGradually, the malignant intelligence takes over Cory's personality, leaving him in an amnesiac fugue state when he awakes. The brain uses Cory to do his bidding, signing checks in Donovan's name, and continuing the magnate's illicit financial schemes. Cory becomes increasingly like the paranoid Donovan, his physique and manner morphing into the limping image of the departed criminal. Donovan's bidding culminates in an attempt to have Cory kill a young girl who stands in the way of his plans. Realizing he will soon have no control over his own body and mind, Cory devises a plan to destroy the brain during its quiescent period. Cory resists the brain's hypnotic power by repeating the rhyme \"Amidst the mists and coldest frosts he thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts.\" With Dr. Schratt's help, he destroys the housing tank with an axe and leaves the brain of Donovan to die, thus ending his reign of madness.\n\nOriginally performed by Orson Welles in a 1944 radio play of the series Suspense, reprised in 1948 by John McIntyre.\n\nThe novel has been adapted for the screen three times — as \"The Lady and the Monster\" (1944), \"Donovan's Brain\" (1953), and \"The Brain\" (1962).\n\nIn 1982, the LP album release of the 1944 radio version of this story (from the series \"Suspense,\" starring Orson Welles) won the Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album.\n\nIn the film \"\", a brain in a jar of liquid in a laboratory scene bears the name \"W.H. Donovan.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986477", "title": "Colin Hansen", "text": "Colin Hansen\n\nColin Hansen (born 1952) is a former provincial politician for the Canadian province of British Columbia from 1996 to 2013. Hansen's most recent cabinet position was Minister of Finance and Deputy Premier from June 10, 2009 to March 13, 2011. He had also served as Minister Responsible for Small Business since October 25, 2010. On November 30, 2010, he was additionally appointed as the Minister of Health Services.\n\nHansen's previous portfolios include Minister of Finance (December 2004 – June 2005); Minister of Health Services (June 2001 – December 2004); and Minister of Economic Development and Minister responsible for the Asia-Pacific Initiative and the Olympics (June 2005 – June 2008). He served as health critic, as well as the critic for employment and investment, and labour for the Official Opposition between 1996 and 2001.\n\nHansen was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in 1996 to serve in the riding of Vancouver-Quilchena. Before being elected to the legislature, he and wife, Laura, were co-founders of Image Group, a Vancouver-based promotional products company. He previously served as vice-president of finance and administration for the Asia-Pacific Foundation of Canada.\n\nAfter politics (2014-19), Hansen served as the President of AdvantageBC, a non-government organization dedicated to promoting British Columbia as a place for international business.\n\nHe serves on several not-for-profit boards including serving as Chair of the Fraser Basin Council, Honorary Governor of the Vancouver Foundation, Arthritis Research Canada, Jack Austin School of Asia Pacific Business Studies and the Canada-Japan Society.\n\nHansen has participated on a politics panel for CBC Vancouver's radio show CBC Early Edition.\n\nHansen was born and raised on Vancouver Island. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from the University of Victoria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986491", "title": "Disaster area", "text": "Disaster area\n\nA disaster area is a region or a locale, heavily damaged by either natural, technological or social hazards. Disaster areas affect the population living in the community by dramatic increase in expense, loss of energy, food and services; and finally increase the risk of disease for citizens. An area that has been struck with a natural, technological or sociological hazard that opens the affected area for national or international aid.\n\nA natural hazard is a negative process of phenomena created naturally (tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes) that will affect people or the environment.\n\nTornadoes are narrow aggressively rotating mixtures of air that come from the base of a thunderstorm, being the most violent of storms. Tornadoes are usually hard to see unless they form a condensations funnel made from:- dust, water droplets and debris. Tornadoes take place in several parts of the world, such as Australia, Europe, Africa but mostly occur in the United States, Argentina, and Bangladesh.\n\nHurricanes, cyclones, tropical storms and typhoons can be referred to as the same. They combine low pressure and strong winds that rotate counter clockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern hemisphere. Tropical cyclones have a low pressure center, rain and strong winds. They usually initiate over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricanes can be predicted several days before they hit and can be very destructive and destroy homes and some other buildings. Cyclones, although they are the same type of storm, are harder to predict before a few days like hurricanes thus giving people only a few hours of notice to evacuate their homes. In this case there are far more deaths from flooding and high tides. A recent (2012) example of a hurricane is Hurricane Sandy, which was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States, leaving millions without power and a few homeless.\n\nFloods take place when water overflows or submerges land that is usually parched. The most common way is when rivers or streams overflow their banks. A floodplain is produced when water from a river spreads through the land from excessive rain, rapid ice melting, unfortunately placed beaver dam, and ruptured dam. There are two types of floods: general and flash floods. General floods are predicted well in advance and usually cause the destruction of housing, people and crops. Flash floods come without warning and are sudden and extreme: A large volume of water flows rapidly and people have to make quick movements if they do not want to be caught in the flood. They have to find high safe ground where the water will not reach them.\n\nWhen two blocks of the earth suddenly slip past each other in the fault of the earth, it is called an earthquake. Energy released in many forms moves in all directions and causes the ground to shake. Sometimes earthquakes may have foreshocks, which are smaller earthquakes that occur in the same region which is followed by a larger earthquake. The larger earthquake, called the mainshock, always has aftershocks that follow it. Aftershocks can continue of hours, weeks, months and sometimes even years depending on how big the mainshock was. Earthquakes usually occur on active faults which define major tectonic plates on the Earth. 90% of the world's earthquakes occur along plate boundaries. Earthquakes can cause much damage, mainly from the ground shaking and leaving cracks in the ground. Sometimes it can also cause buildings to collapse and cause deaths.\n\nThere are several technical hazards one should be aware of as they pose a threat humans and their values. These hazards are measured in terms of the risk they pose to the community using them. Technical hazards are classified by a source, specifically speaking; they can fall under automotive emissions, medical radiation, explosions and air pollution (environmental) hazards. The quality of the hazard determines the safety precautions that are taken. For example, hazards can be a risk to an individual or a risk to the population. If the population is at risk with the hazard, there will be more priorities for the management of the hazardous material. These hazardous materials can cause illness or even death to an individual if they are not address accordingly, so it is crucial for them to inform the public about these technical hazards.\n\nThere are several thoughts that come to mind when one thinks of the word “nuclear”, whether it be basic chemistry or highly complex explosives; nuclear accidents, nuclear incidences or nuclear terrorism are definitely a threat to the community or the world in that matter. But what is nuclear terrorism exactly? A \"nuclear accident, incident, or act of terrorism is an unpredictable, unusual and unwanted event involving radiation and/or radioactive materials.\" To specifically distinguish between the three, nuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. Nuclear incidents on the other hand are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” \n\nNuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. There are several examples of these nuclear accidents taken place around the world. To start off, a prime example of a nuclear accident would be Palo mares B-52 Accident. On January 17, 1966, a U.S. Air Force B-52 bomber collided with a mid-tanker airplane that was being refueled at 31000 feet. When the two airplanes collided, the tanker airplane exploded completely killing all crew members, while the B-52 bomber split in half killing a small proportion of the crew. When the airplane split in half, four bombs dropped from the sky. Two of them detonated, causing 2 kilometers of land to be contaminated by radioactive plutonium. The fourth explosive was recovered when it was discovered that it landed on the sea. The soil on the contaminated area had to be removed and placed in barrels, to reduce the amount of pollution having been caused by the nuclear explosive.\n\nNuclear incidents are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” A Secondary example would be the Johnston Atoll Incident that occurred on July 25, 1962. They decided to conduct the experiment at Christmas Island on Johnson Atoll, where they set off 36 nuclear explosions. One of the missile launches went wrong as it malfunctioned when trying to launch. The leaders decided to detonate the missile before it launched. When it detonated, the entire island was covered with radioactive plutonium. The witnesses claimed that 85% of the people suffered from radioactive contamination that created cancer and other radioactive related diseases. Plus those who were present at the site of the explosion suffered from infertility, and other body deformations.\n\nSociological hazards that create a disaster area are riots, terrorism, and war.\n\nA riot is defined as a noisy, violent public disturbance caused by a group or a crowd (three or more people) usually protesting against another group or government policy in the streets. The UK London riot in August 2011, for example, was started due to the shooting of Mark Duggan by the London police. The rioters came together destroying neighbourhoods and streets violently damaging property to protest the police's actions that happened a few days prior. Riots increase expenses to repair costly damages putting the city in distress.\n\nTerrorism is defined as acts of violence and threats by a group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons. Terrorism occurs with an unexpected attack on non-combatants to create fear and panic having a detrimental consequence. Terrorist attacks create a massive, costly impact on the society. Not only is there large amount of property damage that may not be able to be repaired, there is also a large impact on citizens. People lose loved ones and suffer from their own health being impacted. The 9/11 terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York City marks one of the largest attacks on the United States. The Twin Towers were completely destroyed, damaging the surrounding buildings as well as causing the loss of many lives. People suffered from health problems from inhaling the sediments from the crumbling towers. The financial and social impact is still present thirteen years later in today's society. It is concluded that New York City still suffers from a post-disaster decline in financial services. New York City is a Disaster area due to the sociological hazard of terrorism.\n\nWar defined as a period where conflict is carried out as an act of hostility by armed forces between two or more nations or within a nation. Afghanistan, for example would be a sociological hazard causing disaster areas because it is considered a war zone. There has been an ongoing battle between United States and the Taliban in Afghanistan resulting in a war zone. Constant bombing and shooting marks up Afghanistan destructing property, land and causing threats to the civilians living in the area. Thousands have died and international aid for the cost of the war is implemented through tax payers. There is lack of resources due to the war area cutting off access to areas because of violence and danger.\n\nAn example of a technological disaster was the Fukushima disaster which was caused by a “massive 8.9-magnitude earthquake [that] hit northeast Japan”. This earthquake caused a nuclear explosion at a power plant; five reactors were damaged, causing the plant to go into an emergency state. All this occurred because there was a technological error in the system that cut down the regular and emergency power, causing the five reactors to destabilize and explode. This significant nuclear event had a big impact on the public health, as the area suffered nuclear contamination. The contamination caused all the crops such as milk, water or vegetables unsafe to eat. Hence all food grown in that area was banned from being sold. People in the “surroundings were moved to safe shelters,” and 3 people were affected by the radiation alone. Luckily, the “Japanese government [handled] the situation in the most efficient and amazing way that anyone can imagine.”\n\nA recent example of a disaster area caused by a natural hazard is Hurricane Sandy which hit October 27, 2012. It was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States. The storm killed about 50 people and many were also hit by falling trees. The hardest-hit state was New York, leaving millions without power and a few homeless.\n\nA disaster area caused by a sociological hazard would be the terrorist attack on September 11th, 2001, in New York City. Two airplanes struck the Twin Towers, causing them to crumble, killing many people in the process. The unexpected attack harmed many people and had a detrimental impact on New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986505", "title": "Wesdome Gold Mines", "text": "Wesdome Gold Mines\n\nWesdome Gold Mines Ltd. is a mining, exploration and development company based in Toronto, Ontario, focused primarily on gold.\nWesdome Gold Mines Inc. was created as a joint venture in 1976 for the purpose of exploring and developing the Wesdome property in Val d'Or. Wesdome derives its name from the joint venture between Western Quebec Mines Inc. and Dome Mines Ltd. In 1997 Western Quebec Mines bought out Dome Mines' interest. In 1999 Wesdome Gold Mines Inc. became a publicly listed company. Wesdome Gold Mines proceeded with its advanced exploration and development on the wholly owned property. In December 2003, Western Quebec Mines Inc. purchased the Kiena Complex and subsequently put the property into Wesdome Gold Mines Inc., completing and consolidating the Wesdome land package around Lac De Montigny. Wesdome Gold Mines' Val d'Or assets include 7,500 hectares of wholly owned property on the Kiena, Wesdome, Shawkey and Siscoe properties, as well as a 920-metre shaft, 2000 tpd CIP mill and extensive surface and underground infrastructure.\nOn February 1, 2006, River Gold Mines Ltd. merged with Wesdome Gold Mines Inc, to create Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. (WDO-TSX). River Gold Mines Ltd. was formed in 1994 to consolidate ownership of the Eagle River property, located 50  km west of Wawa, Ontario. In the low gold price environment from 1997 to 2002, all other known gold deposits and mining infrastructure in the Mishibishu greenstone belt were acquired. To date, the Wawa assets have produced in excess of 1,000,000 ounces of gold from three mining projects. Wesdome Gold Mines' Wawa assets include 5200+ hectares of wholly owned property on the Eagle River and Mishi properties, a 580-metre shaft, a 1000 tpd Merril Crowe milling facility, and over 75 kilometres of underground development.\nOn July 10, 2007, Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. merged with Western Quebec Mines Inc. In doing so, Wesdome added 1000 contiguous hectares to its already large Val d'Or land package, removed the controlling shareholder and simplified its corporate structure.\n\nIn January 2017 Wesdome reported a new gold discovery at its Eagle River Mine in Ontario. Underground drilling intercepted multiple high-gold intercepts including 7.08 g/t Au uncut over 8.88 metres and 28.72 g/t Au uncut over 20.67 metres.\n\nEnvironmental Issues\n\nOn February 22, 2016, Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. was convicted of discharging tailings into Mirion Creek between January 1, 2012 and May 7, 2013. These discharges were not reported to the Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (MOECC) and were revealed by a joint investigation by the MOECC and Environment Canada. Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. has now been placed on the MOECC's Environmental Offenders Registry.\n\nIn 2016 Wesdome Gold Mines Ltd. applied to the MOECC to use a water body adjacent to their Eagle River Milling Complex to deposit tailings waste in. The tailings will be coming from the Mishi open-pit mine, the Edwards mine and the Eagle River Milling Complex. These are existing operations which will be expanding their production.\n\nFinance\n\nWesdome Gold Mines Ltd. trades on the TSX Exchange under the symbol \"WDO\" and has 102.0 million shares outstanding.\n\nExploration\n\nWesdome reported in April 2017 it had extended the 300W Zone by 250 metres at its Eagle River mine, with highlighted intercepts including 21.2 g/t gold over 2.17 metres and 28.59 g/t gold over 2.11 metres. Surface drilling at its Mishi mine also confirmed extensions of mineralization west of the existing open pit, with intercepts including 1.95 g/t gold over 29.8 metres and 3.42 g/t gold over 7.3 metres.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986511", "title": "Zeinab Kamel Ali", "text": "Zeinab Kamel Ali\n\nMrs. Zeinab Kamel Ali is a Djiboutian politician and a member of the standing committee for the African Union's Economic, Social and Cultural Council representing Eastern Africa.\n"}
{"id": "1986536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986536", "title": "Yumi Shimura", "text": "Yumi Shimura\n\nAs of June 30, 2016, she has retired from voice acting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986540", "title": "Monmouth Regional High School", "text": "Monmouth Regional High School\n\nMonmouth Regional High School is a regional, four-year public high school and public school district based in Tinton Falls, Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States, that serves students in ninth through twelfth grades from Eatontown, Shrewsbury Township and Tinton Falls, along with students from the military installation of Naval Weapons Station Earle. The school has been accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Secondary Schools since 1967.\n\nAs of the 2017–18 school year, the school had an enrollment of 1,006 students and 82.4 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 12.2:1. There were 264 students (26.2% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and 49 (4.9% of students) eligible for reduced-cost lunch.\n\nThe district is classified by the New Jersey Department of Education as being in District Factor Group \"GH\", the third-highest of eight groupings. District Factor Groups organize districts statewide to allow comparison by common socioeconomic characteristics of the local districts. From lowest socioeconomic status to highest, the categories are A, B, CD, DE, FG, GH, I and J.\n\nThe school was the 123rd-ranked public high school in New Jersey out of 339 schools statewide in \"New Jersey Monthly\" magazine's September 2014 cover story on the state's \"Top Public High Schools\", using a new ranking methodology. The school had been ranked 129th in the state of 328 schools in 2012, after being ranked 177th in 2010 out of 322 schools listed. The magazine ranked the school 133rd in 2008 out of 316 schools. The school was ranked 118th in the magazine's September 2006 issue, which surveyed 316 schools across the state.\n\nSchooldigger.com ranked the school as tied for 236th out of 376 public high schools statewide in its 2010 rankings (a decrease of 17 positions from the 2009 rank) which were based on the combined percentage of students classified as proficient or above proficient on the language arts literacy and mathematics components of the High School Proficiency Assessment (HSPA).\n\nIn its 2013 report on \"America's Best High Schools\", \"The Daily Beast\" ranked the school 1537th in the nation among participating public high schools and 88th among schools in New Jersey.\n\nThe district is governed by a nine-member Board of Education. Board members are elected to serve three-year terms, with three seats coming up for election each year. Of the nine members, four each come from both Eatontown and Tinton Falls, and one from Shrewsbury Township.\n\nThe high school is approved by the New Jersey Department of Education.\n\nSpecial systems are in place to service the needs of youngsters from the transient military population.\n\n52% of the professional staff hold advanced degrees. Monmouth Regional High School classroom teachers have an average of 12 years of teaching experience. The school has a 16 to 1 student to teacher ratio.\n\nAdvanced Placement (AP) courses are offered in AP Art History, AP Biology, AP Calculus, AP Chemistry, AP Computer Science, AP English Language and Composition, AP French Language, AP Latin Literature, AP Spanish Language, AP United States History, AP Psychology, AP United States Government and Politics and AP European History. Honors level courses are offered in the five academic disciplines and in advanced elective offerings in the applied technology area. Articulated programs with Brookdale Community College and Ramapo College make it possible for students to earn college credits while in high school. \"Futures\", a competitive elective program for the Gifted, is designed to develop students' critical thinking and problem solving abilities. Students also have the Opportunity to take part in research opportunities, such as the Waksman Institute at Rutgers University.\n\nIn addition to passing the High School Proficiency Assessment (HSPA), all graduates must successfully complete a minimum of 120 credits, including four years each of English and Physical Education / Health, three years of Mathematics, three years of Science, 2 years of U.S. History, one year of World History, one year of a foreign language and two years of Fine / Performing / Practical Arts.\n\nThe Monmouth Regional High School Falcons compete in the Shore Conference an athletic conference made up of private and public high schools centered at the Northern Jersey Shore in Monmouth County and Ocean County, operating under the jurisdiction of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA). With 739 students in grades 10-12, the school was classified by the NJSIAA for the 2015-16 school year as Central Jersey, Group II for most athletic competition purposes, which included schools with an enrollment of 498 to 750 students in that grade range.\n\nThe boys' soccer team won the Group III state championship in 1965, defeating Vailsburg High School in the tournament final.\n\nThe boys' track team won the Group III indoor relay championships in 1978, 1979 and 1980; the girls' team won the indoor relay title in 1988 in Group II and were co-champions in Group III in 1989.\n\nThe 2005 girls' basketball team won the Central, Group III sectional title over Willingboro High School with a 69-52 win in the finals.\n\nThe 2005 baseball team won the 2005 Central, Group III sectional championship with an 11-1 win over Manchester Township High School in the first round, 10-0 over Ewing High School in the semis and a 6-0 shutout over Ocean Township High School in the finals. The team went on to win the 2005 Group III state championship, defeating Ramapo High School by a score of 3-1 in the tournament final.\n\nThe boys' basketball team won the 2007 Central, Group III state sectional championship with a 52-48 win against Hightstown High School.\n\nThe 2007 boys indoor track team won every title possible, the 4x400 team was crowned group III and overall state champions, as well as winning the Group III outdoor tile with a meet record time of 3:15.04.\n\n\nMembers of the school administration are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1986548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986548", "title": "Dying Gaul", "text": "Dying Gaul\n\nThe Dying Gaul, also called The Dying Galatian (in Italian: \"Galata Morente\") or The Dying Gladiator, is an Ancient Roman marble semi-recumbent statue now in the Capitoline Museums in Rome. It is a copy of a now lost sculpture from the Hellenistic period (323-31 BC) thought to have been made in bronze. The original may have been commissioned at some time between 230 and 220 BC by Attalus I of Pergamon to celebrate his victory over the Galatians, the Celtic or Gaulish people of parts of Anatolia (modern Turkey). The original sculptor is believed to have been Epigonus, a court sculptor of the Attalid dynasty of Pergamon.\n\nUntil the 20th century the marble statue was usually known as \"The Dying Gladiator\", on the assumption that it depicted a wounded gladiator in a Roman amphitheatre. However in the mid-19th century it was re-identified as a Gaul or Galatian and the present name \"Dying Gaul\" gradually achieved popular acceptance.\n\nThe white marble statue, which may originally have been painted, depicts a wounded, slumped Gaulish or Galatian Celt, shown with remarkable realism and pathos, particularly as regards the face. A bleeding sword puncture is visible in his lower right chest. The warrior is represented with characteristic Celtic hairstyle and moustache with a Celtic torc around his neck. He sits on his shield while his sword, belt and curved trumpet lie beside him. The sword hilt bears a lion's head. The present base is a 17th-century addition.\n\n\"The Dying Gaul\" statue is thought to have been re-discovered in the early 17th century during excavations for the building of the Villa Ludovisi (commissioned by Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi, nephew of Pope Gregory XV), on the site of the ancient Gardens of Sallust on the Pincian Hill in Rome. Many other antiquities (most notably the \"Ludovisi Throne\") were subsequently discovered on the site in the late 19th century when the Ludovisi's estate was redeveloped and built over. The \"Dying Gaul\" was first recorded in a 1623 inventory of the collections of the Ludovisi family and in 1633 was in the \"Palazzo Grande\", part of the Villa Ludovisi. Pope Clement XII (ruled 1730-1740) acquired it for the Capitoline collections. It was later taken by Napoleon's forces under the terms of the Treaty of Tolentino and was displayed with other Italian works of art in the Louvre Museum until 1816 when it was returned to Rome.\n\nThe statue serves both as a reminder of the Celts' defeat, thus demonstrating the might of the people who defeated them, and a memorial to their bravery as worthy adversaries. The statue may also provide evidence to corroborate ancient accounts of the fighting style—Diodorus Siculus reported that \"Some of them have iron breastplates or chainmail while others fight naked\". Polybius wrote an evocative account of Galatian tactics against a Roman army at the Battle of Telamon of 225 BC:\n\nThe Roman historian Livy recorded that the Celts of Asia Minor fought naked and their wounds were plain to see on the whiteness of their bodies. The Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus regarded this as a foolish tactic:\n\nThe depiction of this particular Galatian as naked may also have been intended to lend him the dignity of heroic nudity or pathetic nudity. It was not infrequent for Greek warriors to be likewise depicted as heroic nudes, as exemplified by the pedimental sculptures of the Temple of Aphaea at Aegina. The message conveyed by the sculpture, as H. W. Janson comments, is that \"they knew how to die, barbarians that they were\".\n\nThe \"Dying Galatian\" became one of the most celebrated works to have survived from antiquity and was engraved and endlessly copied by artists, for whom it was a classic model for depiction of strong emotion, and by sculptors. It shows signs of having been repaired, with the head seemingly having been broken off at the neck, though it is unclear whether the repairs were carried out in Roman times or after the statue's 17th-century rediscovery. As discovered, the proper left leg was in three pieces. They are now pinned together with the pin concealed by the left kneecap. The Gaul's \"spiky\" hair is a 17th-century reworking of longer hair found as broken upon discovery.\n\nDuring this period, the statue was widely interpreted as representing a defeated gladiator, rather than a Galatian warrior. Hence it was known as the 'Dying' or 'Wounded Gladiator', 'Roman Gladiator', and 'Murmillo Dying'. It has also been called the 'Dying Trumpeter' because one of the scattered objects lying beside the figure is a horn.\n\nThe artistic quality and expressive pathos of the statue aroused great admiration among the educated classes in the 17th and 18th centuries and was a \"must-see\" sight on the Grand Tour of Europe undertaken by young men of the day. Byron was one such visitor, commemorating the statue in his poem \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\":\n\nIt was widely copied, with kings, academics and wealthy landowners commissioning their own reproductions of the \"Dying Gaul\". Thomas Jefferson wanted the original or a reproduction at Monticello. The less well-off could purchase copies of the statue in miniature for use as ornaments and paperweights. Full-size plaster copies were also studied by art students.\n\nIt was requisitioned by Napoleon Bonaparte by terms of the Treaty of Campoformio (1797) during his and taken in triumph to Paris, where it was put on display. The piece was returned to Rome in 1816. From December 12, 2013 until March 16, 2014 the work was on display in the main rotunda of the west wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C.. This temporary tenure marked the first time the antiquity had left Italy since it was returned in the second decade of the nineteenth century.\n\nCopies of the statue (itself a copy) can be seen in the Museum of Classical Archaeology at Cambridge University, Leinster House in Dublin, Ireland, as well as in Berlin, Prague, Stockholm, Versailles, Warsaw (Royal Baths Park).\n\nIn the United States, copies are at the Washington State Historical Society in Tacoma, Washington, at the Redwood Library, Newport, Rhode Island, and at Assumption College in Worcester, MA. \n\nA copy in bronze titled \"Centurion\" stands in front of the Mel Bailey Criminal Justice Center in Birmingham, Alabama, as a memorial to the lives of fallen police officers; this copy wears a pteruges but is otherwise identical.\n\nThe Royal Academy in London had one such copy, now at the Courtauld Gallery in London. It also had an écorché in this pose, cast in the late 18th century from the body of an executed smuggler and hence nicknamed \"Smugglerius\".\n\nThere is an example in bronze over the gate of the walled garden at Iford Manor, Wiltshire, England. In the English market town of Brigg in Lincolnshire, the long established coaching inn \"The Dying Gladiator\" displays a copy, using the old title.\n\nThe College of Fine Arts in the University of the Philippines Diliman also has a copy, using the old title. There is also a copy at the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg, Russia. and one in the Telfair Museum of Art Savannah, Georgia\n\nThe Museum of Art and Circus Museum, Ringling Brother Estate, Sarasota, Florida has a full-size copy.\n\nThe William Humphreys Art Gallery in South Africa, situated in Kimberley also has a copy.\n\nThe residence of the Ambassador of France to Cuba located in the Miramar suburb of Havana has a copy at the rear of the garden behind the residence.\n\nThe Pinacoteca in São Paulo, Brazil, has a bronze copy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986554", "title": "Mai Aizawa", "text": "Mai Aizawa\n\n"}
{"id": "1986555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986555", "title": "Ken Johnston (politician)", "text": "Ken Johnston (politician)\n\nKen Johnston (born 1950 in Vancouver) is a politician in British Columbia, Canada. He is currently a member of the Richmond city council, having previously sat on council from 1993 to 2001, and representing the Vancouver-Fraserview riding in the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia from 2001 to 2005.\n\nKen graduated from Killarney Secondary School in 1968. He attended the University of British Columbia, and, upon earning his Certified General Accountant designation in 1976, worked as a public practice accountant before moving into private business in 1980.\n\nFrom 1986, He was a director of Richmond Savings Credit Union, and from 1995 to 1998, he served as board chair. He is a past director of Coast Capital Savings. Before becoming a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA), Ken was serving the City of Richmond in his third term as a City councillor.\n\nAs an MLA, Ken served as a member of the Government Caucus Committee on Government Operations. He also served on Legislative Standing Committees: Parliamentary Reform, Ethical Conduct, Standing Orders and Private Bills, Legislative Initiatives, and he was a member of the Special Committee to Review the Freedom of Information & Protection of Privacy Act. He previously served on the Health and Crown Corporations committees.\n\nKen and Diane Johnston married in 1972 in Fraserview and have two grown children, Scott and Jennifer.\n"}
{"id": "1986557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986557", "title": "Invasion U.S.A. (1952 film)", "text": "Invasion U.S.A. (1952 film)\n\nInvasion, U.S.A. (sometime stylized Invasion USA) is a 1952 American drama film based on a story by Robert Smith and Franz Spencer and directed by Alfred E. Green. The film stars Gerald Mohr, Peggie Castle and Dan O'Herlihy. \"Invasion, U.S.A.\" is set in the Cold War and portrays the invasion of the United States by an unnamed Communist enemy meant to be taken as the Soviet Union.\n\nIn a New York City bar, the brooding, mysterious forecaster Mr. Ohman (Dan O'Herlihy) is sitting and drinking from a very large brandy glass. He gets into discussions with a cross-section of affluent Americans at the bar, including local television newscaster Vince Potter (Gerald Mohr), beautiful young New York society woman Carla Sanford (Peggie Castle), a California industrialist, a rancher from Arizona, and a Congressman. International news is bad, but these Americans do not want to hear it. While they all dislike Communism and appreciate the material wealth they enjoy, they also want lower taxes and don't see the need for industrial support of government. As he swishes the brandy around his snifter, Ohman tells the others that many Americans want safety and security, but do not want to make any sacrifices for it.\n\nSuddenly the news becomes worse. \"The Enemy\" is staging air attacks over Seal Point, Alaska and then Nome. Paratroops have landed on Alaskan airfields. Soon the enemy's plan of attack becomes clear: civilian airfields are captured as staging areas while military airfields are A-bombed. The United States fights back and attacks the enemy's homeland with Convair B-36 missions, but the enemy steadily moves into Washington and Oregon. Shipyards in Puget Sound are A-bombed with large casualties.\n\nMeanwhile, the Americans at the bar scramble to return to their lives to do what they can against the enemy, now that it is too late. Potter and Sanford fall for each other (\"War or no war, people have to eat and drink... and make love!\"). He continues to broadcast while she volunteers to help run a blood drive. The industrialist and the rancher both return home to find themselves on the front lines: the former caught in the battle for San Francisco, the latter in the destruction of Boulder Dam by a nuclear missile. The President of the United States makes ineffectual broadcasts with inflated claims of counter-attacks to rally the morale of the people. The enemy continues to advance with stealth attacks by troops dressed in American uniforms, including a paratrooper attack on the Capitol that kills the Congressman. New York is A-bombed, and Potter is soon killed during a broadcast. Sanford, confronted by an \"enemy\" soldier, jumps from a balcony.\n\nSuddenly, the image of her falling body appears in Ohman's brandy snifter. All five suddenly find themselves back in the bar, having just emerged from a hypnotic state Ohman had induced. After reassuring themselves that the recent events (including their deaths) did not really happen, they hurry off to take measures to boost military preparedness. Potter and Sanford \"resume\" their romance.\n\n\"Invasion, U.S.A.\" was the second film from American Pictures Corporation, who had just made their first film, \"Captive Women\". The company consisted of Albert Zugsmith, Peter Miller, Aubrey Wisberg and Jack Pollexfen with Joseph Justman as producer. They planned to make six films a year for five years out of a fund of $3.5 million. Robert Smith wrote the script. The film had the co operation of the US Civil Defense.\n\nHarold Daniels was to direct but he was instead assigned to American Pictures Corporation's, \"Port Sinister\". He was replaced by Alfred E. Green. Ron Randell was meant to appear in the cast but had to pull out. William Schallert replaced Clete Roberts. Gerald Mohr replaced Michael O'Shea. Filming started 26 March 1952.\n\nZugsmith said the film was made for a cash budget of $127,000 with $60,000 deferred. He says the movie was how he really learned filmmaking, getting an education from Al Green and Ralph Black in particular.\n\n\"The Enemy\" is never named but is clearly meant to be taken as the Communist Soviet Union, given their approach through Alaska, pseudo-Slavic accents, and \"People's Army\" proclamations. Principal photography began in early April 1952 at Motion Picture Center Studios.\n\nMuch of the film's running time is taken up with inconsistent combat stock footage.\n\nOn a philosophical level, \"Invasion, U.S.A.\" is also often viewed as humorously (and unintentionally) ironic, as the lesson it communicates encourages citizens to subordinate their individual needs and desires to that of the state in order to combat Communism.\n\nPhyllis Coates and Noel Neill, two Lois Lane actresses, and William Schallert, a B-movie stalwart, all have small parts in the film.\n\nIn a contemporary review of \"Invasion, U.S.A.\" in \"Variety\" stated: \"This production imaginatively poses the situation of a foreign power invading the US with atom bombs. Startling aspects of the screenplay [from a story by Robert Smith and Franz Spencer] are further parlayed through effective use of war footage secured from the various armed services and the Atomic Energy Commission.\"\n\nThe film was commercially successful, bringing in net profits of almost a million dollars by according to Zugmsith.\n\n\"Invasion, U.S.A.\" was subsequently shown on television in the late 1960s, but then was not widely viewed for a long time. In 1994, it was spoofed as Episode 602 on the movie-mocking television show \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\nIn 1998, \"Invasion, U.S.A.\" was released on VHS, then on DVD in 2002. A special edition in 2009 featured two original Civil Defense Department audio recordings on the alternate DVD audio track: \"The Complacent Americans\" and \"If the Bomb Falls: A Recorded Guide to Survival\"; the 1956 re-issue theatrical trailer; and interviews with stars, Dan O'Herlihy, William Schallert and Noel Neill. The original and controversial \"Red Scare\" short \"Red Nightmare\", narrated by Jack Webb, was also included in the bonus features.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986568", "title": "John Myers (radio executive)", "text": "John Myers (radio executive)\n\nJohn Myers (11 April 1959 – 1 June 2019) was a British radio executive, consultant and presenter. He was Chairman of the UK Radio Academy Awards, The Commercial Radio Awards and owner of Myers Media. Myers developed the Century Radio brand for Border Radio Holdings in the early 1990s, launching two more stations later in the decade. He presented programmes under the pseudonym \"John Morgan\". He then became Chief executive of GMG Radio, developing the Real Radio, Smooth Radio and Rock Radio brands and overseeing GMG Radio's acquisition of the Century network from GCap Media. He served as Chief executive of The Radio Academy from April 2011 until June 2012 and the founding Chairman of TeamRock, retiring in May 2016.\n\nIn 2009, he was asked by the Labour Government to produce a report on the future of local radio in the UK (\"The Myers Report\") which was published by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport in April 2009. A number of his recommendations were taken up by the Digital Economy Act 2010, leading to, amongst others, mergers within the Heart and Smooth Radio networks. Myers reviewed efficiencies at four BBC radio stations during the first quarter of 2011 and, in late 2011, began reviewing BBC Local Radio stations in response to the Delivering Quality First cuts.\n\nMyers started his radio career in 1980 as a Station Assistant for BBC Radio Cumbria. He was the station's first country music presenter while also presenting and producing a number of music programmes. He became a presenter in 1982 for Red Rose and then, Radio Tees in 1984. In 1989 he became the programme controller and breakfast presenter for Red Rose Gold\n\nWhile also in radio, he joined Border Television as a continuity announcer and programme presenter in 1985, and developed the long running Border Birthdays slot with a puppet called Eric the Monkey. He remained in television presentation for four years returning to Red Rose Radio in 1989. \nHe became managing director of Border Radio Holdings in 1993, launching their independent local radio station, CFM. Myers presented the breakfast programme, the Friday night phone-in and a Sunday lunch-time programme, called 'fun on the phones'.\n\nIn September 1994, he launched Century Radio in North East England. He again presented the breakfast show, this time under the pseudonym of John Morgan. Myers later released a compilation cassette of the wind-ups from his show, and even a novelty single, called \"Three Rosettes\", under the further pseudonym of Mr Martin. He also co-presented other shows, such as the Sunday lunch time \"Fun on the Phones\".\n\nDuring this time he also presented segments on Tyne Tees Television's magazine show. Ratings fell when Myers stepped down from presenting the breakfast show, and his replacement, Steve Coleman, was sacked after just three weeks. Myers returned for another 12 months until Paul Gough replaced him in 1997.\n\nIn 1997 Myers left the North East to launch 106 Century FM in the East Midlands. A year later the BBC television fly on the wall documentary \"Trouble at the Top\" followed the launch of 105.4 Century FM in North West England.\n\nMyers moved to Guardian Media Group (GMG) after they announced they planning to enter the radio stations Market . Sir Robert Phillis, the former GMG chief executive, enlisted him to establish GMG's radio division after seeing Myers on the documentary programme \"Trouble at the Top\".\n\nMyers became managing director of GMG Radio in 1999, winning the first licence for GMG, Real Radio (Wales), which launched in 2000. Myers resurrected the \"Fun on the Phones\" presenting as John Morgan, with John Simons occasionally presenting. The breakfast show was presented by Terry Underhill and Sarah Graham in the first few years of the station.\n\nHe became chief executive of GMGR in 2002, and joined the board of directors of the Guardian Media Group in 2006. In October 2006, GMG Radio bought the two remaining Century stations from GCap, bringing Myers to control the brand he started in 1994. During his nine years with the company, it was awarded four licences and made the purchase of: Scot FM from the Wireless Group; JAZZ FM; Paisley's Q96 from UTV; the two Century FM stations from GCap; and four Saga Radio stations.\n\nIn March 2007 he oversaw the launch of the Smooth Radio brand, the UK's first mainstream commercial stations to target the 40- to 59-year-old adult. The five existing Smooth FM and Saga stations were rebranded as Smooth Radio and the group launched the sixth station under this brand in North East England in January 2008. This was quickly followed by the launch of the group's second Rock Radio station in Manchester in May 2008. In December '08, GMGR was awarded the North Wales licence, which will allow Real Radio to be the first national commercial station in Wales.\n\nIn 2008 Myers convinced the GMG board to invest £1m in documentaries, a first for commercial radio, which were aired across the GMG network (apart from the Scottish stations). He stepped down from his role at GMG Radio to travel the world.\n\nIn January 2009, he was asked by the Labour Government to undertake a review of commercial radio in the UK, which was published in April 2009. To stop a high percentage of commercial radio stations losing money, Myers recommended that regulators could remove the imperative for local radio to be produced from within a geographic boundary; tailored news feeds alluding to a geographic area could be produced from one big building. A number of his recommendations were taken up within the Digital Britain report and the Digital Economy Act 2010. The changes lead to Smooth Radio merging its five England stations into one quasi-national station, with local news feeds produced from GMG Radio's headquarters in Salford Quays, and Global Radio halving the number of its Heart stations through co-local content.\n\nMyers was appointed chairman of Radio Tyneside, a hospital radio station serving patients in Newcastle upon Tyne and Gateshead, in July 2010.\n\nIn November 2010, he was asked by the BBC to review efficiency at Radio 1, 1Xtra, 6 Music and Radio 2; this project is expected to conclude in March 2011. \"The Telegraph\" reported that the BBC needed to hire someone with expertise in commercial radio, but was not a \"BBC hater\". In late 2011, the BBC commissioned Myers to produce a report on how the corporation's local radio stations can best adapt to the Delivering Quality First (DQF) budget cuts. BBC English Regions said that Myers was to \"advise us on how we can maximise productivity and deliver efficiency savings across local radio.\"\n\nHe assumed his role as Chief executive of The Radio Academy in April 2011, and left the role in June 2012. Through his company Myers Media he occasionally returns to the airwaves under his radio name of John Morgan. He joined Spectrum FM, an unlicensed or \"pirate\" radio station in Spain as a consultant and presenter of a weekly Sunday morning show.\n\nIn 2012, he became a visiting professor at the University of Cumbria; the institution also awarded him an honorary fellowship.\n\nHis autobiography, \"TEAM – It's only radio\", was published in October 2012.\n\nMyers was awarded a Fellowship in 2005 by The Radio Academy for his contribution to radio. In 2010 he was presented with an outstanding achievement award by The Radio Centre in recognition of his long service to commercial radio. He is a former board director of the RadioCentre, the Sony Radio Academy Awards Committee, and a past Chairman of The Radio Academy until March 2009. He was one of just 40 people inducted into the Radio Centre roll of honour in 2012.\n\nMyers has two children Kerry and Scott, and two grandchildren. Scott was a producer at Galaxy FM until 2007 and moved on to become the network producer for GMG in Salford. He was the producer of Capital Yorkshire's breakfast show, until September 2013 when he left to set up his own businesses.\n\nMyers' death was announced on 2 June 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986569", "title": "Alberta Football League", "text": "Alberta Football League\n\nThe Alberta Football League (AFL) is an amateur Canadian football league. The league's schedule runs from the start of June through to the end of September. \n\nThe Alberta Football League was established in 1984 so that men over the age of 21 could continue to play organized competitive football within the province of Alberta. Before the creation of the league, the only way to play competitive football after university or junior was the Canadian Football League.\n\nIn 1984–85 the league consisted of seven teams. They were: the Calgary Raiders, the Calgary Cowboys, the Calgary Crude, the Red Deer Redskins, the Rocky Warriors, the Hinton Grizzlies, and the Brownfield Bruisers.\n\nFor the 2016 season the league consisted of nine teams. They were: the Calgary Gators, the Calgary Wolfpack, the Central Alberta Buccaneers, the Lloydminster Vandals, the Grande Prairie Drillers, the Edmonton Raiders, Fort McMurray Monarchs, the St. Albert Stars and the Airdrie Irish.\n\nIn 1999, the AFL became a founding member of the Canadian Senior Football League, which is now known as the Canadian Major Football League. The CMFL is the national governing body for semi-pro Canadian football. Every September the AFL champion meets the champions of the other semi-pro leagues across the country to determine the national champion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986588", "title": "Akane Omae", "text": "Akane Omae\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986592", "title": "University High School (Irvine, California)", "text": "University High School (Irvine, California)\n\nUniversity High School (also known as UHS or \"Uni\") is one of six public high schools serving grades 9-12 in the city of Irvine, California, United States. It was established in 1970 and is situated on of land in the southwestern portion of the city, adjacent to the University of California, Irvine (UCI).\n\nThe school comprises six main academic buildings, a performing arts theater, a band room for instrumental music, a swimming pool, eight tennis courts, an indoor gymnasium supplemented with other indoor athletic facilities, a stadium, and several practice fields. Housed within the facilities are the departments of English, world languages, math, science, social science, instrumental music, art, industrial technology, athletics, physical education, English proficiency programs, special education, and the Orange County Deaf and Hard of Hearing Program. The school colors are navy blue, Columbia blue, and white. The school mascot is the Trojan.\n\nUniversity High School was named the best public high school in California and 8th best public high school in America in 2011 by \"Newsweek\". University was also the highest ranked institution on the list that was not a charter or magnet school.\n\nUniversity High School has consistently made \"Newsweek\"s list of Best High Schools, most recently ranking 102nd in 2013. It also ranked 117th in 2005, 156th in 2006, 76th in 2007, 156th in 2008 and 2009, 146th in 2010, and 8th in 2011. It also ranked 182nd on U.S. News and World Report's list of Best High Schools in 2013.\n\nIn May 1987, University High School was recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as an exemplary school in the Secondary School Recognition Program. In 1988 and 1992, UHS was similarly recognized as a California State Distinguished School. University was accredited by Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) for six years in 2004 and also in 2010.\n\nUniversity High School is often noted for its various academic teams, including Physics Bowl, Science Bowl, Science Olympiad, Academic Decathlon, Model United Nations, International Space Settlement Design Competition, Speech and Debate and math competitions (including ARML, and Math Day at the Beach). These teams generally attain high scores, often winning prestigious awards such as Best Club Delegation at Berkeley Model United Nations (BMUN) in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2014, and 2018 or first place at Math Day at the Beach for three years in a row (2008–2010). Its Academic Decathlon team reached the state finals of the California Academic Decathlon for the first time in 2018. \nUniversity High School is also home to the largest and one of the most distinguished Junior Classical Leagues in the nation and an noteworthy chapter of the Junior State of America. Furthermore, University High has sent a team to the International Space Settlement Design Competition (ISSDC) for five consecutive years and has won the national competition in several divisions of the National History Day contest. University is also home to one of the most successful Mock Trial programs in Orange County, consistently placing among the top teams at the Orange County competition. University High School also has numerous students named semi-finalists for the United States Physics, Math, Biology, and Chemistry Olympiads. The school's Science Bowl team also placed 4th nationally in 2013 and will be returning to nationals for the 2014 competition. University has also had Intel Science Talent Search finalists and semi-finalists, Siemens Competition semi-finalists, and categorical winners at ISEF.\n\nTogether with Venado Middle School, University High School hosts the Regional Deaf and Hard of Hearing Program for the Orange County Department of Education, a program that brings in deaf and hard of hearing students from all of Orange County as well as some students from nearby counties. The program provides interpreters, notetakers, and other special services, and serves as \"a model of regionalized programming nationwide\".\n\nIn 2009, University High won first place in the Deaf Academic Bowl.\n\nThe school's marching band and color guard currently competes in the 5A division with over 120 members. In 2009, the UHS marching band formally changed their name from the \"University High School Marching Band and Colorguard\" to the \"University High School Marching Trojan Regiment.\" In their 2010 season, the group won an unprecedented five out of six sweepstakes trophies at the Mayfair High School Tournament.\n\nUniversity High School is home to a colorguard program. During the fall, the colorguard accompanies the marching band in its competitive field show. In the winter and spring, the colorguard branches off and performs at competitions independently. In 2001, the University winterguard took home a gold medal in their division at the Winter Guard Association of Southern California Championships.\nIn addition to the marching band, University High offers students other opportunities in instrumental and choral music, including four concert bands, three orchestras, two jazz bands, percussion ensemble, choirs, and an a cappella group. Its orchestra and band students are routinely accepted into all-southern, all-state, and all-national ensembles.\n\nIn 2013, University High School's symphonic orchestra won second place at the ASTA All-National Orchestra Festival in Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nThe school's theater program puts on annual plays and musicals, and its dance program performs at school events, community events, and concerts.\n\nUniversity High School offers over 24 official athletics teams with numerous niche sports offered through school clubs. Some of the most popular sports include football, tennis, water polo, swimming, track and field, soccer, lacrosse, and basketball.\n\nThe University High School tennis teams have been especially prominent on campus, with the boys junior varsity team going undefeated in 191 consecutive matches over multiple seasons. In addition, the boys varsity team has won the CIF championship for the last four years and had a record of 137 wins and 1 loss in the last five years. Numerous varsity team members are nationally ranked and are often recruited to top Division I NCAA programs. The girls tennis team is notable as well, reaching CIF Finals on numerous occasions and winning several Pacific Coast League championships in recent years.\n\nAmong the 2,207 students enrolled from 2019–20, 51.7% were Asian, 40.1% Caucasian, 9% Hispanic/Latino, 2.8% Filipino/Pacific Islander, 2.9% African American, 1% Native American, and 0.6% Other/Multi-Ethnic. University High School is attended by students from seventy-two countries who speak fifty-two different languages.\n\n96% of the Class of 2013 UHS graduates entered post-secondary institutions of which 63% entered four-year universities and colleges. Thirty-three percent entered community colleges.\n\nIn 1992 Charles Keith, the assistant principal of University High School, stated that over 30% of the students were not native English speakers, that the students had origins from 54 countries, and that the students spoke 26 languages. In 1994, 54% of the students were white, 37% were Asian, 4.5% were Hispanic or Latino, and 3% were black.\n\nAs of 1994 most students originate from the University of California, Irvine area.\n\nResidents of the UC Irvine student family housing units (Palo Verde and Verano Place) are zoned to University High School. University High School also serves the neighborhoods of Shady Canyon, Quail Hill, Laguna Altura, Turtle Ridge, Turtle Rock, University Park, some areas of Westpark, and apartment complexes near UCI.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986595", "title": "Fontconfig", "text": "Fontconfig\n\nFontconfig (or fontconfig) is a free software program library designed to provide configuration, enumeration and substitution of fonts to other programs. Fontconfig was originally written and maintained by Keith Packard, and is currently maintained by Behdad Esfahbod.\n\nFontconfig is typically used on graphical Linux (and other Unix-like) desktops, where it remains an important part of handling fonts. However, it is also sometimes used on other platforms, notably including Windows versions of software that use Pango for laying out and rendering text, such as GIMP.\n\nEnd-users can use fontconfig, directly or indirectly, to customize and configure fonts on the system.\n\nApplications can use fontconfig in two ways:\n\nTo perform font matching, fontconfig stores typesetting information about all of the installed fonts, including the name of the font family, style, weight, DPI, and Unicode coverage. This information is also used to perform font substitution.\n\nFontconfig uses XML format for its configuration files. The Document Type Definition (DTD) for fontconfig files is normally located at /etc/fonts/fonts.dtd.\n\nThe master configuration file - usually /etc/fonts/fonts.conf - references a few other configuration locations which may or may not exist:\n\nA simple example of a configuration file:\n\n<?xml version=\"1.0\"?>\n<!DOCTYPE fontconfig SYSTEM \"fonts.dtd\">\n<fontconfig>\n</fontconfig>\nFontconfig ships with eight command line utilities to manage and query fonts and the font configuration of the system:\n\n\n"}
