{"id": "2013132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013132", "title": "Lavabo", "text": "Lavabo\n\nA lavabo is a device used to provide water for the washing of hands. It consists normally of an ewer or container of some kind to pour water, and a bowl to catch the water as it falls off the hands. In ecclesiastical usage it refers to all of: the basin in which the priest washes his/her hands; the ritual that surrounds this action in the Catholic Mass; and the architectural feature or fitting where a basin or place for one is recessed into the side wall of the sanctuary, or projects from it. If this last includes or included a drain, it is a piscina used for washing the church plate and other fittings, though the terms are often confused. In secular usage, it is an obsolete term for any sink or basin for washing hands, especially in a lavatory.\n\nThe name \"\" (\"I shall wash\" in Latin) is derived from the words of Psalm (KJV; in the Septuagint it is Psalm 25), which the celebrant traditionally recites while he/she/they washes his/her/their hands: \"I will wash my hands in innocency, so will I compass thine altar, O Lord\". The washing of hands during the recitation of these psalm verses is of very ancient usage in the Catholic Church:\n\nIn the third century there are traces of a custom of washing the hands as a preparation for prayer on the part of all Christians; and from the fourth century onwards it appears to have been usual for the ministers at the Communion Service ceremonially to wash their hands before the more solemn part of the service as a symbol of inward purity.\n\nIn most liturgical traditions, the priest washes his/her/their hands after vesting, before the beginning of the liturgy. This washing may be accompanied by prayers. Many Christian rites also have the priest wash his/her/their hands before beginning the Eucharistic prayer. In the \"Apostolic Constitutions\", VIII, 11, the hands of the celebrants are washed just before the dismissal of the catechumens.\n\nIn the Roman Rite, the celebrant washes his hands privately before vesting for Mass, perhaps using the prayer (\"Da, Domine, virtutem\"). Within the rite of Mass he washes his hands after preparing the offerings on the altar. This is the \"lavabo\" ceremony proper. It appears in both the Tridentine and the post-Vatican II forms of the Roman Rite Mass. It probably developed from the need to wash the hands after receiving the gifts brought by the people at the offertory as was used at Rome. In the Gallican Rite the offerings were prepared before Mass began, as in the Eastern Liturgy of Preparation, so in those rites there was no long offertory rite nor need for a lavabo before the Eucharistic Prayer. In the Middle Ages, the Roman Rite actually had two washings of hands, one before and one after the offertory. The first one has since disappeared, and the one which remains is the second.\n\nAt High Mass (or sung Mass), in the older rite, and in the more solemn forms available in the newer version, after the offertory, the celebrant censes the altar and is then censed himself at the Epistle side (south side of the altar), he remains there while his hands are washed by the acolytes, who ought to be waiting by the credence table. The first acolyte pours water from the cruet over his fingers into a little dish, the second then hands him the towel to dry the fingers. Meanwhile, in the 1962 rubrics he says the psalm verses: \"I will wash my hands among the innocent...\", to the end of the psalm (Psalm 25: 6-12 in the Vulgate, which is Psalm 26: 6-12 in the Hebrew). In the newer Mass the celebrant says the prayer: \"Lord, wash away my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin\" (Psalm 50:2, Psalm 51:2 in the Hebrew).\n\nA bishop at high Mass wears the \"precious\" mitre (\"mitra pretiosa\") while he is censed and then washes his hands. A larger silver basin and cruet are generally used for a bishop, though there is no official requirement for this. \n\nFor the lavabo, the priest will use a simple linen towel, which is often considered to be one of the altar linens, though technically it is not.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches, the priest says the last six verses from Psalm 26:\nI will wash my hands in innocency and I will compass Thine altar, O Lord, that I may hear the voice of Thy praise and tell of all Thy wondrous works. O Lord, I have loved the beauty of Thy house, and the place where Thy glory dwelleth. Destroy not my soul with the ungodly, nor my life with men of blood, in whose hands are iniquities; their right hand is full of bribes. But as for me, in mine innocence have I walked; redeem me, O Lord, and have mercy on me. My foot hath stood in uprightness; in the congregations will I bless Thee, O Lord.\nAfter vesting, he goes to the \"thalassidion\" (piscina) to wash his hands before approaching the prothesis (altar of preparation), where he will prepare the bread and wine for the Divine Liturgy. This lavabo takes place quietly, outside of the view of the congregation.\n\nSaint Cyril of Jerusalem mentions a washing of hands that takes place in the sight of the people (Mystagogical Catechism, v). And this still takes place at a Hierarchical Divine Liturgy (i.e., one at which a bishop is serving). He will wash his hands as he stands at the \"kathedra\" in the nave of the church. This takes place during the reading of the Little Hours after he has been solemly vested by two subdeacons. The subdeacons and a server will approach the bishop; the server holds the ewer and basin, and has a large towel around his neck. The subedacons pour rose water over the bishop's hands and then lift the towel from the server's neck and give it to the bishop for him to dry his hands. Meanwhile, the protodeacon is swinging the censer and chanting the verses from Psalm 25. Afterwards, the subdeacons replace the towel over the server's neck, and all three bow to the bishop and return to the sanctuary. \n\nJust before the Great Entrance the same ceremony takes place as during the Little Hours, except now it takes place in front of the Holy Doors of the iconostasis. After drying his hands, the bishop goes to the prothesis to make his personal commemorations for the living and the dead, as he removes particles from the prosphora.\n\nThe clergy will also wash their hands after receiving Holy Communion, but this is not accompanied by special prayers.\n\nIn the Syriac and Coptic rites, the lavabo takes place after the recitation of the Nicene Creed.\n\nIn many early and medieveal monasteries, there would be a large lavabo (\"lavatorio\") where the brethren would wash their hands before entering church. This practice was first legislated in the Rule of St. Benedict in the 6th century, but has earlier antecedents. St. John Chrysostom mentions the custom in his day of all Christians washing their hands before entering the church for worship.\n\nThough ecclesiastical lavabos are ordinarily of metal, a familiar lavabo consists of a terra cotta tank with a faucet attached and a small basin below it. Today it is a common feature in many gardens in Europe and the U.S. as a decoration whose practical use has been long forgotten. \n\nThe lavabo may be considered the forerunner of the modern sink. In several European languages (French, Italian, Serbo-Croatian, Spanish, Turkish), \"lavabo\" is the modern word for sink or washbasin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013135", "title": "Shining Force II", "text": "Shining Force II\n\nThe game is much longer than the first and more free-roaming. There is no chapter system, so the player can return to previously visited parts of the world. There are also two different ways of promoting many characters.\n\nThis game was re-released on the Wii Virtual Console in Europe on October 3, 2008 and in North America on October 6, 2008. It also appears in \"Sonic's Ultimate Genesis Collection\" for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 and as a standalone game on Steam.\n\n\"Shining Force II\" is a tactical role-playing game. The player assumes the role of the Shining Force leader, Bowie. When not in combat, the player can explore towns and other locales, talk with people, and set the members and equipment of the army. Some towns have a headquarters where the player can inspect and talk with his allies. While roaming through town or moving throughout the world, one can find both visible and hidden treasures and interact with certain objects.\n\nEach ally unit is represented by a character with a background and personality. Some of these characters are hidden, requiring specific events to occur before they will join the force. Each ally unit also has a class, which defines the abilities for that unit. These abilities range from what type of weapons they can use to what kind of spells they can learn. Units can become stronger by fighting enemies and performing various actions which give them experience points (EXP), which allow them to gain levels. Once a unit reaches level 20, that character has the ability to advance to a more powerful class through promotion. Some characters have two different classes they may be promoted to, one of which is only accessible using a special hidden item.\n\nBattles take place on a square grid, and each unit occupies a single square. Battles are turn-based. Each turn, a character can move and perform one action: either attack, cast a spell, or use an item. Some commands, such as equipping or dropping an item during the turn, do not count as actions.\n\nThe battle is won if all enemies are defeated, or if the enemy commander is defeated. If Bowie is defeated in combat or withdraws, the battle is lost and the player is returned to the nearest town, where he can recover his allies and fight the same battle again.\n\nIn a shrine south of Granseal Castle, a thief named Slade unwittingly breaks the power of a magic seal by stealing the jewels of Light and Darkness; this unseals the demon king Zeon trapped therein. The following day, King Granseal falls sick when he is attacked by an unknown creature. Sir Astral, the court's adviser, along with his apprentices, Bowie the squire, Sarah the healer and Chester the knight, investigate these events at the castle. They find that the door to the Tower of Ancients has been unlocked and stands open.\n\nGreeting their arrival in the tower are devils named \"Gizmos\" springing forth to attack, though their ultimate intentions are unknown. Upon their defeat, the Gizmo that appears to be the leader flees. It is discovered thereafter to have possessed King Granseal. Sir Astral and the nascent Shining Force visit the king, finding him possessed. Sir Astral exorcises the demon, which promptly flees. The Minister, in place of King Granseal who is looking over a fainted Astral, then orders the slaying of the Gizmo by a platoon of Granseal's soldiers. The Gizmo subsequently possesses the king of the neighboring kingdom of Galam. Bowie and his friends are captured by the Galam military: while in their dungeon, they meet the thief, Slade. When the party breaks out, Slade helps Bowie retrieve the Jewel of Light and accompanies his party back to Granseal, which has been invaded by Galam forces. They find the possessed King Galam inside the Ancient Tower, who has taken Princess Elis as a hostage. In the ensuing battle, Bowie wrests the Jewel of Darkness from him, but he is unable to rescue Elis, and the ground around the Ancient Tower collapses.\n\nThe people of Granseal are forced to resettle on the continent of Parmecia. It is here that the true nature of the threat is revealed, so Bowie and friends must now travel across Parmecia to gather allies, solve the riddle of the Jewels, obtain the Force Sword, and seal away Zeon once more.\n\n\"Shining Force II\" takes place somewhere in the area of 40-70 years after \"\", and is set in the same lands of Parmecia and Grans. The story focuses on the bid for freedom of Zeon, the devil who helped defeat Darksol in Final Conflict, and it is explained how Zeon's rivalry with Darksol began. Zeon's chief follower Oddeye also plays a major role and meets his final fate.\n\nThe nation of Granseal, founded at the conclusion of Final Conflict, is flourishing. Hawel is still living in the town he pledged to establish in Final Conflict, and has sired several children, one of them, Chaz, joins the \"Shining Force II\" party. He also passes on information concerning the Devil Kings that he learned in Final Conflict, and a student of his called Kazin joins the party in the early stages of the story. The gods Volcanon and Mitula again play a hand in matters. Artifacts from Final Conflict such as the Caravan and Nazca Ship make return appearances, and several monsters, most notably the Kraken, still terrorize the lands.\n\nAdditionally, the game \"Shining Wisdom\" is a sequel of sorts to \"Shining Force II\". \"Shining Force II\" tells how Sarah and Kazin (\"Salah\" and \"Parn\" in the Working Designs translation) became traveling companions and recounts the full story of the Parmecia War referred to several times in \"Shining Wisdom\".\n\nThe most notable translation error is that the three Devil Kings are named as \"Dark Sol, Dark Dragon, and Zeon\". Fan translators have since uncovered (and \"Shining Force II\" co-director/programmer Yasuhiro Taguchi has confirmed) that the Devil Kings are in fact Darksol, Lucifer, and Zeon. The official translation's assigning Dark Sol and Dark Dragon the relatively detailed history of the Devil Kings not only alters \"Shining Force II\" but effectively rewrites the entire premises of \"Shining in the Darkness\" and \"Shining Force I\", the games in which they are the foremost villains. For similar reasons, the entire plot of \"\" is rendered nonsensical, since it is based on Darksol's role as a Devil King and shows \"Dark Sol\" (actually \"Mephisto\" in the original script, and an entirely different character from Darksol) being born less than a century before \"Shining Force II\".\n\nThis mistranslation also creates at least two major contradictions between the English versions of \"Shining Force I\" and \"II\":\n\nDespite being the fifth game in the successful \"Shining\" series, Sega allotted the same budget for \"Shining Force II\" as it had for the first game in the series, \"Shining in the Darkness\". Additionally, producer/co-programmer Hiroyuki Takahasi remarked in a 2009 interview that \"We were in a really precarious position at that point because we knew that if we couldn't produce another hit we would have no future.\" As a result, most of the \"Shining\" series development team dropped out and had to be replaced with new staff for the production of \"Shining Force II\". Hiroyuki Takahashi summarized the game as \"an experimental title where we improved the story and enhanced the game's 'RPG-ness'.\"\n\n\"GamePro\" panned the game, saying that the cheerful and upbeat soundtrack is out of place, the menu system is confusing, the style is too RPG-generic, and the use of turn-based instead of real-time combat makes battles \"slow and cumbersome\". \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"s Mike Weigand commented that the story \"could use a few more twists and turns\", but that the music is good, the control configuration is very user-friendly, and the game improves on the first \"Shining Force\" with bigger areas to explore. He summarized that \"This will definitely appeal to fans of the first one, and to RPG fans in general.\" Stan Hojnacki of the \"Santa Cruz Sentinel\" recommended the game, describing it as \"a worthy sequel to a popular first edition.\"\n\n\"Shining Force II\" was a bestseller in Japan.\n\nIn 1997 \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" listed it as the 60th best console video game of all time, citing the compelling story and the cerebral challenge of the battles. In 2007 IGN named it one of the top 100 video games of all time at number 48, and \"Retro Gamer\" included it among the top ten Mega Drive games.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013139", "title": "Xfinity", "text": "Xfinity\n\nXfinity is a trade name of Comcast Cable Communications, LLC, a subsidiary of the Comcast Corporation, used to market consumer cable television, internet, telephone, and wireless services provided by the company. The brand was first introduced in 2010; prior to that, these services were marketed primarily under the Comcast name.\n\nIts CEO is Dave Watson, its chairman is Brian L. Roberts, and its CFO is Catherine Avgiris. Xfinity went from $23.7 billion in revenue in 2007 to $50.04 billion in 2016.\n\nIn February 2010, Comcast began to re-brand its consumer triple play service offerings under the name Xfinity; Comcast Digital Cable was renamed \"Xfinity TV\", Comcast Digital Voice became \"Xfinity Voice\", and Comcast High Speed Internet became \"Xfinity Internet\". The re-branding and an associated promotional campaign were scheduled to coincide with the 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe rebranding was characterized by the media as an effort to sidestep the negativity of the Comcast brand. \"Time\" considered Xfinity to be among the worst corporate renamings of all time, asking \"Will the name change work? Probably not, but at least it'll sound a bit edgier when you're put on hold...with Xfinity.\"\n\nComcast is the largest provider of cable internet access in the United States, servicing 40% of the market in 2011. As of July 26, 2018, Comcast has 26.5 million high-speed internet customers.\nComcast began offering internet services in late 1996, when it helped found the @Home Network, which sold internet service through Comcast's cable lines. The agreement continued after @Home's merger with Excite. When the combined company Excite@Home filed for bankruptcy in 2002, Comcast moved their roughly 950,000 internet customers completely onto their own network.\n\nAlong with the price of internet subscriptions, Comcast charges users an additional $14.00/month to rent a cable modem. This fee has been seen by some as unfair, but is waived for customers who buy their own modems. Comcast charges $20 for internet installation, but the fee is waived for customers who opt to install themselves.\n\nIn 2011, Comcast launched its \"Internet Essentials\" program, which offers low-cost internet service to families with children who qualify for free or reduced price school lunches. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) required this budget service as a condition for allowing Comcast's acquisition of NBCUniversal in January 2011. Of an estimated 2.60 million households eligible for the program, about 220,000 households participate in the program as of June 2013. A similar program is available from other internet providers through the non-profit Connect2compete.org. Comcast has stated that the program will accept new customers for a total of three years. In March 2014, as he met with FCC concerning the Time Warner Cable merger, Comcast vice president David Cohen told reporters that the internet essentials program will be extended indefinitely.\n\nAt the 2017 Consumer Electronics Show, Comcast unveiled a new software platform for its Arris 1682G and Cisco 3941T/3939 modems, which would offer a redesigned configuration interface, support for remote setup and management via an Xfinity mobile app, and enabling integration of supported smart home devices with other Xfinity platforms such as Xfinity TV. The new platform launched under the brand xFi in May 2017. Comcast also unveiled the xFi Advanced Gateway, a new router designed to facilitate faster Wi-Fi speeds, including support for 802.11ac Wave 2, as well as internal support for Bluetooth Low Energy, Thread, and Zigbee for finer integration with Internet of things devices, and support for an accompanying line of Wi-Fi extenders (manufactured by Plume).\n\nComcast operates a network of public Wi-Fi hotspots for Xfinity internet subscribers known as Xfinity WiFi, which consists of a mixture of hotspots installed in public locations and businesses, and those generated by supported Xfinity home gateways on an opt-out basis. Users on the \"Performance\" tier or higher receive unlimited usage of these hotspots after signing in with their Xfinity Account. By default, all dual-band Xfinity home gateways operate both a private network, and a public network with the SSID \"xfinitywifi.\" To conserve bandwidth, these hotspots are capped at 5 simultaneous users. Customers can opt out of providing Xfinity WiFi through either the Comcast website, or by installing a third-party router.\n\nComcast has received criticism for this practice, with critics arguing that the company was abusing customer resources (including bandwidth and electricity) to provide services for other customers, as well as concerns regarding security, and liability for actions performed by users while connected to these home hotspots; in 2014, a proposed class action lawsuit was filed in California, citing violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and similar state laws for these reasons. Comcast defended the service by stating that the public Wi-Fi is firewalled from devices connected to the in-home network, was designed to have minimal bandwidth impact to \"support robust usage\", and that customers would not be liable for the actions of other users, as abusers can be traced by means of the Xfinity account they used to sign into the network. The lawsuit was taken to arbitration.\n\nIn the wake of Hurricane Irma, all Xfinity WiFi hotspots in Florida were opened to non-Comcast subscribers.\n\nInitially, Comcast had a policy of terminating broadband customers who use \"excessive bandwidth\", a term the company refused to define in its terms of service, which once said only that a customer's use should not \"represent (in the sole judgment of Comcast) an overly large burden on the network\". Company responses to press inquiries suggested a limit of several hundred gigabytes per month. In September 2007, Comcast spokesman Charlie Douglas said the company defined \"excessive use\" as the equivalent of 30,000 songs, 250,000 pictures or 13 million emails in a month.\n\nComcast introduced a 250 GB monthly bandwidth cap to its broadband service on October 1, 2008, combining both upload and download towards the monthly limit. If a user exceeded the cap three times within six months, the customer's residential services may have been terminated for one year. A spokesperson stated that this policy had been in place for some time, but was the first time Comcast has announced a specific usage limit.\n\nAs the cap provoked a strongly negative reaction from some, Comcast decided to modify its policy in 2012. Under the new system, the cap was replaced with a data threshold and increased to 300GB in some markets, and consumers who exceed this threshold are charged $10 for every 50 GB above the limit. Customers could purchase a $30 add-on for \"unlimited\" data. In a leaked memo, Comcast employees were instructed to state that the policy is for \"Fairness and providing a more flexible policy to our customers\", and not for controlling network congestion.\n\nOn April 27, 2016, Comcast announced that it would raise its data threshold in trial markets to 1 TB by June 2016; the company stated that \"more than 99 percent of our customers do not come close to using a terabyte.\" The decision to raise the cap came following implication of increased scrutiny surrounding them by the FCC: in its approval of Charter Communications' purchase of Time Warner Cable, the Commission stipulated that Charter must not implement caps. As previously, a $10 overage fee is charged for every 50 GB above the limit, and customers can purchase an add-on for \"unlimited\" data, but its price was increased to $50. In October 2016, Comcast announced that bandwidth thresholds would be implemented in the majority of its markets (outside of New York and the northeast) beginning November 1, 2016. The data usage plan does not currently apply to the Gigabit Pro tier of service, Business Internet customers, customers on Bulk Internet agreements, and customers with Prepaid Internet.\n\nIn September 2007, a rumor emerged among tech blogs that Comcast was throttling or even blocking internet traffic transmitted via the BitTorrent protocol. Comcast vehemently denied the accusations of blocking traffic, stating that \"Comcast does not, has not, and will not block any Web sites or online applications, including peer-to-peer services\", and that \"We engage in reasonable network management\". After more widespread confirmation that Comcast was throttling BitTorrent traffic, Comcast said it occasionally delayed BitTorrent traffic in order to speed up other kinds of data, but declined to go into specifics. Following the announcement of an official investigation by the FCC, Comcast voluntarily ended the traffic discrimination. The FCC investigation concluded that Comcast's throttling policies were illegal. However, after filing a lawsuit in September 2008, Comcast overturned the illegality of its network management in 2010, as the court ruled that the FCC lacked the authority to enforce net neutrality under the FCC's then current regulatory policy. The court suggested instead of its current framework, the FCC move to a common carrier structure to justify its enforcement. As of February 2014, the FCC has announced a new justification, but avoided the more extensive regulation required by the common carrier framework.\n\nIn 2010, Netflix signed an agreement with Level 3 Communications to carry its data. Shortly after, Level 3 entered a heated dispute concerning whether Level 3 would have to pay Comcast to bridge their respective networks, in an agreement known as peering. The disagreement continued as Netflix's current carrier, Cogent Communications, explicitly placed blame for Netflix bottlenecks on Comcast and several other ISPs. In February 2014, after rumors surfaced that Comcast and Netflix had reached an unspecified agreement, the companies confirmed that Netflix was paying Comcast to connect to its network. The details of the agreement are not public, and speculation disagrees about whether the agreement is a precedent against net neutrality, or a continuation of normal peering agreements.\n\nXfinity Voice (formerly Comcast Digital Voice) is a landline telephone service that was launched in 2005 in select markets, and to all of Comcast's markets in 2006. Comcast's older service, Comcast Digital Phone, continued to offer service for a brief period, until Comcast shut it down around late 2007. In 2009, after completing transition from their old service, Comcast had 7.6 million voice customers. As of the end of 2013, Comcast Digital Voice had reached 10.7 million subscribers.\n\nAt the start of 2012, Comcast stood as the United States' third-largest residential telephone provider. At that time the company supplied 9.34 million residential telephone lines.\n\nXfinity Voice allows communication over the internet using VoIP, but uses a private network instead of a public IP address, which allows Comcast to prioritize the voice data during heavy traffic. In technical terms, on Comcast's Hybrid Fiber Coaxial network, calls are placed into individual Unsolicited Grant Service flows, based on DOCSIS 1.1 Quality of service standards. For the customer, this has the benefit of preventing network congestion from interfering with call quality. However, this separation of traffic into separate flows, or Smart pipe, has been seen by some as a violation of net neutrality, who call instead for equal treatment of all data, or dumb pipe. Other, non-Comcast VoIP services on Comcast's network must use the lower priority public IP addresses. The practice was questioned by the FCC in 2009. In their response, Comcast stated that services that use telecommunications are not necessarily telecommunications services, and noted the FCC's current designation of Comcast Digital Voice as an information service exempted it from telecommunications service regulations. Comcast also said that because Comcast Voice was a separate service, it was unfair to directly compare the data for Comcast Voice with the data for other VoIP services.\n\nBecause telephone services over VoIP are not automatically tied to a physical address, Xfinity Voice utilizes E911 to help 911 service operators to automatically locate the source of the 911 call. Voice calls are delivered as a digital stream over the Comcast network, signal is converted to analog plain old telephone service lines at the cable modem, which outputs on standard analog RJ-11 jacks.\n\nComcast's cable television customers peaked in 2007, with about 24.8 million customers. Comcast had lost customers every year since 2007, with the first quarterly gain in customers since their peak occurring in the fourth quarter of 2013. As of the end of 2013, Comcast serves a total of 21.7 million cable customers. The average cost Comcast's Digital Basic cable subscription has increased 72% from 2003 to 2012. In Q4 2015, Comcast added 89,000 new video subscribers which was their best result in 8 years.\n\nIn addition to the prices of subscriptions, since July 2012, Comcast charges a Regulatory Recovery Fee of varying size in order to \"recover additional costs associated with governmental programs.\" Beginning in January 2014, Comcast also charges a Broadcast TV Fee to \"defray the rising costs of retransmitting broadcast television signals.\"\n\nIn May 2012, Comcast soft launched X1 (codenamed \"Xcalibur\"), a new hardware and software platform for its television services, in Boston. It provides more extensive support for integrated internet content, as well as apps for video streaming services, and a remote control that accepts voice recognition input. It was scheduled for a wider, nationwide availability by the end of 2013.\n\nBeginning in the mid-2000s, television stations increasingly required cable companies like Comcast to pay retransmission fees in exchange for permission to broadcast their content. (Historically, TV broadcasters made money almost exclusively through advertising.) These fees have been the subject of heated negotiation between broadcasters and distributors, with a few high-profile blackouts prompting the U.S. Federal Communications Commission to publicly express serious concern in 2011. Comcast has ten year agreements with CBS and Disney, as well as deals with Fox and others, but the financial details of these deals are not public.\n\nSince the rise of retransmission fees, distributors like Comcast pay substantial fees for retransmitting broadcast television, which is free over the air for consumers. Comcast has instated a $1.50 Broadcast TV Fee to cover part of the cost of getting permission from stations to retransmit the free stations, itemized separately for consumers. Comcast's subsidiary, NBCUniversal, was one of several broadcasters party to American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, Inc., over the question of whether Aereo is a retransmitter (which would require it to pay retransmission fees). The case was decided on June 25, 2014 in favor of the broadcasters in a 6-3 decision.\n\nComcast offers a home security and home automation service known as Xfinity Home, in some of its service areas. This service provides residential customers a monitored burglar and fire alarm, surveillance cameras, and home automation. Critics of their technology found that \"thieves can easily undermine the system to trick homeowners into thinking they’re protected when they’re not.\" Wired magazine reported the vulnerability has the potential to attract thieves, quoting security expert Tod Beardsley: \"The sign that is designed to deter attackers can now become a sign that invites attackers.\n\nIn April 2017, Comcast launched Xfinity Mobile, a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) on the Verizon Wireless network. It is promoted as being part of a quadruple play with Xfinity television, internet, and home phone services.\n\nXfinity Mobile provides prepaid (with users able to purchase data in 1 GB bundles) and monthly unlimited plans, with the latter throttled after 20 GB of use. The service is sold exclusively to Comcast internet and television subscribers, with discounted pricing offered to Xfinity \"Premier Double Play\" and \"Triple Play\" subscribers. Access to Xfinity WiFi hotspots is also included, which is promoted as a means to help conserve bandwidth caps.\n\nAnalysts perceived Xfinity Mobile as being a response to AT&T's acquisition of DirecTV, which added the national satellite provider alongside its existing wireline and wireless services, and an increased push towards mobile television. In the third quarter of 2018, Xfinity Mobile surpassed 1 million subscribers. On May 18, 2020, Comcast announced that their customers will be getting new data plans that add the brand new 5G service to their lineup.\n\nIn addition to residential consumers, Comcast also serves businesses as customers, targeting small businesses with fewer than 20 employees and mid-sized businesses of 20–500 employees. In 2009, Minneapolis–Saint Paul became the first city in which Comcast Business Class offered 100 Mbit/s Internet service, which includes Microsoft Communication Services. Comcast Business Class Internet service does not have a bandwidth usage cap.\n\nComcast Business services used to be sold exclusively through direct sales employees. In March 2011, Comcast created an indirect sales channel called the Solution Provider Program, a comprehensive indirect channel program that enables telecommunications consultants and system integrators to sell Comcast's services such as Business Class Internet, Voice, and high-capacity Ethernet services to small and mid-market businesses. The program offers recurring commissions for sales partners based on monthly revenue, and Comcast will provide, install, manage and bill for these services. For the initial launch of the Solutions Provider Program, Comcast enlisted three national master representatives—Telarus, based in Salt Lake City, Utah; Intelisys, based in Petaluma, California; and Telecom Brokerage Inc (TBI), based in Chicago. Sub-agent sales partners must work with one of these three partners in the early stages of the program.\n\nAccusations of hidden fees were reported in Washington state in late 2017.\n\nComcast and XFINITY by Comcast have a 2 star rating on ConsumerAffairs.com with multitudes of dissatisfied customers' reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013148", "title": "January 1981", "text": "January 1981\n\nThe following events occurred in January 1981:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013149", "title": "WCRB", "text": "WCRB\n\nWCRB (99.5 FM) is a non-commercial radio station licensed to Lowell, Massachusetts and based in the Brighton area of Boston, which serves the Greater Boston area. It broadcasts a classical music format; it existed as a commercial station from the early 1950s until December 2009, and as a listener-supported station since then, having then been acquired by the WGBH Educational Foundation. Programming is also simulcast on the second HD Radio channel of WGBH, allowing WCRB to reach some portions of the Boston area that cannot receive 99.5, as well as WJMF in Smithfield, Rhode Island (serving nearby Providence), the second HD Radio channel of WCAI in Woods Hole, and W242AA (96.3) in Kendall Square, Cambridge (designed to serve Beacon Hill, Boston).\n\nWCRB began broadcasting on 1330 kHz out of Waltham on January 30, 1948. In 1950, the station was sold entirely to Theodore Jones, who would own the station under the name of Charles River Broadcasting until his death in 1991. Prior to that time, \"Ted\" Jones set up the Charles River Broadcast Trust to guarantee that his establishment would continue in perpetuity.\n\nAround the time Jones first acquired the station, WBMS, a daytime AM radio station that had programmed classical music, changed format. Jones decided to change WCRB's format from that of a typical suburban AM station of the era to full-time classical music. FM service at 102.5 Megacycles (as MegaHertz was then known) was added by 1954 upon the purchase of the WHAV FM transmitter. FM brought WCRB's classical music format to parts of the Boston area that did not get good reception of WCRB's directional AM signal, and made improved audio quality available.\n\nIn 1961, WCRB-FM became the first Boston-area station to broadcast in multiplex stereo; for a few years prior to that, WCRB had broadcast some of its programming in stereo by carrying one channel on AM, the other on FM. WCRB was directly involved with the development of FM multiplex stereo. Station WCRB and H. H. Scott, then of Maynard, Massachusetts developed prototype stereophonic equipment that was used to prove the \"General Electric\" multiplex method being evaluated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). H.H. Scott was an early stereophonic receiver manufacturer that developed and manufactured high-quality home stereo equipment. Once the FCC approved stereophonic broadcasting, WCRB created a special \"stereo\" studio in downtown Boston, the first in the world. There was no dual channel (stereo) studio equipment at the time. Much of the equipment was handmade by the engineering staff.\n\nWCRB is noted for many other innovations. It was the first radio station to obtain a permanent waiver of the FCC rules requiring average modulation in excess of eighty-five percent. This was necessary to preserve the dynamic range of the concert music broadcasts. The station also obtained a permanent waiver of the FCC rule that required a station identification announcement every thirty minutes. This meant that a live concert performance no longer had to be interrupted for station identification.\n\nThe WCRB engineering staff worked with the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) to codify the RIAA LP record frequency-response curve, and create the NAB standard. Other technical innovations followed. Before the early days of FM stereo broadcasting, nobody had encountered the necessity of amplitude- and phase-matching two 15 kHz stereo leased lines. The telephone company called such a channel type \"Program channel A\". To them, as long as the frequency response and noise level matched their specifications, stereo simply meant that there would be two lines. It was just a matter of labeling them! Not so. WCRB engineering worked with AT&T to generate a specification involving matching both the phase and frequency response. This became the standard of the industry. Eventually, as stereo caught on across the country, these methods and specifications were used to install stereophonic leased lines to transmitters across the country, until they were made obsolete by the development of composite-signal studio-transmitter links. In the early days of radio, stations had full-time engineers on duty. Therefore, the WCRB engineering staff also recorded live performances for the Boston Symphony Orchestra Transcription Trust.\n\nAlthough Charles River Broadcasting had acquired other radio stations, WCRB remained as the company's flagship station.\n\nIn 1975, WCRB ended simulcasting of WCRB-FM, changing callsigns to WHET, and its format to big-band/adult standards. In 1978, Charles River Broadcasting sold off WHET (later renamed WRCA), but retained WCRB, which became increasingly successful over the years as a 24/7 classical music station.\nWCRB was under a long-term commitment by Charles River Broadcasting Trust, established by Theodore Jones, to continue to air classical music in perpetuity, and it carried no non-classical music programs. However, the decision to interpret the commitment as a request rather than a demand resulted in the announced sale of the station to Greater Media on December 19, 2005. The trustees of the Charles River Broadcast Trust had already sold off portions of the trust's property so that there was little physical property and real estate left. The AM transmitter site in Waltham was sold to a developer who built the Watermill Complex. This, and the sales of stations such as WCRQ in Providence, Rhode Island, marked the beginning of the gradual dissolution of the Theodore Jones trust. It was upon the death of Richard L. Kaye, an early manager, minority stockholder, and trusted associate of Jones, that the Charles River Trust would no longer maintain the commitments made by its founder.\nGreater Media already owned five FM stations in the Boston market—the maximum allowed by the FCC and one of Greater Media's Boston stations would have to be sold before the company could acquire WCRB. Speculation arose that Greater Media would sell off 99.5 WKLB-FM, as its Andover transmitter location provided poor overall coverage of the Boston market, in contrast to the company's other stations. These thoughts were confirmed on July 31, 2006, when Greater Media announced that it would sell the physical property of WKLB-FM and the intellectual property of WCRB to Nassau Broadcasting, thus saving the commercial classical format for the Boston area, albeit on a station with poorer coverage of Boston. At the same time, Greater Media announced that the country format and intellectual property of WKLB would relocate to the prime signal of 102.5 MHz. WCRB's transition from 102.5 to 99.5 was completed on December 1, 2006 at noon local time. The first selection broadcast on the new frequency was the Hallelujah Chorus from Handel's \"Messiah\".\nIt was announced on September 21, 2009 that the WGBH Educational Foundation would acquire WCRB from Nassau and convert the station to non-commercial operation, complementing sister station WGBH. The sale was completed on December 1, 2009. Since assuming control of WCRB, WGBH has sought to expand the reach of the station, particularly to areas that had been served by the station prior to the frequency shift in 2006, WCRB's programming was added to WNCK, which formerly simulcast WGBH, concurrent with the sale's completion, and April 8, 2010, W242AA also switched from carrying WGBH to WCRB, via the 89.7 HD2 simulcast. WJMF began carrying WCRB programming in September 2011, since the frequency change in 2006, Providence had been one of the largest markets without access to a full-time classical music station. Because of this expanded reach, the station rebranded from \"99.5 All Classical\" (the branding used since the sale to WGBH) to \"Classical New England\" on October 3, 2011. As of 2015, the station is branded as \"Classical Radio Boston, 99.5 WCRB.\"\n\nThe 99.5 FM broadcast license began broadcasting October 6, 1948, as WLLH-FM, the FM counterpart to WLLH, programming a full-service format to the Merrimack Valley.\n\nDuring the 1970s, 99.5 became WSSH (for \"Wish 99.5\"), which programmed a format of chiefly soft instrumental renditions of pop tunes with a few vocalists an hour, consisting of soft AC (adult contemporary) and standards cuts. In 1982, WSSH evolved to a soft AC format gradually eliminating the instrumental renditions and became home to popular nighttime radio personality Delilah Rene before she became nationally syndicated. Ratings were very high through the 1980s and WSSH often led other AC stations. By then, the station was separated from WLLH, but later gained a sister station on 1510 (now WMEX). WSSH had high ratings and was often the top-rated adult contemporary radio station in the market throughout the 1980s.\n\nHowever, in the early 1990s, ratings went from excellent to mediocre; part of the reason was the perception that WSSH was still an elevator music station. By 1991, the station modified its format to mainstream AC by adding current product and some up-tempo AC tunes. WSSH became the third place radio station, following WMJX and WVBF (now known as WROR, which subsequently became a sister station to 99.5). On December 13, 1995, the owner of WSSH, Granum Communications, changed the format to smooth jazz, under the branding of WOAZ (\"99.5 The Oasis\"), mirroring Granum's KOAI in Dallas.\n\nThen, in 1997, Granum sold WOAZ and WBOS to Greater Media, which already owned WMJX, WBCS (the incarnation of WKLB at that time) and WROR (the former WVBF and WCLB). On August 22 of that year, Greater Media swapped the frequencies of WOAZ and WKLB in a move where the format and personalities of WOAZ moved to 96.9 (adopting the call sign WSJZ), while WKLB moved to 99.5 and became \"Country 99.5 WKLB\", where it stayed until December 1, 2006. Greater Media noted that the move was made because the 99.5 signal is stronger than that of 96.9 in Essex County, home to many country music listeners.\n\nThe 99.5 frequency was spun off to Nassau Broadcasting Partners as a consequence of a deal where Greater Media acquired WCRB's current frequency, with 102.5 adopting the WKLB format and call sign. Nassau also acquired WCRB's call letters and programming. Nassau already owned four classical-formatted stations in Maine affiliated with the World Classical Network. The two stations switched frequencies at noon on December 1, 2006. The last broadcast by WKLB on 99.5 was of the U.S. National Anthem. The first song played by WKLB at 102.5 was \"Life Is A Highway\" by Rascal Flatts. The last air personality on 99.5, and consequently the first live voice on 102.5, was longtime midday host Carolyn Kruse. A redesigned website was launched immediately after the frequency change.\n\nWCRB claimed to have about 500,000 listeners who tune into the live Boston Symphony Orchestra broadcasts and the station's other programming, a longtime claim by management. According to Arbitron, the Metropolitan Boston market contains 3.8 million individuals 12 years of age or older. An FM station of WCRB's power transmitting on 102.5 MHz could reach parts of Worcester, Massachusetts, Providence, Rhode Island; and Southeastern New Hampshire. One could reasonably assume that such coverage adds one-half million individuals, for a total of 4.3 million. If the WCRB programming did in fact reach half a million people, it would generate a rating of close to 12 per cent of the market. The most popular radio programs on Boston radio stations are heard in morning and afternoon drive on weekdays and do not reach as many listeners as WCRB claimed. These numbers predate the move to 99.5 MHz and the switch to a non-commercial format. , the station enjoyed a 2.0 share, which added up to 252,400 listeners.\n\nWCRB engineers worked with Bell Telephone to develop frequency and phase matching technology for using pairs of 15 kHz throughout the country leased lines to carry stereo signals for studio to transmitter links and improved geographical coverage of broadcast signals (leased-line technology has since been replaced by microwave links, satellite feeds, and high-quality transmission using the Internet).\n\nThey were also at the center of the development of modern multiplexed FM stereo technology and its approval by the FCC, in cooperation with FM receiver manufacturer H. H. Scott, Inc.\n\nThe solutions developed by WCRB were not just about getting high fidelity audio from remote locations to the studio. Often they involved solutions to problems that nobody anticipated. On November 9, 1965, the northeastern U.S. experienced a massive power blackout. WCRB had a backup power generator at its Waltham studios and also at its Needham FM transmitter site. Within a few minutes of the power failure, WCRB was back on the air. At first, nobody knew how long the power failure would last, or its extent.\n\nSoon reports came into the station that showed the widespread extent of the blackout. WCRB engineering checked the amount of diesel fuel remaining and found that it might not last more than a few more hours. The fuel vendor was notified, but there was no fuel available. A radio engineer started driving around and discovered that Civil Defense was trying to get a portable generator running which they had connected to the Waltham Hospital (since renamed). The hospital had no power, and the only generator available would not run. WCRB’s station engineer suggested that the electric company back-feed power from WCRB to the hospital, using the existing distribution lines but disconnecting everybody else. The hospital was on Hope Avenue, off South Street, on the other side of Brandeis University. WCRB successfully fed power to the hospital, and the fuel from the inoperative generator was transferred to WCRB’s tank. Within a few hours, WCRB had its fuel tank filled from additional donations. To have enough power available to supply the hospital, it became necessary to shut down the AM transmitter.\n\nWCRB was formerly carried on a separately-owned translator in Manchester, New Hampshire, W295BL (106.9); this ended after the translator was sold by Basic Holdings to Saga Communications in September 2019. In January 2020, W295BL began carrying the third HD Radio channel of Saga-owned WZID.\n\n\nTranslator data\n"}
{"id": "2013154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013154", "title": "Password synchronization", "text": "Password synchronization\n\nPassword synchronization is a process, usually supported by software such as password managers, through which a user maintains a single password across multiple IT systems.\n\nProvided that all the systems enforce mutually-compatible password standards (e.g. concerning minimum and maximum password length, supported characters, etc.), the user can choose a new password at any time and deploy the same password on his or her own login accounts across multiple, linked systems.\n\nWhere different systems have mutually incompatible standards regarding what can be stored in a password field, the user may be forced to choose more than one (but still fewer than the number of systems) passwords. This may happen, for example, where the maximum password length on one system is shorter than the minimum length in another, or where one system requires use of a punctuation mark but another forbids it.\n\nPassword synchronization is a function of certain identity management systems and it is considered easier to implement than enterprise single sign-on (SSO), as there is normally no client software deployment or need for active user enrollment.\n\nPassword synchronization makes it easier for IT users to recall passwords and so manage their access to multiple systems, for example on an enterprise network. Since they only have to remember one or at most a few passwords, users are less likely to forget them or write them down, resulting in fewer calls to the IT Help Desk and less opportunity for coworkers, intruders or thieves to gain improper access. Through suitable security awareness, automated policy enforcement and training activities, users can be encouraged or forced to choose stronger passwords as they have fewer to remember.\n\nIf the single, synchronized password is compromised (for example, if it is guessed, disclosed, determined by cryptanalysis from one of the systems, intercepted on an insecure communications path, or if the user is socially engineered into resetting it to a known value), all the systems that share that password are vulnerable to improper access. In most single signon and password vault solutions, compromise of the primary or master password (in other words, the password used to unlock access to the individual unique passwords used on other systems) also compromises all the associated systems, so the two approaches are similar.\n\nDepending on the software used, password synchronization may be triggered by a password change on any one of the synchronized systems (whether initiated by the user or an administrator) and/or by the user initiating the change centrally through the software, perhaps through a web interface.\n\nSome password synchronization systems may copy password hashes from one system to another, where the hashing algorithm is the same. In general, this is not the case and access to a plaintext password is required.\n\nTwo processes which yields synchronized passwords are shown in the following animations, hosted by software vendor Hitachi ID Systems:\n1\n"}
{"id": "2013161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013161", "title": "Stingray Juicebox", "text": "Stingray Juicebox\n\nStingray Juicebox is a Canadian music channel owned by Stingray Digital. It is a commercial-free service that broadcasts music videos aimed at kids aged 8 to 14.\n\nIn November 2000, Craig Broadcast Systems Inc. (later known as Craig Media) was granted approval from the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) to launch a specialty service called \"\"Music 5\"\" that would consist of five separate music video channels that would each focus on a specific musical genre – dance, pop, urban, R&B and \"hot hits\".\nBefore any of the channels had launched, in August 2001, Craig announced that it had reached an agreement with MTV Networks to license the MTV brand in Canada for several their channels. Although it was expected that 3 MTV branded genre-specific music channels would launch, on December 6, 2001, only one channel was launched, the channel devoted to \"Pop\", as MTV2. Shortly after the launch, MTV Networks acquired a minority interest in the channel, along with sister network MTV Canada. MTV2 was structured as a free-form music video channel that aired music videos from various artists from different genres aimed a teens to young adults, in addition to a small number of concert series including the MTV Canada original series, \"Pepsi Breakout\".\n\nIn April 2004, CHUM Limited announced it would purchase Craig Media for CAD$265 million; Craig's interest in MTV2 was included in the sale. The sale was approved by the CRTC on November 19, 2004, and the transaction was completed two weeks later on December 1.\n\nAfter the sale, MTV Networks chose to terminate its licensing agreement with Craig due to a clause in the contract allowing it to end it if a change in control occurred. CHUM was required to pay CAD$10 million in licensing fees to MTV Networks for the time remaining in their contract. The contract termination also meant that MTV Networks was no longer able to retain interest in the channel. On June 9, 2005, CHUM announced it would rebrand the channel on June 30 as PunchMuch, changing the format to an automated music video service that would allow viewers the ability to request music videos and participate in on-screen chat, polling, and other interactive participation with their mobile phone. MTV Canada was rebranded \"Razer\" on the same day.\nIn July 2006, Bell Globemedia (later CTVglobemedia) announced that it would purchase CHUM for an estimated CAD$1.7 billion, including PunchMuch. The sale, also needing approval from the CRTC, was approved on June 8, 2007, with the transaction completed on June 22. After a three-year absence, the MTV2 brand returned in Canada when CTVglobemedia rebranded Razer as MTV2 on August 1, 2008.\n\nFrom its inception, the channel had operated as an advertiser-supported service; however, on August 31, 2009, commercial advertising was dropped from the channel's schedule.\n\nOwnership changed hands once again when on September 10, 2010, Bell Canada (a minority shareholder in CTVglobemedia) announced that it planned to acquire 100% interest in CTVglobemedia for a total debt and equity transaction cost of $3.2 billion CAD. The deal was approved by the CRTC on March 7, 2011, and was finalized on April 1 of that year, on which CTVglobemedia was rebranded Bell Media.\n\nPunchMuch was subsequently rebranded as Juicebox on November 17, 2011, focusing on music videos aimed at children, with an emphasis on videos aimed at pre-teen audiences. The videos on the channel were approved by a committee consisting of parents and employees, who determine the appropriateness of a specific video for the channel's target audience. As part of the channel's relaunch as Juicebox, CTV started airing a two-hour block of Juicebox-branded videos on Saturday mornings, later abandoned in April 2016, before CTV's parent company Bell Media sold the channel to Stingray Digital.\n\nOn June 21, 2016, it was announced that Stingray Digital would acquire MuchVibe, MuchLoud, MuchRetro, and Juicebox from Bell Media. at a price-tag later revealed to be $4 million for all four channels. The deal for Juicebox would later close on August 15, 2016, with the channel changing its name to Stingray Juicebox on August 12, 2016. On June 1, 2017, Stingray announced the completion of the rebranding process for all 4 channels, which included new programming and a national promotional campaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013162", "title": "WFCC-FM", "text": "WFCC-FM\n\nWFCC-FM (107.5 MHz/Channel 298) is a 50,000-watt effective radiated power radio station licensed to Chatham, Massachusetts on Cape Cod, with studios and offices in Hyannis and transmitter facilities in Brewster. It broadcasts on 107.5 MHz with a classical format. Current hosts on WFCC-FM include Mark Calder, Dave Read, Don Spencer, and Larry King.\n\nThe station started broadcasting on March 24, 1987 from state-of-the-art facilities on Route 28 in West Chatham. It was owned at the time by First Class Communications, run by Joseph A. Ryan and his family, who all worked at the station, including wife Pauline (receptionist), son Kevin (sales manager), and daughter Justine (sales). Joe Ryan, who worked at NBC as a writer for \"Today\" during Dave Garroway's tenure, then at WCVB-TV (channel 5) in Boston, hired WCVB personalities to be on his staff at WFCC-FM, including newsman Jack Hynes, meteorologists Bob Copeland (a Chatham resident) and Bill Hovey, and sportscaster Bill O'Connell, complemented by local classical announcers Janice Gray, Dick Eressy, Paul Jimerson, Paul Nossiter, Steve Murphy, Don Lawrence, Pierre Paquin, Don Merna, and Dick O'Connor. The station played mostly classical music weekdays, with the afternoon drive show being big band, hosted by Lou Dumont. On the weekends, classical was complemented by the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts and other syndicated classical shows, as well as local specialty shows \"Jazz on the Half-Shell\" and \"Folk Roots and Branches\" with Paul Jimerson, and a program devoted to classical piano, \"Klavier\", produced by Jimerson and hosted by his wife, pianist and teacher Melinda Isaacson.\n\nThe stock market crash of 1987 had a devastating effect on the Cape's economy, and WFCC-FM lost significant advertising revenue. As a result, stronger-rated classical music programming replaced the evening folk and jazz shows. Pierre Paquin, a well-known southern New England classical music recording engineer and broadcaster, was hired in 1989 to help bring up the ratings. His Sunday morning broadcasts earned the highest ratings for the station and his special programs garnished several Massachusetts Broadcasters Association awards, including the award for Best Station I.D., featuring his daughter, MaryAnne \"Mim\" L. Paquin. In fall of 1990, Mim, was bought in as an apprentice to write and produce four, one hour-long programs written for a younger audience. Her production \"Witches, Goblins, Jack-o-lanterns and Ghouls\" won honorable mention Massachusetts Broadcasters Association. Don Merna was also hired in 1989 to host weekdays as well as weekend evenings. Both Paquin and Merna broadcast for WFCC until 1995 and 1996 respectively and are still Cape Cod residents. In 1991, the station's offices and studios were moved to new facilities on Route 6A in Brewster. WFCC-FM was subsequently sold in 1992 to Dolphin Communications, owned by Allan Stanley. WFCC-FM was purchased by Charles River Broadcasting (then owners of Boston's WCRB) in 1996, with its studios and offices moving to a former bank building on Route 28 in West Yarmouth. WFCC-FM's programming became automated full-time as a result.\n\nWFCC-FM has been the flagship station of the World Classical Network syndicated service (started by Charles River Broadcasting) since 1998. The station and the network were sold in 2007 to Sandab Communications (doing business as Cape Cod Broadcasting Media), owners of Cape Cod radio stations WQRC, WOCN-FM, and WKPE-FM), and now broadcast from studios and offices in Hyannis.\n\nOriginal WFCC-FM staff member Steve Murphy returned to the station's airwaves as morning host on September 16, 2008 after an 18-year absence.\n"}
{"id": "2013175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013175", "title": "Pogonishte", "text": "Pogonishte\n\nPogonishte (Pronunciation: Poh-goh-NEE-shteh) is a traditional dance from South Albania. \nThe time signature is 2/4 and it is danced in an open and mixed circle of people. The style is proud. Dancers bounce twice gently on every count.\n"}
{"id": "2013181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013181", "title": "Load cell", "text": "Load cell\n\nA load cell is a type of transducer, specifically a \"force\" transducer. It converts a force such as tension, compression, pressure, or torque into an electrical signal that can be measured and standardized. As the force applied to the load cell increases, the electrical signal changes proportionally. The most common types of load cell used are hydraulic, pneumatic, and strain gauge.\n\nStrain gauge load cells are the kind most often found in industrial settings. It is ideal as it is highly accurate, versatile, and cost-effective. Structurally, a load cell has a metal body to which strain gauges have been secured.  The body is usually made of aluminum, alloy steel, or stainless steel which makes it very sturdy but also minimally elastic. This elasticity gives rise to the term \"spring element\", referring to the body of the load cell.  When force is exerted on the load cell, the spring element is slightly deformed, and unless overloaded, always returns to its original shape. As the spring element deforms, the strain gauges also change shape. The resulting alteration to the resistance in the strain gauges can be measured as voltage. The change in voltage is proportional to the amount of force applied to the cell, thus the amount of force can be calculated from the load cell's output.\n\n\"Strain Gauges\"A strain gauge is constructed of very fine wire, or foil, set up in a grid pattern and attached to a flexible backing. When the shape of the strain gauge is altered, a change in its electrical resistance occurs. The wire or foil in the strain gauge is arranged in a way that, when force is applied in one direction, a linear change in resistance results. Tension force stretches a strain gauge, causing it to get thinner and longer, resulting in an increase in resistance.  Compression force does the opposite. The strain gauge compresses, becomes thicker and shorter, and resistance decreases. The strain gauge is attached to a flexible backing enabling it to be easily applied to a load cell, mirroring the minute changes to be measured.\n\nSince the change in resistance measured by a single strain gauge is extremely small, it is difficult to accurately measure changes. Increasing the number of strain gauges applied collectively magnifies these small changes into something more measurable. A set of 4 strain gauges set in a specific circuit is called Wheatstone bridge.\n\n\"Wheatstone Bridge\"\n\nA Wheatstone bridge is a configuration of four balanced resistors with a known excitation voltage applied as shown below:\nExcitation voltage formula_1 is a known constant and output voltage formula_2 is variable depending on the shape of the strain gauges. If all resistors are balanced, meaning formula_3 then formula_2is zero. If the resistance in even one of the resistors changes, then formula_5will likewise change. The change in formula_2 can be measured and interpreted using Ohm's law. Ohm's law states that the current (formula_7, measured in amperes) running through a conductor between two points is directly proportional to the voltage formula_8 across the two points. Resistance (formula_9, measured in Ohms) is introduced as the constant in this relationship, independent of the current. Ohm's law is expressed in the equation formula_10.\n\nWhen applied to the 4 legs of the Wheatstone bridge circuit, the resulting equation is: \nformula_11\n\nIn a load cell, the resistors are replaced with strain gauges and arranged in alternating tension and compression formation. When force is exerted on the load cell, the structure and resistance of the strain gauges changes and formula_2 is measured. From the resulting data, formula_2 can be easily determined using the equation above.\n\nThere are several types of strain gauge load cells:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Load cell is designed to automatically regulate the balancing pressure. Air pressure is applied to one end of the diaphragm and it escapes through the nozzle placed at the bottom of the load cell. A pressure gauge is attached with the load cell to measure the pressure inside the cell. The deflection of the diaphragm affects the airflow through the nozzle as well as the pressure inside the chamber.\n\nThe hydraulic load cell uses a conventional piston and cylinder arrangement with the piston placed in a thin elastic diaphragm. The piston doesn't actually come in contact with the load cell. Mechanical stops are placed to prevent over strain of the diaphragm when the loads exceed certain limit. The load cell is completely filled with oil. When the load is applied on the piston, the movement of the piston and the diaphragm results in an increase of oil pressure. This pressure is then transmitted to a hydraulic pressure gauge via a high pressure hose. The gauge's Bourdon tube senses the pressure and registers it on the dial. Because this sensor has no electrical components, it is ideal for use in hazardous areas. Typical hydraulic load cell applications include tank, bin, and hopper weighing. By example, a hydraulic load cell is immune to transient voltages (lightning) so these type of load cells might be a more effective device in outdoor environments. This technology is more expensive than other types of load cells. It is a more costly technology and thus cannot effectively compete on a cost of purchase basis.\n\nVibrating load cell\n\nVibrating wire load cells, which are useful in geomechanical applications due to low amounts of drift, and capacitive load cells where the capacitance of a capacitor changes as the load presses the two plates of a capacitor closer together.\n\nPiezoelectric load cells work on the same principle of deformation as the strain gauge load cells, but a voltage output is generated by the basic piezoelectric material – proportional to the deformation of load cell. Useful for dynamic/frequent measurements of force. Most applications for piezo-based load cells are in the dynamic loading conditions, where strain gauge load cells can fail with high dynamic loading cycles. The piezoelectric effect is dynamic, that is, the electrical output of a gauge is an impulse function and is not static. The voltage output is only useful when the strain is changing and does not measure static values.\n\nHowever, depending on conditioning system used, \"quasi static\" operation can be done.\nUsing a so-called \"Charge amplifier \" with \"Long\" time constant allow accurate measurement lasting many hours for large loads to many minutes for small loads.\nAnother advantage of Piezoelectric load cell, conditioned with a Charge amplifier, is the wide measuring range that can be achieved.\nUsers can choose a load cell with a range of hundred of kN and use it for measuring few N of forces with the same Signal/Noise ratio, again this is possible only with the use of a \"Charge amplifier\" conditioning.\n\n\nThe bridge is excited with stabilized voltage (usually 10V, but can be 20V, 5V, or less for battery powered instrumentation). The difference voltage proportional to the load then appears on the signal outputs. The cell output is rated in millivolts per volt (mV/V) of the difference voltage at full rated mechanical load. So a 2.96 mV/V load cell will provide 29.6 millivolt signal at full load when excited with 10 volts.\n\nTypical sensitivity values are 1 to 3 mV/V. Typical maximum excitation voltage is around 15 volts.\n\nThe full-bridge cells come typically in four-wire configuration. The wires to the top and bottom end of the bridge are the excitation (often labelled E+ and E−, or Ex+ and Ex−), the wires to its sides are the signal (labelled S+ and S−). Ideally, the voltage difference between S+ and S− is zero under zero load, and grows proportionally to the load cell's mechanical load.\n\nSometimes a six-wire configuration is used. The two additional wires are \"sense\" (Sen+ and Sen−), and are connected to the bridge with the Ex+ and Ex- wires, in a fashion similar to four-terminal sensing. With these additional signals, the controller can compensate for the change in wire resistance due to e.g. temperature fluctuations.\n\nThe individual resistors on the bridge usually have resistance of 350 Ω. Sometimes other values (typically 120 Ω, 1,000 Ω) can be encountered.\n\nThe bridge is typically electrically insulated from the substrate. The sensing elements are in close proximity and in good mutual thermal contact, to avoid differential signals caused by temperature differences.\n\nOne or more load cells can be used for sensing a single load.\n\nIf the force can be concentrated to a single point (small scale sensing, ropes, tensile loads, point loads), a single cell can be used. For long beams, two cells at the end are used. Vertical cylinders can be measured at three points, rectangular objects usually require four sensors. More sensors are used for large containers or platforms, or very high loads.\n\nIf the loads are guaranteed to be symmetrical, some of the load cells can be substituted with pivots. This saves the cost of the load cell but can significantly decrease accuracy.\n\nLoad cells can be connected in parallel; in that case, all the corresponding signals are connected together (Ex+ to Ex+, S+ to S+, ...), and the resulting signal is the average of the signals from all the sensing elements. This is often used in e.g. personal scales, or other multipoint weight sensors.\n\nThe most common color assignment is red for Ex+, black for Ex−, green for S+, and white for S−.\n\nLess common assignments are red for Ex+, white for Ex−, green for S+, and blue for S−, or red for Ex+, blue for Ex−, green for S+, and yellow for S−. Other values are also possible, e.g. red for Ex+, green for Ex−, yellow for S+ and blue for S−.\n\nEvery load cell is subject to \"ringing\" when subjected to abrupt load changes. This stems from the spring-like behavior of load cells. In order to measure the loads, they have to deform. As such, a load cell of finite stiffness must have spring-like behavior, exhibiting vibrations at its natural frequency. An oscillating data pattern can be the result of ringing. Ringing can be suppressed in a limited fashion by passive means. Alternatively, a control system can use an actuator to actively damp out the ringing of a load cell. This method offers better performance at a cost of significant increase in complexity.\n\nLoad cells are used in several types of measuring instruments such as laboratory balances, industrial scales, platform scales and universal testing machines. From 1993 the British Antarctic Survey installed load cells in glass fibre nests to weigh albatross chicks. Load cells are used in a wide variety of items such as the seven-post shaker which is often used to set up race cars.\n\nLoad cells are commonly used to measure weight in an industrial environment. They can be installed on hoppers, reactors...etc... to control their weight capacity, which is often of critical importance for an industrial process. Some performance characteristics of the load cells must be defined and specified to make sure they will cope with the expected service. Among those design characteristics are :\n\nThe electrical, physical, and environmental specifications of a load cell help to determine which applications it is appropriate for. Common specifications include:\n\nLoad cells are an integral part of most weighing systems in industrial, aerospace and automotive industries, enduring rigorous daily use. Over time, load cells will drift, age and misalign; therefore, they will need to be calibrated regularly to ensure accurate results are maintained. ISO9000 and most other standards specify a maximum period of around 18 months to 2 years between re-calibration procedures, dependent on the level of load cell deterioration. Annual re-calibration is considered best practice by many load cell users for ensuring the most accurate measurements.\n\nStandard calibration tests will use linearity and repeatability as a calibration guideline as these are both used to determine accuracy. Calibration is conducted incrementally starting working in ascending or descending order. For example, in the case of a 60 tonne load cell, then specific test weights that measure in 5, 10, 20, 40 and 60 tonne increments may be used – A five step calibration process is usually sufficient for ensuring a device is accurately calibrated. Repeating this five-step calibration procedure 2-3 times is recommended for consistent results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013183", "title": "Edmund Charaszkiewicz", "text": "Edmund Charaszkiewicz\n\nEdmund Kalikst Eugeniusz Charaszkiewicz (; Poniec, 14 October 1895 – 22 December 1975, London) was a Polish military intelligence officer who specialized in clandestine warfare. Between the World Wars, he helped establish Poland's interbellum borders in conflicts over territory with Poland's neighbours.\n\nAlso, for a dozen years before World War II, he coordinated Marshal Józef Piłsudski's Promethean movement, aimed at liberating the non-Russian peoples of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union—an objective that Piłsudski deemed crucial if Poland, sandwiched between Germany and the Soviet Union, were to preserve her just-regained independence.\n\nEdmund Charaszkiewicz was born on 14 October 1895 in Punitz (in Polish, Poniec), in the Province of Posen, an area of the German Empire that had been annexed from Poland by Prussia in the Third Partition of Poland (1795). He was the son of Stanisław Charaszkiewicz, a building contractor, and Bronisława, née Rajewska. Edmund completed his elementary schooling in Poniec, then attended secondary schools successively in Krotoszyn, Katowice and Kraków. In the latter city, before World War I, his family lived at \"ulica Długa 63\" (63 Long Street). In Kraków Edmund graduated from secondary school on 17 December 1915, while already a soldier in the Polish Legions.\n\nIn that period, it was common for secondary-school students in Galicia to join Polish patriotic paramilitary organizations. On 1 November 1913 Charaszkiewicz, aged 18, joined the Riflemen's Association and in 1913–14 attended an Association noncommissioned-officers' school, using the pseudonym \"Kalikst\" (his second given name).\n\nSoon after the outbreak of World War I, on 4 or 5 August 1914, Charaszkiewicz enlisted in the Polish Legions. He served successively in several units and convalesced from several illnesses. In November or December 1917 he was inducted into the Polish Auxiliary Corps (the former Second Brigade of the Polish Legions), in which he served till February 1918 as senior sergeant major. He was then released from the Legions to serve in the German Army. To avoid such service, and because he was liable to arrest and internment as a former Polish Legionnaire, he went into hiding from 18 February until June 1918 in Kraków, and from November 1918 in Warsaw, where he worked at the Ministry of Military Affairs of the Polish Armed Force. His superiors there were two future Polish generals: Colonel Marian Żegota-Januszajtis and Major Stefan Pasławski.\n\nJust after the close of World War I, on 15 November 1918, Charaszkiewicz joined the Polish Army in the rank of sublieutenant. During the Polish-Soviet War (1919–21) he participated in battles at Nowoświęciany, Podbrodzie, Bezdany, Vilnius and Ejszyszki. During the Polish defence of Vilnius, he was taken prisoner by the Lithuanians and was interned from 19 July to 18 August 1920. He escaped and, on returning to the Białystok Rifle Regiment (\"Białostocki Pułk Strzelców\"), temporarily commanded the 11th Company (21 September – 6 October 1920), then served as a junior officer in the 9th Company. On 27 February 1921, for conspicuous valor behind Soviet lines, he was recommended for Poland's highest military decoration, the \"Virtuti Militari\".\n\nMeanwhile, on 15 December 1920, Charaszkiewicz had been assigned to the Second Department of Polish General Staff, or Intelligence – specifically, to its Upper Silesia Plebiscite Department. During the Third Silesian Uprising he served (2 May – 15 August 1921) as deputy commander of demolition squads known as the Wawelberg Group. For his courage and steadfastness in action against the Germans, as he blew up mined structures in the face of withering enemy fire and thereby halted the German advance, he was on 18 February 1922 again recommended for the \"Virtuti Militari\". On 27 June 1922, Lt. Charaszkiewicz was decorated with the \"Virtuti Militari\", 5th class.\n\nCharaszkiewicz would later (16 February 1940, in Paris) describe the Polish military-intelligence operation in the Third Silesian Uprising as a model operation of its kind: its objectives were clearly defined; the requisite personnel were skilfully recruited and trained; the necessary explosives, weapons, ammunition, equipment and supplies were smuggled into the operational areas and cached well in advance; and the plans were efficiently and resourcefully executed. He would later favourably contrast the Third Silesian Uprising with the indecisive preparations for, and execution of, Poland's takeover of Zaolzie 17 years later, in 1938. Moreover, the preponderant political circumstances in Poland, Germany and the world favoured the Polish cause. The Silesian-Polish population gave its enthusiastic support, and all its social groups were recruited except for the communists, who for their part evinced a benign neutrality, having been instructed to back the Polish proletariat.\nBetween 1918 and 1923, Charaszkiewicz completed three years of the four-year law curriculum at Warsaw University.\n\nAfter the Third Silesian uprising (2 May – 5 July 1921), in 1922 Charaszkiewicz was assigned to the General Staff's Section II. In evaluations, he was commended for his strength of character, initiative, energy, enthusiasm, and devotion to duty, especially in covert operations in Lithuania, with which Poland had a running dispute over Vilnius. In 1927, when he was decorated with the Silver Cross of Merit, he was cited for actions in the rear of the Soviet Army in 1920, actions in the Third Silesian uprising, and actions in the Polish-Lithuanian neutral zone to secure the lives and property of Polish citizens against Lithuanian irregulars.\n\nCharaszkiewicz's service record noted that his qualifications for intelligence work included a knowledge of German, French and English. He was promoted to lieutenant on 1 June 1919, to captain on 1 July 1925, and to major in 1935.\n\nBy 1931, until World War II, Charaszkiewicz served, last in the rank of major, as chief of \"Office [\"Ekspozytura\"] 2\" of the General Staff's Section II. Office 2, which had been so named on 1 April 1929, was charged with the planning, preparation and execution of clandestine-warfare operations.\n\nIn the face of growing threats from Germany and the Soviet Union, Polish organizing of a \"behind-the-lines\" (\"pozafrontowa\") clandestine network had begun immediately after the post-World War I wars for Poland's borders. Charaszkiewicz had been assigned to this network already on 15 April 1922.\n\nEspecially after Adolf Hitler's accession to power in 1933, Polish clandestine organizations were vigorously built up. They were meant, in future military actions, to paralyse enemy road and rail transport and destroy enemy military depots. Clandestine centres were created in Poland as well as in neighbouring countries, chiefly Germany and the Soviet Union.\n\nPersonnel for the clandestine networks were recruited with great care. Thanks to this, the intelligence services of Poland's neighbours learned nothing about them until mid-1939, when the rising German threat prompted mass Polish training of irregular forces.\n\nOffice 2 was also responsible for \"Promethean operations,\" conceived by Józef Piłsudski. The idea was to combat Soviet imperialism by supporting irredentist movements among the non-Russian peoples of the Soviet Union. Thus the Prometheists' ultimate goal was nothing less than the dismemberment of the Soviet Union.\n\nAs Piłsudski and his adherents (the \"Piłsudskiites\") exerted a preponderant influence on Poland's government through nearly the entire interwar period, the Promethean agenda became integral to the operations of many Polish public institutions concerned with eastern European affairs.\nAfter Piłsudski's May 1926 \"coup d'état\", Section II intensified its engagement with Prometheism. The movement's leaders included prominent Sanation figures such as Colonel Walery Sławek and the publicist and Sejm deputy, Tadeusz Hołówko. Great importance was attached to Prometheism by Section II's successive chiefs, Colonel Tadeusz Schaetzel and Colonel Tadeusz Pełczyński, and by deputy chief Lieutenant Colonel Józef Englicht. The movement's intelligence operations were directed by Edmund Charaszkiewicz. Contacts were maintained with Ukrainians and Cossacks, and with representatives of several peoples of the Caucasus: Azeris, Armenians and Georgians.\n\nIn its prosecution of the Promethean agenda, Office 2 worked with official institutions such as the Institute for Study of Nationality Affairs \"(Instytut Badań Spraw Narodowościowych)\" and the Polish-Ukrainian Society \"(Towarzystwo Polsko-Ukraińskie)\" and its \"Polish-Ukrainian Bulletin\" (Biuletyn Polsko-Ukraiński), published from 1932. The latter Society included such experts on East European affairs as Leon Wasilewski, Stanisław Łoś and Stanisław Stempowski, and its founder and prime mover as well as the \"Bulletin\"'s editor was Włodzimierz Bączkowski, a leading figure in the \"Promethean movement.\" From March 1934 Charaszkiewicz was a member of the Commission for Scientific Study of [Poland's] Eastern Lands \"(Komisja Naukowych Badań Ziem Wschodnich)\" and the Committee on [Poland's] Eastern Lands and Nationalities \"(Komitet do Spraw Ziem Wschodnich i Narodowościowych)\" at the Council of Ministers.\nHe had already become a spokesman for the oppressed peoples east of Poland who wished to deepen their national self-awareness and groom leaders for their liberation.\n\nSince 1927, Wasilewski, Sławek, Schaetzel and Hołówko had been laying foundations for Promethean movements in Paris, Warsaw and Istanbul. They had been studying questions involving national self-determination and federative polities with help from academic experts at institutions such as the Eastern Institute \"(Instytut Wschodni)\" in Warsaw and an analogous one in Vilnius, as well as at an Institute for Study of Nationalities \"(Instytut Badań Narodowościowych)\" and at several publications.\n\nCharaszkiewicz's deputies at Office 2 were two officers from the Third Silesian uprising: Major Feliks Ankerstein (1929–39), who during that Uprising had commanded a group (from 27 April 1921, the subgroup \"\"Butrym\"\"); and Major Włodzimierz Dąbrowski, who had commanded group \"G\" in the Destruction Office (\"Referat Destrukcji\").\n\nIt appears that, as of 1935, Office 2 employed 11 officers, seven of them in Office [\"Referat\"] \"A\" (for the West—Germany, East Prussia, Danzig, Czechoslovakia), headed by Ankerstein, and 22 civilian contract workers. The officer cadre were fairly stable; most of the officers served in Office 2 for at least six years.\n\nA principal task of Office 2 was organizing and conducting clandestine operations outside Poland, chiefly in bordering countries, and preparing resistance cells in areas of Poland that, in the event of war, might be occupied by enemy forces. Office \"B\" (responsible for the East), headed in 1937–39 by Major Dąbrowski, prepared clandestine actions against the Soviet Union, conducting \"Promethean operations\" among non-Russian peoples (e.g. Caucasus, Tatar, Ukrainian and Cossack émigrés) and creating covert organizations at Poland's borders with Soviet Belarus and Ukraine. Office \"A\" (the West) was tasked with preparing and running clandestine operations against \"Western\" countries of interest.\n\nAgents of Office 2 operated in Germany, Danzig, Czechoslovakia and Lithuania. They also penetrated anti-Hitler German émigré communities in Czechoslovakia and especially in France. In 1935 Charaszkiewicz and Ankerstein organized in the Free City of Danzig a covert \"Group Zygmunt\", which in September 1939, on the outbreak of World War II, would conspicuously defend the Polish Post Office in Danzig. \"Group Zygmunt's\" networks were to cover Poland's western border, Pomerania and the Free City of Danzig, and were to concentrate on sabotage and clandestine operations in the event of these areas' temporary occupation by the enemy.\n\nThe signing of the Polish-German Non-aggression Pact of 26 January 1934, had produced a reorientation in Polish foreign policy. Czechoslovakia's Zaolzie area (which was in dispute between Poland and Czechoslovakia) had lain outside Office 2's sphere of interest, but from spring 1934 covert propaganda and clandestine operations began to be developed there.\n\nCharaszkiewicz suggested to an old Polish Legions comrade, Wiktor Tomir Drymmer – from 15 September 1933 to the outbreak of World War II, director of the Polish Foreign Ministry's Consular Department – the creation of an organization covering all countries that harboured substantial Polish communities. They agreed that this would be necessary due to the inevitability of war with Nazi Germany. They were also agreed that the organization was to be strictly covert, both in Poland and abroad; was to be of a nationalist character; and was to be elite rather than large-scale in nature. The organization's regulations were drawn up by Captain Ankerstein.\n\nEventually it was decided that the organization should be run by a \"Committee of Seven\" (\"K-7\") comprising half Foreign Ministry personnel – Drymmer, his political deputy Dr. Władysław Józef Zaleski, Tadeusz Kowalski, and the latter's deputy Tadeusz Kawalec – and half Office 2 personnel: Charaszkiewicz, Ankerstein and the latter's deputy, Captain Wojciech Lipiński. Later, Lieutenant Colonel Ludwik Zych, chief of staff of Poland's Border Guard \"(Straż Graniczna)\", would be coopted. \nK-7 set about recruiting young Poles residing in Czechoslovakia, Germany, Lithuania, Latvia and Romania's Bukovina. They were trained in small groups in Poland, to be deployed in wartime. Beginning in May 1938, K-7 conducted courses in Warsaw, Gdynia and several other Polish localities.\n\nIn Zaolzie, about 1935, the first Polish clandestine operations had taken place; later, during Poland's 1938 annexation of that territory, K-7 members participated. The proceedings were directed from Warsaw by Drymmer and Charaszkiewicz, and on the ground by Ankerstein and later Zych.\n\nAfter the Zaolzie takeover, preparations began on 7 October 1938 for a covert operation codenamed \"Łom\" (\"Crowbar\") in easternmost Czechoslovakia's Carpathian Rus, coordinated with Hungarian operations conducted from the south. The Polish commander on the ground was again Major Ankerstein, while at Warsaw Charaszkiewicz was again in overall command. The operation took place in October and November 1938 and helped bring about the First Vienna Award (2 November 1938). In mid-March 1939, the operation's objective was fully accomplished: the restoration of Carpathian Rus to its pre-World War I master, Hungary, and thereby also the recreation of the historic common Polish-Hungarian border.\n\nSix months later, during the September 1939 invasion of Poland, the common Polish-Hungarian border would become of pivotal importance when Hungarian Regent Miklós Horthy's government, as a matter of \"Hungarian honor,\" declined Hitler's request for permission to send German forces across Carpathian Rus into southeastern Poland to speed Poland's conquest. Horthy's refusal allowed the Polish government and tens of thousands of Polish military to escape into neighbouring Hungary and Romania; and from there, to France and French-mandated Syria, to carry on the war as the third-strongest Allied belligerent after Britain and France.\n\nOffice 2's next task was organizing \"behind-the-lines covert-operation networks\" \"(siatki dywersji pozafrontowej)\" that were to undertake intelligence, sabotage and covert operations upon the outbreak of war, especially in areas occupied by the Germans. Charaszkiewicz was a conceptual founder of these networks. Particularly intensive work on them began early in May 1939. These structures were given diverse names such as \"Secret Military Organization\" (\"Tajna Organizacja Wojskowa\", or \"TOW\") and \"Mobile Combat Units\" \"(Lotne Oddziały Bojowe)\". In many cases – in Silesia, in southwestern Poland, and in western Poland – after Poland had been overrun by Germany in September 1939, these networks became the foundations for the first local underground resistance organizations, which in many cases later became part of the Union for Armed Struggle \"(Związek Walki Zbrojnej\", or \"ZWZ)\".\n\nOne such organization that arose on the foundation of a \"behind-the-lines covert-operation network,\" in Kraków on 22 September 1939, was the White Eagle Organization (\"Organizacja Orła Białego\", or \"OOB\"), which soon, in 1940, became part of \"ZWZ\". The \"OOB\" was a major organization that, in addition to southern Poland, also held some sway in Silesia, Warsaw and Lublin. The order to form \"OOB\" was issued by Charaszkiewicz's deputy, Major Ankerstein, who had returned from Hungary to Kraków expressly for that purpose. He also conducted a three-day covert-operations training for Organization members before making his way back to Hungary and proceeding on to the West. \nBefore the war, a network of clandestine groups was created, tasked with paralysing lines of communication and destroying enemy supply depots and command networks. Their membership was drawn from varied backgrounds, including the Riflemen's Association (\"Związek Strzelecki\"), Reserve Noncommissioned Officers' Association (\"Związek Podoficerów Rezerwy\"), Reserve Officers' Association (\"Związek Oficerów Rezerwy\"), referrals by County Offices of Physical Education and Military Training (\"Powiatowe Urzędy Wychowania Fizycznego i Przysposobienia Wojskowego\", or \"PUWFiPW\"), the Polish Scouting Association (\"Związek Harcerzy Polskich\", or \"ZHP\"), the Polish Socialist Party (\"PPS\"), and a host of other organizations.\n\nThe preparatory work was coordinated by a Department for Planning Wartime Intelligence and Covert Operations (\"Wydział Planowania Wywiadu I Dywersji Wojennej\"), created in late 1937. Its tasks included organizing mobilization procedures for the foreign intelligence network and assuring its functioning under wartime conditions, as well as securing covert support for the army at the front.\n\nSpring 1938 saw expanded training of clandestine networks. Courses organized by Office 2, disguised as civil-defense training, might cover cryptology, intelligence microphotography, toxicology, railway sabotage, hand-to-hand combat, new weapons, explosives, and suppression of fires. In view of the enemy's growing preponderance in armour, artillery and especially air forces, it had been decided to increase the tasks set for covert-operations networks. On 3 June 1939 Section II sent, to army commanders, regulations for covert operations; among other things, it was set down that only those members of a covert unit should know each other who were to carry out practically defined assignments.\n\nIn summer 1939, weapons and explosives began to be distributed to clandestine centres and patrols. Deliveries were also made to networks created within the Third Reich. Despite the secrecy of the preparations, German intelligence obtained information on the Polish networks, and German security agencies received orders to suppress the Polish networks. When overt war did come in September 1939, the mass terror applied to the Polish population by the Germans, in many instances – though by no means universally – paralysed the Polish clandestine networks.\n\nIn September 1939, during the Polish retreat before advancing German forces, Drymmer and other clandestine-operations leaders, as early as their stop at Kazimierz Dolny on the Vistula River, left behind K-7 members and freshly sworn-in individuals. Likewise, at a Polish consulate in Romania's Bukovina, K-7 trained a group of young men in covert action. Major Charaszkiewicz himself, at the outbreak of war, became head of Department (\"Wydział\") F at the Staff of the Commander-in-Chief and carried on this function from 1 to 20 September 1939. According to other information, he was special-assignments officer to the Commander-in-Chief, Marshal Edward Rydz-Śmigły, and in that capacity with the Marshal's approval commissioned the creation of at least one underground organization about 12 September. Next Charaszkiewicz, along with other K-7 members, crossed Poland's border into Romania. There he organized a group of officers who were to return to occupied Poland to set up another underground organization. \n\nIn Romania, Charaszkiewicz established ties with a Sanation group, the \"Schaetzel-Drymmer group,\" that was ill-disposed to Marshal Rydz-Śmigły and supportive of Foreign Minister Józef Beck. Charaszkiewicz also played a substantial role in creating an Office (\"Ekspozytura\") \"R\" of Polish intelligence headquartered in Bucharest, with satellite outposts scattered about Romania. It was important not only to the conduct of intelligence work but to liaison with occupied Poland.\n\nIn Bucharest, in October 1939, Charaszkiewicz received from his British colleague, Lt. Col. Colin Gubbins – soon to become the prime mover of the Special Operations Executive (S.O.E.) – a very warm letter informing him that Gubbins had been personally searching for him, and offering every possible assistance, including financial (Charaszkiewicz declined the money). Through Gubbins' good offices, Charaszkiewicz obtained from the British military attaché a British visa.\n\nCharaszkiewicz never used the visa. On 31 October 1939 he arrived in France, where at first (November 1939 – April 1940) he found himself without assignment at the Bessieres barracks. After a brief stay (April–May 1940) in an officers' camp at Vichy, he joined the Officers' Legion at Niort.\n\nDuring the \"phony war,\" the new Polish premier and commander-in-chief in exile, General Władysław Sikorski, investigated the causes of Poland's defeat in September 1939. Officers with pertinent knowledge were instructed to submit reports. Probably it was in response to this that Charaszkiewicz drew up the series of intriguing reports in late 1939 and early 1940 that comprise the bulk of his \"Collection of Documents\" that was published 60 years later, in 2000.\n\nSikorski, whose own military and political career in Poland had been stymied while the Piłsudskiites held sway after the May 1926 coup d'état, now sidelined many officers deemed to have been close to the Piłsudskiites. Perhaps that was why an officer as experienced in clandestine warfare as Charaszkiewicz, then only 44 years old, apparently was never again entrusted with such operations.\n\nAfter France's capitulation (22 June 1940) Charaszkiewicz managed to evacuate to Great Britain. In Scotland he was accommodated at the Douglas officers' camp (July–August 1940), then the Broughton officers' camp (August–September 1940).\n\nHe organized, and served as deputy commander, then commander, of armoured trains \"C\" and later \"D\" (October 1940 – August 1943) of the 1st Armored Train Command (\"1 Dywizjon Pociągów Pancernych\"). On 3 August 1943 he was transferred to the Polish Infantry Training Center (\"Centrum Wyszkolenia Piechoty\"), then to the Administrative Department (\"Oddział\") of the Polish Ministry of National Defense. Next, to the conclusion of military operations and till February 1946, he was deputy chief, then chief, of the Information Department of the Inspectorate of Polish Military Headquarters. On 27 May 1945 he was promoted to lieutenant colonel. From February to April 1946 he directed the General Department (\"Wydział\") in the Inspectorate for Civilian Affairs, and in September 1946 he joined the Polish Resettlement Corps. He was demobilized on 11 September 1948 and settled in London.\n\nCharaszkiewicz took an active part in Polish émigré life: in the Piłsudskiite \"League for Polish Independence\" (\"Liga Niepodległości Polski\") and in the Józef Piłsudski Institute (of which he was for many years president). He founded and for some years edited the Institute's periodical, \"Niepodległość\" (Independence). He was also prominent in the Silesian Insurgents' Association (\"Związek Powstańców Śląskich\"). He continued to be a foremost exponent of Prometheism, whose perhaps most important voice he had been over the many years of his involvement with the movement.\n\nDuring his career as an intelligence and covert-operations officer, Charaszkiewicz helped pioneer modern techniques of asymmetric warfare. Just before World War II, during a week's visit to London, he shared information on these with Britain's Colonel Holland, Lt. Colonel Gubbins (future leader of the Special Operations Executive), and technical specialists. In his reports about these meetings, Charaszkiewicz noted how far Poland's techniques outstripped Britain's.\nHe died in London on 22 December 1975.\n\nCharaszkiewicz received many Polish decorations, including the Cross of \"Virtuti Militari\" (Silver Cross, 1922), the Order of \"Polonia Restituta\" (3rd [Commander], 4th [Officer] and 5th [Knight] classes), the Cross of Independence with Swords (1931), the Cross of Valor (\"Krzyż Walecznych\", 1922, three times), the Silver Cross of Merit, and the Silesian Sash of Valor and Merit (\"Śląska Wstęga Walecznych i Zasłużonych\"), as well as numerous foreign decorations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013184", "title": "Port Elizabeth", "text": "Port Elizabeth\n\nPort Elizabeth or Nelson Mandela Bay (, alternatively \"Gqebera\"; ) often known by its initials PE, and colloquially as “The Friendly City”or \"The Windy City\", is a major seaport city and most populous city in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa. Port Elizabeth is the seat of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality, South Africa's second largest metropolitan district by area. It is the most-populous city of the Eastern Cape and the sixth most-populous city in South Africa. the most-populous city of Eastern Cape; and the cultural, economic and financial center of the Eastern Cape. The city is among the top five cities in the world for pleasant weather, according to a 2014 scientific climate study of 600 global cities. Port Elizabeth is known for many blue-flag beaches along the city's urban coastline; its popularity as an international and local holiday destination; and its rich and diverse cultural heritage. It is a tourism gateway city for the Eastern Cape and the only city with the closest proximity to malaria-free big five game reserves. \n\nThe economy of Port Elizabeth is primarily oriented towards automotive assembly, manufacturing and export industries, and the city is also a major South African and sub-Saharan African destination for investment. Foreign direct investments of $19,8 billion has been secured over the past decade. Several Fortune 500 companies have a presence or their African operations headquartered in Port Elizabeth. The city's most prominent landmarks are Shark Rock pier, the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium, and the Donkin Reserve.\n\nPort Elizabeth is a popular domestic and international holiday destination. It is a gateway city for Eastern Cape's adventure, outdoor and African big five game, malaria-free safari tourism.\n\nPort Elizabeth is located in the south eastern coast of South Africa. It is situated on the western portion of Algoa Bay, adjacent to the Indian Ocean. The city lies 770 km east of Cape Town, between South Africa's Garden Route and Wild Coast. Port Elizabeth covers 251 square kilometers of the Nelson Mandela Bay metropolitan area, South Africa's sixth largest metropolitan municipality. Fortune 500 companies are present or have their African operations headquartered in the city. Port Elizabeth is the second oldest city in South Africa. It was founded in 1820 by the government of the Cape Colony when 4,000 British colonists settled Algoa Bay to strengthen the border region between the Cape Colony and the Xhosa. The city's moderate subtropical climate ranks among the top ten cities in the world for highly pleasant, all year round weather, according to a Syracuse University climatology study. \n\nPort Elizabeth is a popular tourist holiday destination. Shark Rock Pier, a prominent installation on the shoreline of Port Elizabeth's Summerstrand precinct, is the city's most famous landmark. Port Elizabeth is a tourism gateway city for big five game viewing, South Africa's national's arts festival, outdoor recreation, adventure tourism and numerous nature conservancies, including the Baviaanskloof mega-reserve, Port Elizabeth was one of the host cities for the official tournament of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nCave sites not far from Port Elizabeth, such as Albany, Wilton and Howiesons Poort, have given their names to various archaeological cultures. The Howiesons Poort has been of particular interest to interpretations about the origins of fully modern human behaviour. Dating to 65 000 to 62 000 years ago, it has yielded extremely old evidence for bow and arrow hunting and shell-bead jewellery. Earlier and Middle Stone Age lithic material has been found in the Sundays River Valley, while at the important site of Amanzi Springs, 40 km north of the Port Elizabeth near Addo, Earlier Stone Age artefacts are found in situ with well-preserved plant and faunal remains within spring sediments (Deacon, 1970). There is Later Stone Age archaeological material preserved in caves and rock shelters, such as Melkhoutboom Cave, in the Cape Fold Belt Mountain surrounding Port Elizabeth (see Deacon and Deacon, 1963; Deacon, 1976; Binneman, 1997) and large numbers of coastal shell middens have been reported at Humewood, St. George's Strand and the Coega River Mouth (Rudner, 1968). Most recently, Binneman and Webley (1997) reported thirteen shell middens and stone tool scatters about 500 m east of the Coega River mouth in the archaeological assessment carried out for the development of maritime infrastructure for the Port of Ngqura. Importantly, some of this archaeological material was recorded in secondary context in the gravels from older river terraces along the banks of the Coega River.\n\nIn 1820, the rising seaport of Algoa Bay was named \"Port Elizabeth\" in memory of Elizabeth Frances \"née\" Markham, the late wife of Rufane Shaw Donkin, acting Governor of the Cape Colony. In 2019, the Eastern Cape Geographical Names Committee (ECGNC) announced the city of Port Elizabeth is likely to have its name changed to Gqeberha, a Xhosa word used to refer to the Baakens River that flows through the city.\n\nHunters and gatherers ancestral to the San first settled the area around what is now called Algoa Bay at least 10,000 years ago. Around 2,000 years ago, they were gradually displaced or assimilated by agriculturalist populations ancestral to the Xhosa people, who migrated into the region from the north.\n\nThe first Europeans to visit the area sailed with the Portuguese explorers Bartholomeu Dias, who landed on St Croix Island in Algoa Bay in 1488, and Vasco da Gama, who noted the nearby Bird Island in 1497. For centuries, the area appeared on European navigation charts marked simply as \"a landing place with fresh water\".\n\nThe Portuguese Crown had as one of its main goals in the Indian Ocean taking over the lucrative trade of Arab and Afro-Arabian merchants who plied routes between the East African coast and India. As they took over that trade in Africa, the Portuguese strengthened trading with Goa, their main trading point in India. The name \"Algoa\" means \"to Goa\", just as the port further north in present-day Mozambique, \"Delagoa\" means \"from Goa\" in Portuguese.\n\nThe area became part of the Cape Colony. This area had a turbulent history between the settlement by the Dutch East India Company in 1652 and the formation of the Union of South Africa in 1910.\n\nIn 1799, at the time of the first British occupation of the Colony during the Napoleonic Wars, British troops built a stone fort named Fort Frederick after the Duke of York. This fort, aiming to deter a possible landing of French troops, was constructed to oversee the site of what later became Port Elizabeth. The fort is now preserved as a monument.\n\nFrom 1814 to 1821 the Strandfontein farm was owned by Piet Retief. He later became a Voortrekker leader and was killed in 1837 by Zulu king Dingane during negotiations about land. An estimated 500 men, woman and children of his party were massacred. Frederik Korsten owned the Strandfontein farm after Retief. The suburb of Korsten was named after Frederick in the 19th century. This area was later developed as the Summerstrand beach suburb of Port Elizabeth.\n\nIn 1820 a party of 4,000 British settlers arrived by sea, encouraged by the government of the Cape Colony to form a settlement to strengthen the border region between the Cape Colony and the Xhosa people. At this time the seaport town was founded by Sir Rufane Shaw Donkin, the Acting Governor of the Cape Colony (in office: 1820-1821). \nDiplomat Edmund Roberts visited Port Elizabeth in the early 1830s. Roberts noted that Port Elizabeth in the 1820s had \"contained four houses, and now it has upward of one hundred houses, and its residents are rated at above twelve hundred persons\".\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church established the Apostolic Vicariate of Cape of Good Hope, Eastern District in the city in 1847. Port Elizabeth was granted the status of autonomous municipality in 1861. \n\nCape Colony Prime Minister John Molteno had formed the Cape Government Railways in 1872. Completion of the railway to Kimberley in 1873 was a major stimulus to trade and a rapid increase in population in the town. With the massive expansion of the Cape Colony's railway network to the interior over the following years, the harbour of Port Elizabeth became the focus for serving import and export needs of a large area of the Cape's hinterland. The rapid economic development around the port, which followed the railway construction, caused Port Elizabeth to be nicknamed \"the Liverpool of South Africa\", after a major British port. The town expanded as a diverse community, comprising Xhosa as well as European, Cape Malay, and other immigrants.\nDuring the Second Boer War of 1899–1902, the port served as an important transit-point for British soldiers, horses, and materials headed by railway to the front. No armed conflict took place within the city, but it felt the effects of the war with the arrival of many refugees who moved into the city. These included Boer women and children, whom the British interned in a concentration camp. \n\nAfter the war, the British erected a monument to military horses that died during the war. \"The unveiling of the monument commemorating the services of the horses which perished during the Anglo Boer War, 1899-1902, took place on Saturday afternoon, February 11, 1905, with His Worship the Mayor, Mr A Fettes, performing the ceremony.\"\n\nUnder apartheid, the South African government established legal racial segregation and started programs to separate communities physically as well as by classification and custom. The forced relocation under the auspices of the Group Areas Act of the non-white population from mixed areas began in 1962, causing various townships to be built for their use. Classification was sometimes arbitrary, and as in many other localities throughout the country, many citizens appearing to have mixed ancestry were at times subject to re-classification, which often had intrusive sociopolitical results. The non-white tenants of South End, and land owners in Fairview were forcibly relocated from 1965 through to 1975, as these areas were valued as prime real estate. The city-planning was viewed as the prototypical apartheid city.\n\nAs black South Africans organized to try to achieve civil rights and social justice, government repression increased. In 1977 Steve Biko, the black anti-apartheid activist, was interrogated and tortured by the security police in Port Elizabeth before being transported to Pretoria, where he died. Other notable deaths in the city during this time included those of The Cradock Four, and of George Botha, a high-school teacher.\n\nIn 1952 the African National Congress and the South African Indian Congress (SAIC) called all South Africans to stand up against the apartheid government's unjust laws directed at the black African, Indian and coloured population. On April 6, while most white South Africans celebrated the tercentenary of Jan van Riebeeck's arrival at the Cape in 1652, the ANC and SAIC called on black South Africans to observe the day as a \"A National Day of Pledge and Prayer\". 15 000 people attended in Johannesburg, 10 000 in Cape Town, 10 000 in Durban and 20 000 in Port Elizabeth. The meeting in Port Elizabeth was led by Professor Z. K. Matthews and by Raymond Mhlaba.\n\nOn 25 July 1952, a day before the official start of the Defiance Campaign, 30 volunteers led by Raymond Mhlaba gathered at the New Brighton Civic Centre and prayed throughout the night. At 5am on 26 July, they left the Civic Centre and walked towards the New Brighton Railway Station. In \"Raymond Mhlaba's Personal Memoirs: Reminiscing from Rwanda and Uganda\", Mhlaba recalled:\n\"I led the very first group and we entered the 'Europeans Only' section of the New Brighton station. By half past six we were already in police vans on our way to jail. It turned out that my party (group) was the very first to defy unjust laws in the whole of South Africa. Little did we know that we were making history.\"\nMhlaba became the first man to be arrested during the campaign, while Florence Matomela was the first woman. 2 007 people were arrested in Port Elizabeth during the Defiance Campaign included Oom Gov (Govan Mbeki) and Vuyisile Mini. Other volunteers who emerged as key role players during the campaign included Nosipho Dastile, Nontuthuzelo Mabala, Lilian Diedricks and Veronica Sobukwe.\n\nAfter the formation of the ANC-affiliated United Democratic Front in 1983, political consciousness in black townships grew. With numerous protests across the country and the massacre in Langa township near Uitenhage, Eastern Cape police presence had increased in South African townships. In Port Elizabeth townships, black South Africans demanded the integration of public institutions, the removal of troops from black townships, and the end of workplace discrimination. To launch an effective campaign to cripple the white-owned institutions of Port Elizabeth and to undermine the legitimacy of apartheid, several women suggested the idea of a consumer boycott to the Port Elizabeth Black Civic Organisation (PEBCO) in May 1985. The economic boycott began on July 15, 1985, and received massive support in townships around Port Elizabeth. By September 1985, white business-owners became desperate and called on the government to meet the demands of black South Africans. In November the boycott was still hurting white businesses in Port Elizabeth greatly. The white South African government reached an agreement with PEBCO which stated that the boycott would halt until March 1986 if business owners arranged for the release of black leaders.\n\nIn 1986, as the deal was approaching its end, the boycotters imposed a deadline of March 31, stating that the boycott would resume if the initial demands were not met. On March 11, the government unexpectedly banned two leaders, one of whom was Mkuseli Jack. However, on March 22, the ban was lifted by the decision of a Supreme Court Justice on the grounds that the government had given insufficient reasons. Jack ripped up the ban papers, and used the celebration as a way to represent the solidarity that the campaign required. As the demands of the boycotters were not met by March 31, the boycott was renewed on April 1. The boycott continued for nine weeks, but on June 12, 1986, another state of emergency was imposed by the National Party government. Security forces searched through the townships, arresting thousands and raiding the offices of black civics, trade unions, the UDF, the South African Council, and churches and also confiscating documents.\n\nWith the establishment of the Coega Industrial Development Zone (CIDZ), foreign direct and also national-level investment has improved substantially in the region of Nelson Mandela Bay/Port Elizabeth. The IDZ, under the stewardship of the Coega Development Corporation (CDC), since inception has managed to attract to its investment account in excess of R140-billion into the economy of the Eastern Cape and has enabled the creation of over 45 000 jobs. This is significant for the sustainability of the IDZ, Nelson Mandela Bay, and the economy of the Eastern Cape. The CDC consistently continues to demonstrate its capability as the leading catalyst for socio-economic growth in the Eastern Cape, with a view to becoming so for South Africa.\n\nIn 2001 the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality was formed as an administrative area covering Port Elizabeth, the neighbouring towns of Uitenhage and Despatch and the surrounding agricultural areas. The name honours former President Nelson Mandela. The combined metropolitan area had a population estimated at around 1.3 million in 2006.\n\nOvertaking its next door neighbouring city East London, Port Elizabeth became the host city for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. The Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium hosted eight World Cup games were South Korea vs Greece, Ivory Coast vs Portugal, Germany vs Serbia; Chile vs Switzerland, Slovenia vs England in the Group Stage, then Uruguay, South Korea in the Round of 16. A quarter-final between Netherlands, Brazil was hosted, then for the Third Place playoff, Uruguay, Germany were hosted at the stadium. The World Cup was played between 11 June 2010 and 11 July 2010. Spain were the eventual champions.\n\nPort Elizabeth was also one of the five cities that hosted the 2013 Afcon event. Same stadium of 2010 World Cup hosted eight games: five matches of Group B included Ghana, DR Congo; Mali, Niger; Ghana, Mali; DR. Congo, Niger; Ghana, Niger; one match of Group A Cape Verde, Angola. Quarterfinal Ghana, Cape Verde, then Third Place playoff Ghana, Mali. The Africa Cup of Nations took place between 19 January and 10 February 2013. Nigeria were eventual champions.\n\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, Port Elizabeth has an oceanic climate (\"Cfb \"). The area lies between the winter rainfall, Mediterranean climate zones of the Western Cape and the summer rainfall regions of eastern South Africa. Winters are cool but mild and summers are warm but considerably less humid and hot than more northerly parts of South Africa's east coast. The climate is very even throughout the year with extreme heat or moderate cold rare.\nPort Elizabeth represents a large percentage of South Africa's biological diversity and the city is a confluence point five of the seven South African biomes, namely the Thicket, Grassland, Nama-Karoo, Fynbos and Forest Biomes. A number of municipal nature reserves have been included in, and can be visited along the “Outward Bound Route” of the city. A mosaic of these 5 Biomes could be experienced in these reserves. The outward bound route is an eco-outdoor adventure and sports route incorporating walking and wildlife experiences. The aim of this route is to spread tourism to similar attractions along the route, leading to increased foot traffic and related benefits to these sites.\n\nAs a British colonial town, the city had a strongly British character, and the central area retains that to this day. Few of the buildings featured in this tour would be out of place in an English market town. The colonial City Hall is a national monument. The Port Elizabeth main public library is an excellent example of Victorian Gothic architecture. Various memorials are situated throughout the city environs, and there are many tours available to familiarise visitors with especially the apartheid era. Port Elizabeth could be considered to be the country's leading centre of Art Nouveau style architecture due to its European heritage. Many buildings display the intricate stonework, wrought iron and stained glass of that era which are prominently visible in the Central Historical areas of the city. Combinations of Art Nouveau and Colonial styles are seen in residences along Cape Road.The area also boasts a collection of Cape Dutch style architecture as well as the Victorian and Edwardian styles, resulting from the arrival of the 1820 British settlers. Although influenced by Dutch architecture, the Cape Dutch style is unique to South Africa and examples can be seen all over the Eastern and Western Cape. \n\nPort Elizabeth has numerous water features in its encompassing area. There is a vast length of marine coastline on the city's outer encroachments particularly southwards. Beaches like Kings Beach, Hobie Beach, Bluewater Bay, Sardinia Bay, and the beaches along Marine Drive are abundant. Kings Beach is adjacent to Port Elizabeth's harbour, and the longshore drift from Cape Recife provides a plentiful supply of sea sand. On the north westerly coastline of Port Elizabeth, the contours tends to be rockier than the area between Cape Recife, and the Port of Ngqura. Port Elizabeth has a few rivers, of which the Baakens River is the most prominent. This river usually floods when a reasonable amount precipitation is observed, especially at low level crossings. North End Lake is the largest natural freshwater body in Port Elizabeth, but has experienced a form of contamination from industry. (It is not recommended to ingest anything from this lake) Also, numerous smaller \"lakes\" are in the surrounding area, namely Lake Farm. Port Elizabeth (as a whole, the entire Eastern Cape) is experiencing a devastating drought, of which a disaster has been declared by the current office bearers of the greater municipality. Water restrictions are in place, and measures are in place to provide enough water in the near future, namely freshwater treatment works being constructed to acquire additional water from the Gariep Dam.\n\nPort Elizabeth is the most populous city in the Eastern Cape. In 2001:\n\nThe largest economic sectors in Nelson Mandela Bay Metro are manufacturing, finance, community services and transport. Community services, trade and manufacturing sectors are the sectors that create the most employment in the Metro. The city offers a wealth of tourism and recreation opportunity due to its biodiversity, beaches and open spaces. Further still, Nelson Mandela Bay is a preferred region for the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals, flour, meat, frozen veggies, soft drinks, chocolates, cheese, yoghurt, ice-cream, paper and leather products. \n\nHistorically, the majority of trade in the region came through Port Elizabeth. In the 1830s, at least five ships regularly transported goods to Europe. It became a free port in 1832. In 1833, about 50 vessels had moved through the port. In 1828, 55,201 pounds, (25038 kg), of goods were imported through the port, increasing by 1832 to 112,845 pounds, (51185 kg), imported in that year. Port Elizabeth exported 41,290 pounds, (18738 kg), in 1828, with a large increase to 86,931 pounds, (39431 kg), goods exported in 1829. Exports included wine, brandy, vinegar, ivory, hides and skins, leather, tallow, butter, soap, wool, ostrich feathers, salted beef, wheat, candles, aloe, barley, and more.\n\nHome of South Africa's motor vehicle industry, Port Elizabeth boasts most vehicle assembly plants, General Motors, Ford, Volkswagen, Continental Tyres and many other automotive-related companies. As of 2018, after GM's exit from Port Elizabeth and South Africa, Isuzu took over their production plant in Struandale. In 2016, Chinese state-owned automotive manufacturer BAIC and South Africa's Industrial Development Corporation announced a R11 billion joint venture for the establishment of a semi knock down vehicle assembly plant in Coega. It is anticipated that the plant will go online in 2020. The FAW also have built a multi-billion rand plant in the region. Most other industries in Port Elizabeth are geared towards the motor vehicle industry, providing parts such as wiring harnesses, catalytic converters, batteries and tyres to the vehicle manufacturers.\n\nPort Elizabeth is also a major seaport, with the most significant car loading facilities in the southern hemisphere. As part of the ongoing development, a new Industrial Development Zone with expanded port facilities has been built at Coega.\n\nLocated at the end of the picturesque Garden Route along the Cape coast, the city has beaches in and near it. The most popular swimming beaches include King's Beach and Hobie Beach.\n\nMany local historic attractions are linked by the \"Donkin Heritage Trail\". These include the Campanile (bell tower), built in 1923 to commemorate the arrival of the 1820 Settlers and offering a viewpoint over the city; the city hall (1862); the \"Donkin Reserve\" park and monument; and the old stone \"Fort Frederick\" itself (1799). The CBD also boasts the towering Eastern Cape post office headquarters.\n\nRoute 67 is a walking trail consisting of 67 public artworks, symbolising 67 years which Nelson Mandela dedicated to the freedom of South Africa. The artwork is a celebration of South African culture and history and is scattered along the route as it starts from the Campanile, up the stairs to the Vuysile Mini Market Square and to the large South African flag at the Donkin Reserve. The artworks were created by local Eastern Cape artists.\n\nOther attractions include the gardens at St George's Park, the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Art Museum (formerly known as the \"King George VI Art Gallery\"), the museum and oceanography room at Humewood, and the new \"Boardwalk\" waterfront complex.\n\nThe wider area surrounding PE also features game viewing opportunities, including the Addo Elephant National Park, to the north near the Zuurberg mountain range.\n\nPort Elizabeth is also a destination for whale watching with humpback whales sighted between June and August, and again between November and January, southern right whales sighted between July and November, and Bryde's whales sighted all year round. \n\nThe biggest sporting events in Port Elizabeth, is the annual Ironman triathlon and the Herald Cycle tour. The Tuna classic deep-sea fishing competition attracts anglers from all over the world.\n\nThe city has facilities catering for cricket, rugby union, athletics, association football, field hockey and many other sports. Its coastal location also makes it a base for many watersports.\n\nPort Elizabeth is the location of the St George's Park cricket ground, which holds test cricket matches. St George's Park is the oldest cricket ground in South Africa, and was the venue for the first Test match played outside of Australia or England, between South Africa and England on 12 and 13 March 1889. The Warriors, a franchise cricket team in South Africa, is based in Port Elizabeth. The stadium is also known for its band that entertains fans at the Proteas games.\n\nThe headquarters of the Southern Spears rugby franchise was in Port Elizabeth. The long-standing Eastern Province Rugby Union, now commonly known as the Eastern Province Elephants, formed the basis of the Spears franchise together with East London's Border Bulldogs. The remnants of the Spears were later reconstituted into the Southern Kings, also based in Port Elizabeth, which joined Super Rugby in 2013. The Southern Kings did not participate in Super Rugby in 2014 or 2015, and returned to Super Rugby in 2016, 2017, but were dropped for economical reasons by SARU. The team now competes in the Guinness Pro14. The Eastern Province Rugby Union play their home matches at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium, built for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn December 2011, Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium became the new home of the South Africa Sevens, the country's leg of the annual IRB Sevens World Series in rugby sevens. The event had previously been held in three other cities, most recently in George in the Western Cape from 2002 to 2010. As of 2015, is hosted annually in Cape Town, in the Western Cape.\n\nThe city's main football club is Chippa United, they currently use the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium as their home ground. Previous clubs to play in the country's top tier were Bay United, Michau Warriors, Port Elizabeth Blackpool, Hotspur F.C., Port Elizabeth City and Westview Apollon.\n\nThe Algoa Bay Yacht Club operates out of the Port of Port Elizabeth.\nPort Elizabeth had its own municipality from 1843 to 2000. Since then, it has formed part of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality, and serves as the seat for the surrounding Cacadu District Municipality. It has a Magistrate's Court, a local seat of the Eastern Cape Division of the High Court, and a branch of the Labour Court. As a result of the presence of a High Court, several other related organs of state such as a Masters Office and a Director of Public Prosecutions are present in the city.\nAll Government (mostly provincial) departments maintain branches or other offices in Port Elizabeth.\n\nThe Port Elizabeth municipality assumed a coat of arms on 9 January 1878.\n\nEighty years later, in 1958, the council made slight changes to the arms, and had them granted by the College of Arms. The changes consisted of adding two anchors to the chief of the shield, placing a red mural crown bearing three golden rings below the ship in the crest, and changing the motto to \"Tu meliora spera\". The arms were registered with the Cape Provincial Administration in 1959, and at the Bureau of Heraldry in 1986.\n\nThe Nelson Mandela University was formed by the amalgamation of the University of Port Elizabeth, Port Elizabeth Technikon, and the Port Elizabeth campus of Vista University. It is the largest university in the Eastern and Southern Cape, with around 29,000 students in seven faculties spread over seven campuses.\n\nRussell Road College and AFDA also have campuses in Port Elizabeth.\n\nThe city has a number of top government-funded and private schools, although the abuse of substances seems to prevail in some schools due to a lack of drug prevention training on the part of the educational system, including Alexander Road High School, Collegiate Girls' High School, Victoria Park High School, Grey High School, Pearson High School, Woodridge College, Andrew Rabie High School and Lawson Brown High School.\n\nPort Elizabeth lies on the N2 road. To the west the road travels the Garden Route to George and Cape Town; to the east, the road runs through the Border Country through Makhanda, to East London then on to Durban, terminating in Ermelo in Mpumalanga. The R75 connects Port Elizabeth to the Karoo. The major routes within the city are numbered as metropolitan or M routes.\n\nThe city's main bus station is in Market Square. The public bus service is run by the Algoa Bus Company. Between 1881 and 1948, there was a Port Elizabeth tramway network, powered initially by horses, and later by electricity.\n\nThe city is in the process of building a bus rapid transit system which was intended for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. This has been a massive failure as local taxi associations have prevented the implementation. Port Elizabeth lacks a proper public transport system which has had a negative impact on the poorer residents of the city who are dependent on public transport. Construction of the bus rapid transit network has been suspended due to mismanagement which led to the project missing its May 2010 deadline. Calls for the project, which has left many parts of the city in a permanent state of construction, have been made recently, and it is expected that the government will make a decision on the matter soon. \n\nPort Elizabeth railway station is served by South Africa's rail network. Local commuter services are operated by Metrorail, while the Shosholoza Meyl long-distance passenger service links PE with Johannesburg via Bloemfontein where it is possible to connect with other long-distance routes.\n\nThe \"Apple Express\" narrow-gauge tourist train to Avontuur operated from the separate station in Humewood Road near King's Beach. It departed regularly for Thornhill Village via Van Stadens River bridge, the highest narrow-gauge rail bridge in the world. The Apple Express was launched to provide a service to transport fresh produce and wood from the farms along the line to Avontuur. The line was completed in 1914 and the train delivered produce directly from the farms to ships in the Port Elizabeth Harbour. Due to modern transport methods such as containerisation, and refrigerated containers and trucks, the Apple Express and its services became redundant. Service has now ceased.\n\nIn preparation for the 2010 World Cup Soccer event the Humerail Station was extensively upgraded. Several disused narrow gauge goods wagons were scrapped and removed from the site, several buildings in the area have also been renovated and revamped.\n\nPort Elizabeth Airport (IATA airport code PLZ, ICAO airport code FAPE) serves the city for both passenger and cargo traffic. It is the fourth busiest airport in South Africa after O.R. Tambo International Airport, King Shaka International Airport in Durban, and Cape Town International Airport.\n\nInternational visitors to the city must currently fly to either Johannesburg, Cape Town or Durban, and then take a domestic flight to Port Elizabeth. An upgrade to the terminal building, completed in 2004, created the necessary facilities to handle international flights although none are scheduled as yet.\n\nPort Elizabeth has a harbour in Algoa Bay, and the construction of an additional international harbour at Coega has supported an increase in the size of the city's industries and the addition of new industries.\n\nThe city has government-funded and private hospitals, including:\n\nPort Elizabeth is served by a few radio outlets, namely Algoa FM, Umhlobo Wenene FM (radio broadcasting to the residents of Port Elizabeth, as well as the entire Eastern Cape, and Garden Route, and globally, online.)\n\nThe Herald serves the English populace in terms of newspaper, on a daily basis. Die Burger serves the Afrikaans communities as well with a well established readership base.\n\nThere are various social media news groups in Port Elizabeth, which is used at most as neighbourhood watch groups.\n\nThe SABC has a regional office in Port Elizabeth. Bay TV is a free-to-air station established by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality that broadcasts 24-hours a day, seven-days a week. The station focusses on African story-telling and creating platforms for local content creators, and receives funding from local government and corporate donors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013192", "title": "Bernard McEveety", "text": "Bernard McEveety\n\nBernard E. McEveety, Jr. (May 13, 1924 – February 2, 2004) was an American film and television director.\n\nBorn in New Rochelle, New York; his brothers, Vincent McEveety and Joseph McEveety were also Hollywood directors and producers. His nephew is producer Stephen McEveety, who often collaborates with Mel Gibson (\"The Passion of the Christ\").\n\nBernard McEveety worked primarily in TV but he did directed a number of feature films. He directed \"The Brotherhood of Satan\", Ride Beyond Vengeance, and did second unit work on another cult horror film, \"The Return of Dracula\". McEveety's huge TV output included 31 episodes of the TV series \"Combat!\". He also directed Jodie Foster in her debut film, Disney's \"Napoleon and Samantha\".\n\nHe produced the TV series \"Cimarron Strip\", which he often directed as well. His Western directing credits include such television series as \"Rawhide\", \"Gunsmoke\", \"Bonanza\", \"The Virginian\", \"The Big Valley\",\"Young Maverick\" and the miniseries \"How the West Was Won\". Other credits include \"In the Heat of the Night\", \"Airwolf\", \"Blue Thunder\", \"Knight Rider\", \"The Fall Guy\", \"Simon & Simon\", \"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century\", \"Eight Is Enough\", \"Petrocelli\", \"Three for the Road\", \"The Incredible Hulk\", \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" and \"Charlie's Angels\", among others.\n\nBernard McEveety died in Encino, Los Angeles, California, aged 79, of undisclosed natural causes.\n"}
{"id": "2013195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013195", "title": "WKPE-FM", "text": "WKPE-FM\n\nWKPE-FM (103.9 FM), known as \"Cape Country 104\", is a Country radio station licensed to South Yarmouth, Massachusetts, with its main studio in Hyannis, Massachusetts, shared with WFCC-FM, WQRC, and WOCN-FM. WKPE-FM is locally owned by \"Cape Cod Broadcasting\" (also known as Sandab Communications).\n\nThe station signed on on April 5, 1991, under the callsign WVCU, which changed to WATB that June. On May 6, 1994, the station changed calls again to WOCN-FM. From the moment the station signed on, the station aired a soft AC format.\n\nBeginning on September 25, 2007, the station began stunting. Initially, the stunting involved playing one song in a loop. Each day the station added another song to the line up. On the tenth day of the stunt program (October 4, 2007), the songs began disappearing from the rotation. An announcement between songs also began to play, noting how many more days were left (counting down from 8 days) before the new format would be announced on October 12, 2007.\n\nThe list of songs played during the stunt were:\n\n\"American Pie\" by Don McLean, \"Please Don't Talk About Me When I'm Gone\" by Ella Fitzgerald, \"Rehab\" by Amy Winehouse, \"You're A Mean One Mr. Grinch\" by Thurl Ravenscroft (the voice of Tony the Tiger), \"Thriller\" by Michael Jackson, \"Wide Open Spaces\" by The Dixie Chicks, \"Dirty Water\" by The Standells, \"Gone Country\" by Alan Jackson, and \"Sexyback\" by Justin Timberlake.\n\nOn October 12, 2007, the stunting ended. After being absent from Cape Cod radio for more than 15 years, \"Cape 104, The Cape's Hit Music Station\" was relaunched. This marked the return of Steve Binder (mornings 6 a.m. to Noon) from the original Cape 104 along with Shai Jackson (Noon to 6 p.m.), another Cape Cod radio local. The format initially changed from Classic Rock to Hot AC; however, by the end of 2007, it had evolved into CHR as more mainstream tracks were added.\n\nOn November 10, 2008, Cape 104 shifted to Christmas Music for the holiday season, renaming themselves \"Cape Cod's Christmas Station, Cape 104.\" On December 26, 2008, Cape 104 flipped to Country, renaming themselves \"Cape Country 104, Today's Best Country And The Legends.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2013197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013197", "title": "Bart the Lover", "text": "Bart the Lover\n\n\"Bart the Lover\" is the sixteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> third season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 13, 1992. In the episode, Bart gets a month's detention for breaking the class aquarium with a yo-yo. To get even with Mrs. Krabappel, Bart responds to her personal ad pretending to be a man named Woodrow. In the subplot, Ned Flanders asks Homer to curtail his swearing, so Homer starts using a swear jar.\n\nThe episode was written by Jon Vitti and directed by Carlos Baeza. \nVitti had wanted an episode centered on Mrs. Krabappel that examined what it was like to have Bart as a student. It was the first episode of the show to feature her in a prominent role. The subplot where Homer tries to clean up his language was written partially in response to the complaints the show had been getting about the amount of cursing on the show. Woodrow's voice was performed by Harry Shearer, who did an impression of Ricardo Montalbán. The picture Bart sends Edna is of NHL and WHA star Gordie Howe. The writers had originally wanted to use a picture of American football player Johnny Unitas, but were unable to get the rights to use his image.\n\nSpringfield Elementary School teacher Edna Krabappel places a personal ad in the newspaper because she feels lonely and isolated. A yo-yo craze sweeps the school after a performance group demonstrates the toy's potential. When Bart breaks the class fish tank with his yo-yo, Edna gives him one month's detention. While snooping in her desk to retrieve his yo-yo, he discovers her personal ad and seeks revenge by responding to it as a prank.\n\nBart creates an adult male alter ego named Woodrow after seeing former President Woodrow Wilson's portrait on the classroom wall. When Edna responds with a suggestive photograph, Bart sends her a picture of ice hockey star Gordie Howe as Woodrow. Using dialogue from old romance films, Bart tells Edna what she wants to hear and asks to meet her at the Gilded Truffle restaurant. On his way to the cinema, Bart sees her waiting for Woodrow and laughs. He feels guilty when he sees she is still at the restaurant on the verge of tears after the film ends.\n\nBart feels worse after being unable to console Edna. He tells his family about his prank letters. Realizing the truth would humiliate Edna, Lisa suggests \"Woodrow\" write her a letter saying he loves her but is leaving town. When Edna receives a gentle and romantic breakup letter saying Woodrow will never forget her, she feels better. She and Bart spend his last day of detention having fun outside the classroom.\n\nIn the subplot, Marge notices that Santa's Little Helper needs a new dog house. Homer tries to save money by building one himself, but his attempts fail and he curses loudly enough for Todd Flanders to overhear. When Todd says \"damn\" and \"hell no\" at dinner, Ned finds he learned those curse words from Homer. Ned complains to Homer, who criticizes his mustache. Ned promises to shave it off if Homer stops swearing. Marge suggests he put twenty-five cents for each curse in a swear jar. Homer's constant swearing eventually puts enough money in the jar to buy a dog house and a six-pack of beer.\n\nThe script for \"Bart the Lover\" was written by Jon Vitti, who wanted an episode centered on Mrs. Krabappel that examined what it was like to have Bart as a student. Executive producer Mike Reiss pitched the idea of having Bart answer Mrs. Krabappel's personal ad. It was the first episode of the show to feature Mrs. Krabappel in a prominent role. The subplot where Homer tries to clean up his language was written partially in response to the many complaints the show had been getting about the language on the show. Near the end of the episode, there is a montage where Homer has a series of bad experiences that cause him to curse, although the scene always cuts out before he can be heard swearing. While recording Homer's lines for that sequence, Dan Castellaneta was told to include the cursing. According to Mike Reiss, by coincidence, some eight-year-old children were allowed to visit the studio the day those lines were recorded. Reiss recalls that \"their eyes were as big as saucers\" after hearing Castellaneta curse. The ending of the episode was largely pitched by James L. Brooks, who wanted a scene where the entire family got together to write Woodrow's final letter to Edna.\n\nThe episode was directed by Carlos Baeza. In the background of the classroom, there are several portraits of past United States presidents. These were added for the scene where Bart tries to think of a name for his fictional letter writer, and sees a portrait of Woodrow Wilson. Woodrow's voice was performed by Harry Shearer, who did an impression of Ricardo Montalbán. The picture Bart sends Edna is of NHL and WHA star Gordie Howe. The writers had originally wanted to use a picture of American football player Johnny Unitas, but were unable to get the rights to use his image for free. Howe, their second choice, was suggested by Al Jean, who had been a Detroit Red Wings fan growing up. Howe's wife Colleen convinced him to allow the show to use his image. At the end of the episode, Howe's NHL and WHA statistics are shown because the writers decided to try something different in filling a slight time under-run.\n\nDuring the opening sequence in which Bart's class watch a film about zinc, a character in the film tries to shoot himself in the head. The Fox censors objected to this, so the producers had to claim that the character was not aiming at his head. For the name of the yo-yo trick that Bart performs for Milhouse, the writers had wanted to use a term that was slang for masturbation. They proposed several names to the censors, and \"Plucking the Pickle\" was the term they deemed acceptable.\n\nThe 1950s educational film at the beginning of the episode is a reference to old science movies that were often shown in classes when the writers were in school; specifically it was a parody of the 1940s educational short film \"A Case of Spring Fever\" (later featured on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\"). The Twirl King yo-yo champions are based on groups that companies like Duncan sent to schools to perform tricks. King Crimson guitarist Adrian Belew's name appears on a paper Edna Krabappel is grading during detention. Todd Flanders watches a television show that features Gomer Pyle from \"Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.\". Bart sees the fictional movie \"Ernest Needs A Kidney\", based on the character Ernest P. Worrell. Rod and Todd Flanders sing the song \"Bringing in the Sheaves\", because the writers liked having them sing \"obscure religious songs\".\n\nIn its original airing on Fox during February sweeps, the episode had a 12.9 Nielsen rating and was viewed in approximately 11.88 million homes. It finished the week of February 10–16, 1992 ranked 29th, up from the season's average rank of 39th. \"The Simpsons\" was the second highest rated show on Fox that week, after \"Married... with Children\". Since airing, the episode has received positive reviews from television critics. It was named the eighth best episode of \"The Simpsons\" by Sarah Culp of \"The Quindecim\". \n\nBill Gibron of DVD Verdict said \"Bart the Lover\" represents \"The Simpsons\" \"at its apex as a well tuned talent machine grinding out the good stuff with surprising accuracy and skill\". Gibron added that the episode shows that the made-up romance between Mrs. Krabappel and Woodrow \"works because it's so painfully true. [...] How the kiss-off to Mrs. Krabappel is created and handled shows that \"The Simpsons\" has heart to add to its humor.\" \n\nNate Meyers of Digitally Obsessed rated the episode a 5(of 5). He thought the intertwining of the two plots in the episode \"works very well, creating a fast paced story. Bart's alias, Woodrow, is a delight to hear in voice-overs and Homer's antics produce many laughs.\" \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson said \"Bart the Lover\" stands out as a \"very strong episode\" because it \"steers clear of most potentially sappy material and offers a lively piece. [...] The 'B' story in which Homer tries not to swear also swings and creates some great moments.\" \n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, said they \"loved\" Homer's suggestion for the kiss-off letter from Woodrow: \"Dear Baby. Welcome to Dumpsville, population: you. P.S. I am gay.\" \n\nIn 2000, the staff of the \"Star Tribune\" listed their top ten episodes. \"Bart the Lover\" was listed at number four.\n\nIn the July 26, 2007 issue of \"Nature\", the scientific journal's editorial staff listed an education film seen in the episode among \"The Top Ten science moments in \"The Simpsons\"\", writing: \"'Thank goodness I still live in a world of telephones, car batteries, handguns and many things made of zinc,' says Jimmy, a character in an educational film. When confronted with a world without zinc he attempts suicide but fails, as his zinc-free gun cannot work.\" In 2002, Bill Brioux of The Canadian Press ranked the episode and its use of Gordie Howe as the top reference to Canada on the show. In 2004, ESPN released a list of the Top 100 Simpsons sport moments, ranking Gordie Howe's image in the episode at number 34.\n\nIn 2013 a \"Wired\" article described the episode as \"the best Krabappel (and arguably best Simpsons) episode\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2013200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013200", "title": "Alfred Irving Hallowell", "text": "Alfred Irving Hallowell\n\nAlfred Irving \"Pete\" Hallowell (; 1892–1974) was an American anthropologist, archaeologist and businessman. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and attended the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania receiving his B.S. degree in 1914, his A.M. in 1920, and his Ph.D. in anthropology in 1924. He was a student of the anthropologist Frank Speck. From 1927 through 1963 he was a professor of anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania excepting 1944 through 1947 when he taught the subject at Northwestern University. Hallowell's main field of study was Native Americans. He also held the presidency of the American Anthropological Association for a period.\n\nHis students included the anthropologists Melford Spiro, Anthony F. C. Wallace, Raymond D. Fogelson, George W. Stocking, Jr., Regna Darnell, Erika Eichhorn Bourguignon, James W. VanStone and Marie-Françoise Guédon.\n\nAfter his retirement, his position was filled by the linguistic anthropologist Dell Hymes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013202", "title": "Self-service password reset", "text": "Self-service password reset\n\nSelf-service password reset (SSPR) is defined as any process or technology that allows users who have either forgotten their password or triggered an intruder lockout to authenticate with an alternate factor, and repair their own problem, without calling the help desk. It is a common feature in identity management software and often bundled in the same software package as a password synchronization capability.\n\nTypically users who have forgotten their password launch a self-service application from an extension to their workstation login prompt, using their own or another user's web browser, or through a telephone call. Users establish their identity, without using their forgotten or disabled password, by answering a series of personal questions, using a hardware authentication token, responding to a notification e-mail or, less often, by providing a biometric sample such as voice recognition. Users can then either specify a new, unlocked password, or ask that a randomly generated one be provided.\n\nSelf-service password reset expedites problem resolution for users \"after the fact\", and thus reduces help desk call volume. It can also be used to ensure that password problems are only resolved after adequate user authentication, eliminating an important weakness of many help desks: social engineering attacks, where an intruder calls the help desk, pretends to be the intended victim user, claims to have forgotten the account password, and asks for a new password.\n\nRather than merely asking users to answer security questions, modern password reset systems may also leverage a sequence of authentication steps:\n\nDespite the benefits, a self-service password reset that relies solely on answers to personal questions can introduce new\nvulnerabilities, since the answers to such questions can often be obtained by social engineering, phishing techniques or simple research. While users are frequently reminded never to reveal their password, they are less likely to treat as sensitive the answers to many commonly used security questions, such as pet names, place of birth or favorite movie. Much of this information may be publicly available on some users' personal home pages. Other answers can be elicited by someone pretending to conduct an opinion survey or offering a free dating service. Since many organizations have standard ways of determining login names from real names, an attacker who knows the names of several employees at such an organization can choose one whose security answers are most readily obtained.\n\nThis vulnerability is not strictly due to self-service password reset—it often exists in the help desk prior to deployment of automation. Self-service password reset technology is often used to reduce this type of vulnerability, by introducing stronger caller authentication factors than the human-operated help desk had been using prior to deployment of automation.\n\nIn September 2008, the Yahoo e-mail account of Governor of Alaska and Vice President of the United States nominee Sarah Palin was accessed without authorization by someone who was able to research answers to two of her security questions, her zip code and date of birth and was able to guess the third, where she met her husband. This incident clearly highlighted that the choice of security questions is very important to prevent social engineering attacks on password systems.\n\nJakobsson, Stolterman, Wetzel, and Yang proposed to use preferences to authenticate users for \npassword reset. The underlying insights are that preferences are stable over a long period of time, and are not publicly recorded. Their approach includes two phases---\"setup\" and \"authentication\". During the setup, a user is asked to select items that they either like or dislike from several categories of items which are dynamically selected from a big candidate set and are presented to the user in a random order. During the authentication phase, users are asked to classify their preferences (like or dislike) for the selected items displayed to them in a random order. Jakobsson, Stolterman, Wetzel, and Yang evaluated the security of their approach by user experiments, user emulations, and attacker simulations.\n\nTwo-factor authentication is a 'strong authentication' method, as it adds another layer of security to the password reset process. In most cases this consists of Preference Based Authentication plus a second form of physical authentication (using something the user possesses, i.e. Smartcards, USB tokens, etc.). One popular method is through SMS and email. Advanced SSPR software requires the user to provide a mobile phone number or personal e-mail address during setup. In the event of a password reset, a PIN code will be sent to the user's phone or email and they will need to enter this code during the password reset process. Modern technology also allows authentication via voice biometrics using voice recognition technology.\n\nA major problem with self-service password reset inside corporations and similar organizations is enabling users to access the system if they forgot their primary password. Since SSPR systems are typically web-based, users need to launch a web browser to fix the problem, yet cannot log into the workstation until the problem is solved. There are various approaches to addressing this Catch-22, most of which are compromises (e.g., desktop software deployment, domain-wide password reset account, telephone access, visiting a neighbour, continuing to call the help desk, etc.). Some companies have created software which presents a restricted web browser at the login screen with the sole ability to access the password reset page without logging into the system; an example of this is Novell's Client Login Extension technology. Because these technologies effectively give the user access to computer resources, specifically a web browser, to reset passwords without authenticating to the computer, security is a high priority and capabilities are very limited so that the user cannot do more than is expected in this mode.\n\nThere are two additional problems related to the one of locked out users:\n\nIn conjunction with preference-based authentication, self-service password reset procedures could also rely on the network of existing human relations among users. In this scenario, the user who forgot the password asks a colleague for assistance. The \"helper\" colleague authenticates with the password reset application and vouches for user's identity.\n\nIn this scenario, the problem changes from one of authenticating the user who forgot the password to one of understanding which users should have the ability to vouch for which other users.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013215", "title": "Kōga-ryū", "text": "Kōga-ryū\n\nKōka-ryū (甲賀流, \"School of Kōka\"; occasionally transliterated as \"Kōga\") is an umbrella term for a set of traditions of ninjutsu that originated from the region of Kōka (modern Kōka City in Shiga Prefecture). Samurai of the Kōka-ryū were known as \"Kōka-no-mono\" and operated as \"shinobi\" throughout Japan's Warring States period.\n\nThe beginnings of the Kōka-ryū may be traced to near the end of the Muromachi period. While the district of Kōka, in Ōmi Province, was under the jurisdiction of the Rokkaku clan, it was a kind of autonomous municipality, composed of localized unions called \"sō\" (). All important decisions in the municipality were made by a majority vote from the union representatives. This kind of system was uncommon for the period in question.\n\nAt this time, the leaders of the Rokkaku clan, using Kannonji Castle as a base, started to steadily build up military might. They made light of commands from the Ashikaga shogunate and eventually began to ignore the shogunate altogether. In 1487, General Ashikaga Yoshihisa brought with him an army to stamp out this rebellion, and a battle between Ashikaga and the Rokkaku forces ensued. Ashikaga mobilized \"daimyōs\" from several provinces against the castle of Kannonji, the headquarters of the Rokkaku; as a result, Rokkaku Masayori and Rokkaku Takayori (Masayori's son) were forced to flee to the castle of Kōka. The factual accuracy of their escape is debated; it is likely that they gave up the town to avoid a direct confrontation instead.\n\nAshikaga then moved his base to Anshiyoji of Kurita District and attacked the castle of Kōka. Kōka fell, but the Rokkaku duo escaped again and ordered the Kōka samurai who followed them to mount a heavy resistance against Ashikaga using guerrilla warfare. Exploiting their geographical advantage in the mountains, the Kōka warriors launched a wide range of surprise attacks against Ashikaga's forces and tormented them by using fire and smoke on Ashikaga's camp during the night. The guerrilla warfare prevented a final showdown, until Ashikaga died in battle in 1489, ending the three-year conflict and sparing the lives of the Rokkaku duo.\n\nThe elusive and effective guerrilla warfare used by the Kōka samurai became well known throughout the whole country. As a result of this victory, the local samurai in the 53 families who participated in this battle were called \"the 53 families of Kōka\".\n\nThe last reported Sōke of Kōga-ryū was 14th headmaster Fujita Seiko (1898–1966). In his autobiography \"Doronron: Saigo no Ninja\" ( \"The last ninja\", October 1958), Fujita categorically stated that he had not and would not teach anyone ninjutsu, and would not pass on the school.\n\nThe Bugei Ryuha Daijiten, a definitive Encyclopedia of martial arts schools, catalog of Koryū Bujutsu (old schools) and Gendai Budō (new schools) of Japanese martial arts (\"budō\") states that no one knows the teachings of this school today. Few today who state a connection to Koga Ryu can show any evidence to refute this claim, and it is in all likelihood that there are no authentic living traditions practiced today.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013217", "title": "Olds-Didsbury", "text": "Olds-Didsbury\n\nOlds-Didsbury was a provincial electoral district in central Alberta, Canada, created in 1963 and abolished in 1997. It is noteworthy as the location of a famous by-election in 1982, when the separatist Western Canada Concept achieved the first and only electoral victory in the movement's history.\n\nThe riding was created in 1963 when the Olds and Didsbury districts were merged. Incumbent MLA for Didsbury Robert Clark ran in the new riding for Social Credit, and was easily re-elected. He was appointed to cabinet by premier Ernest Manning in 1966 and re-appointed by Harry Strom.\n\nIn the 1971 election, when Peter Lougheed's Progressive Conservatives swept Social Credit out of power, Clark retained Olds-Didsbury by a wide margin. He then served as opposition leader while Social Credit leader Werner Schmidt had no seat in the legislature, and when Schmidt resigned after failing to improve the party's fortunes, Clark won the leadership of the party, continuing as opposition leader. As party leader he won the largest majority in the history of Olds-Didsbury in the 1979 election, but the party failed to make inroads elsewhere. He subsequently resigned as party leader and MLA.\n\nThe resulting by-election in Olds-Didsbury shocked the political establishment in Canada, as Gordon Kesler of the separatist Western Canada Concept cruised to a surprise victory, due to anger over the National Energy Program and the patriation of the Constitution of Canada under Pierre Trudeau.\n\nThe premier called a snap election for later that year to ensure a quick showdown with Western Canada Concept. Kesler chose to run in Highwood, where he lived, and was defeated by a huge margin. This rendered him the shortest-serving MLA in Alberta history, counting from election to defeat. The Progressive Conservatives also finally captured Olds-Didsbury, where Stephen Stiles nearly doubled previous Progressive Conservative results amid a surge in turnout.\n\nStiles served only one term as MLA. Progressive Conservative candidate Roy Brassard easily defended Olds-Didsbury for his party, serving three terms. Brassard was appointed to cabinet as Minister for Seniors under Lougheed in 1991, and retired upon the dissolution of the Legislature in 1997. At the same time, Olds-Didsbury was merged with the north part of Three Hills-Airdrie to form Olds-Didsbury-Three Hills.\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n"}
{"id": "2013218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013218", "title": "Penemue", "text": "Penemue\n\nPenemue (deriv. from Heb. פְּנִימִי, \"penimi\" — \"the inside\") is a watcher in Enochian lore. He is a curer of stupidity in man, mentioned in \"Bereshith Rabba\". As an angel associated with Abraxiel (Abraxas), Penemue was also likely of the order of healing angels called the \"Labbim\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2013229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013229", "title": "Megazostrodon", "text": "Megazostrodon\n\nMegazostrodon is an extinct Mammaliaform from South Africa that is widely accepted as being one of the first mammals. It is approximately 200 million years old. \"Megazostrodon rudnerae\" means, literally, ‘Rudner’s large girdle tooth’ (from the Greek \"mega\"-large, \"zostros\"-girdle and \"don\"-tooth — referring to the founder, Ione Rudner, and the large external cingula, or ridges of the upper molars). \n\n\"Megazostrodon\" was a small, shrew-like animal between long which probably ate insects and small lizards. It is thought to have been nocturnal as it had a much larger brain than its cynodont relatives and the enlarged areas of its brain were found to be those that process sounds and smells. This was probably in order to avoid being in competition with the reptiles or becoming prey to the dinosaurs.\n\nAlthough considered a mammal (or mammaliaform), it did have some non-mammalian characteristics inherited from its predecessors: the first two vertebrae (atlas and axis) were still unfused as in cynodonts, and it only had three sacral vertebrae instead of the usual mammalian five. An interclavicle is also present, another trait inherited from non-mammlian cynodonts, and still present in monotremes. \n\n\"Megazostrodon\" is the only well-known genus of the family Megazostrodontidae, part of the larger group called Morganucodonta. The other members of this family that are currently known are \"Indozostrodon\", \"Dinnetherium\", \"Wareolestes\" and \"Brachyzostrodon\". The megazostrodontids used to be classified as members of a group of mammals called the Triconodonts, which are thought to have evolved from a specific group of cynodonts during the late Triassic and early Jurassic periods. However, recent classifications consider the megazostrodontids to be mammaliaforms outside of the stricter grouping of Mammalia proper, while the triconodonts remain in the (crowngroup) Mammalia. The distinction between true Mammalia and Mammaliaformes is purely a cladistic and phylogenetic one: mammaliaforms are mammals in the general sense of the word.\n\nThese early mammals developed many traits which were to make them well-suited for a very active lifestyle. They developed four types of teeth (as opposed to the uniform teeth of the reptiles), incisors, canines, premolars and molars, which enabled them to chew and therefore process their food more thoroughly than their reptilian cousins. There is evidence that the movement of the mandible allowed a shearing action to chew food. Their skeletons changed so that their limbs were more mobile, being less laterally splayed, and allowing faster forward motion. They had a shorter ribcage and larger lungs which allowed more efficient respiration. Ther lower jaw comprised a single bone — the dentary (as opposed to the multiple bones in the jaws of their ancestors, or seven different bones found in reptilian lower jaws). The other bones which once made up the jaw had reduced, and in later mammals would become incorporated into the middle ear, enhancing their hearing.\n\nProbably the most important change in the evolution of the first mammals was that their ancestors, the cynodonts, had become warm-blooded. This meant that they generated their own body heat, relying on the food they ate to help sustain their body temperature rather than depending on their surrounding environment. This permitted higher, more sustained activity levels during the day than reptiles (reptiles must frequently perform temperature regulation activities such as sun basking and seeking shade). It was probably the key to becoming nocturnal — a major advantage in a world where most predators were active during the day.\n\nLike placentals and possibly \"Erythrotherium\", \"Megazostrodon\" is unique among mammaliformes in lacking epipubic bones.\n\n\"Megazostrodon rudnerae\" was first discovered in 1966 in Lesotho, southern Africa, by palaeontologist and archaeologist, Ione Rudner. Her surname was given to the animal's specific name). It was first described by A.W. Crompton and F.A. Jenkins Jr in 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013230", "title": "Jim DeRogatis", "text": "Jim DeRogatis\n\nJames Peter DeRogatis (born September 2, 1964) is an American music critic and co-host of \"Sound Opinions\". DeRogatis has written articles for magazines such as \"Spin\", \"Guitar World\" and \"Modern Drummer\", and for fifteen years was the pop music critic for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\".\n\nHe joined Columbia College Chicago's English Department as a lecturer in 2010 and is currently an associate professor of instruction teaching Music & Media in Chicago, Reviewing the Arts, Cultural Criticism and the Arts, and Journalism as Literature.\n\nIn 1982, while a senior at Hudson Catholic Regional High School in Jersey City, New Jersey, DeRogatis conducted one of the last interviews with rock critic Lester Bangs, two weeks before Bangs's death of a drug overdose. Over a decade later, this encounter would serve as the beginning and inspiration for DeRogatis's Lester Bangs biography \"Let It Blurt\".\n\nAttending on a scholarship, DeRogatis attended New York University majoring in journalism and minoring in sociology. As a junior, DeRogatis began writing for the \"Hoboken Reporter\", first as a music columnist before adding city government to his reporting duties. In 1985, at the start of his senior year, DeRogatis began writing full time for the \"Jersey Journal\", spending two nights a week on news stories and three days on wedding and church announcements.\n\nAfter living in Minneapolis to manage a friend's band and do freelance music writing, DeRogatis first joined the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" in 1992; he left in 1995 to join \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, a job that lasted eight months, and was back at the \"Sun-Times\" in three years. While at \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, he was fired after writing a negative review of Hootie & the Blowfish's album \"Fairweather Johnson\". The review irked \"Rolling Stone\" publisher Jann Wenner who had it pulled from publication. DeRogatis's employment with the magazine was terminated after he revealed this incident to the public.\n\nDeRogatis hosts \"Sound Opinions\" with fellow music critic Greg Kot. The radio talk show is heard on Chicago Public Radio and nationally syndicated by American Public Media and is available as a podcast. The program is one of the longest running talk radio shows focusing exclusively on rock music with stints on both Chicago's WXRT and an early incarnation on Q101 featuring Bill Wyman from the Chicago Reader in place of Greg Kot. The move to Chicago Public Radio took place on December 3, 2005.\n\nDeRogatis plays drums in the punk rock band Vortis; it most recently album (Spring 2019) is \"This Machine Kills Fascists\" on Cavetone Records He previously played in the bands the Ex-Lion Tamers (Wire cover band), Airlines, Speed the Plough, and The Shotdowns. Vortis has released two albums and a third is due to be released soon.\n\nDeRogatis became known also for a scathing review of a Ryan Adams show in Chicago, which prompted Adams to leave a \"grumpy\" message on DeRogatis's answering machine, in which he blasted DeRogatis for seeming to desire criticizing the artist, not the music. Adams later commented that DeRogatis shouldn't have made the recording public, and that leaving the message in the first place was a mistake since it empowered the critic.\n\nDeRogatis and Abdon Pallasch reported for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" in December 2000 that court records and interviews alleged that musician R. Kelly had used his position of fame and influence to meet and have sex with underage girls. DeRogatis and Pallasch reported in February 2002 that a videotape had surfaced allegedly featuring Kelly engaging in sex with a 14-year-old girl. As a \"Sun-Times\" music critic, DeRogatis had received the videotape and subsequently turned it over to police. \n\nDeRogatis was named as a witness in Kelly's 2008 child pornography trial. The defense lawyers charged that DeRogatis should be charged with child pornography for allegedly making a copy of the tape and showing it to another person after turning the original over to police.\n\nAfter initially failing to appear for the trial, DeRogatis was ordered by Judge Vincent Gaughan on May 30, 2008, to report to the trial the following day. However, upon questioning by Judge Gaughan outside of the presence of the jury, DeRogatis refused to provide substantive answers, citing his First and Fifth Amendment rights as the basis for his refusal. Judge Gaughan disagreed that as a journalist DeRogatis had a First Amendment basis for refusing to testify, but excused DeRogatis from taking the stand in front of the jury based upon his Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate himself.\n\nOn July 17, 2017, DeRogatis reported for \"BuzzFeed News\" that Kelly had been accused by three sets of parents of holding their daughters in an \"abusive cult\".\n\nThe result of 19 years of reporting, his latest book, \"Soulless: The Case Against R. Kelly,\" was published by Abrams Press on June 4, 2019.\n\nDeRogatis was born and raised in Jersey City, New Jersey, in a Catholic family. When he was five, his father, an underwriter for Prudential Insurance Company, died of a heart attack in 1969. After rejecting religion during his freshman year of high school, DeRogatis became an atheist. In 2003, DeRogatis married Carmél Carrillo. He has a daughter, Melody (born circa 1997), from a previous marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013243", "title": "Council of Ten", "text": "Council of Ten\n\nThe Council of Ten (; ), or simply the Ten, was, from 1310 to 1797, one of the major governing bodies of the Republic of Venice.\n\nThe Council of Ten was created in 1310 by Doge Pietro Gradenigo. Originally created as a temporary body to investigate the plot of Baiamonte Tiepolo and Marco Querini, the powers of the Council were made formally permanent in 1455. The Council was composed of ten patrician magistrates elected by the Great Council to one-year terms. Until 1582, an additional \"zonta\" of around 15 to 20 members also served on the Council. No more than one member of the same family could serve on the Council at any one time, and members could not be re-elected to successive terms.\n\nElections took place annually in August and others in September. The Council, which met at least weekly, had the power to impose punishments upon nobles, including banishment and capital punishment. Doge Marino Faliero was executed on the council's orders in 1355, and Count of Carmagnola was executed on the council's orders in 1432. The body's deliberations were highly secretive, and members of the Council of Ten took an oath of secrecy. Thomas Madden wrote: \"The three capi of the Ten served for a month at a time and, to avoid any opportunity for bribery, were forbidden to leave the Ducal Palace during their tenure of office.\"\n\nHistorian Edward Wallace Muir Jr. wrote: \"The Council of Ten stood somewhat apart from the hierarchy of offices but was proverbially powerful. With its secret funds, system of anonymous informers, police powers, and broad jurisdictional mandate over matters of state security, the members of the Council of Ten, along with those of the Collegio, rotated offices among themselves and constituted the inner circle of oligarchical patricians who, in effect, ruled the republic.\" During the War of the League of Cambrai, for example, the Council had responsibility for finding ways to pay for the state's military expenses.\n\nFrom the 1490s through the 1530s, the Council of Ten and other Venetian authorities enacted sumptuary laws. In 1506, the Ten enacted an anti-banqueting law, seeking to prevent ambitious noblemen from engaging in vote buying by hosting lavish dinner parties at the \"compaginie della calza\" (exclusive social societies). The law specifically prohibited women other than the wives of members from attending such dinners.\n\nThe Council was formally tasked with maintaining the security of the Republic and preserving the government from overthrow or corruption. However, its small size and ability to rapidly make decisions led to more mundane business being referred to it, and by 1457 it was enjoying almost unlimited authority over all governmental affairs. In particular, it oversaw Venice's diplomatic and intelligence services, managed its military affairs, and handled legal matters and enforcement. By the end of the sixteenth century, the Council of Ten had become Venice's spy chiefs, overseeing the city's vast intelligence network.\n\nThe Council utilized \"bocche dei leoni\" (lion's mouths) placed around the city which allowed Venetians to report suspected illegal activities by placing a written note into the mouth. The lion's mouths were seen by later observers such as Mark Twain to represent an oppressive autocratic government that spied on its citizens, but in reality the reports placed in lion's mouths were examined and only credible reports were investigated.\nIn 1539, the Council established the State Inquisitors, a tribunal of three judges chosen from among its members to deal with threats to state security. The Inquisitors were given equal authority to that of the entire Council of Ten, and could try and convict those accused of treason independently of their parent body. To further these activities, the Inquisitors created a large network of spies and informants, both in Venice and abroad. Inquisitors could conduct secret trials with a low standard of proof, and the inquisitors' practices bore strong similarities to those of the Roman Inquisition, which was established three years later. From 1624 onward, the Council of Ten was charged with the prosecution of all crimes involving the private lives of Venetian patricians. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013245", "title": "Pin Oak Fountain", "text": "Pin Oak Fountain\n\nThe Pin Oak Fountain was built in the U.S. state of West Virginia by the West Virginia State Road Commission and local artisans in 1932 on land given by H.R. Edeburn. The crystal quartz used in construction was quarried from behind nearby Bloomery Iron Furnace on Diamond Ridge, and the stone from the hillside behind the fountain. The fountain's spring water is gravity fed from the hill above and continues to supply area residents and travelers. The fountain is a popular site for picnics, dances, courting, and auctions. Pin Oak Fountain was restored in 1988 and is maintained by the Pin Oak Extension Homemakers Club.\n\nThe fountain and its historical marker are located on West Virginia Route 29, eight miles southeast of Paw Paw in the community of Pin Oak. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "2013246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013246", "title": "Trollius europaeus", "text": "Trollius europaeus\n\nTrollius europaeus, the globeflower, is a perennial flowering plant of the family Ranunculaceae. The plant is native to Europe and Western Asia and is a protected species in Bulgaria.\n\n\"Trollius europaeus\" grows up to 60 cm high with a bright yellow, globe-shaped flower up to 3 cm across. The colourful petaloid sepals hide 5–15 inconspicuous true petals with nectaries at their base and, typically for the family, a large number of stamens. Each flower produces a large number of wrinkled follicles. The leaves are deeply divided into 3–5 toothed lobes.\n\nIt grows in damp ground in shady areas, woodland and scrub, flowering between June and August. It is slightly poisonous and is purgative and rubefacient when used fresh.\n\nThis species is pollinated mostly by seed-eating flies belonging to the genus \"Chiastocheta\" (Anthomyiidae).\n\n"}
{"id": "2013252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013252", "title": "WUMB-FM", "text": "WUMB-FM\n\nWUMB-FM (91.9 FM) in Boston, Massachusetts is the radio station of University of Massachusetts Boston. It broadcasts an Americana/Blues/Roots/Folk mix hosted by its staff weekdays. On weekends the station concentrates on traditional folk, Celtic, blues, and world music including syndicated programs. Overnight programming starting at midnight and usually through 5am is a repeat of a portion of the previous day's programming; an announcement of this fact is made at midnight. The station has received many awards for its folk music programming.\n\nWUMB-FM operates as a noncommercial public radio–style station which carries some NPR programming. HD Radio technology allows WUMB to transmit a high-quality digital signal. \nDue to the crowded state of the noncommercial end of the FM dial in New England, WUMB operates at a modest 160 watts, effectively limiting its coverage area to Boston itself and its innermost suburbs. To widen its signal, it operates a network of eight repeater stations across eastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire. WUMB-FM can also be heard on the Internet at both low bit rate for those with dial up connection and in stereo for those with broadband service.\n\nSince 1998 WUMB sponsored a live music festival, called the Boston Folk Festival through 2009 but renamed to WUMB Music Fest in 2010 and 2011. The first festival was held at scattered sites in Boston's Back Bay. Since then it has taken place on the University of Massachusetts-Boston campus. The event is currently in hiatus, however WUMB does continue to participate in music festivals around New England like the Lowell Summer Music Series and the New Bedford Folk Festival.\n\nUntil 2013, WUMB broadcast with 660 watts, with a height above average terrain of 63 meters; after the station lost its then–transmitter site, the station moved to a new site and began broadcasting with its present 160-watt facility.\n\nAccording to the station's website:\n\nIn addition to the main station, WUMB is relayed by eight repeaters to widen its broadcast area.\n\nNotes:\n\nIn addition to its primary repeaters, starting in 2007 WPNI (1430 AM) in Amherst temporarily repeated WUMB by arrangement with WFCR while Pamal Broadcasting sought a buyer for the station; this ended when Pamal shut WPNI down on November 30, 2013. WHRB (95.3 FM) in Cambridge and WLYN (1360 AM) in Lynn have also offered temporary WUMB simulcasts in the past during transitions to either new studios or new ownership.\n\nOther AM station data\nOther FM station data\n"}
{"id": "2013255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013255", "title": "National Unity Party (Northern Cyprus)", "text": "National Unity Party (Northern Cyprus)\n\nThe National Unity Party (, UBP) is a national-conservative political party in Northern Cyprus. It was founded by Rauf Denktaş on 11 October 1975. The party was in power from its creation until the 2003 elections with the exception of the period from 1994–1996.\n\nIn the 2009 legislative elections for the House of Representatives of Northern Cyprus the party won 44% of the popular vote and 26 out of 50 seats, forming a majority government. Its candidate, former Prime Minister Derviş Eroğlu amassed at the Northern Cyprus presidential elections (of 17 April 2005) 22.8% of the votes.\n\nFrom 2016 until elections in early 2018, the party was the senior partner in a minority government with the Democratic Party, with its leader Hüseyin Özgürgün serving as Prime Minister. It had previously been a junior partner in a coalition with the Republican Turkish Party, preceded by a period as the opposition party between 2013 and 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013274", "title": "Madeleine Dupont", "text": "Madeleine Dupont\n\nMadeleine Dupont (born 26 May 1987 in Glostrup, Denmark) is a Danish curler from Copenhagen. She won the Frances Brodie Award in 2004. She currently skips her own team with team mates Denise Dupont (Madeleine's sister), Christine Svensen and Lina Knudsen. The team won gold in the big world cup tournament in Yichun, China in December 2011.\n\nDupont has skipped the Danish team to two World Championships events, finishing 8th at the 2004 Ford World Curling Championship and 10th at the 2005 World Women's Curling Championship. She won a gold medal at the World Junior \"B\" Curling Championships in 2004, and a silver medal in 2002 at the European Curling championships as an alternate for Dorthe Holm's team. She also skipped the Danish team at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang.\n\nDupont won a bronze medal at the 2007 World Junior Curling Championships, and a silver medal at the 2007 World Women's Curling Championship.\n\nDupont was featured topless in a calendar to promote curling. About the picture, she stated, \"If a picture of me can get more people to watch curling on TV, that's a good thing.\" Dupont works as a Client manager for TV 2 in Denmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013279", "title": "Globularia", "text": "Globularia\n\nGlobularia is a genus of about 22 species of flowering plants in the family Plantaginaceae, native to central and southern Europe, Macaronesia, northwest Africa and southwest Asia. They are dense low evergreen mat-forming perennials or subshrubs, with leathery oval leaves 1–10 cm long. The flowers are produced in dense inflorescences (capitula) held above the plant on a 1–30 cm tall stem; the capitula is 1–3 cm in diameter, with numerous tightly packed purple, violet, pink or white flowers.\n\n\"Globularia\" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including \"Coleophora virgatella\".\n\nSeveral members of the genus, such as \"Globularia cordifolia\" and \"Globularia punctata\", are cultivated and sold for garden use.\n\nUnder the old Cronquist system of plant classification, they were treated in their own family, Globulariaceae, but genetic evidence has shown that the genus belongs in the family Plantaginaceae.\n\nMost species are known as globe daisies or globularias.\n\nSpecies include:\n"}
{"id": "2013288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013288", "title": "2002 Metzer attack", "text": "2002 Metzer attack\n\nOn 10 November 2002 Israeli Kibbutz (community) Metzer was infiltrated by a Palestinian terrorist, Sirhan Sirhan, who murdered 5 residents.\n\nThe Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades claim to have carried out the attack.\n\nThe attacker murdered filmmaker Revital Ohayoun, 34, and her two young children (Matan, 5, and Noam, 4), who were killed in their beds. Tirza Damari, 42, and Yitzhak Drori, 44, the kibbutz secretary, who was responding to the gunfire.\n\nSirhan Sirhan (Arabic: سرحان سرحان, died 2003) was a Palestinian responsible for an attack on the Israeli Kibbutz (community) Metzer on November 10, 2002, in which he killed five Israeli civilians, including He was reportedly a member of Tanzim, an armed wing of Fatah. Despite initial claims to the contrary, he was not related to Sirhan Sirhan, the Palestinian American Christian who assassinated United States Senator Robert F. Kennedy in 1968.\n\nThe perpetrator was located and killed a year later by the Yamam.\n\nHis house was demolished on December 19, 2002, by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF). On October 3, 2003, Sirhan was killed by Yamam, an IDF counter-terrorism unit, during an attempt to arrest him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013295", "title": "Scary Godmother", "text": "Scary Godmother\n\nScary Godmother is a series of children's books and comic books created by artist Jill Thompson and published by Sirius Entertainment beginning in 1997.\n\n\n\nThompson described the work and the character this way: “Scary Godmother is like your fairy godmother, but for Halloween. There’s really nothing scary about the Scary Godmother. She’s fun and macabre; reminiscent of childhood with a little bit of social commentary mixed in.\" She stated that “comics are so segregated now” and that she wanted to create something that both young readers and adults could enjoy.\" She decided to create something with a Halloween theme after looking for a Halloween-themed children's book for her niece and not finding anything that she liked. The books employ a combination of storybook/comic formats. Thompson does the interiors as well as the covers for Scary Godmother, and she said that planning ahead and meeting deadlines can be a challenge.\n\n\n\nTwo films have been produced based on the series. The first, \"Scary Godmother: Halloween Spooktacular\", premiered on television in Europe, Latin America, Australia, and Canada in 2003. Later, it premiered in the United States on Cartoon Network in 2004. The film was the first one Mainframe Entertainment used its new software/animation pipeline for. Jill Thompson co-wrote the script, and had some creative control over the project. When she was shown early character designs for the film which resembled the watercolor illustrations in her books, she requested that the characters instead be fully computer-generated. (In an interview, Thompson stated that she wanted them to go with CGI because \"I'm doing 2D. Nobody else should be doing 2D, just me.\") However, the mostly static backgrounds used in the film more closely resemble traditional cel animation or the illustrations in Thompson's books. Because of that, the 3D characters often appear to \"pop out\" from their backgrounds. The visual style of the film has been described as resembling that of Tim Burton's \"The Nightmare Before Christmas\" rather than that of computer-animated films such as \"Finding Nemo\". A review of the film in School Library Journal, however, described the film as \"Toy Story meets Tim Burton\", and thought that the animation closely resembles Thompson's watercolor illustrations.\n\nThe second, \"\" (based on the second book), premiered in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013307", "title": "Leader of the Opposition (Manitoba)", "text": "Leader of the Opposition (Manitoba)\n\nA list of parliamentary opposition leaders in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba, upCanada, from 1870 to the present.\n\nWilliam Alexander Macdonald was the first officially recognized Leader of the Opposition in Manitoba although Rodmond Roblin is considered to have been the \"de facto\" opposition leader from 1890 until he lost his seat in the 1892 provincial election.\n\n\"Note: This list is incomplete; there are gaps between some leaders.\"\n"}
{"id": "2013315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013315", "title": "KLAV", "text": "KLAV\n\nKLAV is a Spanish-language radio station located in Las Vegas, Nevada, broadcasting on 1230 AM. Owned by Lotus Communications, it broadcasts a Regional Mexican format branded as \"La Ranchera\". Its studios are in the unincorporated community of Spring Valley in Clark County and its transmitter is in North Las Vegas.\n\nKLAV ran a middle-of-the-road (MOR) format until the late 1970s. In early 1979, at the peak of the disco craze, the station endeared itself \"Disco 1-2-3 KLAV\". KLAV evolved into a Top 40 format in the early 1980 under then program director Ted Ziegenbusch. It played a lot of R&B/Urban music that key rival Top 40 station, 98.5 KLUC, would not play at the time. KLAV was the first commercial station to play rap/hip-hop music in Las Vegas. In 1985 the station briefly switched to an easy-listening format and changed its call letters to KEZD but returned to its traditional KLAV name and time-brokered format by 1987.\n\nKLAV previously broadcast from atop the former Bob Stupak's Vegas World Hotel & Casino until its closure in 2000. The station broadcast in a few locations around the Las Vegas Valley but eventually settled down at its current West Sahara Avenue location.\n\nIn August 2012, KLAV was sold by Hemisphere Broadcasting to Lotus Broadcasting. In April 2015, KLAV flipped to a Regional Mexican format as \"La Caliente\".\n\nIn April 2017, while announcing that it had acquired the radio rights to the Vegas Golden Knights, Lotus announced that KLAV's FM transmitter K255CT would switch to a simulcast of KRLV.\n\nIn 2019, KLAV relaunched as \"La Ranchera 1020 AM\", emphasizing ranchero music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013320", "title": "Squround", "text": "Squround\n\nA squround is a container with shape between a square and a round tub. It resembles an oval but is sometimes closer to a rectangle with rounded corners. These allow the contents to be easily scooped out of the container. The name is a portmanteau for \"square round\" (cartons), referring to a compromise between a square and a round carton. It is also sometimes known as the scround.\n\"Squround\" can apply to shapes of things other than tubs: Watches, swimming pools, bottles, etc.\n\nThe term applies mostly to ice cream packaging design, where the switch to a squround from paperboard bricks, cylindrical half-gallons and other containers is motivated by consumer preference, as well as cost effectiveness. These packages are more rectangular than square, but the side edges are rounded, while top and bottom surfaces are completely flat. Squround packaging affords some of the consumer appeal of traditional cylindrical packaging, while also packing tightly like brick-shaped square cartons.\n\nThe container is usually made of paperboard but can have thermoformed or injection molded plastic components. There is usually a separate lid made of paperboard, plastic, or both.\n\nIt offers several advantages over other ice cream packages:\n\nThe lid can have tamper-evident features.\n\nAlthough squrounds are available in traditional half-gallon sizes, there exists a trend toward marketing non-traditional 56-ounce, and recently even 48-ouce sized cartons. The downsizing in carton size has not seemed to negatively affect unit sales.\n\nMayfield Dairy, which announced the switch to squround cartons in January 2003, told \"Food Engineering\" in April that they expect to sell the same number of 56 oz. units in 2003 as it sold 64 oz. cartons in 2002. Breyers, which in 2000 was an early adopter of the smaller package for its \"Ice Cream Parlor\" brands, uses the smaller package across all its ice cream flavors. In 2008, they changed to an even smaller 48 oz container.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013336", "title": "Aura cheese", "text": "Aura cheese\n\nAura is a type of blue cheese produced in Äänekoski, Finland, by the Finnish dairy company Valio. Aura is made of cow's milk and takes its name from the Aura River, which runs through the city of Turku. The cheese is available in two varieties. The regular variety is aged for six weeks, whereas the stronger 'Aura Gold' variety is aged for 12 weeks. It is marketed in the United States under the name Midnight Blue by Valio's import company, Finlandia Cheese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013342", "title": "Buck Bumble", "text": "Buck Bumble\n\nBuck Bumble is an action video game for the Nintendo 64 developed by British video game company Argonaut Software and released by Ubi Soft in 1998. A special 'Buck Bumble' rumble pack was packaged with the U.K. version.\n\nThe year is 2010, and as the result of a previous spill at a chemical factory in London, England, the insects in the surrounding area have mutated. Several different types of these mutated insects gather together becoming the evil \"Herd\", who are bent on taking over the garden, and eventually the whole world. The game casts the player as a Buck Bumble, a volunteer bumblebee that gets implanted with cyborg technology. He is part of an organization known as \"The resistance\", that is trying to stop the evil Herd Army. Buck's missions send him to defend the resistance base, attacking Herd supply lines, while traveling through sewers, and eventually fighting the Herd's mantis-like Queen.\n\nBuck can be armed with up to eleven different weapons, including such realistic weapons as a stun gun, a laser, a rocket launcher, and a guided missile launcher. While the levels are height-restricted, Buck can fly around in nineteen missions, some requiring the placement of a bomb without bumping it into anything. The player or players in two player mode can also perform various aerial acrobatics, similar to a fighter plane, in fact it was originally programmed as a flight game before it \"evolved into a flying bee\". The player controls the bee with moves such as loops and banking to the sides. At the top of the screen the player is given a radar screen which can be used to locate enemies within the level, a damage metre, and the player's current weapon. One level can have multiple locations which the player can reach by passing through teleporters, or gates. There are several items the player can collect while in each level, such as weapons, nectar from flowers to regain energy, and even point bonuses. Several of the game's enemies such as beetles and wasps have special generators that release another enemy when the first enemy is destroyed, requiring the player to destroy the generator itself to defeat the enemies and clear the stage. Besides the enemies, the player can also be drowned if in water for more than a couple of seconds.\n\n\"Buck Bumble\" has two multiplayer modes. The first, Buck Battle, allows up to two players to engage in an airborne dog-fight on a preset map. The second is a football-style game called Buzz Ball. The goal is to hit a giant soccer ball into the opposing player's net. As in Buck Battle, the player has the ability to kill his or her opponent in the process. Players are able to use two weapons from the game; a simple zapper, which gently moves the ball along, and a rocket launcher, which sends the ball flying in a different direction.\n\nThe game was built with the rumble feature in mind, allowing the player to feel the impact of getting hit, supposedly increasing the sense of realism. This feature of the game was capitalized on by the company Joy Tech, which made an official 'Buck Bumble Pack' which was sold with the game exclusively at Dixons and Currys, however it was a third-party peripheral not licensed by Nintendo. The game's soundtrack was composed by Justin Scharvona and consists entirely of U.K. garage and house music which at the time of the game's release was largely popular in England.\n\nWhile not heavily praised, and widely regarded as below contemporary N64 standards, \"Buck Bumble\" was met with generally positive reception from various gaming critics. Narayan Pattison of the Australian magazine \"N64 Gamer\" gave the game several compliments, comparing it to Star Fox for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, which was also partly developed by \"Argonaut Games\", saying that it avoids Star Fox's \"restricted preset paths that had to be followed.\" They also compliment the game's designers for the added features, like the player being able to hover in the air, and drop down and walk across the ground, thus giving the player \"the ability to try some new gameplay techniques that have never been used before.\" He describes the game's main theme as being a \"very catchy dance beat that even has clear vocals.\" However, he was disappointed with the game's thick fog, repetitive textures, and that the save feature after each level, \"makes the game too easy\".\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Nintendo 64 version of the game, rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Overall, \"Buck Bumble\" is most like a diamond in the rough. There are a few edges that need to be polished, but as a whole, it still shines.\"\n\nMatt Casamassina of IGN called it \"the epitome of 'first generation' Nintendo 64 products\" and compared it to a lower-quality version of the bee level in \"Banjo-Kazooie\". This is largely due to its heavy distance fog, low frame-rate, and low-resolution graphics. Casamassina also considered the single player levels too short and too easy. However, he praised the flying controls, the design of the title character, and addictiveness of the Buzz Ball multiplayer mode.\n\nFabian Blache, III, of Dimension Publishing's \"Q64\" magazine, compared the game's shooter style to the PlayStation game WarHawk. His first response to seeing the game was: \"I was almost dreading having to labor through (what I perceived would be) inane gameplay at the hands of a childish premise.\" Praising the game's sound and graphics, he excused the fog because the game was \"set in England.\" He finishes the review with \"There aren't many games of this quality on the market today, and Argonaut should be proud to have this one as their own.\"\n\nAnother positive review came from Nintendojo. They stated that, while fog makes navigation difficult, \"the graphics do not disappoint.\" In terms of multiplayer, the \"extremely difficult\" Buzz Battle was considered much less enjoyable than Buzz Ball. The review summarized stating, \"\"Buck Bumble\" is definitely worth playing. While it isn't perfect, it's a fun game, and that's what really counts.\"\n\nGameSpot's Lauren Fielder gave the title a significantly lower review than most publishers and echoed the belief that it \"missed the boat\" of lower-quality first-generation N64 games. She criticised the flying and walking controls and deemed the multiplayer modes \"seemingly quite literally thrown in.\" She closed by saying \"In spite of all the obvious flaws, \"Buck Bumble\" is not a terrible game. It's just not a good game, and the rewards do not make up for the dull, tugging experience it quickly becomes.\"\n"}
{"id": "2013353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013353", "title": "Nathaniel Isaacs", "text": "Nathaniel Isaacs\n\nNathaniel Isaacs (1808–1872) was an English adventurer who played a part in the history of Natal, South Africa. He wrote a book spread over two volumes (whose accuracy is now disputed) called \"Travels and Adventures in Eastern Africa\". This book subsequently became one of the principal sources quoted by writers of the history of Natal including Morris (\"The Washing of the Spears: The Rise and Fall of the Zulu Nation\"),\nRitter (\"Shaka Zulu: The Rise of the Zulu Empire\") and Bulpin (\"Natal and the Zulu Country\").\n\nIsaacs was born in Canterbury, England into a Jewish family. His father was a merchant and resident of Chatham and his mother was Lenie Solomon, daughter of Nathaniel Solomon of Margate and Phoebe Mitz who came from the Netherlands. After his father died in 1822, he joined his maternal uncle, Saul Solomon Sr., a merchant based on the island of St. Helena. His cousin, Saul Solomon Jr., was an influential liberal politician of the Cape Colony. In June 1825 he persuaded his uncle to allow him to accompany Lieutenant King, captain of the brig \"The Mary\" to South Africa in the capacity of the captain's \"companion\". After the brig had discharged its cargoes in Cape Town, King sailed for Port Natal to search for the adventurers Francis Farewell, an East India merchant, and Francis Fynn, a physician, from whom nothing had been heard for eighteen months.\n\nLeaving Cape Town on 26 August 1825, \"The Mary\" the party made several stops along the Southern African coast, anchoring off Port Natal on 1 October. On entry to the port, \"The Mary\" foundered when she struck a sandbank.\n\nOn reaching shore, the party found Farewell's camp, but Farewell and his party were on a hunting expedition. Once Farewell returned, Isaacs accompanied King on a courtesy visit to Dingane, brother of the Zulu king Shaka. Once Shaka heard of King's arrival, King and his entire party were summoned to his kraal.\n\nHe records his impressions of the Zulu people and their customs which are particularly interesting as they are an account of the Zulu people before they came under European influence. He lived in daily contact with the powerful King Shaka of the Zulus, at the time the Zulu Empire was at its peak influence in Southern Africa. He was treated on the whole with favour, having rank and honours conferred upon him, as well as a large tract of land. \nMost of what has been written about Shaka comes from the accounts of Henry Francis Fynn and Isaacs who learned to speak the Zulu language fluently.\n\nLt Farewell, Fynn and Isaacs established the town of Port Natal, later renamed Durban, which became the second largest city in South Africa in modern times. In 1828 King Shaka made Isaacs \"Induna Incoola\", or Principal Chief of Natal, and granted him great areas of land.\n\nIsaacs left Natal in 1831, when Shaka's successor Dingane had prepared to massacre the few whites living there;\n\nIn 1844 Isaacs abandoned his claim on the land granted him by Shaka and settled in Sierra Leone where he built up a thriving business. However, in 1854 he was accused of slave-trading by the governor, Sir Arthur Kennedy. Isaacs got wind of his impending arrest and left for Liverpool where he was to spend the last years of his life. Kennedy was appointed Governor of New South Wales and took the papers relating to the slave-trading charges with him when returning to England before taking up his post in Australia. The papers were lost when the ship in which he was travelling, the \"Forerunner\" was wrecked off Madeira in October 1854. In the absence of the papers, the English courts refused to proceed with the prosecution.\n\nIsaacs died on 26 Jun 1872 in Egremont, on the opposite side of the Mersey from Liverpool and is buried in the Canterbury Jewish Cemetery.\n\nIn recent years many academics have questioned the accuracy of Isaac's writings. Dan Wylie, an academic at Rhodes University has asserted that Isaacs deliberately exaggerated the extent of Shaka's brutality to boost the sales of his and of Flynn's books. Other historians though were quick to challenge Wylie. Petros Sibani, a historian and tour guide of Zulu battlefields, said there was no doubting Shaka \"was a cruel and ruthless man but they were cruel and ruthless times\".\n\nAnother historian, Stephen Gray, also questioned the accuracy of Isaacs' writings. In his commentary on the writings of Charles Rawden Maclean in \"The Nautical Magazine\", he notes that Maclean made no mention of Isaacs at all. He also conjectures that it was Isaacs who gave Maclean the name \"\"John Ross\"\" because he could not remember Maclean's real name. Gray is scathing of Isaacs to the extent that when comparing the writings of the two men he wrote \"\"The differences between Maclean's and Isaacs' accounts [of Shaka's brutality] are so glaring that one is forced to ask which of the two is plain lying.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "2013359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013359", "title": "KXNT (AM)", "text": "KXNT (AM)\n\nKXNT (840 kHz) is an AM radio station licensed to North Las Vegas, Nevada, United States. It is owned by Entercom and carries a talk radio format The station's studios are located in the unincorporated Clark County area of Spring Valley, while KXNT's transmitter is located near Nellis Air Force Base and serves the greater Las Vegas metropolitan area.\n\nKXNT is a Class B station operating on a clear channel frequency. WHAS in Louisville, Kentucky is the dominant Class A station on 840 AM, so KXNT must reduce its power at night, to avoid interfering with WHAS's signal. KXNT operates at 50,000 watts by day and 25,000 watts at night. KXNT has been granted an FCC construction permit to move to the KXST transmitter site and decrease night power to 10,000 watts.\n\nKXNT is licensed to broadcast in the HD radio format. It is also heard on the HD-2 channel of sister station 100.5 KXQQ-FM.\n\nKXNT airs both local and nationally syndicated talk shows. Weekday programs include \"This Morning, America's First News with Gordon Deal\"; Rush Limbaugh; Ben Shapiro; Dave Ramsey; Alan Stock and \"Coast to Coast AM\" with George Noory.\n\nWeekends feature shows on money, health, law, real estate, home repair and computers. Syndicated hosts include Kim Komando and Ric Edelman. Some hours are paid brokered programming.\n\nKXNT carries CBS News Radio and financial reports from Bloomberg Radio. It has a local news alliance with Channel 13 KTNV-TV, the ABC TV Network affiliate in Las Vegas.\n\nKXNT signed on the air in 1986 with the call letters KVEG, airing a talk and middle of the road music format. It was owned by the Roberts Communications Corp.\n\nKVEG had a wide variety of talent including Sam Greenfield, Dominick Brascia, Lou Epton, Irwin Schiff and the syndicated Tom Leykis. In 1997, KVEG changed its call letters to KXNT with the \"NT\" standing for \"News/Talk.\" The station moved to a more traditional talk radio line up, airing Rush Limbaugh and \"Coast to Coast AM\" previously heard on rival station 720 KDWN. Other shows included Dr. Laura and Bill Handel.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, CBS Radio announced it would merge with Entercom. The merger was approved on November 9, 2017, and was consummated on the 17th.\n\nBetween August 16, 2010 and September 4, 2015, programming on KXNT had been simulcast on its sister FM station 100.5 KXNT-FM, to give listeners who prefer FM that option. That station now airs a rhythmic hot adult contemporary format, under the new call sign KXQQ-FM, while 840 KXNT continues with its talk format on AM.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013362", "title": "Klotski", "text": "Klotski\n\nKlotski (from Polish \"klocki\"—wooden blocks) is a sliding block puzzle thought to have originated in the early 20th century. The name may refer to a specific layout of ten blocks, or in a more global sense to refer to a whole group of similar sliding-block puzzles where the aim is to move a specific block to some predefined location.\n\nLike other sliding-block puzzles, several different-sized block pieces are placed inside a box, which is generally in 4×5 size. Among the blocks, there is a special one (usually the largest) which must be moved to a special area designated by the game board. The player is not allowed to remove blocks, and may only slide blocks horizontally and vertically. Common goals are to solve the puzzle with a minimum number of moves or in a minimum amount of time.\n\nThe earliest known reference of the name \"Klotski\" originates from the computer version for Windows 3.1 by ZH Computing in 1991, which was also included in Microsoft Windows Entertainment Pack. The sliding puzzle had already been trademarked and sold under different names for decades, including \"Psychoteaze\" \"Square Root\", \"Intreeg\", and Ego Buster. There was no known widely used name for the category of sliding puzzles described before \"Klotski\" appeared.\n\nA significant precursor of the Klotzki puzzle is the 19th century 15-puzzle, where fifteen wooden squares had to be rearranged. The 15-puzzle enjoyed immense popularity in western countries during the late 19th century. Around this time, patents appeared for puzzles using differently shaped blocks. Henry Walton filed in 1893 for a sliding puzzle of identically-shaped rectangles, which according to Edward Hordern, is the first known sliding puzzle with rectangular blocks. Frank E. Moss filed in 1900 for a sliding puzzle of six squares and four rectangles, which is one of the first known occurrences of sliding puzzle with non-equal blocks.\nLewis W. Hardy obtained copyright for a game named \"Pennant Puzzle\" in 1909, manufactured by OK Novelty Co., Chicago. The aim of this puzzle is identical to Klotski, and only its default blocks and arrangement are different. Hardy also filed in 1907, which is about a sliding-block puzzle similar to \"Pennant Puzzle\", but with a slightly different combination of blocks and a different goal—not must only the largest block be moved to a specific location, but all of the other blocks must achieve a specific configuration as well. The patent was granted in 1912.\n\nJohn Harold Fleming obtained patent for a puzzle in 1934 in England, with almost identical configuration as described in this page. The puzzle concerned has the same blocks and almost identical placement as forget-me-not, only that the unique horizontal 2×1 block is placed at the bottom instead of beneath the 2×2 block. The patent included a 79-step solution.\n\nIt is said that the game was already known in Japan around the 10th year of the Shōwa period, i.e. around 1935. The first account of occurrence of Klotski in China is in Shaanxi Province, where Lín Dé Kuān of Northwestern Polytechnical University noted children in a village playing a version of Klotski made with pieces of paper in 1938. One of the earliest books about standard Klotski was written by the Chinese professor Jiāng Cháng Yīng of Northwestern Polytechnical University in 1949，in his book 科学消遣. (translation: \"Science Pastime\") This book has been republished as (translation: \"Scientific mindset training and pastime\")\n\nIt is still unknown which version of the puzzle is the original. There are many confusing and conflicting claims, and several countries claim to be the ultimate origin of this game.\n\nThe minimum number of moves for the original puzzle is 81, which is verified by computer to be the absolute minimum for the default starting layout, if you consider sliding a single piece to any reachable position to be a single move.\n\nThe first published 81-step solution is by Martin Gardner, in the February 1964 issue of Scientific American. In the article he discussed the following puzzles (with Edward Hordern classification code in parentheses): Pennant Puzzle (C19), L'Âne Rouge (C27d), Line Up the Quinties (C4), Ma's Puzzle (D1) and a form of Stotts' Baby Tiger Puzzle (F10).\n\nFor earliest published solutions (not optimal solution), currently known is from Chinese educator Xǔ Chún Fǎng, in his book 數學漫談. (translation: \"Mathematics Tidbits\"; , March 1952) His solution involves 100 steps.\n\nThere are several variations of this game, some with names specific to the culture of certain countries, some with different arrangement of blocks.\n\nIt is still unknown whether these variations affected each other and how.\n\nThe following variations basically have the same layout and block arrangement, varying only in name (human, animal, or others), usually with some sort of story behind the names. It is completely unknown whether they share the same origin, though this is highly possible as they are identical to each other.\n\n\"Huarong Dao\" (alternatively named \"Huarong Path\" or \"Huarong Trail\", Chinese name: 華容道) is the Chinese variation, based on a fictitious story in the historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" about the warlord Cao Cao retreating through Huarong Trail (in present-day Jianli County, Jingzhou, Hubei) after his defeat at the Battle of Red Cliffs in the winter of 208/209 CE during the late Eastern Han Dynasty. He encountered an enemy general, Guan Yu, who was guarding the path and waiting for him. Guan Yu spared Cao Cao and allowed the latter to pass through Huarong Trail on account of the generous treatment he received from Cao in the past. The largest block in the game is named \"Cao Cao\".\n\nThe \"Daughter in the Box\" (Japanese name: \"hakoiri musume 箱入り娘\") wood puzzle depicts an \"innocent young girl, who knows nothing of the world\" trapped in a building. The largest piece is named \"daughter\", and other blocks are given names of other family members (like father, mother and so on).\n\nAnother Japanese variation uses the names of shogi pieces.\n\nIn France it is well known as \"L'âne rouge\". It features a red donkey (the largest piece) trying to escape a maze of fences and pens to get to its carrots. However, there is no known and documented record of its first existence in France.\n\nThis is a variation from Thailand. Khun Phaen is a famous character in Thai legend, and the game is named after the epic poem \"Khun Chang Khun Phaen\", in which the character is imprisoned. The game depicts Khun Phaen breaking out of the prison by overcoming its nine sentries.\n\nThere is a slight difference between \"Khun Chang Khun Phaen\" and the standard layout – the two middle 1×1 blocks are moved to bottom. Other than that, all other blocks are the same. The origin of this variation is unknown.\n\nIn this context, the \"basic\" arrangement is assumed to be a 4×5 area laid out as follows:-\n\nThis is used globally as the \"basic\" game of Klotski. It is coded C27d in Hordern classification of sliding puzzle games.\n\nCoded as C19 in Hordern classification, it is first copyrighted in 1909 by Lewis. W. Hardy in United States. Standard Trailer Co. has it copyrighted under the name \"Dad's Puzzler\" in 1926 (also in US). Its arrangement is different:\n\nOther than these, the game rules are the same as Klotski. The minimum number of moves to solve the puzzle is 59.\n\n\"Ma's Puzzle\" is copyrighted by Standard Trailer Co. at 1927. It was the first sliding puzzle to use non-rectangular shape. Its goal is to join its 2 L-shaped pieces together, either anywhere or top right corner of the board.\n\nThe first known graphical version of Klotski was created for Windows by ZH Computing in 1991. It was later in the same year included in the third Microsoft Windows Entertainment Pack. Many versions of Klotski followed, either freely available or commercially available. For example, one is included in the GNOME desktop environment. Some include blocks which have special effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013364", "title": "Malibu's Most Wanted", "text": "Malibu's Most Wanted\n\nMalibu's Most Wanted is a 2003 American comedy film written by and starring Jamie Kennedy and co-starring Taye Diggs, Anthony Anderson, Blair Underwood, Regina Hall, Damien Dante Wayans, Ryan O'Neal, and Snoop Dogg. The film is written by the creators of \"MADtv\", Fax Bahr and Adam Small, who also serve as producers. The character of \"B-Rad\" (a spoof of Eminem's character \"B-Rabbit\" in the film \"8 Mile\") originally appeared in Jamie Kennedy's hidden-camera show \"The Jamie Kennedy Experiment\", but started in his stand-up routine when he was starting out.\n\nThe film centers on the family life of Bill Gluckman (Ryan O'Neal), a wealthy Jewish senator from Malibu, California who is running for the office of Governor of California. His son Brad (Jamie Kennedy) is a wannabe \"Eminem\", preferring to go by the nickname \"B-Rad\" despite leading a rich, sheltered life. As a result, members of Mr. Gluckman's political campaign become concerned that Brad's idiotic, outlandish behavior will ruin his father's chances at being elected.\n\nThe campaign team members hire two actors, Sean (Taye Diggs), and PJ (Anthony Anderson), who don't know any more about inner-city life than B-Rad, to act as gang members. They kidnap him, and take him to South Central Los Angeles, where PJ's cousin Shondra (Regina Hall) lives, and they hope B-Rad will be \"scared white\" after witnessing what inner city life is really like. The trio engages in mildly dangerous activities such as petty theft in order to convince B-Rad that he should return home.\n\nThe three involuntary become mixed up in a shootout between rival gangs, in which the leader of one of the gangs, Tec (Damien Dante Wayans), becomes impressed at intimidation tactics portrayed by B-Rad as a result of playing Grand Theft Auto. In the meantime, B-Rad develops feelings for Shondra, who at first is unimpressed and annoyed, but slowly begins to enjoy B-Rad's company.\n\nB-Rad comes to find out that the entire excursion to head to South Central was a ploy in order for him to be scared of his current mannerisms. His recklessness leads to the trio becoming actually kidnapped by Tec and his crew, unbeknownst to B-Rad, who just assumes this is part of the act. When Bill Gluckman realizes that his son is in actual danger, he rushes over, and uses his trademark negotiating skills in order to ease the situation. In doing so, he realizes that he should just accept B-Rad for who he is, and decides that he will support his son unconditionally. The two reconcile, and when the family returns to Malibu, the film closes with Bill and B-Rad celebrating a Gluckman win in the Senate race.\n\n\n\nThe movie received mostly mixed reviews. It has a 31% on Rotten Tomatoes, with the general consensus being \"There are some laughs, but not enough to sustain the running time.\"\n\nThe overarching themes that are discussed in Malibu's Most Wanted are both the exploitation of one culture by another, as well as the pressure to act within the norms of a given culture. Not only are these themes explored explicitly by the actions of B-Rad, but also by Sean and PJ. There is an expectation of how black people are portrayed in Hollywood that is explored in depth in the manner in which Sean and PJ practice acting \"gangsta\" in order to prove their blackness. In an interview conducted by Brian Balchack from Movieweb.com, Taye Diggs notes that \"the interesting thing, being an African-American actor, is that we're constantly challenged with the duality of acting stereotypically “black,” and just acting. Matt Damon and Ben Affleck don't have to read for a role and ask themselves, ‘Okay, do they want me to say this word like this, or can I just be myself?' I know tons of black actors that didn't grow up in the ‘hood, and don't have their “gangster lingo” down, who take it to another level when they go in for a gangster role. I think that that's very interesting.\" in regards to his acting in the film.\n\n\"Malibu's Most Wanted\" was released on VHS and DVD on September 9, 2003. \n"}
{"id": "2013373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013373", "title": "Kwassi Klutse", "text": "Kwassi Klutse\n\nKwassi Klutse (born July 29, 1945) is a Togolese politician who was the Prime Minister of Togo from August 20, 1996 to May 21, 1999.\n\nKlutse was born in Agbélouvé, Zio Prefecture. After working as an official at the Ministry of Planning from 1977 to 1995, he was appointed to the government of Prime Minister Edem Kodjo as Minister of Planning and Territorial Development on November 29, 1995. Subsequently, in by-elections that were held in constituencies where the results of the 1994 parliamentary election had been annulled, the Rally of the Togolese People (RPT) of President Gnassingbé Eyadéma won all three constituencies at stake, giving it and its allies a parliamentary majority and enabling it to form a new government without relying on Kodjo's Togolese Union for Democracy (UTD) party. Klutse was then appointed as Prime Minister by Eyadéma on August 20, 1996.\n\nPreviously not a member of a political party, in 1997 Klutse joined the RPT and became a member of its Political Bureau. On August 19, 1998, Eyadéma accepted the resignation of Klutse and his government, but he reappointed Klutse on August 20 to head a new government, which was named on September 1. The opposition refused to participate in this government, and Klutse, speaking on television, \"deplore[d] that the sincere and brotherly hand extended by the president was not accepted by the leaders of the opposition\".\n\nIn the March 1999 parliamentary election, Klutse was elected to the National Assembly as the RPT candidate in the First Constituency of Zio Prefecture; he was unopposed and won the seat with 100% of the vote. He and his government resigned on April 17, 1999; Eyadéma accepted the resignation, and Klutse's government remained temporarily in office in a caretaker capacity. Eyadéma appointed Eugène Koffi Adoboli as Klutse's successor on May 21, 1999.\n\nKlutse was re-elected to the National Assembly in the October 2002 parliamentary election from the First Constituency of Zio Prefecture.\n\nIn the October 2007 parliamentary election, Klutse was the second candidate on the RPT's candidate list in Zio Prefecture, but failed to win a seat; all three seats in Zio were won by the opposition Union of the Forces of Change (UFC).\n\nKlutse remained a member of the Political Bureau of the RPT and was again chosen as a member of the RPT Central Committee from Zio Prefecture at the party's 9th Congress in December 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2013374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013374", "title": "Erica Pedretti", "text": "Erica Pedretti\n\nErica Pedretti, née Schefter (born 25 February 1930, in Šternberk, Moravia, Czechoslovakia) is a Swiss author and artist.\n\nBorn in northern Moravia, Pedretti went to Switzerland in 1945. She studied art and has achieved a career as a writer, painter and sculptor. For a few years she lived in the United States, but in 1952 she returned to Switzerland, where she married the Swiss painter Gian Pedretti. Pedretti has published texts since 1970, and since 1976 she has worked as an artist, especially as a sculptor.\n\nIn 1984 Pedretti received the Ingeborg Bachmann Prize for her text \"The modell and his painter\" and in 1996 the Marie Luise Kaschnitz Prize for her novel \"Engste Heimat\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013376", "title": "Bahariya Oasis", "text": "Bahariya Oasis\n\nEl-Wahat el-Bahariya or el-Bahariya ( \"al-Wāḥāt al-Baḥrīya\", \"the Northern Oases\"; \"Diwah Ēmbemdje,\" \"Oasis of Bemdje\", Old Coptic: ⲧⲁⲥⲧ(ⲥ), from Egyptian \"ḏsḏs\") is a depression and oasis in the Western Desert of Egypt. It is approximately 370 km away from Cairo. The roughly oval valley extends from northeast to southwest, has a length of 94 km, a maximum width of 42 km and covers an area of about 2000 km². \n\nThe valley is surrounded by mountains and has numerous springs. Located in Giza Governorate, the main economic sectors are agriculture, iron ore mining, and tourism. The main agricultural products are guavas, mangos, dates, and olives.\n\nBahariya consists of many villages, of which El Bawiti is the largest and the administrative center. Qasr is el-Bawiti's neighboring/twin village. To the east, about ten kilometers away are the villages of Mandishah and el-Zabu. A smaller village called el-'Aguz lies between El Bawiti and Mandishah. Harrah, the eastern most village, is a few kilometers east of Mandishah and el-Zabu. El Hayz, also called El-Hayez, is the southern most village, but it may not always be considered as part of Bahariya because it is so far from the rest of the villages, about fifty kilometers south of El Bawiti. There is an oasis at El-Hayez where mummies have been found on which genetic studies have been conducted.\n\nThe people of the oasis, or the \"Waḥātī\" people (meaning \"of the oasis\" in Arabic), are the descendants of the ancient people who inhabited the oasis, Bedouin tribes from Libya and the north coast, and other people from the Nile Valley who came to settle in the oasis.\n\nThe majority of Waḥātī people in Bahariya are Muslims. There are some mosques in Bahariya. The nature of social settings in the oasis is highly influenced by Islam.\n\nAlso, traditional music is very important to the Waḥātī people. Flutes, drums, and the simsimeyya (a harp-like instrument) are played at social gatherings, particularly at weddings. Traditional songs sung in rural style are passed down from generation to generation, and new songs are invented as well. Music from Cairo, the greater Middle East, and other parts of the world are now easily accessible to the people of the oasis.\n\nIn Ancient Egypt the depression was known under two names. The form \"Djesdjes\" is first mentioned on a scarab dating back to the Middle Kingdom. In the New Kingdom, however, this name is rarely found, but does appear for example in the Temple of Luxor or in the account of King Kamose, who occupied the oasis during the war against the Hyksos. From the 25th Dynasty it was almost the only name used. The other name \"Wḥ3.t mḥty.t\" (\"the Northern Oasis\") was almost exclusively used in the New Kingdom, it appears for instance on the local grave of Amenhotep, and is found again in the list of oasis in the Temple at Edfu.\n\nFrom 45 CE the depression is known in Latin as \"Oasis parva\" (Small Oasis). The Greek historian Strabo (63 BCE – 23 CE) calls it the ‘Second Oasis’; the historian Olympiodorus of Thebes (5th century CE: Byzantine Era) calls it ‘the Third Oasis. In Coptic times it was known as the Oasis of \"Bemdje\" (the ancient Oxyrhynchos, nowadays known as al-Bahnasa) and in Islamic times it was called the Oasis of \"Bahnasa\".\n\nThe modern name is , \"al-Wāḥāt al-Baḥriyya\" meaning \"the Northern Oasis”. The southern part of the depression around El Heiz apparently never had a separate name.\n\nAgriculture is still an important source of income, though now the iron ore industry close to Bahariya provides jobs for many Wahati people. Recently there has also been an increase in tourism to the oasis because of antiquities (tombs, mummies and other artifacts have been discovered there), and because of the beautiful surrounding deserts. Wahati and foreign guides lead adventure desert tours based out of Bahariya to the surrounding White and Black deserts, and sometimes to Siwa or the southern oases. Tourism is a new and important source of income for locals, and it has brought an international presence to the oasis.\n\nThe depression was populated since the neolithic, even if there is no archaeological evidence to all times. In el-Haiz, a prehistoric settlement site of hunter-gatherers was found with remains of grindstones, arrowheads, scrapers, chisels, and ostrich eggshells. In Qārat el-Abyaḍ, a Czech team led by Miroslav Bárta discovered a settlement of the Old Kingdom. Rock inscriptions in el-Harrah and other records date to the Middle Kingdom and upwards. The tomb of Amenhotep called Huy was erected in Qarat Hilwah at the end of the 18th dynasty. In the 26th dynasty, the depression was culturally and economically flourishing. This can be learned from the chapels in 'Ain el-Muftilla, the tombs in Qārat Qasr Salim and Qarat esh-Sheikh Subi, and the site of Qasr 'Allam.\n\nA newly flourishing time occurs at the Greek-Roman time. There is the ruin of a temple to Alexander the Great located in Qasr el-Miqisba ('Ain et-Tibniya). It is believed by some Egyptologists that the Greek conqueror passed through Bahariya while returning from the oracle of Ammon at Siwa Oasis. Excavations of the Greco-Roman necropolis found in 1995 and known as the Valley of the Golden Mummies began in 1999. Approximately thirty-four tombs have been excavated from this area. In Roman times, a big military fort was erected at Qarat el-Toub.\n\nIn the spring of 2010, a Roman-era mummy was unearthed in a Bahariya Oasis cemetery in el-Harrah. The 3-foot-tall female mummy was found covered with plaster decorated to resemble Roman dress and jewelry. In addition to the female mummy, archaeologists found clay and glass vessels, coins, anthropoid masks and 14 Greco-Roman tombs. Director of Cairo and Giza Antiquities Mahmoud Affifi, the archaeologist who led the dig, said the tomb has a unique design with stairways and corridors, and could date to 300 BC. This find came as a result of excavation work for the construction of a youth center.\n\nCarcharodontosaurus and Bahariasaurus (meaning \"Bahariya lizard\") dinosaurs have been found in the Bahariya Formation, which date to about 95 million years ago. It was a huge theropod, it was described by Ernst Stromer in 1934, though the type specimen was destroyed during World War II in 1944. In 2000, an American scientific team conducted by Joshua Smith found the remains of this type of dinosaur, the \"Paralititan stromeri\".\n\nHowever, the region between the Bahariya and Farafra depressions used to have volcanic activity during the Jurassic Period. In addition, the landscape contains some hills made of barite or calcite crystals, and also golden limestone boulders which became a sanctuary for species, such as white foxes, gazelles and rams.\n\nDuring the World War I the Baharia Military Railway was built to provide access to the oasis. The oasis has changed drastically in the past 30 years after an asphalt road connecting Bahariya to Cairo was finished in the early 70s. With the new road came electricity, cars, television, phone lines, a more accessible route to Cairo, and, latterly, Internet. The spread of people and ideas between Bahariya and Cairo has increased dramatically since the road was constructed. Also, the language of the Waḥātī people has been changed and influenced in new ways as the Cairene dialect is heard on television and in music.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013380", "title": "SPECint", "text": "SPECint\n\nSPECint is a computer benchmark specification for CPU integer processing power. It is maintained by the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC). SPECint is the integer performance testing component of the SPEC test suite. The first SPEC test suite, CPU92, was announced in 1992. It was followed by CPU95, CPU2000, and CPU2006. The latest standard is SPEC CPU 2017 and consists of SPECspeed and SPECrate (aka SPECCPU_2017).\n\nCPU2006 is a set of benchmarks designed to test the CPU performance of a modern server computer system. It is split into two components, the first being CINT2006, the other being CFP2006 (SPECfp), for floating point testing.\n\nSPEC defines a base runtime for each of the 12 benchmark programs. For SPECint2006, that number ranges from 1000 to 3000 seconds. The timed test is run on the system, and the time of the test system is compared to the reference time, and a ratio is computed. That ratio becomes the SPECint score for that test. (This differs from the rating in SPECINT2000, which multiplies the ratio by 100.)\n\nAs an example for SPECint2006, consider a processor which can run 400.perlbench in 2000 seconds. The time it takes the reference machine to run the benchmark is 9770 seconds. Thus the ratio is 4.885. Each ratio is computed, and then the geometric mean of those ratios is computed to produce an overall value.\n\nFor a fee, SPEC distributes source code files to users wanting to test their systems. These files are written in a standard programming language, which is then compiled for each particular CPU architecture and operating system. Thus, the performance measured is that of the CPU, RAM, and compiler, and does not test I/O, networking, or graphics.\n\nTwo metrics are reported for a particular benchmark, \"base\" and \"peak\". Compiler options account for the difference between the two numbers. As the SPEC benchmarks are distributed as source code, it is up to the party performing the test to compile this code. There is agreement that the benchmarks should be compiled in the same way as a user would compile a program, but there is no consistent method for user compilation, it varies system by system. SPEC, in this case, defines two reference points, \"base\" and \"peak\". Base has a more strict set of compilation rules than peak. Less optimization can be done, the compiler flags must be the same for each benchmark, in the same order, and there must be a limited number of flags. Base, then, is closest to how a user would compile a program with standard flags. The 'peak' metric can be performed with maximum compiler optimization, even to the extent of different optimizations for each benchmark. This number represents maximum system performance, achieved by full compiler optimization.\n\nSPECint tests are carried out on a wide range of hardware, with results typically published for the full range of system-level implementations employing the latest CPUs. For SPECint2006, the CPUs include Intel and AMD x86 & x86-64 processors, Sun SPARC CPUs, IBM POWER CPUs, and IA-64 CPUs. This range of capabilities, specifically in this case the number of CPUs, means that the SPECint benchmark is usually run on only a single CPU, even if the system has many CPUs. If a single CPU has multiple cores, only a single core is used; hyper-threading is also typically disabled,\n\nA more complete system-level benchmark that allows all CPUs to be used is known as SPECint_rate2006, also called \"CINT2006 Rate\".\n\nThe SPECint2006 test suite consists of 12 benchmark programs, designed to test exclusively the integer performance of the system.\n\nThe benchmarks are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013381", "title": "Diocese (disambiguation)", "text": "Diocese (disambiguation)\n\nTerm Diocese may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013383", "title": "Kharga Oasis", "text": "Kharga Oasis\n\nThe Kharga Oasis ( ', ) \"the outer\"; (\"Di)Wah Ēnhib\", \"Oasis of Hib\", \"(Di)Wah Ēmpsoy\", \"Oasis of Psoi\") is the southernmost of Egypt's five western oases. It is located in the Western Desert, about 200 km (125 miles) to the west of the Nile valley. \"Kharga\" or \"El Kharga\" is also the name of a major town located in the oasis, the capital of New Valley Governorate. The oasis, which was known as the 'Southern Oasis' to the Ancient Egyptians and Oasis Magna to the Romans, is the largest of the oases in the Libyan desert of Egypt. It is in a depression about 160 km (100 miles) long and from 20 km (12 miles) to 80 km (50 miles) wide. Its population is 67,700 (2012).\n\nKharga is the most modernised of Egypt's western oases. The main town is highly functional with all modern facilities, and virtually nothing left of old architecture. Although framed by the oasis, there is no oasis feeling to it; unlike all other oases in this part of Egypt. There is extensive thorn palm, acacia, buffalo thorn and jujube growth in the oasis surrounding the modern town of Kharga. Many remnant wildlife species inhabit this region.\n\nThe Köppen-Geiger climate classification system classifies its climate as hot desert (BWh).\n\nA trade route called (\"the Way of Forty\") passed through Kharga in the south and Asyut in the north. It was a long caravan route running north–south between Middle Egypt and the Sudan. It was used from as early as the Old Kingdom of Egypt for the transport and trade of gold, ivory, spices, wheat, animals and plants. The maximum extent of Darb El Arba'īn was northward from Kobbei in Darfur, 25 miles north of al-Fashir, passing through the desert, through Bir Natrum and Wadi Howar, and ending in Egypt.\nAll the oases have always been crossroads of caravan routes converging from the barren desert. In the case of Kharga, this is made particularly evident by the presence of a chain of fortresses that the Romans built to protect the Darb El Arba'īn route. The forts vary in size and function, some being just small outposts, some guarding large settlements complete with cultivation. Some were installed where earlier settlements already existed, while others were probably started from scratch. All of them are made of mud bricks, but some also contain small stone temples with inscriptions on the walls.\n\nDescribed by Herodotus as a road \"traversed ... in forty days,\" by his time the route had already become an important land route facilitating trade between Nubia and Egypt. The length of the journey is the reason for it being called Darb El Arba`īn, the implication being \"the forty-day road\".\n\nAfter the prominent Christian theologian Nestorius was condemned as a heretic in the 431 Council of Ephesus, he was removed from his position as Patriarch of Constantinople and exiled to a monastery then located in the Great Oasis of Hibis (El Kharga). There he lived for the rest of his life. The monastery suffered attacks by desert bandits, and Nestorius was injured in one such raid. Nestorius seems to have survived there until at least 450 and there had composed the \"Bazaar of Heracleides\"—the only one of writings to survive in full, and of importance to the Christian Nestorians who follow his teachings.\n\nAs part of a caravan proceeding to Dafur, the English explorer W.G. Browne paused for several days at Kharga, leaving with the rest of the group 7 June 1793. At the time a \"gindi\" was stationed at Kharga, \"belonging to Ibrahim Bey El Kebir, to whom those villages appertain; and to [this official] is entrusted the management of what relates to the caravan during the time of its stay there.\"\n\nIn 1930 the archaeologist, Gertrude Caton–Thompson, uncovered the palaeolithic history of Kharga.\n\nIn his diary, “Al-Hajj Al-Bari” mentioned the most important families descending of Christians and Romans in the Kharga Oasis. They are the families of “Al-Jawiya, the families of Al-Tawayh, the Al-Bahramah family, the Al-Sanadiyah family, the Al-Azayza family, the Al-Badayrah family, the Al-Mahbasiya family, the Al-Hosnieh family, and the Al-Na’imah family And the Al-Sharayra family, and there are Nubian families in the village of Baris. There are few Berber families too who are thought to be the indigenous people of Kharga but the majority today are Arab families.\n\nPerhaps the most important of these Arab families that came to the Khargha Oasis from the beginning of the year 300 AH are the families of the Idris from Tunisia or Libya, the family of Rekabia and the family of the jewehera from the Hijaz and the family of shakawera and the family of Al-Radawana and the family from the Arabs of Mecca and the family of Al-Shawami from the Levant and there are families from the countries of the Egyptian country such as Dabatiya and Asawiya from Assiut Or Sohag and the Awlad-el-sheikh from Egypt “It is more likely to mean Cairo”, the family of Njarin from Qalamoun in Dakhla, the family of Al Shaabna from Mallawi, the family of Al-Awamir from Al-Amayem tribe and the family of Al-Alawneh from Al-Alawiya in addition to Turkish families such as Al-Dabashiya, Al-Tarakah Al-Kharja and the Bash families The Qaqamqam, Askari, Tannabur, Qitas, and Kashif.\n\nA regular bus service connects the oasis to the other Western oases and to the rest of Egypt. In 1907, the narrow gauge Western Oasis Lines provided twice-weekly train services. A standard gauge railway line Kharga → Qena (Nile Valley) → Port Safaga (Red Sea) has been in service since 1996, but has been decommissioned soon after.\n\nThe Temple of Hibis is a Saite-era temple founded by Psamtik II, which was erected largely c. 500 BC. It is located about 2 kilometres north of modern Kharga, in a palm-grove. There is a second 1st millennium BC temple in the southernmost part of the oasis at Dush. An ancient Christian cemetery at El Bagawat also functioned at the Kharga Oasis from the 3rd to the 7th century AD. It is one of the earliest and best preserved Christian cemeteries in the ancient world.\n\nThe first list of sites is due to Ahmad Fakhri but serious archaeological work began in 1976 with Serge Sauneron, director of the Institut Français d'Archéologie Orientale.\n\n\nIn June 2016, a report emerged that attributed the dagger buried with Pharaoh Tutankhamun to an iron meteorite, with similar proportions of metals (iron, nickel and cobalt) to one discovered near and named after Kharga Oasis. The dagger's metal was presumably from the same meteor shower. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013390", "title": "Triple Crown of Surfing", "text": "Triple Crown of Surfing\n\nThe Vans Triple Crown of Surfing is a Hawaiian specialty series of professional surfing events that take place on the North Shore of Oahu - a coastline world famous in the surfing world for its powerful winter swells that the can reach 50 feet in height. The Triple Crown was\nFounded by Former World Champion (1968) Fred Hemmings who produced the Triple Crown events. The three unique venues each with its own set of challenges for the surfer. They are also the last three major events of the professional surfing season; the Pipeline Masters being the final event of the World Surf League Championship Tour.\n\nThe events are: \n\nThe Vans Triple Crown of Surfing is second only to the World Surf League's World Title in terms of prestige and difficulty. It is considered to be the ultimate test of a surfer's ability to master the large and consequential waves in surfing's most legendary arena, among the most talented field of competitors in the sport. \n\nIn addition to individual event champions, the Vans Triple Crown of Surfing crowns an overall champion each year. This goes to the surfer who has performed best across all three competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013397", "title": "Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater", "text": "Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater\n\nUnited States Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater (CGAS Clearwater) is the United States Coast Guard's largest air station. It is located at the St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport in Clearwater, Florida and is home to nearly 700 USCG aviation and support personnel. As of June 2019, there were ten MH-60T Jayhawk helicopters, one HC-130H Hercules (the Coast Guard's oldest operational HC-130) and three HC-130H7 Hercules aircraft assigned to CGAS Clearwater. Also on static display is USCG 1023, a restored Grumman HU-16 Albatross.\n\nAir Station Clearwater also operates two aviation facilities in The Bahamas, one at Great Inagua and one at the United States Navy's Atlantic Undersea Test and Evaluation Center (AUTEC) installation at Andros Island. These facilities support continually deployed HH-60Js and MH-60Ts from various air stations for Operations Bahamas, Turks and Caicos (OPBAT), a joint U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and U.S. Coast Guard counter-narcotics (CN) and migrant smuggling interdiction operation.\n\nIn 1934, an air station was commissioned on the west coast of Florida at Albert Whitted Airport in downtown St. Petersburg. Designated as Coast Guard Air Station St. Petersburg, it subsequently became a home base for various Coast Guard amphibious aircraft and helicopters. In 1976, the addition of four land-based HC-130 Hercules aircraft prompted the move to, and construction of, new facilities at St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport. With this move, the air station's name was changed to U.S. Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater.\n\nCGAS Clearwater has a rich history, and its operations have been at the heart of significant events in Florida and the Caribbean for many years. In the early 1980s, its high operations tempo earned Clearwater two Coast Guard Meritorious Unit Commendations, the Humanitarian Service Medal, and the Coast Guard Unit Commendation. It was during this time that the Air Station provided crucial support to the surface fleet during the Cuban boat lift. Shortly thereafter Clearwater answered the call to duty during Operation Urgent Fury—the Grenada rescue mission, and was awarded the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal for its support of the invasion as well as the Coast Guard Meritorious Unit Commendation for its continual support efforts. Later that same year another Coast Guard Meritorious Unit Commendation was awarded to the Air Station for its role in Operation Wagon Wheel, an international drug interdiction effort.\n\nIn 1986, following on the success of the previous operation, Clearwater conducted Operation Hunter. This drug interdiction effort planted the seeds for what is today's OPBAT (Operation Bahamas and Turks and Caicos). Perhaps the single most noteworthy mission for the Air Station also came in 1986, during the launch of the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\". Air Station Clearwater crews responded immediately, the initial crew arriving on scene so quickly it had to stand off while the debris from the explosion continued to fall from the sky. In all, Air Station Clearwater flew 33 sorties on the \"Challenger\" mission and was awarded a Coast Guard Unit Commendation with Operational device.\n\nCGAS Clearwater became the Coast Guard's largest air station in 1987 with the expansion of the drug interdiction mission, \"Operations Bahamas, Turks, and Caicos\" or OPBAT. This large ongoing mission resulted in the assignment of 12 HH-60J Jayhawk helicopters, the newest in the Coast Guard fleet, and boosted personnel strength to its current level of over 500 men and women. Also during this period, three additional HC-130s were stationed at Air Station Clearwater to support the increased law enforcement efforts. The air station's motto of \"Anytime, Anywhere\" accurately describes its pace of operations.\n\nThe 1990s were no less dramatic for the men and women of CGAS Clearwater. In 1991, the station's HC-130s responded rapidly to fly personnel and supplies in and out of the combat theater in support of Operation Desert Storm. During the Haitian uprising in 1992, CGAS Clearwater crews evacuated American embassy personnel and transported U.S. Special Forces into Haiti. When south Florida and Louisiana were devastated by Hurricane Andrew, CGAS Clearwater crews flew missions round the clock, transporting hundreds of tons of badly needed supplies. In March 1993, the \"Storm of the Century\" struck Florida leaving numerous sunken vessels in its wake. Air Station Clearwater crews launched at the height of the storm and pulled 62 people from the water in what was the busiest search and rescue day in the air station's history. In the summer of 1994 air crews participated in a massive SAR effort which located and rescued 34,568 Cubans and 23,389 Haitian migrants from the waters of the Caribbean.\n\nIn 1997, the U.S. renewed its effort towards the War on Drugs, and Clearwater responded as part of Operations Frontier Shield, Gulf Shield, and Frontier Lance. Those operations were aimed at stemming the flow of illegal drugs and migrants and spanned from the Leeward Islands of the Caribbean to the southern coastline of Texas. The Coast Guard set new records for both drug seizures and arrests.\n\nIn 2005, Air Station Clearwater crews helped support the survivors of the tsunami in the Indian Ocean. In 2006, the United States Navy Reserve vacated the former Navy Operational Support Center St. Petersburg/Clearwater (formerly Naval Reserve Center St. Petersburg/Clearwater) adjacent to the air station, transferring the facility to the Coast Guard and placing it under the oversight of Coast Guard Air Station Clearwater.\n\nThe HC-130 first became a part of Air Station Clearwater in 1976. The Lockheed HC-130H model is the current version assigned, with 5 such aircraft in the air station's current inventory. HC-130s from Air Station Clearwater have deployed worldwide including most of the contiguous 48 states, Alaska, Hawaii, throughout the Caribbean, Central America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. The HC-130 Hercules performs numerous missions in support of Search and Rescue, Law Enforcement, Marine Environmental Protection, and logistics. The aircraft is an ideal platform for long range Search and Rescue, with over 14 hours of airborne endurance and large scanner windows built into the airframe side.\n\nThe 9 Sikorsky HH-60J Jayhawk helicopters previously assigned to the air station have since been replaced by 13 upgraded MH-60T Jayhawk versions. This aircraft has a long-range capability of 600 nautical miles (1100 km) to support Coast Guard cutters on Law Enforcement patrols, deliver dewatering pumps to sinking vessels, evacuate injured crew members from vessels far at sea, and many other missions. Air Station Clearwater helicopter aircrews fly an average of over 400 Search and Rescue cases each year along both the east and west coasts of Florida, the Bahamas, and beyond.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013411", "title": "Rally Monkey", "text": "Rally Monkey\n\nThe Rally Monkey is the unofficial mascot for the Los Angeles Angels Major League Baseball team.\n\nThe character debuted on June 6, 2000, when the Angels were trailing the San Francisco Giants 5–4 in the bottom of the ninth inning. Two video board operators, Dean Fraulino and Jaysen Humes, took a clip of a monkey jumping around from the 1994 Jim Carrey movie comedy \"\", and superimposed the words \"RALLY MONKEY!\" on top of it. The Angels scored two runs and won the game.\n\nThe video clip proved to be so popular that the team hired Katie, a white-haired capuchin monkey who previously appeared as Marcel in the television sitcom \"Friends\", to star in original clips for later games. When seen, she bounces to the House of Pain song \"Jump Around\" and sometimes holds a sign proclaiming that it is \"RALLY TIME!\"\n\nThe rally monkey came to national and world-wide attention during the Angels' appearance in the 2002 World Series, again against the San Francisco Giants. In the sixth game, the Angels were playing at home, but were trailing the series 3-2 and facing elimination. They were down 5-0 as the game entered the bottom of the seventh inning. Amid fervid rally-monkey themed fan support, the Angels proceeded to score six unanswered runs over the next two innings, winning the game and turning the momentum of the series for good (they went on to clinch the championship in game 7).\n\nIn 2009, the Angels once again reached the post-season, sparking a renewal of the rally monkey's popularity.\n\nAdditional videos featuring the Rally Monkey show her edited into popular films and TV shows such as \"The Brady Bunch Movie\", \"Jurassic Park\", \"Field of Dreams\", \"Star Trek\", \"Risky Business\", \"WarGames\", and \"Animal House\". The Angels started selling plush monkeys that fans bring to games.\n\nESPN did a \"SportsCenter\" commercial in which it showed one of the executives having to make \"budget cuts,\" leading to the release of the monkey. The monkey pleaded by raising the \"It's Rally Time\" sign.\n\nIn one installment of the popular comic strip \"Get Fuzzy\", the strip's protagonist, Bucky Katt, attempts to travel to Anaheim to eat the Rally Monkey after seeing it on television, as part of a running gag focused on Bucky's irrational desire to eat a monkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013433", "title": "Garrison school", "text": "Garrison school\n\nGarrison schools () in 18th century Russia were military schools that provided the primary education for the children of the military recruits. The institution of the Garrison schools was introduced by the ukase (manifest) of Tsar Peter the Great in 1721 primarily for the children of military recruits in the course of Peter's reform of the Russian military. This so-called military revolution transformed the military from an archaic militia-like force to the regular army, which drew upon military recruits called, predominantly from enserfed peasantry, to serve for 25 years, which, given the expected life span of most Russian serfs at the time, essentially meant that they would serve for life. The recruits and their children \"born after the recruitment\" were liberated from the serf status and a network of Garrison schools was created for the children's education. The boys, starting from the age of 7, were taught literacy, elementary math, \"artillery and military engineering\", but also fine arts and several trade professions, such as shoe-making, sewing, wood- and metal-working, etc. \n\nInitially 49 schools were founded, each for 50 boys aged 7 to 15. Upon completion of elementary study course, the boys' education was specialized as follows: 10 boys studied artillery and fortification, 20 studied music (drums and singing), 10 studied trade professions and 10 studied \"advanced writing\" (письмоводство). Most school graduates entered the military service. \n\nIn 1798, the Garrison schools were renamed \"\"Military institutions for the orphans\"\" (военно-сиротские отделения) which in turn were transformed into Cantonist schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013446", "title": "Red Bull Trolley Grand Prix", "text": "Red Bull Trolley Grand Prix\n\nThe Red Bull Trolley Grand Prix is a novelty downhill race for unpowered vehicles sponsored by caffeinated drink manufacturer Red Bull. It is held in odd numbered years in the city of Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nThe gravity-only powered racers compete on a 700 m downhill racetrack through the Auckland Domain. Vehicles must weigh less than 80 kg, and be no larger than 3 m long by 1.5 m wide by 2 m high. Teams are expected to build trolleys to a theme and must perform a one-minute song/dance/skit before the race commences.\n\nScores are allocated for originality of concept, speed down the course and quality of performance (including spectacularity of crashes). Races compete in pairs but elapsed time is the only speed criteria considered. Winners were awarded a trip for the whole team to the Melbourne Formula One Grand Prix motor race, or up to NZ$10,000 in other years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013448", "title": "Scrubber", "text": "Scrubber\n\nScrubber systems (e.g. chemical scrubbers, gas scrubbers) are a diverse group of air pollution control devices that can be used to remove some particulates and/or gases from industrial exhaust streams. The first air scrubber was designed to remove carbon dioxide from the air of an early submarine, the Ictineo I, a role for which they continue to be used today. Traditionally, the term \"scrubber\" has referred to pollution control devices that use liquid to wash unwanted pollutants from a gas stream. Recently, the term has also been used to describe systems that inject a dry reagent or slurry into a dirty exhaust stream to \"wash out\" acid gases. Scrubbers are one of the primary devices that control gaseous emissions, especially acid gases. Scrubbers can also be used for heat recovery from hot gases by flue-gas condensation. They are also used for the high flows in solar, PV, or LED processes.\n\nThere are several methods to remove toxic or corrosive compounds from exhaust gas and neutralize it.\n\nCombustion is sometimes the cause of harmful exhausts, but, in many cases, combustion may also be used for exhaust gas cleaning if the temperature is high enough and enough oxygen is available.\n\nThe exhaust gases of combustion may contain substances considered harmful to the environment, and the scrubber may remove or neutralize those. \nA wet scrubber is used for cleaning air, fuel gas or other gases of various pollutants and dust particles. Wet scrubbing works via the contact of target compounds or particulate matter with the scrubbing solution. Solutions may simply be water (for dust) or solutions of reagents that specifically target certain compounds.\n\nProcess exhaust gas can also contain water-soluble toxic and/or corrosive gases like hydrochloric acid (HCl) or ammonia (NH). These can be removed very well by a wet scrubber.\n\nRemoval efficiency of pollutants is improved by increasing residence time in the scrubber or by the increase of surface area of the scrubber solution by the use of a spray nozzle, packed towers or an aspirator. Wet scrubbers may increase the proportion of water in the gas, resulting in a visible stack plume, if the gas is sent to a stack.\n\nWet scrubbers can also be used for heat recovery from hot gases by flue-gas condensation. In this mode, termed a condensing scrubber, water from the scrubber drain is circulated through a cooler to the nozzles at the top of the scrubber. The hot gas enters the scrubber at the bottom. If the gas temperature is above the water dew point, it is initially cooled by evaporation of water drops. Further cooling cause water vapors to condense, adding to the amount of circulating water.\n\nThe condensation of water releases significant amounts of low temperature heat due to the high value of the specific latent heat of the vaporisation of water (more than per ton of water), that can be recovered by the cooler for e.g. district heating purposes.\n\nExcess condensed water must continuously be removed from the circulating water.\n\nA dry or semi-dry scrubbing system, unlike the wet scrubber, does not saturate the flue gas stream that is being treated with moisture. In some cases no moisture is added, while in others only the amount of moisture that can be evaporated in the flue gas without condensing is added. Therefore, dry scrubbers generally do not have a stack steam plume or wastewater handling/disposal requirements. Dry scrubbing systems are used to remove acid gases (such as SO and HCl) primarily from combustion sources.\n\nThere are a number of dry type scrubbing system designs. However, all consist of two main sections or devices: a device to introduce the acid gas sorbent material into the gas stream and a particulate matter control device to remove reaction products, excess sorbent material as well as any particulate matter already in the flue gas.\n\nDry scrubbing systems can be categorized as dry sorbent injectors (DSIs) or as spray dryer absorbers (SDAs). Spray dryer absorbers are also called semi-dry scrubbers or spray dryers.\n\nDry scrubbing systems are often used for the removal of odorous and corrosive gases from wastewater treatment plant operations. The medium used is typically an activated alumina compound impregnated with materials to handle specific gases such as hydrogen sulfide. Media used can be mixed together to offer a wide range of removal for other odorous compounds such as methyl mercaptans, aldehydes, volatile organic compounds, dimethyl sulfide, and dimethyl disulfide.\n\nDry sorbent injection involves the addition of an alkaline material (usually hydrated lime, soda ash, or sodium bicarbonate) into the gas stream to react with the acid gases. The sorbent can be injected directly into several different locations: the combustion process, the flue gas duct (ahead of the particulate control device), or an open reaction chamber (if one exists). The acid gases react with the alkaline sorbents to form solid salts which are removed in the particulate control device. These simple systems can achieve only limited acid gas (SO and HCl) removal efficiencies. Higher collection efficiencies can be achieved by increasing the flue gas humidity (i.e., cooling using water spray). These devices have been used on medical waste incinerators and a few municipal waste combustors.\n\nIn spray dryer absorbers, the flue gases are introduced into an absorbing tower (dryer) where the gases are contacted with a finely atomized alkaline slurry. Acid gases are absorbed by the slurry mixture and react to form solid salts which are removed by the particulate control device. The heat of the flue gas is used to evaporate all the water droplets, leaving a non-saturated flue gas to exit the absorber tower. Spray dryers are capable of achieving high (80+%) acid gas removal efficiencies. These devices have been used on industrial and utility boilers and municipal waste incinerators.\n\nMany chemicals can be removed from exhaust gas also by using adsorber material. The flue gas is passed through a cartridge which is filled with one or several adsorber materials and has been adapted to the chemical properties of the components to be removed. This type of scrubber is sometimes also called dry scrubber. The adsorber material has to be replaced after its surface is saturated. Note: adsorption is a surface phenomena, absorption involves the entire material. Ex: Activated carbon an adsorbent, used for the adsorption of odorous compounds.\n\nMercury is a highly toxic element commonly found in coal and municipal waste. Wet scrubbers are only effective for removal of soluble mercury species, such as oxidized mercury, Hg. Mercury vapor in its elemental form, Hg, is insoluble in the scrubber slurry and not removed. Therefore, an additional process of Hg conversion is required to complete mercury capture. Usually halogens are added to the flue gas for this purpose. The type of coal burned as well as the presence of a selective catalytic reduction unit both affect the ratio of elemental to oxidized mercury in the flue gas and thus the degree to which the mercury is removed.\n\nIn July 2015, one study found that some mercury scrubbers installed on coal power plants inadvertently capture PAH (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) emissions as well.\n\nOne side effect of scrubbing is that the process only moves the unwanted substance from the exhaust gases into a liquid solution, solid paste or powder form. This must be disposed of safely, if it can not be reused.\n\nFor example, mercury removal results in a waste product that either needs further processing to extract the raw mercury, or must be buried in a special hazardous wastes landfill that prevents the mercury from seeping out into the environment.\n\nAs an example of reuse, limestone-based scrubbers in coal-fired power plants can produce a synthetic gypsum of sufficient quality that can be used to manufacture drywall and other industrial products.\n\nPoorly maintained scrubbers have the potential to spread disease-causing bacteria. The problem is a result of inadequate cleaning. For example, the cause of a 2005 outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in Norway was just a few infected scrubbers. The outbreak caused 10 deaths and more than 50 cases of infection.\n\nScrubbers were first used onboard ships for the production of Inert Gas for oil tanker operations. \n\nLater, in preparation for the global 0.5% sulfur cap in 2020, The International Maritime Organization (IMO) has adopted guidelines on the approval, installation and use of exhaust gas scrubbers (exhaust gas cleaning systems) onboard ships to ensure compliance with the sulphur regulation of MARPOL Annex VI. Flag States must approve such systems and port States can (as part of their port state control) ensure that such systems are functioning correctly. If a scrubber system is not functioning properly (and the IMO procedures for such malfunctions are not adhered to), port States can sanction the ship. The United Nations Convention on the Law Of the Sea also bestows port States with a right to regulate (and even ban) the use of open loop scrubber systems within ports and internal waters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013452", "title": "Sila", "text": "Sila\n\nSila may refer to :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013453", "title": "WLKO", "text": "WLKO\n\nWLKO (102.9 FM, \"The Lake\") is a classic hits-leaning adult hits music station serving the Charlotte, North Carolina area. Although licensed to Hickory, the main studios are located at 801 Woodridge Center Drive, just off the Billy Graham Parkway near Charlotte/Douglas International Airport, while its transmitter is located north of Stanley. The station is owned and operated by .\n\nWLKO broadcasts in the HD Radio format, licensed by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission as a digital (hybrid) station.\n\nThe station's history in Charlotte began on September 1, 1987, with a signal boost and a move from Hickory, North Carolina (where it was WHKY-FM). Prior to the move, \"Y-102.9\" had played Top 40 with a heavy emphasis on album-oriented rock, a format that made people notice at a time when rock radio was in decline. Before that, WHKY-FM had aired Christian programming since 1959.\n\nWRLX, also known as \"Relax 102.9\", aired a beautiful music format. WRLX promoted itself with images of a pair of retirement-age punk rockers, intended to humorously illustrate how the competition apparently viewed the station's target audience. In March 1989, the station changed its call letters to WEZC (after the 104.7 frequency gave up those letters) and its name to \"EZ 102.9\", gradually adding more vocals during the summer to make the transition from beautiful music to MOR. Some of the early announcers include Bob Brandon, Jim Davenport, Catherine Lane, Jon Robinson and Todd Edwards. In 1993, the name changed again to \"Lite 102.9\" as the station moved from Barbra Streisand, Neil Diamond and Barry Manilow to soft adult contemporary (Phil Collins, Elton John and Billy Joel), and the call letters switched to WLYT in 1995. Over the years, as the definition of soft adult contemporary changed, WLYT evolved. The station played pop and lite rock music from the 1970s to present, with an occasional 1960s song. \"Delilah After Dark\" aired in the evenings.\n\nWLYT featured a \"70's Flashback Weekend\" every weekend since late 2004 through 2005, but discontinued this tradition after the slogan changed from \"Continuous Lite Favorites\" to \"The Best Variety of Yesterday and Today\". The station played Christmas music annually, with 'preview weekends' from early November through Thanksgiving, then a 24-hour Christmas format from Thanksgiving through Christmas Day. WLYT's main competitor was CBS Radio's WKQC. WLYT had changed its slogan from \"The Best Variety of Yesterday and Today\" to \"The Bright New Sound of Lite 102.9\" in 2011.\n\nIn late January 2008, WLYT changed its morning show to more closely resemble the \"Today\" show on NBC, with more talk geared toward women 25 to 54. During the first hour, the talk was more hard news, becoming lighter as the morning show progressed and adding more music during work hours. The program schedule was altered as well. The show was discontinued in early 2010 with morning hosts Jim Shafer (who had moved to the station from WWMG in 2004) and Jen Byrum (morning host since 1999) being released. On April 13, 2010, \"Valentine in the Morning\", a syndicated show from sister KBIG-FM in Los Angeles, made its debut. A local host was planned for local segments of the show.\n\nOn July 2, 2012, at midnight, WLYT changed its format to adult hits, branded as \"102.9 The Lake\". The final song on \"Lite\" was \"Far Away\" by Nickelback, while the first song on the \"Lake\" was \"Father of Mine\" by Everclear. Steve Geofferies, operations manager for the Charlotte cluster of station owner Clear Channel, said, \"If it was a hit song, we’re going to play it,\" explaining that the format was based on WARH in St. Louis, and more \"tempo-oriented\" than nearby WSMW. The name \"Lake\" meant \"fun, unique, connecting with friends and families. That’s life on the lake,\" specifically Lake Norman and Lake Wylie. The playlist was 4000 songs compared to 400 for a typical station. Also, the station would not have DJs, meaning morning host Heather Flynn and Phil Harris were let go. On July 9, 2012, WLYT changed its call letters to WLKO to go with the \"Lake\" branding. \n\nThe format change delivered immediate results. While WLYT ranked 15th with 3 percent share of the total audience in its final ratings report, WLKO was ranked 7th with five percent share in its first one. After two years, WLKO was up 52 percent to 4th place for the most successful format change in the market in 25 years. As of 2016, the playlist primarily features hit music from the 1970s and 1980s, with occasional 1990s and 2000s music played; with this, the station more closely resembles a classic hits station than the adult hits format the station started out with, though the \"We Play Anything\" slogan is still promoted.\n\nOn September 16, 2014, WLKO's owners Clear Channel Communications officially changed their name to iHeartMedia.\n"}
{"id": "2013461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013461", "title": "Sikorsky MH-60 Jayhawk", "text": "Sikorsky MH-60 Jayhawk\n\nThe Sikorsky MH-60T Jayhawk is a multi-mission, twin-engine, medium-range helicopter operated by the United States Coast Guard for search and rescue, law enforcement, military readiness and marine environmental protection missions. It was originally designated HH-60J before being upgraded and redesignated beginning in 2007. \n\nChosen to replace the HH-3F Pelican, the MH-60T is a member of the Sikorsky S-70 family of helicopters and is based on the United States Navy's SH-60 Seahawk helicopter. Development began in September 1986, first flight was achieved on 8 August 1989, and the first HH-60J entered USCG service in June 1990. Production ended in 1996 after 42 helicopters were produced; three retired SH-60F Seahawks were also remanufactured to MH-60T specifications beginning in 2010. A total of 42 MH-60Ts are in service with the Coast Guard.\n\nChosen to replace the HH-3F Pelican, the HH-60J was based on the United States Navy's SH-60 Seahawk and a member of the Sikorsky S-70 helicopter family. Compared to its predecessor, the HH-3F, the HH-60J is lighter, faster, and equipped with more sophisticated electronics and more powerful engines. The HH-60J was developed in conjunction with the U.S. Navy's HH-60H Rescue Hawk.\nSikorsky began development in September 1986 and aircraft registration number 6001 achieved first flight on 8 August 1989. The first aircraft was delivered to the USCG for developmental testing in March, 1990 at NAS Patuxent River, Maryland. In March 1991, ATC Mobile, Alabama became the first USCG unit to fly the HH-60J, allowing instructor pilots to prepare for pilot training. Coast Guard Air Station Elizabeth City, North Carolina was the first USCG operational unit to fly the HH-60J. Sikorsky produced 42 HH-60Js with sequential registration numbers from 6001 through 6042. Sikorsky ended production in 1996 after completing the 42 units on contract. Subsequently, the Coast Guard has converted three ex-Navy SH-60F Seahawks into MH-60T Jayhawks (registration numbers 6043-6045) as attrition replacements.\n\nThe USCG began converting its 42 HH-60Js to MH-60Ts in January 2007. This avionics and capabilities upgrade is part of the USCG's Integrated Deepwater System Program and will provide a glass cockpit, an enhanced electro-optic/infrared sensor system as well as a radar sensor system and airborne use of force capability. The airborne use of force package includes both weapons for firing warning and disabling shots and armor to protect the aircrew from small arms fire. The MH-60T upgrades were completed in February 2014.\n\nThe Jayhawk has a normal cruising speed of the MH-60T is and the aircraft is capable of reaching for short durations. It can fly at for six to seven hours. With a fuel capacity of , the helicopter is designed to fly a crew of four up to offshore, hoist up to six additional people on board while remaining on-scene for up to 45 minutes and return to base while maintaining an adequate fuel reserve.\n\nThe Jayhawk has a radar for search/weather that gives its nose a distinctive look. A forward looking infrared (FLIR) sensor turret can be mounted below its nose. It can carry three fuel tanks with two on the port side rack and one on the starboard side rack. The starboard side also carries a capacity rescue hoist mounted above the door. The hoist has of cable. \nIt uses the NAVSTAR Global Positioning System as its primary long range navigational aid, using a Collins RCVR-3A radio to simultaneously receive information from four of the NAVSTAR system's 18 worldwide satellites. The helicopter is normally based on land but can be based on 270 foot medium endurance Coast Guard Cutters (WMEC) or 378 ft high endurance Coast Guard Cutters (WHEC).\n\nThe MH-60T is equipped with a 7.62 mm M240H medium machine gun and a .50 in Barrett M82 semi-automatic rifle for firing warning and disabling shots. These weapons also serve as defensive armament.\n\nIn 1990, HH-60J Jayhawks began replacing HH-3F Pelican and CH-3E Sea King helicopters in service with the US Coast Guard. HH-60Js perform search and rescue missions, along with other missions such as maritime patrol and drug interdiction. Coast Guard cutters with their HH-60Js and other helicopters performed security and interdiction in the Persian Gulf in 1991 in support of Operation Desert Storm and also in 2003 for Operation Enduring Freedom.\n\nIn January 2011, Juneau Mountain Rescue volunteers, working with the Alaska State Troopers and the Coast Guard, rescued an injured hiker on Ripikski Mountain, near Haines. A Coast Guard MH-60 Jayhawk helicopter, dispatched from Sitka, transported the hiker to Bartlett Regional Hospital in Juneau, Alaska.\n\nOn 29 October 2012, Jayhawk number 6031 (70-1790) was used during the offshore rescue of the crew of HMS \"Bounty\" during Hurricane Sandy.\n\nStarting in 2009, Coast Guard Jayhawks have been tasked with a secondary mission of drug patrol/enforcement. These missions are usually conducted in cooperation with coast guard cutters.\n\n\n\nAs of July 2010, three Jayhawks have been involved in crashes, including two fatal crashes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013463", "title": "KWNR", "text": "KWNR\n\nKWNR is a commercial radio station located in Henderson, Nevada, broadcasting to the Las Vegas Valley area on 95.5 FM. KWNR airs a country music format. Its studios are in Las Vegas a mile west of the Strip and its transmitter is on Black Mountain in Henderson.\n\nKWNR broadcasts in HD.\n\nKWNR has been a country station in the Las Vegas area since 1990.\n\n95.5 FM first signed on the air in 1972 as KILA. 95.5 was the original home for Christian KILA from 1972 until 1985. When KILA moved to another frequency, the short-lived KYYX 95.5 FM began. It was another country format specifically designed to compete with KFMS (101.9). \n\nKYYX never was able to compete with KFMS and floundered after two years; 95.5 switched to Hot AC KLSQ (Q95) in 1987. \n\nIn 1989, the station switched calls to KWNR and was known as \"Winner 95.5\". \"Winner 95.5\" lasted about a year before switching to \"New Country 95.5\" in September 1990. \n\nIn 2004, \"New Country\" was dropped and the station was known as 95.5 KWNR. The \"New Country\" label came back in the summer of 2006. Streaming began November 17, 2005. \n\nIt is the Las Vegas home of \"After Midnite\".\n\nOn September 20, 2013, KWNR rebranded as \"95.5 The Bull\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2013465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013465", "title": "Least grebe", "text": "Least grebe\n\nThe least grebe (\"Tachybaptus dominicus\"), an aquatic bird, is the smallest member of the grebe family. It occurs in the New World from the southwestern United States and Mexico to Argentina, and also on Trinidad and Tobago, the Bahamas and the Greater Antilles.\n\nThe least grebe ranges in length from (depending on the subspecies) and in weight from . Weights are variable based on region and subspecies, being smaller in Panama, where males weighed a mean of against the females and larger in the West Indies, where the sexes weigh a mean of and , respectively. In Texas, size is intermediate at and . Even in the largest races, the least grebe is still smaller and lighter than any other grebe species. Like all grebes, its legs are set far back on its body and it cannot walk well, though it is an excellent swimmer and diver. Small and plump, with a fairly short, sharp-pointed beak and bright yellow eyes, it typically appears quite dark all over.\n\nThe breeding adult is brownish grey above with a darker blackish crown and throat. It has a brownish chest and pale underparts. It shows a white wing patch in flight. Non-breeding birds are paler with a whitish throat, and immatures are paler and greyer than adults. Unlike all other members of its genus, it lacks any chestnut coloring on its neck.\n\nThere are five recognized subspecies of least grebe, separated principally by size and color.\n\nIts genus name, \"Tachybaptus\", is a combination of two Greek words—\"takhus\" meaning fast and \"baptos\" meaning diving, or sinking under. The specific name \"dominicus\" refers to the Caribbean island of Hispaniola, which was formerly known as Santo Domingo. As its English name suggests, the least grebe is overall the smallest member of the grebe family. It is the only member of its genus found in the New World; the four other members of the genus \"Tachybaptus\" reside in the Old World and Australasia.\n\nLeast grebes are found in a wide variety of wetland habitats, including freshwater ponds, lakes, and marshes, slow-flowing streams and rivers, roadside ditches, and mangrove swamps. In general, they prefer bodies of water with significant amounts of vegetative cover, particularly along the edges; they will even use wetlands which are almost completely overgrown. They may choose small, temporary bodies of water to breed, in an effort to avoid predation of their chicks by large fish.\n\nFor much of the year, least grebes are found singly or in pairs; however, when not breeding, they sometimes gather in flocks of 20 or more.\n\nThe least grebe eats a variety of aquatic life, including small fish, crustaceans, frogs and aquatic insects. Like all grebes, it pursues much of its prey under water. During active feeding bouts, it spends an average of 12.5 seconds beneath the surface on each dive, with surface pauses ranging from 2–24 seconds.\n\nLeast grebes breed throughout the year. Those in the tropics tend to breed during the rainy season, while active nests have been found in every month of the year in Texas. Each pair builds a compact floating nest of vegetation—typically a variety of aquatic weeds—which is anchored to rooted plants in still open water as deep as . The female lays three to six white eggs, though the damp nest material soon stains them with brown. Both adults incubate the eggs, which hatch after 21 days. The striped young are sometimes carried on the adult's back.\n\nThe breeding call has been likened to a horse whinnying.\n\nThe least grebe, while a species of least concern, experiences a number of predators, particularly early in life. Large fish species and turtles are reported to take young grebes, and bird-eating raptors, including the bat falcon and the golden eagle, have been observed taking adult birds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013479", "title": "Lockhart–Martinelli parameter", "text": "Lockhart–Martinelli parameter\n\nThe Lockhart–Martinelli parameter (formula_1) is a dimensionless number used in internal two-phase flow calculations. It expresses the liquid fraction of a flowing fluid. Its main application is in two-phase pressure drop and boiling/condensing heat transfer calculations.\n\nIt is defined as:\n\nwhere\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013488", "title": "Ian McMillan (poet)", "text": "Ian McMillan (poet)\n\nIan McMillan (born 21 January 1956) is an English poet, journalist, playwright, and broadcaster. He is known for his strong and distinctive Yorkshire accent and his incisive, friendly interview style on programmes such as BBC Radio 3's \"The Verb\". He lives in Darfield, the village of his birth.\n\nMcMillan was born in Darfield, South Yorkshire. He attended Low Valley Junior School and Wath Grammar School and graduated in Modern Studies from North Staffordshire Polytechnic in 1978. He started performing on the live poetry circuit in the 1970s. He has had several volumes of his own poetry published, for both adults and children. He is regarded as an enthusiastic advocate of poetry.\n\nIn addition he has had journalism published in the magazines \"Q\" and \"Mojo\", and writes a weekly column in his home town's local newspaper, \"The Barnsley Chronicle\". He is styled \"poet in residence\" to his hometown football club Barnsley F.C. His play \"Sister Josephine Kicks the Habit\", based on the work of fellow Yorkshireman Jake Thackray, premiered in 2005. In June 2010 McMillan was appointed poet-in-residence at the English National Opera.\n\nMcMillan wrote the libretto for \"The Arsonists\", the world's first opera written in a South Yorkshire dialect, which received its premiere on 18 November 2017.\n\nHis son is Andrew McMillan, a poet who won the Guardian first book award 2015 for his debut poetry book \"Physical\".\n\nMcMillan was the host of BBC Radio 4's literary quiz Booked!, broadcast between 1995 and 2000.\n\nMcMillan hosts the weekly show \"The Verb \"and Proms variation \"Adverb\" on BBC Radio 3, \"dedicated to investigating spoken words around the globe\". He has been described in the BBC's publication \"Radio Times\" as the \"22nd Most Powerful Person in Radio\". He is also a regular roving contributor to Radio 4's \"Today\" Programme where he was at one stage dubbed as the programme's \"Election Laureate\". He co-wrote the Radio 4 comedy series \"Street and Lane\" with Dave Sheasby which first aired 2005–2007 and has since been repeated. During January 2007, he presented a BBC Radio 3 series on writing, \"Ian McMillan's Writing Lab\", in which he talked to a range of authors which included Julian Barnes, Mark Ravenhill, Howard Jacobson and Michael Rosen. He has also been a panellist on BBC Radio 4's long-running game show \"Just A Minute\".\n\nIn November 2010, McMillan was the castaway on the BBC Radio 4 show \"Desert Island Discs\" hosted by Kirsty Young. His choice of music included John Cage's silent piece \"4′33″\" and Andy Stewart singing \"Donald Where's Your Troosers?\".\n\nHe is a frequent guest on \"The Review Show\", \"The Mark Radcliffe Show\", the \"Today\" programme, \"You and Yours\", \"The Culture Show\", \"Never Mind the Full Stops\" and \"Have I Got News for You\". He has narrated two series of \"The Yorkshire Dales and the Lakes\" on More4 (Series 3 starts on 27 May 2019), and also narrated \"The Museum\" on BBC 2 in 2007. He has also been employed to provide voice-overs in advertisements for a laundry detergent and a branded food product.\n\nMcMillan is a regular judge of poetry competitions. In December 2006, McMillan judged the \"Central Trains Poetry Competition\" and the winners, from the Royal Grammar School Worcester, were awarded a signed copy of his poem \"Take me on a Christmas Trip on Central Trains\" at Birmingham Snow Hill station. He was also a judge in the Foyle Young Poets Awards 2008, and went as a teacher with the winners for a week to The Hurst, an Arvon centre based in Shropshire, as part of their prize. He judged the 2009 Cardiff International Poetry Competition for the award ceremony in June.\n\nIn 2005, as \"Poet Laureate\" for the \"Three Cities\" (the \"Three Cities\" in this case being Nottingham, Leicester and Derby), he was involved in the \"Three Cities Create and Connect scheme\", which included a regional writing competition. The project resulted in a now-scarce publication, \"A Tale of 3 Cities : New Writing from Derby, Leicester and Nottingham\". McMillan contributed a foreword and two original pieces, \"Here.Now.Then\" and \"The Laureate Reflects\" as well as co-authoring (with six regional writers) \"Three Cities Chain Poem\".\n\nIn 2007, McMillan published a book named \"Collins Chelp and Chunter: a Guide to the Tyke Tongue\". This was a compilation of words that are used in the Yorkshire dialect as well as a few pieces of Yorkshire humour and illustrations. The book received a negative review in the Transactions of the Yorkshire Dialect Society in 2019, which noted that the work had an inconsistent orthography, assigned words to very specific locations when they were spread over wider areas and did not take account of the historical development of the dialect.\n\nIn celebration of the UK's 2012 National Pie Week, Ian McMillan wrote a 'piem' devoted to the creations of the 'pie village' of Denby Dale, which has produced several world record breaking pies over the last 250 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013496", "title": "WKQC", "text": "WKQC\n\nWKQC (104.7 FM, \"K104.7\") is a Beasley Broadcasting Group-owned adult contemporary radio station in Charlotte, North Carolina. WKQC's studios are located on South Boulevard in Charlotte, while their transmitter site is in East Charlotte. WKQC broadcasts in the HD Radio format. WKQC-HD2 airs a \"70s hits\" format, while WKQC-HD3 is a simulcast of sister station WBCN.\n\nThe station receives exceptional co-channel interference from WNOK in Columbia, just 75 miles south of Charlotte. The Chester and Lancaster, South Carolina areas are affected the most with interference from both stations. Both WKQC and WNOK do employ directional antennas, despite this, the stations overlap contours quite a bit\n\nWKQC signed on in 1960 as WYFM with a beautiful music format. By 1973, after EZ Communications bought the station, WYFM became WEZC (known by the moniker \"EZ-104\") and had a 100,000-watt signal. In September 1978, rival WBT-FM changed to rock and became WBCY, leaving WEZC as the city's only beautiful music station. In December 1982, even though the area had two other soft adult contemporary FM stations—WLVV and WZXI—WEZC changed to soft adult contemporary as well. The switch generated so many protests that WZXI moved to fill the gap.\n\nDuring the 1980s, WEZC gradually evolved from soft adult contemporary to mainstream adult contemporary. The station's most famous personality was controversial morning host Chuck Boozer.\n\nIn March 1989, WEZC completed its transition with a name and call letter change to WMXC, \"Mix 104.7\", and the WEZC call letters were picked up by the former WRLX at 102.9. The station originally wanted the calls WMIX, but at the last minute found out those calls were already being used by a pair of stations in Mount Vernon, Illinois, WMIX AM and WMIX-FM. Furthermore, in a somewhat controversial move, for a time it referred to itself on-air as WMIX, with an announcer whispering its true calls hurriedly during hourly legal IDs; however, the use of WMIX as a brand was short-lived, as the owners of the WMIX stations in Mount Vernon, Withers Broadcasting, registered the \"WMIX\" branding as a registered trademark. WMXC would gain a sister station in 1992, when Cox Broadcasting sold WSOC-FM to EZ.\n\nOn September 2, 1994, with WBT-FM and WLYT (formerly the \"new\" WEZC) competing, WMXC became WSSS, \"Star 104.7\", playing \"Super Sounds of the Seventies\", which evolved to classic hits later in 1997. WSSS would gain 4 sister stations (WBAV-FM, WBAV-AM, WNKS and WPEG) in December 1996 from Evergreen Media, which was part of a large multi-market swap (Evergreen received EZ Communications' Philadelphia stations WIOQ and WUSL in return). EZ would then be bought by American Radio Systems in July 1997. ARS would be bought out by Infinity Broadcasting on September 19, 1997, making WSSS a CBS O&O station (CBS owned Infinity).\n\nIn January 2000, WSSS added 1980s music to their playlist, and the station later went all-1980s. WSSS would shift back to Classic hits in 2002. But even though format changes generated brief ratings improvement, nothing worked until the station returned to adult contemporary music, with an emphasis on older songs. The switch to the current format came after stunting with Christmas music beginning on Halloween and continuing all through the 2003 holiday season.\n\nOperations Manager John Reynolds, Market Manager Bill Schoening and AC Programming Consultant Gary Berkowitz designed the rebirth of the station. Plans were to rename the station \"Cool 104.7\". However, on December 23, just three days before the new format was scheduled to debut, CBS Radio's legal department notified the station that the word \"Cool\", when used as a noun, had been copyrighted by Clear Channel Communications. A $10,000 jingle package had to be scrapped and Program Director Tom Jeffries and PM Drive host T. Edward Bensen spent Christmas Day re-imaging the station with the quickly revised name of \"K 104.7\" so the debut could occur as scheduled the next morning.\n\nInfinity changed its name to CBS Radio in December 2005 as part of the spin-off of CBS' motion picture and cable television assets under a relaunched Viacom.\n\nIn January 2007, Tom Jeffries, a former Boston-area programming legend who had been Program Director and Morning Host since the station's flip in 2004, resigned to go into semi-retirement. In April 2007, the station picked up local TV meteorologist Derek James as the new morning host, while promoting Scarlet C. to Assistant Program Director and T. Edward Bensen to Music Director. The station abruptly eliminated its entire on-air staff in October 2008, with the only exception being Holly Haze from 7pm-12am weekdays. Production Director Rick Scaffe and Promotions Director Leah Galloway, as well as sister WNKS Promotions Director Natalie Kirby and long time WSOC-FM newsman Frank Lassiter were also cut at the same time in what was called a cost-cutting move.\n\nThe station hired Charlotte radio veteran Jon Robinson to do mornings from 6am-12pm a few months later. On November 18, 2009, his name was abruptly removed from the station website, with no report as to why he was terminated. Later, Robinson revealed that he'd been arrested at the end of his shift one day in October for violating a protective order, and that he and station officials agreed to part ways at the end of his contract so he could focus on recovering from a long term substance abuse problem. By 2010, the station had hired an all-new air staff. In January 2012, WKQC changed its slogan from \"Charlotte's Cool Music Station\" to \"More Music, Better Variety\".\n\nWKQC calls itself \"Christmas K-104.7\" when it shifts to its all-Christmas format. The station also uses holiday-themed jingles. Initially, it airs the all-Christmas format only on weekends leading up to Thanksgiving, with a mix of regular and Christmas songs on the weekdays. On the week of Thanksgiving, the all-Christmas format runs on a full-time basis, as of Christmas 2008. The station bills itself as the Carolinas' radio home for the holidays, a title that WLYT once held exclusively until 2004, when both stations started going head-to-head; as of Christmas 2012, WKQC is the exclusive Christmas music station for Charlotte, thanks to WLYT's aforementioned format flip to adult hits and rebranding to WLKO (\"102.9 The Lake\").\n\nWKQC also claims to be Charlotte's first eco-friendly station that boasts a promotions fleet of gas saving and flex fuel vehicles. To further promote this, WKQC switched their logo to \"Be Cool, Go Green\" and promotes a 'green' lifestyle by providing tips and partnering with local community campaigns in the Charlotte area.\n\nOn October 2, 2014, CBS Radio announced that it would trade all of their Tampa and Charlotte stations (including WKQC), as well as WIP in Philadelphia to the Beasley Broadcast Group in exchange for 5 stations located in Miami and Philadelphia. The swap was completed on December 1, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013497", "title": "Shivinder Singh Sidhu", "text": "Shivinder Singh Sidhu\n\nShivinder Singh Sidhu (13 October 1929 – 25 October 2018) was an Indian political figure.\n\nSidhu was an IAS officer, 1952 class of the Uttar Pradesh state cadre. He served as the District Magistrate of Kanpur and subsequently as Commissioner of Agra Division. He was the Secretary-General of the International Civil Aviation Organization from August 1988 to August 1991. He later became the List of governors of Manipur on 6 August 2004, when he succeeded Arvind Dave.\n\nSidhu was also the Governor of Meghalaya from October 2007 to 1 July 2008 and Governor of Goa from 22 July 2008 to 26 August 2011.\n\nHe died on 25 October 2018 at the age of 89.\n\nThe ICAO Remembered Sidhu by flying its official flag at half-mast on 25 October, the day Dr.Shivinder Singh Sidhu, former Secretary General of ICAO died.\n"}
{"id": "2013501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013501", "title": "Edward Schillebeeckx", "text": "Edward Schillebeeckx\n\nEdward Cornelis Florentius Alfonsus Schillebeeckx ( , ; 12 November 1914 – 23 December 2009) was a Belgian Roman Catholic theologian born in Antwerp. He taught at the Catholic University in Nijmegen.\n\nHe was a member of the Dominican Order. His books on theology have been translated into many languages, and his contributions to the Second Vatican Council made him known throughout the world.\n\nHe was born in Antwerp, the sixth of 14 children in a middle-class family. After being educated by the Jesuits at Turnhout, Schillebeeckx entered the Dominican Order in 1934. He studied theology and philosophy at the Catholic University of Leuven. In 1941 he was ordained to the priesthood. In 1943 he finalized his studies in Turnhout and moved to Ghent, where he studied at the Dominican house; he was strongly influenced by Dominicus De Petter's courses in phenomenology. After three years of studying philosophy at Ghent, Schillebeeckx heeded the call up of the Belgian Armed Forces in 1938, leaving the army again in August 1939. But one and a half months after that he was summoned to return, due to the start of World War II and he left the Army only after the defeat of the Belgian Armed Forces by the German occupiers. Schillebeeckx then entered the Dominican study house at Leuven, where he stayed until 1945. From that year to July 1946, he studied at the Dominican study centre Le Saulchoir at Étiolles, near Paris, where representatives of the Nouvelle théologie-movement such as Marie-Dominique Chenu and Yves Congar introduced him to modern Catholic theology as well as to the thought of Calvinist theologians like Karl Barth.\n\nDuring these years he also studied at the Sorbonne, and in July 1946 he did his doctoral exam at the \"École des hautes études\" of the Sorbonne. In 1952 he defended and published his doctoral thesis at the Dominican school of theology Le Saulchoir: \"De sacramentele heilseconomie\" (\"The redeeming economy of the sacraments\"). After that, Schillebeeckx became master of the Philosophy Study House of his order in Leuven, and in 1957 he spent one year teaching Dogmatics at the Faculty of Theology, Catholic University of Leuven. In 1958 the Catholic University of Nijmegen (now called Radboud University) in the Netherlands made him a professor of dogmatic theology and history of theology. His inaugural lecture \"Op zoek naar de levende God\" (\"In Search of the Living God\") introduced Dutch theologians to the Nouvelle Théologie founded by Chenu, Congar, Hans Urs von Balthasar, and others.\n\nDuring the Second Vatican Council, Schillebeeckx was one of the most active theologians. He drafted various council interventions for Dutch bishops such as Cardinal Bernard Jan Alfrink, and gave conferences on theological ressourcement for many episcopal conferences present in Rome. Due to his having been the \"ghost writer\" of the Dutch bishops' Pastoral Letter on the upcoming Council in 1961, he was rendered suspect with the Congregation of the Holy Office, led by Cardinal Alfredo Ottaviani (President) and the Dutchman Sebastiaan Tromp (Secretary). This was the first of three instances in which Schillebeeckx had to defend his theological positions against accusations from the Roman authorities. As a result, Schillebeeckx drafted anonymously his mostly negative comments on the schemata prepared by the Preparatory Theological Commission, headed by Ottaviani. These anonymous comments on the theological schemata debated at Vatican II, and the articles he published, also influenced the development of several conciliar constitutions such as \"Dei verbum\" and \"Lumen gentium\". Concerning the latter document, the Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, Schillebeeckx was mainly involved in the debate on episcopal collegiality, attempting to move Catholic ecclesiology away from a purely hierarchical, structured vision of the church, focusing too heavily on Papal authority (as a result of the declaration of Papal infallibility in Vatican I's constitution \"Pastor aeternus\"). This, according to Schillebeeckx and many others at Vatican II, was to be balanced by a renewed stress on the role of the episcopal college. In this way his influence was far greater than that of a formal \"peritus\", a status the Dutch bishops had not granted to him. Not being a \"peritus\" also allowed him more time to give talks to the Bishops attending the council, and to explain to them the \"new theology\" or understanding arising with the Council. Already in 1963, together with Chenu, Congar, Karl Rahner, and Hans Küng, he was involved in preparing the rise of the new theological journal \"Concilium\", which was officially founded in 1965 with the support of Paul Brand and Antoine Van den Boogaard, and which promoted \"reformist\" thought.\n\nIn the post-conciliar period Schillebeeckx' attention shifted somewhat from Thomism to biblical exegesis. He saw neo-scholastic theology that reacted against modern ideas as poorly founded in Aquinas’s writings or their medieval context. He portrayed sacraments less abstractly, like the personal encounters Jesus had with his followers, rather than as mechanisms for the distribution of grace. He became widely known through the English translation in 1963 of his book Christ the Sacrament of the Encounter with God. On the basis of his study of the earliest Christian sources – often drawing upon the exegetical insight of his Nijmegen colleague Bas van Iersel – Schillebeeckx confronted such debated questions as the position of priests, e.g., by supporting a proposal to disconnect sacramental priesthood and the obligation to celibacy. Precisely on this matter, Schillebeeckx played an influential role during the National Pastoral Council (Landelijk Pastoraal Concilie) held at Noordwijkerhout from 1968 to 1970. At the sessions of this synod, the Dutch bishops, intellectuals, and representatives from many Catholic organisations tried to implement what they perceived as the major progressive objectives of the Second Vatican Council. Schillebeeckx, well known in the Netherlands and Belgium through his many interventions in the media, was by then known as the leading Dutch-speaking contemporary theologian.\n\nIn \"Jesus: An experiment in Christology\" (Dutch ed. 1974), Schillebeeckx argued that we should not imagine that the belief of the disciples that Jesus had risen was caused by the empty tomb and the resurrection appearances. It was quite the opposite: A belief in the resurrection, \"that the new orientation of living which this Jesus has brought about in their lives has not been rendered meaningless by his death – quite the opposite,\" gave rise to these traditions. The empty tomb was, in his opinion, an unnecessary hypothesis, since “an eschatological, bodily resurrection, theologically speaking, has nothing to do, however, with a corpse.” That was merely a \"crude and naive realism of what 'appearances of Jesus'\" meant.\n\nAlthough the books were followed by a couple of articles where Schillebeeckx defends himself against criticism and tones down his radicalism, on 20 October 1976 the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith wrote to him with various objections. As a result of the ensuing correspondence, he was asked to come to Rome to explain his position. In December 1979, he met with representatives of the Congregation. Due to international pressure, the drive for a trial was ended. The conclusions of the Congregation, however, left the impression that a genuine accord had not been reached, and he continued to receive notifications from Church authorities for his repeated writings. His christology was criticized by Cardinal Franjo Šeper and then-Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, whom Schillebeeckx already knew at Vatican II and who was later elected Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nIn 1984 his orthodoxy was again called into question by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith: he was summoned to Rome to explain his views expressed in \"The Ministry in the Church,\" which were regarded as Protestant. And in 1986 for a third time Schillebeeckx' theological views were put into question, again regarding the sacramental nature of office in the Roman Catholic Church. More precisely, in \"The Church with a Human Face\" Schillebeeckx argued, on biblical-historical grounds, that the consecration to Catholic priesthood does not necessarily gain its validity from, and can therefore be detached from, apostolic succession; rather, the choice of priests (and as a consequence the celebration of the Eucharist) is dependent on the local church community.\n\nDespite three investigations with the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the \"writings\" of Schillebeeckx were never condemned. Some of his \"doctrines\", however, have been implicitly or even explicitly rejected by the Magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church; most notably his theory of transignification, designed to supplant the Catholic doctrine of transsubstantiation (in Pope Paul VI's 1965 encyclical \"Mysterium fidei\". \n\nSchillebeeckx continued to publish after his retirement. His oeuvre, surveyed in several bibliographies, has been the subject of many studies and controversies.\n\nUntil his death he lived in Nijmegen, in the Netherlands, where he taught at the Catholic University of Nijmegen until his retirement. He was awarded the Erasmus Prize in 1982, and (as the only theologian) the Gouden Ganzenveer in 1989.\n\n\n\nThe Edward Schillebeeckx Foundation, led by Erik Borgman, was founded at Nijmegen in 1989. As indicated on its website, the foundation sets itself the goal of collecting, organising, preserving, and rendering accessible the entire output of, and material about, Edward Schillebeeckx. The Foundation seeks to safeguard for the future the spiritual, scientific, and social values contained in Schillebeeckx' work. The Foundation has created an endowed Edward Schillebeeckx Chair at the Radboud University Nijmegen, which is currently held by Prof. Stephan van Erp.\n\nThe personal papers of Edward Schillebeeckx are being conserved in two archive centers. The largest part of the collection of Schillebeeckx' writings are kept at the Katholiek Documentatie Centrum (KDC) of the Radboud University at Nijmegen (not consultable). As regards the council papers of Edward Schillebeeckx, these are held at the Centre for the Study of the Second Vatican Council, at the Faculty of Theology, Catholic University of Leuven.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013509", "title": "AMC Matador", "text": "AMC Matador\n\nThe AMC Matador is a car model line manufactured and marketed by American Motors Corporation (AMC) across two generations, 1971-1973 (mid-size) and 1974-1978 (full-size), in two-door hardtop (first generation), coupe (second generation), four-door sedan and station wagon body styles. \n\nWith its second generation, the Matador became AMC's largest automobile after the 1974 discontinuation of the Ambassador that shared the same platform. Premium trim levels of the second generation Matador coupe were marketed as the \"Barcelona\" and \"Oleg Cassini\" (after the noted fashion designer) positioning the coupe in the personal luxury segment. \n\nAbroad, Matadors were also marketed under the \"Rambler\" marque and were assembled under license, including in Mexico by Vehículos Automotores Mexicanos (VAM) and in Australia with right-hand-drive by Australian Motor Industries (AMI).\n\nThe 1971 Matador replaced the AMC Rebel, which had been marketed since 1967. With a facelift and a new name, the AMC Matadors were available as a two-door hardtop, four-door sedan and station wagon body styles. The Matador shared a modified platform with the full-size Ambassador line.\n\nSedan and wagon models \"offered excellent value and were fairly popular\" cars. Matadors were offered to fleet buyers with various police, taxicab, and other heavy-duty packages. They were popular with government agencies and military units, with police departments in the U.S. equipped Matador sedans and wagons with or V8 engines.\n\nThe Matador received a redesign in 1974, in part to meet new safety and crash requirements. The previous two-door hardtop body design was replaced with a completely different 2-door coupe model \"to contend with the bull market for plush mid-size coupes that sprang up after the end of the muscle car era\". It also featured a design that was praised by owners along with complains about its low roofline. The design of the Matador coupe has been described as \"polarizing\" as well as being \"an evocative, swoopy coupe that perfectly captured the design ethos of the era.\"\n\nFactory-backed first-generation hardtops and second-generation coupes competed in NASCAR stock car racing from 1972 to 1975. Drivers included Mark Donohue and Bobby Allison winning several races including the 1975 Southern 500 at Darlington. Matadors were available equipped for police and were featured in television shows and movies during the 1970s. The Matador coupe was featured and a scale model was used as a flying car in \"The Man with the Golden Gun\", a James Bond film released in 1974.\n\nMatadors for 1971 received a revised front styling for all body styles, sharing its body design from the firewall rearward with the Ambassador and the same platform. Revision included a longer wheelbase and revised front styling, grille, chrome trim. From the 1970 Rebel, the 1971 model retained the same trunk lid chrome strip and rear-corner chrome garnishes; rear bumper with revised rounded-square lenses; interior dash, instrument cluster, steering wheel, and armrests; and the 1967–1970 Rebel \"Weather Eye\" fan-heat control unit. Standard equipment included air conditioning. The 1971 model offered split-bench front seating with individual fold-down center armrests for passenger and driver. \n\nAs a restyled 1970 Rebel, advertising suggested the Matador was not just a name change and facelift. The new nameplate distanced the car from the previous nameplate's association with the Confederacy, and a \"what's a Matador\" advertising campaign established a distinct marketing identity. This self-disparaging marketing campaign \"turned the styling of anonymity into an asset.\" Consumer-research polls conducted by AMC found it meant virility and excitement to consumers. American Motors ran into problems in Puerto Rico, where the term \"matador\" retained a bullfighting \"killer\" connotation.\n\nStation wagons offered optional rear-facing third-row bench seats, increasing seating from six to eight passengers. Standard equipment included a roof rack and two-way tailgate — that could open from a bottom hinge (with window retracted) to extend the load surface, or swing door-like from a left-hinge.\n\nThe Matador came with a straight-6 or a number of V8 engines. Transmissions for the Matador included the Borg-Warner sourced \"Shift-Command\" three-speed automatic, a column-shifted three-speed manual and a floor-shifted four-speed manual.\n\nWhere the Rebel \"Machine\" was a distinct 1970 model, the Matador offered a performance package option, marketed as the \"Go Package,\" for all body styles. The Matador two-door \"Go Package\" option lacked the optional red, white, and blue striping; special model identification or exterior badging of its predecessor. \n\nApproximatley 50 Matador Machines were produced for 1971. The package featured 15 × 7-inch slot-styled steel wheels with white-lettered Goodyear Polyglas tires, dual exhaust system, a heavy-duty handling package, power disk brakes, and a choice of either a ($373 option) or the V8 engine (for $461) with either a four-speed manual or a three-speed automatic transmission.\n\nIn 1972 the innovative AMC Buyer Protection Plan was introduced. This was the automobile industry's first 12-month or bumper-to-bumper warranty. American Motors started with an emphasis on quality and durability by focusing on its component sourcing, improving production that included reducing the number of models, as well mechanical upgrades and increasing the level of standard equipment. This was followed by an innovative promise to its customers to repair anything wrong with the car (except for tires). Owners were provided with a toll-free number to the company, as well as a free loaner car if a warranty repair took overnight. The objective was to reduce warranty claims, as well as achieve better public relations along with greater customer satisfaction and loyalty.\n\nThe previous Borg-Warner sourced \"Shift-Command\" three-speed automatic transmission was replaced by the Chrysler-built TorqueFlite three-speed automatic that AMC marketed as \"Torque-Command.\" The column-shift three-speed manual continued as the standard transmission, but the optional four-speed manual was discontinued.\n\nExternally the 1972 model was the same as the 1971 model, retaining the same front end but with a simplified grille. The chrome trunk lid strip and rear corner chrome of the 1970 Rebel and 1971 Matador was dropped. The 1972 model was given a new tail light lens assembly with each assembly divided into nine recessed vertically rectangular lenses. Interior-wise the 1972 model saw the return of the round instrument dials of earlier Ambassador and 1967 Rebel models. The steering wheel was the same as the 1970 Rebel and 1971 Matador models. New for the 1972 model were slimmer arm rests for the doors and a bench seat without the fold-down center armrests. Individual reclining front seats were an option.\n\nMatador hardtop, sedan, and station wagon body styles came in only one trim model for 1973, with numerous appearance and comfort options. The 1973 model year brought new U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) regulations that required all passenger cars to withstand a front and a rear impacts without damage to the engine, lights, and safety equipment. Matadors gained stronger front and rear bumpers. The front bumper included self-restoring telescoping shock-absorbers and more prominent vertical rubber guards, while the rear bumper gained vertical black rubber bumper guards that replaced a pair of similar and previously optional chrome bumper guards. Aside from the changes to the bumpers, the design of the 1973 model was identical to the 1972 model with the exception of new tail light lens assemblies and a slightly different grille pattern. The full-width bench seat was standard with 50/50 individually adjustable and reclining seats were optional on all body styles. The station wagons came with \"Uganda\" vinyl upholstery, while the two-door hardtops offered optional front bucket seats.\n\nAll V8 powered Matadors came with a TorqueFlite 998 automatic transmission and a column-mounted automatic shifter. The I6 was the base engine with a column-mounted three-speed manual transmission, with a I6 optional, with which only the station wagon could be ordered with a manual transmission because almost all six-cylinder powered Matadors came with TorqueFlite 904 automatics.\n\nPromotional and publicity efforts for the Matador included sponsorship at NASCAR racing events. Mark Donohue drove a two-door hardtop prepared by Roger Penske on the road course at Riverside, California, in January 21, 1973, lapping the entire field to win this NASCAR Cup Series race. This was also Penske's first NASCAR victory at the Winston Western 500, with Donohue's Matador leading 138 out of the 191 laps.\n\nA comparison of 1973 Matador owners conducted by \"Popular Mechanics\" indicated increased satisfaction and fewer problems than was the case with the owners of the essentially similar 1970 AMC Rebel three years earlier.\n\nThe intermediate-sized car market segment was growing to almost 20% of the total market by 1973, but the hardtop was the slowest-selling version in the Matador line, \"in a segment where two-door hardtops were customarily the most popular (and profitable) models.\" \"Automobile Quarterly\" reviewed the 1973 cars and summarized that \"AMC actually has a very strong product line, but public awareness of it seems so feeble as to be negligible. ... The Matador became a typical intermediate, an exact counterpart of the Satellite/Coronet or Torino/Montego\", and ranked AMC's car as a \"good buy.\"\nAmerican Motors was facing many challenges in a dynamic marketplace. The strategy to redesign the Matador for the 1974 model year was an example of the changes that Gerald C. Meyers, vice president of product development, wanted for AMC's mid-sized product range. The intermediate sized cars were best sellers in the U.S. and the two-door hardtops or coupe versions most popular with consumers. Because styling was their greatest selling point, a decision was made to develop a new version of the Matador as a coupe, thus giving designers the freedom to style \"rakishly as sheet metal could be made to look\" and eliminating the limits of making sedans and station wagons with the same lines.\nThe results were introduced with the 1974 Matadors with major front and rear changes to the four-door sedan and station wagon versions, while the two-door model became a separate and radically styled pillared coupe. The previous hardtop design was discontinued and the new two-door model no longer shared any body parts with the sedan or wagon. The coupe's roofline was significantly lower and its wheelbase was shorter compared to the four-door Matadors. These are considered to be the \"second generation\" Matadors. \n\nNew passenger car requirements set by NHTSA called for the front and rear passenger car bumpers to have uniform heights, take angle impacts, and sustain impacts with no damage. All the 1974 Matadors accomplished this with massive front and rear bumpers mounted on energy absorbing shocks. The sedans and station wagons had them integrated with the bodywork using gap-concealing flexible filler panels. The new coupe featured a totally unique design to avoid the massive, blockish look. The bodywork flowed underneath the coupe's broad grille with tunneled headlamps in the rear with an uninterrupted design with the four round taillamps and indented license plate area while the bumpers were free standing with only rubber gaiters concealing the retractable shock absorbers.\n\nThe four-door sedans and wagons had increased overall vehicle length, as well as new front and rear styling. A new front fascia with a hood and grille featured a prominent central protrusion that followed the front bumper shape. Matadors with this front end are sometimes nicknamed \"coffin noses\". The rear of the sedan was redesigned with the license plate was relocated above the number to the center of the rear panel with new, wider rectangular taillights. The station wagon had redesigned taillamps and a stronger bumper with a central rubber facing.\nThe interior of all body styles featured an all-new fully padded and safety shaped dashboard with three squared pods for housing the instruments in front of the driver (indicator lights, fuel gauge, and water temperature to the left, speedometer at the center, and an electric clock or fuel economy gauge on the right) as well as a new horizontal radio/sound system design in the center of the dash. \n\nSecond generation sedans and station wagons continued over all the model years with only minor trim and equipment changes.\n\nThe standard power team for the 1974 coupe was AMC's inline six-cylinder with a 3-speed manual transmission. The sedans and wagons came with the I6 with the 3-speed Torque-Command automatic transmission. Standard on the Matador X was the V8 and available on all other models. A two-barrel or four-barrel was optional as well as a V8 with dual exhausts. The V8 became a fleet-only option after 1974.\nThe most popular was the three-speed Torque-Command automatic. A floor shift automatic transmission was available only on the coupe with center console and bucket front seats. \n\nA road test by automobile journalist Vincent Courtenay of the 1974 Matador station wagon \"praised its performance, handling, and fuel economy considering its size and 360 CID engine.\" He described it as \"a real sleeper on the market. Its performance ranks it in the first line of cars, yet it's reasonably priced.\"\n\nChanges for the 1975 model year were minor as AMC focused on the development and introduction of its innovative Pacer, but Matadors now included a standard \"no maintenance\" electronic ignition developed by Prestolite. All U.S. market Matadors featured catalytic converters that required the use of unleaded regular-grade fuel. New \"unleaded fuel only\" decals were placed by the fuel filler door and on the fuel gauge. Steel-belted radial tires became standard equipment on all Matadors. \n\nThe six-cylinder engine now became the version and it was not available in California. The standard V8 was and optional was the as the was available only for police and fleet orders. Only V8-powered Matadors were available in California.\n\nThe exterior was updated with a new full-width grille featuring squared off parking lights in the front and a new tail light lens assembly. An uplevel \"Brougham\" trim option became available for both sedans and wagons from 1975. There were no further style changes to the body of the sedan and wagon for the remainder of the production run.\n\nA \"Performance Option\" V8 with 4-barrel carburetor and dual exhaust with twin catalytic converters was available through 1976. The 2.87 rear axle ratio was standard with 3.15 and 3.54 optional. A floor shifted automatic transmission was available on coupes equipped with bucket seats and console. The \"Brougham\" trim option continued for both sedans and wagons in 1976.\n\nFor 1977 AMC introduced the Buyer Protection Plan II which extended the engine and drivetrain warranty from 12-months/12,000 miles to 24-months/24,000 miles. The base engine continued to be the 258 cubic-inch six cylinder and V8 options were the 304 or 360 cubic-inch. The high-performance \"Power Package\" 360 was dropped for 1977. All Matadors now came standard with automatic transmissions.\n\nFor 1978, the 258-cubic-inch six remained standard, but the became the only V8 engine available. The \"Barcelona Package\" option that was previously exclusive to the Matador Coupe was extended to the four-door sedan. This special interior and exterior trim included individual reclining seats in velveteen crush fabric with woven accent stripes, custom door trim panels, unique headliner, vinyl roof, and 15-inch wheels color-matched to a choice of two two-tone color schemes: Golden Ginger Metallic with Sand Tan, or Autumn Red Metallic on Claret Metallic. The AMC Buyer Protection Plan for 1978 changed back to 12-months/12,000 miles across the entire AMC range.\n\nSales in 1978 fell 66% for the Matador line so the line was dropped by the end of the model year. \n\nAmerican Motors' executives saw an opportunity to replace the \"uninspired\" Matador two-door hardtop with a new design to capture people looking for exciting, sporty styling in a market segment that was outpacing the rest of the automobile market; and were looking to answer the demand for plush mid-size coupes after the end of the muscle car era.\n\nThe 1974 model year introduced an aerodynamically styled fastback coupe with pronounced \"tunneled\" headlight surrounds. The Matador coupe was the only all-new model in the popular mid-size car segment, specifically targeting the Chevrolet Chevelle Coupe, Ford Torino Coupe, and Plymouth Satellite Sebring. The coupe was designed under the direction of AMC's vice president of styling, Richard A. Teague, with input from Mark Donohue, the famous race car driver. AMC's styling department had greater freedom because of a decision to design the new Matador strictly as a coupe, without the constraints of attempting to have the sedan and station wagon versions fit the same body lines. Reportedly Teague designed the coupe's front as an homage to one of the first AMCs he designed, the 1964 Rambler American. This was one of several distinctive elements as the long sloping hood was set off by deeply tunneled headlamps between a broad grille with turn signal lamps resembling driving lamps. The forward edge of the hood was part of a character crease line that went completely around the middle of the car and continued across the rear end. The coupe's doors were extra long and featured frameless glass. The B-pillar was also distinctive and the quarter side windows sloped with the roof line. The combination of a very long low hood and a tall short rear deck enhanced the coupe’s wind-shaped look. \n\nMany were amazed that AMC came up with the fast, stylish Matador, considering the automaker's size and limited resources. The Matador coupe stands out as one of the more distinctive and controversial designs of the 1970s after the AMC Pacer and was named \"Best Styled Car of 1974\" by the editors of \"Car and Driver\" magazine. A \"Popular Mechanics\" survey indicated \"luscious looks of Matador coupe swept most owners off their feet\" with a \"specific like\" listed by 63.7% of them for \"styling\".\n\nSales of the coupe were brisk with 62,629 Matador coupes delivered for its introductory year (August 1973 thru December 1974, Long Year), up sharply from the 7,067 Matador hardtops sold in 1973. This is a respectable record that went against the drop in the overall market during 1974 and the decline in popularity of intermediate-sized coupes after the 1973 oil crisis. After it outsold the four-door Matadors by nearly 25,000 units in 1974, sales dropped to less than 10,000 in 1977, and then down to just 2,006 in the coupe's final year. Nearly 100,000 Matador coupes in total were produced from 1974 through 1978.\n\nAmerican Motors executives, including vice president of design Richard A. Teague, described design plans for a four-door sedan and station wagon based on the coupe's styling themes that did not reach production.\n\nA special Oleg Cassini edition of the Matador coupe was available for the 1974 and 1975 model years. This one more in a series of designer cars that were marketed by AMC. This included the Gucci Hornet and Pierre Cardin Javelin special designs as well as the Levi's versions of the Gremlin and Hornets. American Motors had the famous American fashion designer develop a more elegant luxury oriented model for the new coupe. Cassini was renowned in Hollywood and high-society for making elegant ready-to-wear dresses, including those worn by Jacqueline Kennedy. Cassini himself helped promote the car in AMC's advertising.\n\nWith Cassini's styling, the new \"smooth and slippery\" two-door featured \"marks of haute couture\" with the \"upholstery, panels and headliner done in jet black, with copper trim pieces, and with carpets and vinyl roof also offered in a copper accent color. The exterior trim included striping, rub rails, wheel covers and special \"Oleg Cassini\" crest badging mark the Matador as Cassini's.\" The Cassini Coupes were limited to black, white, or copper metallic exterior paints, and all came with the vinyl-covered roof. They also featured copper-colored trim in the grille, headlamp bezels, in turbine-type full wheel covers, and within the rear license plate recess.\n\nThe interior was a Cassini hallmark featuring a special black fabric with copper metal buttons on the individual adjustable and reclining front seats as well as on the padded door panels. The design was further enhanced by deep pile copper-colored carpeting. Additional copper accents were on the steering wheel, door pulls, and on the instrument panel. Embroidered Cassini medallions were featured on the headrests. The glove compartment door, trunk lid, front fender, and hood featured Cassini's signature.\n\nThe use of a fashion designer to specially create appearance packages for American cars was taken up by the Continental Mark IV in 1976. In 1979, Cadillac briefly used this approach on the Cadillac Seville partnering with fashion designer Gucci, but ended this practice in 1980. This concept was later satirized on a 1976 episode of \"SCTV\" as the 'Salvador Dali Linkin-Murcry Limited Edition', with Dali (Joe Flaherty) explaining the concept of the car in Dali-esque terms.\n\nFor 1977 and 1978, the \"Barcelona II\" coupe featured a padded Landau roof and opera windows, styling cues that were required at that time by buyers in the highly popular two-door \"personal luxury\" market segment. At first, it was available in only one distinctive two-tone paint pattern consisting of Golden Ginger Metallic with Sand Tan. \n\nThe Barcelona included numerous comfort and appearance upgrades in addition to the extensive standard equipment that came on all Matadors. The special items were: individual reclining seats in velveteen crush fabric with woven accent stripes, custom door trim panels, unique headliner, headlight bezels painted accent color, black trunk carpet, rear sway bar, GR78x15 radial whitewall tires, color-keyed slot styled wheels, body color front and rear bumpers, two-tone paint, landau padded vinyl roof, opera quarter windows with accents, dual remote control mirrors painted body color, Barcelona medallion on glove box door and fenders, carpeting and bumper nerf strips. The standard roll-down rear quarter windows were converted into fixed \"opera windows\" with fiberglass covers over the stock openings that were finished with padded vinyl inside and out. \n\nFor the 1978 model year, the Barcelona package came in a second color scheme: an Autumn Red Metallic on Claret Metallic combination. The 258-cubic-inch six with automatic remained standard, but the 360-cubic-inch became the only V-8 option. Production for this final year was 2,006 coupes.\n\n\"Motor Trend\" magazine road tested a 1977 Barcelona II coupe and found it to be equal to all in the objective areas, as well as one of the most distinctive vehicles on the road that \"makes a good deal of sense... if you're not put off by the Matador's unique lines.\"\n\nPenske Racing prepared factory-backed Matador hardtops and coupes were used in NASCAR stock car tracks. Drivers included Indy winner Mark Donohue and Bobby Allison, and they won a number of races.\n\nAs it was AMC's first entry into NASCAR since the Hudson Hornet of predecessor company Hudson, the company's effort \"raised eyebrows\" for many NASCAR veterans because AMC was not known for cultivating a racing image. Racing pundits \"initially scoffed at the notion of an AMC entry\" on the circuit, but \"the Matador acquired a fan following of its own.\"\n\nHutcherson-Pagan built a pair of 1972 2-door hardtop \"Bull Fighters\" for Penske as the marque's first attempt at NASCAR in 1972. The Matador was one of the first oval stock car to use disc brakes. After Donohue won the Western 500 with the first-generation Matador hardtop with four wheel discs, other teams soon followed with the upgrade.\n\nThe new 1974 coupe replaced the previous \"flying brick\" two-door hardtop design. Penske was quoted as saying that they did what they could with the old hardtop, and it did better on tracks with more curves and fewer straightaways. Donohue did not survive to drive the new aerodynamically designed fastback coupe, that many believe was aimed at NASCAR racing. The five wins for the AMC Matador are:\n\nBobby Allison also won the non-points Daytona 125 qualifying race on 13 February 1975 and finished second in the Daytona 500 three days later.\nThough the full-sized AMC Ambassador was also offered as a police car, the Matador would prove to be very popular. The largest user of Matador patrol cars was the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), primarily from 1972 to 1974. After extensive testing of the special police models offered by Chevy, Ford, and Chrysler, the LAPD chose the AMC Matador because they \"out handled and outperformed all the other cars.\" The LAPD police Matadors included among other special equipment: T-2 can lights, a five-channel Motorola Motrac 70 radio, a Federal siren, and a \"Hot Sheet Desk\" with a Roster gooseneck lamp.\n\nMatador sedans and station wagons were also used by other agencies, including the Los Angeles Sheriffs Department, and many other law enforcement agencies across the U.S. and Canada, as well as by military police units. Matador sedans were also used by the Los Angeles Fire Department. \n\nWhile V8 power was down for many domestic sedans, AMC used a V8 engine that out powered most other police vehicles. Tests of the 1972 AMC Javelin pony car and Matador sedan equipped with the 401 V8s resulted both running the quarter-mile dragstrip in the 14.7-second range. 0 to times were within 7 seconds, comparable to a 2006 Hemi Charger police car. Top speed was about , which took 43 seconds, much faster than the previously used Plymouth Satellites.\n\nThe high-performance 401 V8 was last available in 1975 only for fleet and police ordered sedans.\n\nThe 1974 models would be the last year for the LAPD's purchase of the Matador. The second-generation longer-nosed restyle and the -mile bumpers added weight that affected handling and performance. Moreover, after 1976, AMC \"let the police car business go as it causes too many problems.\"\n\nMatadors were in service with some Police departments until the mid-1980s.\n\nDuring the 1970s, AMC Matador police cars would appear in many television shows and episodes featuring police car procedures. The vehicle itself was considered a character most famously in \"Adam-12\" from 1972 until the show's end in 1975. The show's stars rode in a 1972 Matador and the character of \"Mac\", their precinct sergeant, drove a 1972 Matador station wagon.\n\nAs part of a significant product placement strategy, an AMC Matador coupe played a starring role in a \"The Man with the Golden Gun\", released in 1974. It featured the newly introduced Matador Brougham Coupe in the Oleg Cassini edition, along with Matador four-door police cars (in the black and white livery used by the Los Angeles Police Department) and a Hornet X hatchback. The Matador is the car of Francisco Scaramanga, and along with Nick Nack, they use the \"flying\" AMC Matador to kidnap Mary Goodnight. With its wings, the stunt car was long, wide, and high. A stuntman drove the \"car plane\" to a runway. It was not airworthy, so a -long remote controlled model, built by John Stears, was used for the aerial sequences.\n\nThe \"flying AMC Matador\" was exhibited at auto shows, part of AMC's marketing efforts for the aerodynamically designed coupe, as well as publicity exposure for the concept of unique flying machines.\n\nAustralian assembly of the Matador by Australian Motor Industries (AMI) started in 1971, and the model was discontinued after 1977. The AMI cars were marketed as the Rambler Matador. \n\nKnock-down kits for right-hand drive models were shipped from AMC's Kenosha, Wisconsin factory for assembly in AMI's facilities in Port Melbourne, Victoria. AMI used the same paint codes for the Matadors as the Toyota and Triumph vehicles they also assembled. These paint codes did not correspond to the AMC paint codes and thus Australian Matador colors are unique. All exterior model year changes otherwise corresponded to those of U.S. production, however Australian production of each model was carried through to the following year, and the final first-generation 1973 model was further assembled through to the end of 1975. \n\nStandard equipment included automatic transmission, power steering, power windows, locally fitted under dash air conditioning, and an AM radio, for both sedan and wagon models. The engine was AMC's V8, following its introduction in the 1970 Rebel. Although superseded by AMC in the United States, Australian Matadors continued to be built with the heavier duty steering components used in Ramblers built with power steering up until 1967 for the entire production run in Australia. Among the options were an exterior mounted sun visor, vinyl roof cover, tow hitch, and mud flaps. The cars were targeted at the top market segment and advertised as \"the American luxury limousine made for Australians\" and built for Australian conditions. \n\nIn addition to the modifications needed for Australian standards and market requirements, changes included the use of \"local content\" sourced parts and components (such as seats, carpeting, lights, wing mirrors, heaters, and even unique \"R\"-logo wheel covers) that reduced the tariff added to each car. As red rear turn signals were prohibited in Australia, Matador sedans had amber lenses mounted over or behind the reversing lens of the tail light assembly and the turn signals rewired to the reverse lights, while Matador station wagons had their rear turn signals rewired into amber trailer lights that were retrofitted into the tailgate. As with its Rebel predecessor, Matador hardtops were not brought in for the Australian market. AMI's two-door offering was the AMC Javelin. \n\nFrom late 1971, the AMI-built Matador was available in sedan and wagon body styles. (AMI had assembled the 1970 Rebel again in 1971, thereby causing the Matador's release to be a year late.)\n\nAs with the previous Australian-assembled Rebel models, the AMI-assembled Matador continued to use the dash of the U.S. 1967 Rambler Ambassador first used in the right-hand-drive Ambassadors produced for the United States Postal Service in 1967, including the three-lever Weather Eye heater unit and analog clock to the left of the instrument fascia. The black, round instrument dials of the U.S 1970 Ambassador were also reused. A black metal plate with a picture of a bull and a bull fighter covered the cavity to the right side of the fascia where otherwise the radio went on U.S models. An AM radio unit was instead fitted into the centre of the dash, above the ashtray. \n\nAir conditioning was fitted by way of locally supplied under dash units. \n\nSeating for the 1971 model consisted of a locally-made full bench seat, in vinyl, with a fold-down center armrest for both front and rear seats and headrests for the front. \n\nDoor cards were locally made in the style of the U.S model but with cutouts to accommodate the right hand drive positioning of the power window controls (from the U.S AMC Ambassador), and the rear door cards came standard with ash trays. \n\nForward parking light/turn signals received clear lenses as opposed to amber lenses in the U.S. so that front parking lights and turn signals flashed clear. Amber side marker lenses were used for both the front and rear of the sedans, where otherwise the U.S models had red lenses for the rear. \n\nThe Australian Matador also came with unique \"R\" logo hub caps which were locally made. The full-sized stainless steel hubcaps with the writing \"American Motors\" which were used on the U.S and New Zealand 1970 Rebel and U.S 1971 Matador were never available as an option in Australia. Apart from the hubcaps, externally the 1971 Australian Matador was the same as the U.S 1971 model. \n\nUnlike the U.S models, Australian Matadors came standard with power steering, power windows and continued to use the earlier steering componentry of the mid 1960s U.S Ramblers. \n\nDespite being right hand drive cars Australian Matadors retained the left-hand-drive windscreen wiper assembly (left hand sweep.) \n\nA total of 69 Matador sedans and 64 station wagons (including some 1970 Rebel station wagons reassembled in 1971) were sold in Australia in 1971.\n\nAMI continued to assemble the U.S 1971 model into 1972 marketing it as a \"1972\" model. The U.S 1972 Matador was assembled by AMI from late 1972. \n\nAs with the U.S model, the Australian 1972 model came with the new Torqueflite 727 transmission and the new-for-1972 external style changes. \n\nThe black instrument dials of the U.S 1970 Ambassador were again reused in the RHD 1967 Ambassador dash. The revised arm rests of the U.S 1971 model were consistent with the Australian 1972 model. The front bench seats were again locally made with individually reclinable driver and passenger seat backs and a fold-down middle arm rest. The rear seat was the same as the 1971 Australian model. The same door cards from the 1971 model were reused and again made locally, also allowing for the RHD power window controls.\n\nIn order to comply with Australian Design Rules regarding not allowing red rear turn signals, an orange serrated plastic cut-out was glued inside the reverse light lens of the tail light assembly for the sedans, and the reverse lights re-wired as flashers. Station wagons received amber trailer light assemblies drilled into the tail gate and wired as turn signals. Clear forward park/turn signal lenses were again used. \n\nThe Australian \"R\" hub caps were reused for the 1972 model. \n\nPower windows, power aerial, under dash air conditioning, and earlier Rambler steering componentry remained standard. \n\n300 Matadors (236 sedans, 64 wagons) were sold in 1972, most being U.S. 1971 models.\n\nThe U.S 1972 model was further assembled in 1973 and sold as a \"1973\" model. The U.S 1973 model was assembled by AMI from late 1973. Externally the Australian 1973 model was identical to the U.S 1973 model, with the same grill and tail light changes. \n\nAMI boasted the new model's 11.4 per cent increase in brake horsepower and 3.5 per cent increase in torque, despite a slew of anti-pollution equipment. A four-barrel carburetor replaced the two-barrel carburetor used up until this time. \n\nThe Australian SKD kits again came with heavy duty suspension as used on Police and Taxi cars in the U.S. \n\nFor amber rear flashers, AMI fitted an orange serrated plastic cut-out over the clear reverse lens of the tail light lens assembly and once again re-wired the reverse lights as the turn signals. Station wagons again received amber trailer light assemblies drilled into the tail gate and wired as turn signals. For 1973 AMI dispensed with the transparent parking light/turn signal lenses, but instead of simply using the standard U.S amber lens, they fitted an off-the-shelf, notably ill-fitting, rectangular amber trailer lens in each light cavity to make the lights flash amber. \n\nFrom 1973 Matadors were fitted with Australian-made front split-bench seats in vinyl, each with their own fold-down armrest and headrests. The new headrests were not so \"chunky\" as the 1971 and 1972 models. The rear bench seat remained the same. The locally-made door cards first used in the Australian 1971 model were again reused. \n\nA slight change to the dash was done from the 1973 model onwards, in that the 1967 Ambassador \"flat\" passenger dash pad was replaced with a more protruding dash pad that ran flush with the instrument cluster binnacle and no longer with the speaker in the dash pad. For sound, speakers were fitted into both front door cards. Otherwise the dash was the same as previous models but new for 1973 was the introduction of the white-backed instrument cluster of the U.S 1972/1973 Matador, displaying in miles-per-hour (mph.)\n\nPower windows, power steering, under dash air conditioning, and electric aerial remained standard.\n\nFor 1973, Australian sales were 230 Matadors (191 sedans, 30 wagons.) Most were U.S 1972 models.\n\nFor 1974 AMI continued to assemble the U.S 1973 model again, marketing it as a \"1974\" model. \n\nChanges for the year included the introduction of white instrument dials (in use on the U.S models since 1972 but displaying kilometers per hour (km/h.)\n\nThe left-hand-drive wiper assembly was finally re-engineered locally to a right-hand-drive sweep. \n\nThe horn pad and steering wheel of the U.S 1973 Matador (without \"bullseye\" logo) was replaced with the slightly smaller steering wheel and interchangeable horn pad of the AMC Hornet (with the \"AMC\" logo in the center.) \n\nAlso for 1974 three-point retractable seat belts for the front and rear were fitted, replacing the two-point sash belts. \n\nThe locally-made, split-bench front seat and rear seat from the 1973 model were again reused, as were the locally-made door cards copied from the U.S 1971 model.\n\n145 Matadors (118 sedans, 27 wagons) were sold in Australia during 1974. All were U.S 1973 models.\n\nFor 1975 AMI continued to assemble the U.S 1973 model, marketing it as a \"1975\" model. All the standard features of the U.S 1973 model and local year-by-year changes were retained. \n\nAssembly of the revised second-generation Matador sedan and wagon released in the United States in 1974 was held off in Australia until December 1975. \n\nRegistrations for 1975 were 118 Matadors (85 sedans, 33 wagons) including the first few of the second-generation models assembled at the end of 1975.\n\nAMI assembled the U.S 1974 second-generation Matador sedan and wagon through 1976 marketing it as the new \"1976\" model. The first few were built in December 1975. \n\nExternally it was identical to the U.S 1974 model, even using the U.S stainless steel, full-size hub caps which AMC had been using on its domestic models since the 1972 Matador. \n\nAs with the previous models, the 1967 Rambler Ambassador dash assembly was reused, but now with the 1974 U.S-version instrument cluster. The 1967 Ambassador Weather Eye unit, previously positioned to the left of the instrument dials for the Australian-built Rebel and first generation Matador, was shifted to the right of the dials. The new foam-formed cluster fascia encompassed all but the levers of the Weather Eye. The Australian-made seats in use since the 1973 model and the locally-made door cards in use since the 1971 model were continued with no changes. The revised steering wheel with the rectangular horn pad of the 1974 U.S-version was used on Australian models until the end of production. \n\nAll Australian second-generation Matadors continued to be powered with the AMC 360 V8 engine with automatic transmission, as with the first-generation Australian-built Matadors. From about June 1976 AMI fitted the Matador sedans with a \"Heavy Duty Fleet Engine.\" As explained in \"Rambler Automotive Technical Service\" sheet #157, dated November 1976, the engines came with a four-barrel carburetor and electronic ignition. There were never any other engine or transmission options. \n\nStrangely, the bonnet latch on the second-generation Australian Matadors remained on the passenger (left) side of the cabin, whereas previous Australian Matadors had the bonnet latch on the drivers (right) side as would be expected. \n\nUnder dash air conditioning, power windows, electric aerial, and the superseded 1960s steering componentry remained standard. \n\nTo meet the requirement of amber rear turn indicators, an orange plastic cut-out was screwed over the clear reverse lens of the tail light assembly and the turn signals rewired to the reverse lights. \nAs Australian number plates were larger than U.S plates a wider sheet of folded steel needed to be welded to the rear of the number plate area so as to be able to fit the larger plates.\nRegistrations in 1976 were 88 Matadors (78 sedans, 10 wagons),\n\nA small number of Matadors which were assembled in December 1976 were registered in 1977. \n\nRegistrations for 1977 were 27 Matadors (24 sedans and 3 wagons.)\n\nAlthough AMI received 160 knock-down kits for the all new Matador Coupe in 1974, AMI did not assemble them until late 1976, and by that time 70 were intentionally destroyed leaving 80 still able to be assembled, with another 10 held as parts. Priced at $11,986.00 the model was marketed through 1977, sold for the one year only. Australian models came with AMC's 360 cu-in V-8 with three-speed automatic transmission, the U.S Matador X sports steering wheel, and bucket seats. Air conditioning, electric antenna, and AM-FM radio were all standard. Because of the low production numbers (under 100) AMI were able to avoid having to re-engineer the left hand drive wiper sweep to right hand drive as they had done on the Matador sedans and wagons after 1974. All Australian models were badged as the sportier Matador X.\n\nAs with all RHD export and local assembled Rebel and Matador sedans and wagons, the Australian Matador coupe used the dash of the 1967 Rambler Ambassador, although the instrument dials, center column, and steering wheel were from the U.S. 1974 model. Again, to satisfy Australian design rules, the red rear turn signal lenses were replaced with an off-the-shelf round orange lens replacing the inner tail light and rewired to flash amber, leaving the outer lens as tail light and brake light. \nPurdy Motor in San Jose assembled matadors in Costa Rica from Knock-down kits. Purdy Motor had acquired the franchise rights to market American Motors vehicles in 1959 and had imported complete cars to Costa Rica, but it was not until 1964 that Costa Rican laws permitted local assembly of vehicles. Purdy Motor built an assembly plant in 1965 and the first locally-manufactured Rambler was a 1964 Rambler Classic 660 which came off the line in late 1965. The all-new 1967 Rebel was assembled to production end, followed by the Matador from 1971. \n\nIn 1974 a new local vehicle manufacturer, Motorizada de Costa Rica, purchased the rights of Rambler distributorship from Purdy Motor. Motorizada continued to assemble AMC and Jeep vehicles as well as other brands until 1978. Motorizada was liquidated in 1979 allegedly for not paying taxes thereby ending the AMC brand in Costa Rica.\n\nAs with other export markets the Matador was marketed in Costa Rica under the Rambler marque even after the marque was retired by AMC in its home market after 1969.\n\nMatadors were built by Vehículos Automotores Mexicanos (VAM) in Mexico.\n\nContinuing the concept of VAM's version of the AMC Rebel, the Mexican Matadors were only available as a single trim level and in four-door sedan and two-door hardtop forms in their initial year. The hardtop retained the Rambler Classic SST name while the four-door sedan changed from Rambler Classic 770 to Rambler Classic DPL. Both body styles saw the same features as the 1971 AMC Matadors and were almost equal with only few exclusive characteristics for each. Standard equipment consisted of four-wheel manual drum bakes, manual steering, gross at 4,600 rpm I6 engine with Carter WCD two-barrel carburetor and 9.5:1 compression ratio, fully synchronized three-speed manual transmission with column shift, 10-in heavy duty clutch, 3.54:1 rear differential gear ratio with manual transmission, 3.07:1 rear differential gear ratio with automatic transmission, electric two-speed wipers, electric washers, rectangular full-length speedometer, electric analog clock, collapsible steering column with built-in ignition switch, luxury custom steering wheel, courtesy lights, cigarette lighter, dashboard ashtray, locking glove box, wide individual front seats (hardtop), front bench seat (sedan), two-point front seatbelts, front and rear side armrests, dual rear ashtrays, single round dome light (sedan), dual C-pillar dome lights (hardtop), dual coat hooks, bright molding package, luxury wheel covers, and driver's side remote mirror. Optional equipment included power drum brakes (standard with automatic transmission), power steering, heavy-duty suspension, automatic transmission, heater with front defroster, vinyl roof, remote-controlled driver's side mirror, passenger's side remote mirror, bumper guards, bumper tubes, and locking gas cap.\n\nFor 1972, all VAM cars received the same revisions and improvements of the AMC models. The Classic line saw upgrades in the replacement of the six in favor of the with gross at 4,400 rpm with Carter ABD two-barrel carburetor, 9.5 compression ratio, and 266 degree camshaft. Power brakes with front disks became standard equipment regardless of transmission, a Chrysler A998 three-speed automatic transmission in place of the older Borg-Warner automatics, heavy-duty suspension with front sway bar, improved heater with revised controls placed to the right of the steering column, and new two-round-pod instrument cluster. New wheel cover and grille designs were noticeable on the exterior, while seat patterns and side panels were also updated.\n\nSince its redesign in 1970, the hardtop body style started to drop in sales and the front end facelift of 1971 did not help to reverse the trend. VAM did not want to drop it leaving it without a mid-sized two-door. The model was reworked into an all-new limited edition with a sportier focus for 1972, as well as featuring more appointments similar to a personal luxury car. This became the VAM Classic Brougham, with the name \"Rambler\" removed to rejuvenate the line, while the four-door sedan became the VAM Classic DPL. The Brougham included as standard equipment power steering, three-speed automatic transmission with floor-mounted shifter (the same unit as the U.S. Rebel Machine models), center console with locking compartment (also shared with the Rebel Machine), individual high-back bucket seats (shared with the VAM Javelin), bright trim for pedals, heater, AM/FM stereo radio with four speakers, tinted windshield, and a remote controlled driver's side remote mirror. Despite the marketing and high level of equipment, the public saw it as the previous model. The only external differences with the previous model were limited to the colors, the grille, the standard vinyl roof and the wheel covers. The price was higher than that of the Rambler Classic SST and it did not increase sales for the year, ending below VAM's expectations. The VAM Classic Brougham is the closest Mexican equivalent to AMC models Rebel Machine and Matador Machine sold in the U.S. and Canada and is probably the most collectible Matador/Rebel model produced in Mexico.\n\nBecause of the low sales of the Classic Brougham hardtop, the Classic DPL four-door sedan became the only Matador version produced by VAM for 1973, with Javelin being the largest two-door model offered by the company. The 1973 Classic DPLs were virtually the same to their previous year's counterparts with differences only in seat and side panel designs as well as the grille design and a new engine head with larger valves and independent rockers.\n\nThe generational change that AMC Matadors received for 1974 in the United States was also introduced in Mexico. Units ordered with the automatic transmission also included power steering and a heater. The beginning of automotive engine emission certification in Mexico affected the six, which changed to a lower 8.5:1 compression ratio. \n\nThe biggest news of the year was the arrival or a new two-door model, AMC's Matador coupe. Unlike all previous (Matador and Rebel) models, it was available in two different trim levels; the sporty Classic AMX equivalent to the AMC Matador X model and the luxury Classic Brougham equivalent to the AMC Matador Brougham coupe model. Both versions were mechanically the same, carrying the same technical specifications as the Classic DPL models. Their main differences relied in appearance and accessories. The Classic AMX sported VAM's in-house five-spoke wheels with volcano center caps and trim rings, a blacked out grille and a rally stripe surrounding the full length of the car with an integrated AMX emblem on the right corner of the trunk lid; the Classic Brougham had a standard vinyl roof cover with its respective moldings, wheel covers (new design for the year), standard grille and \"Brougham\" emblems over the C-pillar bases. The Classic AMX showcased a three-spoke sports steering wheel, high-back fold-down individual bucket seats, center console with locking compartment, floor-mounted gearshift, and AM/FM radio. Despite the sportiness of the model, intended to take the place of the Javelin as VAM's top-of-the-line performance model as well as the image and enthusiast builder, the side armrests were the standard designs used in the Matador base models of the U.S. On the other hand, the Classic Brougham sported a custom sports steering wheel and column-mounted shifter with a fold-down split-back bench seat and AM radio. Unlike the Classic DPL, both the Classic AMX and the Classic Brougham included the automatic transmission, power steering and heater as standard equipment. A unique characteristic of the 1974 VAM Classic AMX was the shifter because it was the Javelin's \"aircraft\" U-shaped design.\n\nFor 1975, changes on all three versions were few. The Classic DPL obtained a new one-piece grille design with rectangular parking lights, in accordance with the US-versions, alongside new seats and door panels. The luxury steering wheel obtained a new design for the both Classic DPL and the Classic Brougham. Both coupe models obtained new interior door panels with AMC's full-length X-model side armrests; the panels of the sports version also carried an etched \"AMX\" emblem over the vinyl near the top front corner of the door. The Classic AMX also featured AMC's X-model floor-mounted shifter design. All three versions shared the upgrades of electronic ignition, a vacuum gauge in place of the electric clock, a I6 with a lower 7.7:1 compression ratio, and Holley 2300 two-barrel carburetor. The rear differential gear ratio was changed to 3.31:1 for both transmissions.\n\nThere were more changes for the 1976 model year. The Classic DPL and Brougham featured a new design for wheel covers. Both coupe models obtained a new grille design divided in two portions with squared parking lights. The Classic AMX had a new and more discreet side decal covering only the front fenders and a new metal \"AMX\" emblem on the trunk lid corner. All three versions shared a new 160 km/h speedometer, tinted windshield, and seat designs that were based in AMC's Oleg Cassini units for the Matador coupes. These were color-keyed with the rest of the interior, the most unusual ones were those of the AMX as they were individual and included adjustable headrests with integrated Cassini crests and reclining mechanism. This is the only case of a VAM car close to the various U.S. AMC designer cars.\n\nThe Classic line was discontinued in the middle of the 1976 model year. VAM was looking forward to introducing the Pacer model to Mexican market, which would represent its fourth product line, while Mexican legislation at the time allowed only three per marque. Having both the Classic and the Pacer in the luxury market segment would have also caused internal competition. VAM favored the new Pacer over what until that time had been its flagship model. Starting in 1977, VAM's most luxurious model was the Pacer, and its largest sized models were the Americans (AMC Hornets).\n\nMatadors were imported into Norway during the 1970s by Norwegian importer Kolberg & Caspary AS located at Ås, Norway. \nKolberg & Caspary was formed in 1906 and imported automotive, industrial, and construction products. Matadors, Javelins, and Hornets were sold by Gavas Motors AS in Oslo and Hasco Motors AS in Drammen.\n\nThe Rambler name was used on right hand drive Matador models sold in the UK. Matador sedans were available through Rambler Motors (A.M.C) Limited in Chiswick, West London alongside the Ambassador hardtop and station wagon, and Javelin. With the exception of the Javelin, Matadors and Ambassadors were exported from Kenosha with factory right-hand drive, as had been with the prior Rebel and Ambassador models brought into the U.K. \n\nUnlike the Knock-down kits used for Australian assembly which continued to use the RHD version of the 1967 Ambassador dash, cluster, and Weather Eye (albeit to the right of the cluster for the second generation models) U.K. second-generation Matadors were factory-built with the temperature controls of the US-versions (positioned underneath and to the left of the instrument dials.) U.K. models also received a locally built and fitted \"walnut burr\" fascia that replaced the AMC black plastic cluster surround, as had been the practice for previous U.K.-market Rebels and Ambassadors.\n\nThe final 1977 models for the U.K. market were regular LHD versions.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, the domestic automobile market was moving to smaller cars. The large-sized Matador was no longer attractive to customers demanding more economical cars as fuel and money became increasingly worrisome problems after the 1973 oil crisis and the continuing double-digit domestic inflation.\n\nLacking the financial resources for a full redesign, AMC dropped the large Ambassador after 1974, while the Matador was discontinued after 1978, around the same time as Ford moved their full-size nameplates to a smaller platform. The downsized 1977 Chevrolet Impala also spelled doom for large intermediates from AMC and Chrysler. American Motors responded to the declining demand for large cars by introducing a new nameplate in 1978, the AMC Concord. The Concord was an upmarket restyling and positioning of the compact AMC Hornet that had the same wheelbase as the redesigned intermediate 1978 Chevrolet Malibu. It was presented as combining an \"easy-to-handle size with a roomy sumptuous interior\" and in contrast to the Matador coupe, the \"overall styling was pleasant ... would not offend anyone\" This was the first full-line of economical, compact-sized cars with luxurious trim, features, and comfort levels previously available only in larger automobiles.\n\nAmerican Motors did not have another large car until the Eagle Premier that was developed with Renault's partnership and introduced to the marketplace following the purchase of AMC by Chrysler in 1987.\n\nWhile well-restored examples of Matador sedans can still be purchased for under US$3,000, ads have been published asking over US$10,000 for restored coupes. In Australia, a \"survivor\" or restored Matador sedan can fetch between AU$10,000–14,000.\n\n\"Hemmings Classic Car\" magazine listed the 1974–78 Matador Coupe as one of their 19 pieces of rolling proof that the old-car hobby need not be expensive and described the Coupe as \"possibly one of the most distinctive shapes to come out of the 1970s, and arguably a style pinnacle for the personal luxury movement\", the James Bond movie role, as well as its NASCAR history.\n\nThe 1991 \"Esquire\" article \"Cool Cars Nobody Wants\" describes the 1974–75 AMC Matadors as a collectable, stating: \"long considered the automaker to geeks, American Motors began its slow decline, we believe, when the liberal do-gooders who made up its core market began earning enough money to buy Scandinavian cars.\"\n\nIn 2014, Hagerty collector insurance listed the \"Adam 12\" AMC Matador as their number one \"favorite full-size, rear-wheel-drive American cop cars from 60 years of the best cop shows.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013514", "title": "Okinotorishima", "text": "Okinotorishima\n\nThe is a coral reef with two rocks enlarged with tetrapod-cement structures. It is administered by Japan with a total shoal area of and land area . Its dry land area is mostly made up by three concrete encasings and there is a stilt platform in the lagoon housing a research station. There is a third complete artificial tetrapod-cement islet. It is located on the Palau–Kyushu Ridge in the Philippine Sea, southeast of Okidaitōjima and west-southwest of South Iwo Jima in the Bonin Islands or south of Tokyo, Japan. The atoll is the southernmost part of Japan and the only Japanese territory in the tropics.\n\nJapan claims the atoll is significant enough for Japan to have a 200 nautical mile (370.4 km) exclusive economic zone (EEZ) around the atoll, but China, South Korea, and Taiwan dispute the Japanese EEZ, saying that the atoll does not meet the definition of an island under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.\n\nThe English meaning of the name is \"remote bird islands\".\n\nThe atoll has multiple designations in English (Okinotori coral reefs, Okinotori Islands). Its original name was Parece Vela, Spanish for \"it looks like a sail\" (alluding to the original appearance of the reef). This name has been retained in English as well, especially to designate the geological formations of the islets.\n\nIt was possibly first sighted by the Spanish sailor Bernardo de la Torre in 1543, certainly by Miguel López de Legazpi in 1565, and its first recorded name was Parece Vela (\"looks like a sail\" in Spanish).\n\nIn 1789, William Douglas arrived with the British ship \"Iphigenia\" and, in 1790, the place was named \"Douglas Reef\" (also spelled \"Douglass Reef\"). The existence of the atoll might not have been known by the Japanese until 1888. In 1922 and 1925, the Japanese navy ship \"Manshu\" investigated the area. In 1931, confirming that no other countries had claimed the reefs, Japan declared it Japanese territory, placing it under the jurisdiction of the Tokyo Metropolis, classifying it as part of the Ogasawara Village, and naming it \"Okinotorishima\".\n\nDuring 1939 and 1941, a foundation was completed for \"a lighthouse and a meteorological observation site\" but construction was interrupted by the outbreak of World War II. After Japan's defeat, the United States assumed sovereignty over the Ogasawara islands, and returned authority over the islands to Japan in 1968.\n\nBetween 1987 and 1993 the government of Tokyo and later the central government built steel breakwaters and concrete walls to stop the erosion of Okinotorishima, which today leaves only three of the five rocks that were present in 1939 above water; in 1988 the Japan Marine Science and Technology Center built a marine investigation facility which it has since maintained following typhoon damage. Funding for full repairs was finally allocated in early 2016. The facility also doubles as an EEZ observation post for the Maritime Bureau of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, being equipped with radar and various other sensors to help monitor activity in the zone.\n\nOn March 16, 2007, a light beacon was installed by the Japan Coast Guard. The beacon is plotted on the hydrographic chart.\n\nGeologically, the islets are a coral atoll, built on the Kyushu–Palau Ridge, the westernmost part of the Izu–Bonin–Mariana Arc system. The name \"Parece Vela\" has been given to the extinct back-arc basin that lies immediately to the east (the northern half of this back-arc basin is known as the Shikoku Basin). This back-arc basin was formed by seafloor spreading between the late Oligocene and Miocene. The Parece Vela Basin contains the longest megamullion in the world. The original Spanish name of the islets is normally used for the geological formations, hence, Parece Vela megamullion, Parece Vela ridge, Parece Vela rift or Parece Vela basin.\n\nThe waters around the reefs are potentially rich in oil and other mineral and fisheries resources and it lies in an area of potential military significance. At high tide, one area of the reefs is , roughly the size of a twin bed, and pokes just out of the ocean. The other is , the size of a small bedroom, and rises , about twice as high. The entire reef consists of approximately , most of which is submerged even at low tide.\n\nThe area has three tiny individual islets:\n\nMinami-Kojima is a completely artificial islet created in shallow water. But also the two original islets appear completely artificial today, with little if any trace of the two natural rocks that still appear on photographs of 1987. In 1925, there were still five above-water rocks, which have eroded since. A report from 1947 mentions five above-water rocks. Three smaller ones were on the west side, nearly impossible to see from seaward because of the breaking waves. The larger rocks on the southwest side and on the northeast side, possibly Kita-Kojima and Higashi-Kojima, were reported to be high, respectively. The original rocks appeared barren, obviously without any terrestrial vegetation. The current artificial dry land areas with their concrete surfaces appear unfit to support terrestrial vegetation either.\n\nAfter concrete encasing, each of the islets appears as a circle with a diameter of 60 meters (196 ft) on detailed satellite images, which would correspond to a land area—albeit mostly artificial—of per islet, or in total. In addition, there is a platform on stilts in the shallow part of the lagoon east-northeast of the southern islet, built by the Japan Marine Science and Technology Center in 1988, which appears as a rectangle of . The platform has a helicopter landing pad and a large three-story building with a marine investigation facility and a meteorological station.\n\nThe rocks are in the western part of a lagoon surrounded by a submerged coral reef, over which the waves break, and that extends east-west and north-south, with an area of roughly 5 km² within the rim of the reef. The lagoon is 3 to 4.6 meters deep, but there are numerous coral heads of lesser depths throughout the area. The fringing reef of the atoll is pear-shaped in an east-west direction with its greatest width at the eastern end. There is a small boat channel into the lagoon in the southwest, about wide and deep, southeast of the artificial islet.\n\nAdministratively, the island is considered part of Ogasawara village, Tokyo. In 1939, the construction of a naval base was started by Japan, but suspended in 1941, at the start of the Pacific War.\n\nTyphoons are constant threats to Okinotori's existence. In the 1970s there were about five or six visible protrusions, but by 1989, only two were visible.\n\nIn order to prevent the island from submersion caused by erosion and maintain its claim to the EEZ, the Japanese government launched an embankment building project in 1987, and Higashikojima and Kitakojima were surrounded by concrete. Japan has encased the reefs with $280 million worth of concrete and covered the smaller one with a $50 million titanium net to shield it from debris thrown up by the ocean's waves. The Japanese government has spent over $600 million fortifying the reefs to prevent them from being completely washed away.\n\nFurthermore, the Nippon Foundation has drawn plans to build a lighthouse and increase the size of the reef by breeding microorganisms known as foraminifera. Creating land using the microorganisms could take decades to a century before the island is large enough to be useful.\n\nCurrently, Japan carries out maritime research and observation of the area, as well as repair work on the embankment.\n\nIn 2005, the government installed a radar system (at the cost of ¥ 330 million), repaired a heliport, and placed an official address plaque saying, \"1 Okinotori Island, Ogasawara Village, Tokyo\" in Japanese. Fishing expeditions also support the claim of economic activity.\n\nFormer Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara has talked of building a power station, despite protests by environmentalists. His government has helped fund expeditions to Okinotori by Japanese fishermen and scientists. Governor Ishihara himself toured the islands on May 20, 2005 to inspect the conservation and management efforts, went snorkeling to see firsthand the condition of the surrounding waters, and released Japanese horse mackerel fry to show support for the local fishing industry. The islands are an intermittent rallying point for Japanese nationalists, and, as such, a hot-button political issue in Japan.\n\nOn 22 April 2004, Chinese diplomats stated during bilateral talks with Japan that they regarded Okinotorishima as an atoll, not an islet, and did not acknowledge Japan's claim to an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) stemming from Okinotorishima.\n\nUnder the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, an island is \"a naturally formed area of land, surrounded by water, which is above water at high tide\". It states that \"rocks which cannot sustain human habitation or economic life of their own shall have no exclusive economic zone.\" Japan signed the Convention in 1983; the Convention came into force in 1994–1996 for Japan.\n\nJapan claims an EEZ over 400,000 square km (154,500 square miles) around Okinotorishima. China and South Korea dispute this claim in their addenda to the CLCS, saying the area only consists of rocks and not islands. Neither China nor South Korea have territorial claims regarding Okinotorishima, but foreign policy analysts speculated that it wants to \"investigate the surrounding seabed for submarine operations in case of military conflict involving the Republic of China (Taiwan).\" Japan claims that rock is not defined in the Convention. Besides, the construction of a port, lighthouse, and power station may be used as a counterargument for PRC's claim regarding \"sustain human habitation or economic life\".\n\nThe territory lies at a militarily strategic point, midway between Taiwan and Guam, the latter where U.S. forces are based. Vessels of the PRC are believed to have been mapping the ocean's bottom over which U.S. warships might pass on their way to Taiwan. The PRC conducted four maritime surveys near the Okinotori coral reefs in 2001, two in 2002, and one in 2003. However, the number of such incidents rose to four in 2004. These incidents have drawn protests from Japan.\n\nJon Van Dyke, a law professor, has suggested that the situation is similar to the failed British attempt to claim an EEZ around Rockall, an uninhabited granite outcropping in the Atlantic Ocean. The UK eventually dropped its claim in the 1990s when other countries objected. Dr. Dyke has further asserted that it is impossible to make \"a plausible claim that Okinotorishima should be able to generate a 200 [nautical]-mile zone\". Tadao Kuribayashi, another law professor, disagrees, arguing in part that rocks and reefs differ in composition and structure, and that the intent of the provision was geared toward the former.\n\nIn 2016, Japan's arrest of a Taiwanese fishing ship's crew led Taiwan to protest against Japan's claim of island status for Okinotori and by extension the EEZ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013515", "title": "Helen Willetts", "text": "Helen Willetts\n\nHelen Willetts is a meteorologist on the BBC. She appears regularly on BBC News, BBC World News, BBC Red Button, BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio 5 Live and BBC Radio 2, as well as BBC One. Willetts is an occasional weather forecaster on the BBC News at Ten and the BBC News channel.\n\nBorn in Chester, England, Willetts went to the Eirias High School in Colwyn Bay, Wales. She obtained a first class honours degree in Physics at the University of Nottingham in 1993.\n\nShe joined the Met Office in February 1994, where she began a five-month forecaster training course at the Met Office college, at the former RAF Shinfield Park (occupied by the Met Office from 1971–2004).\n\nIn July 1994 she moved to Cardiff Weather Centre and from 1995 she appeared as a forecaster on BBC Television and Radio in Wales. In 1997 she moved to the BBC Weather Centre in London to work for BBC News.\n\nIn March 2006, she was awarded the Television and Radio Industry Club (TRIC) award for best TV weather presenter.\n\nHelen's main sporting interest is badminton, having played internationally for Wales. She also enjoys walking, cycling and travelling.\n"}
{"id": "2013521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013521", "title": "Pyrazolopyrimidine", "text": "Pyrazolopyrimidine\n\nPyrazolopyrimidines are a series of isomeric heterocyclic chemical compounds with the molecular formula CHN. They form the central core of a variety of more complex chemical compounds including some pharmaceuticals and pesticides.\n\nOne isomer of pyrazolopyrimidines, known as pyrazolo[1,5-\"a\"]pyrimidine, is the basis for a class of sedative and anxiolytic drugs related (in terms of their effect) to benzodiazepines.\n\nMost of the drugs from this class marketed to date are intended to induce sleep, and are prescribed for people suffering insomnia, however some newer compounds produce anxiolytic effects with relatively little sedation, and are being developed for use as non-sedating anti-anxiety drugs.\n\nThey include:\n\n\nAs they are not chemically related to the benzodiazepines despite their similar effect, such drugs—as well as the imidazopyridines and cyclopyrrones—are sometimes grouped together and referred to as \"nonbenzodiazepines\".\nA related use is in pyrazolopyrimidine organothiophosphate pesticides including chlorprazophos (insecticide) and pyrazophos (fungicide, insecticide).\n"}
{"id": "2013522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013522", "title": "Thorbjørn Egner", "text": "Thorbjørn Egner\n\nThorbjørn Egner (12 December 1912 – 24 December 1990) was a Norwegian playwright, songwriter and illustrator known principally for his books, plays and musicals for children. He is principally associated with his narratives for children including \"Karius og Baktus\" (1949) and \"Folk og røvere i Kardemommeby \" (1955).\n\nHe grew up in the working-class neighbourhood Kampen in Oslo, Norway. His parents were Magnus Egner (1872–1952) and Anna Hansen (1874–1957).\nHe was trained as an artist at the Norwegian National Academy of Craft and Art Industry under Eivind Nielsen and Per Krohg 1933–34.\n\nHe started his career in advertising. Over a seven year period, he was employed as a designer and decorator at the advertising firm Høydahl Ohme A/S.\nHis breakthrough was on the nationally broadcast children's radio show \" \" in the beginning of the 1950s.\nEgner is particularly known for his books \"Karius og Baktus\" (1949), \"Thorbjørn Egners lesebøker\" (1950–1972), \"Klatremus og de andre dyrene i Hakkebakkeskogen\" (1953) and \"Folk og røvere i Kardemommeby \" (1955, translated 1976). The latter two were made into successful musicals. He also illustrated his own books.\nThorbjørn Egner received the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav in 1972 and Cappelenprisen in 1979. He also awarded the Spellemannprisen in 1975 for \"\", in 1977 for the album \"\" and in 1982 for \"Beste Egnerviser\", a collection of his songs.\n\nIn 1937, Thorbjørn Egner married Annie Eliassen (born in 1912 in Oslo). They had four children together. \nEgner died in the afternoon of Christmas Eve 1990 of a heart attack.\nHe was buried at Ullern Church (\"Ullern kirkegård\") in Oslo. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013526", "title": "WRCM", "text": "WRCM\n\nWRCM is a radio station in Charlotte, North Carolina. It airs contemporary Christian music and identifies itself as \"K-LOVE\". It is a non-commercial listener supported ministry. The station is licensed to Wingate, North Carolina, a suburb of Charlotte.\n\nColumbia International University, then known as Columbia Bible College, applied to the FCC for the license in 1982. Internally, this was known as The 92 FM Project. Other entities applied on top of CBC including Wingate College (now Wingate University) and a church in Waxhaw, North Carolina area. After 10 years of negotiations with the other groups, WRCM was granted the license and was signed on the air by founding general manager Ken Mayfield at 12 noon on June 14, 1993. Present at sign on were CIU president, Johnny Miller; CIU vice president John Davidson and former CIU president, Robertson C. McQuilken. (The station's call letters -RCM- were in honor of his father, Robertson C. McQuilkin, the first president of Columbia Bible College.)\n\nWRCM's first staff consisted of full-timers Ken Mayfield, the station's first general manager and afternoon personality, program director and morning host, Rodney Baucom, and Karen Wycoff, who served as mid-day announcer and secretary. Mayfield had built and managed another contemporary Christian station, WNOW and had hosted a very popular Sunday morning Contemporary Christian music program for 7 years on Charlotte's 100,000 watt WBCY (now WLNK). Part-time staff members included Shelly Mitchell and Joe Paulo. Paulo stepped into the role of general manager shortly after Mayfield departed in 1999.\n\nWRCM garnered immediate success with a 2.4 in its first Arbitron ratings. This success was in spite of the lack of advertising. Almost all of the \"promotion\" for the fledgling station had to come by word of mouth and from the station staff at Christian concerts.\n\nOriginal plans were for WRCM to be a satellite station of Columbia Bible College's original station, WMHK. However, these plans were scrapped, and the station was largely operated and programmed separately from WMHK. However, longtime general manager Joe Paulo was named director of broadcasting at CIU after the departure of WMHK's General Manager Jerry Grimes, with oversight over both stations. Under his watch, WMHK began simulcasting WRCM's \"Family Friendly Morning Show,\" and the two stations both aired the syndicated \"Scott and Sam\" show on weeknights.\n\nDuring its time as a local broadcaster, the station identified itself as \"New Life 91.9, WRCM Wingate/Charlotte\" and heavily promoted churches throughout the Charlotte metropolitan area. However, its signal is not as strong as those of the major FM stations in the Charlotte area. For most of its history, it operated at only 10,000 watts, resulting in marginal coverage even in some parts of Charlotte. In many of Charlotte's inner-ring suburbs, it could only be heard on car radios. It has since increased its power to 30,000 watts. However, it still operates from a tiny (by modern broadcasting standards) 495-foot tower near its former studios in Indian Trail. This is necessary to protect WSGE in Dallas, which is located on adjacent 91.7 FM. As a result, it still only provides grade B coverage to large parts of the market. Most Christian music fans in the western part of the market get a better signal from WMIT in Asheville.\n\nBefore its switch to K-LOVE, WRCM's music rotation consisted of six or seven current songs in heavy rotation and a mix of six or seven new songs and \"classics\" from the last two to five years in medium rotation played in a tight format, often back to back with only the station jingle separating songs from each other. New songs were chosen with the help of the listener advisory panel.\n\nThe station often promoted live concerts by Contemporary Christian (CCM) musicians, and carried out its Christian mission by performing good works such as collecting donations of baby clothes to support mothers in need who might otherwise consider getting abortions.\n\nWRCM used the \"Charlotte's Number One\" Radio Jingle package from RadioScape until it switched to the K-LOVE programming format.\n\nStarting in 2014, WRCM was simulcast on WRZM in Boiling Springs, North Carolina.\n\nOn October 6, 2014, it was announced that WRCM, along with translators WRZM, W268BU, and sister station WMHK, were being sold to EMF Broadcasting. The deal closed on December 19, 2014, a day later than expected because of last-minute legal issues. General manager Joe Paulo signed the station off as a local broadcasting entity with a prayer and Chris Rice's rendition of \"Great is Thy Faithfulness\" at 4:32 p.m. At that point, WRCM flipped its programming to the national K-LOVE network. Paulo said that the hymn was the first song ever played on WRCM when it signed on in 1993. K-LOVE already owned WWLV in Lexington, North Carolina; which provides a fairly strong signal to the northern portion of the Charlotte market. The combined footprint of WMHK, WRCM/WLXK, WWLV, and WKVK gives K-LOVE at least secondary coverage to more than half of North and South Carolina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013539", "title": "Gross rating point", "text": "Gross rating point\n\nIn advertising, a gross rating point (GRP) is a measure of the size of an advertising campaign by a specific medium or schedule. It does not measure the size of the audience reached. Rather, GRPs quantify impressions as a percentage of the target population, and this percentage may thus be greater than, or in fact much greater than, 100. Target rating points express the same concept, but with regard to a more narrowly defined target audience.\n\nGRPs are used predominantly as a measure of media with high \"potential\" exposures or impressions. Nielsen Media Research is an example of a company which uses GRPs.\n\nThe purpose of the GRP metric is to measure impressions in relation to the number of people in the target for an advertising campaign. GRP values are commonly used by media buyers to compare the advertising strength of components of a media plan.\n\nGRPs are most directly calculated by summing the ratings of individual ads in a campaign. If a television program has an average rating of 7, and an ad is placed on 5 episodes, then the campaign has 7 × 5 = 35 GRPs.\n\nGRPs are simply total impressions related to the size of the target population:\n\nGRPs can also be related to measures of the reception of the ad campaign. If an ad campaign results in 50% of the target seeing the advertising 3 times on average, then the campaign's size was 150 GRPs:\n"}
{"id": "2013544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013544", "title": "Airdrie-Rocky View", "text": "Airdrie-Rocky View\n\nAirdrie-Rocky View was a provincial electoral district in central southern Alberta, Canada. The riding was created in 1997 when Airdrie-Three Hills split. The north part of the riding merged with Olds-Didsbury, to form Olds-Didsbury-Three Hills, the south half became this riding.\n\nIn 2004 the borders shifted east out of the Municipal District of Rocky View, and the riding was renamed Airdrie-Chestermere.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013553", "title": "Chinois", "text": "Chinois\n\nA chinois (; ) is a conical sieve with an extremely fine mesh. It is used to strain custards, purees, soups, and sauces, producing a very smooth texture. It can also be used to dust food with a fine layer of powdered ingredient. \n\n\"Chinois\" is a loanword from the French adjective meaning Chinese.\n\nA related utensil is the tamis – a flat strainer through which food is pressed with a scraper or pestle.\n\nA similarly-shaped utensil is the China cap, a reference to the conical Asian hats that used to be common in China. It is a perforated metal conical strainer with much larger holes than a chinois. A China cap is used to remove seeds and other coarse matter from soft foods, but produces a coarser-textured product than the chinois.\n\nBoth the chinois and the China cap often are used with a cone-shaped pestle. With the pestle tip placed in the bottom of the strainer, it is rolled against the sides of the device to work liquids and soft food through it. In this way, the chinois functions much like a tamis, and the China cap functions similar to a food mill. A small ladle can also be used instead of a pestle, allowing scooping solids from the sides of the strainer as well as pressing liquid through the mesh.\n"}
{"id": "2013555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013555", "title": "Harry Ainlay", "text": "Harry Ainlay\n\nHarry Dean Ainlay (January 3, 1887 – March 12, 1970) was a Canadian educator and politician, noted for his many years of service in Edmonton, Alberta, as a teacher and principal with Edmonton Public Schools and as a long time member of Edmonton City Council, including three consecutive terms as Mayor of Edmonton.\n\nHarry Ainlay was born in Brussels, Ontario to Watson and Emily (née Sparling) Ainlay, and earned his teaching certificate in that province. He came to Alberta in 1907 to help his carpenter father and settled near Stavely for several years before moving to Edmonton in 1912. In 1911, he married Edith Hammill; the two would remain married until her death in 1959.\n\nAinlay spent several years in the real estate business, then returned to school at the University of Alberta. Upon his graduation in 1920, he returned to teaching, in the Edmonton Public Schools system. Ainlay served as vice-principal of the Queen Alexandra School and principal of the Garneau and Strathcona High School, now Old Scona Academic High Schools.\n\nWhile still serving as an educator, Ainlay first sought public office in the 1930 Edmonton election, when he ran for alderman on Edmonton City Council and was defeated, finishing ninth of twelve candidates. He was successful in the 1931 election, when he finished second of fifteen candidates and was elected to a two-year term. He was re-elected in the 1933 election (finishing third of seventeen candidates), but was defeated in the 1935 election.\n\nOnce out of office, Ainlay made his first bid for mayor in the 1936 election, finishing third of five candidates as incumbent Joseph Clarke was re-elected. He made two subsequent unsuccessful attempts to return to aldermanic office (in the 1937 and 1938 elections) before taking three years off from municipal politics.\n\nAinlay returned to office in the 1941 election, finishing first of fourteen candidates in the aldermanic race. He was re-elected in 1943, but resigned halfway through his two-year term to run for mayor in the 1945 election, when he defeated Winslow Hamilton. He was re-elected in the 1946 and 1947 elections, defeating Thomas Cairns and Frederick Speed, respectively. His 1947 win was notable because it marked the first election in which the mayor was elected to a two-year term.\n\nAs mayor, Ainlay introduced daylight saving time in the city in 1946 after city residents voted in a plebiscite in favour of the change and after the Government of Alberta refused to bring it in province-wide. Government offices in Edmonton abided by the city's DST, although the government opposed the time change. The next session of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta passed legislation outlawing the use of daylight saving time in Alberta, and Edmonton returned to standard time until the province adopted the practice in 1971.\n\nHarry Ainlay did not seek re-election in the 1949 election, due to health issues arising from a serious fall he had sustained working on his retirement home in BC.\n\nAinlay ran in provincial and federal elections a total of four times, each time under the banner of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation. The first was in a 1936 by-election in the riding of Edmonton, when he finished last in a three candidate field that was won by Liberal Walter Morrish. (The other candidate, United Front candidate Margaret Crang, had been an aldermanic colleague of Ainlay's, and fellow Labour rep, when he had served on city council. Due to her running against Ainlay, she was thrown out of the CCF.)\n\nHis second bid for provincial office took place in the 1940 Alberta election, in which Ainlay again ran in the Edmonton riding. He finished eighth of nineteen candidates on the first count (at the time, the riding used a single transferable vote method of electing its representatives), and was not one of the five candidates elected.\n\nAinlay's lone bid for federal office took place in the 1945 federal election, when he ran in the riding of Edmonton East. He finished second of five candidates, ahead of incumbent Liberal MP Cora Taylor Casselman but still being defeated by Social Creditor Patrick Ashby.\n\nAinlay repeated the experience finishing ahead of incumbent, but still losing, in his last bid for office. He had moved to British Columbia, where he ran in the 1952 provincial election in the riding of Dewdney. He finished second of four candidates, ahead of incumbent Progressive Conservative Roderick Charles MacDonald, but being defeated by Lyle Wicks of the British Columbia Social Credit League. Already more than 60 years old, this was his last bid for public office.\n\nAfter leaving politics, Ainlay was the head of the Yellowhead Route Association in the 1940s and 1950s. He died in Haney, British Columbia on March 12, 1970. He was survived by his second wife, Jean.\n\nIn 1966, the newly constructed Harry Ainlay Composite High School was named in his honour. He left an endowment for a $500 scholarship to be given in his name to a graduating student planning on pursuing a career in Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013572", "title": "Dunay", "text": "Dunay\n\nDunay may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2013573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013573", "title": "Sulfonyl", "text": "Sulfonyl\n\nA sulfonyl group can refer either to a functional group found primarily in sulfones or to a substituent obtained from a sulfonic acid by the removal of the hydroxyl group similarly to acyl groups. Sulfonyl groups can be written as having the general formula R−S(=O)−R′, where there are two double bonds between the sulfur and oxygen. \n\nSulfonyl groups can be reduced to the hydrocarbon with lithium aluminium hydride (LiAlH).\n\nIn inorganic chemistry, when the group −S(=O)− is not connected to any carbon atoms, it is referred to as sulfuryl.\n\nThe names of sulfonyl groups typically end in -syl, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "2013575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013575", "title": "James Inglis", "text": "James Inglis\n\nJames Inglis (born ca. 1922 – died 8 May 1951) was a British man executed for murder, at the age of 29.\n\nHaving confessed to strangling Alice Morgan, a 50-year-old woman who was working as a prostitute in Kingston upon Hull on 1 February 1951 after a quarrel over payment, Inglis opted to plead insanity at his trial. The jury did not believe his version of events, and on 20 April he was sentenced by Justice Ormerod to be hanged. He was jailed at Strangeways Prison to await execution. Because Inglis did not appeal against his sentence, execution was scheduled to take place only three weeks after the trial ended (according to law, after the passage of three Sundays).\n\nOn the morning of 8 May 1951, the executioner, Albert Pierrepoint and his assistant, Syd Dernley, escorted Inglis from his cell to the gallows immediately adjacent, and hanged him without delay. This was the fastest British hanging on record, taking just seven seconds from the time that Inglis was removed from his cell to the moment that the trapdoor opened. Dernley later related that Inglis practically ran to his execution, following the prison guard's advice to go quickly and \"without fuss\".\n\nInglis's execution is featured in the 2006 film \"Pierrepoint\"; although Inglis's name is not mentioned, the character \"Markovsky\" was supposed to represent him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013577", "title": "Nonbenzodiazepine", "text": "Nonbenzodiazepine\n\nNonbenzodiazepines (,) sometimes referred to colloquially as Z-drugs (as many of them begin with the letter \"z\"), are a class of psychoactive drugs that are very benzodiazepine-like in nature. They are used in the treatment of sleep problems.\n\nNonbenzodiazepine pharmacodynamics are almost entirely the same as benzodiazepine drugs and therefore employ similar benefits, side-effects, and risks. However, nonbenzodiazepines have dissimilar or entirely different chemical structures and are therefore unrelated to benzodiazepines on a molecular level.\n\nCurrently, the major chemical classes of nonbenzodiazepines are:\n\nImidazopyridines\nPyrazolopyrimidines\nCyclopyrrolones\n\nβ-Carbolines\n\nOthers\n\n\nThe nonbenzodiazepines are positive allosteric modulators of the GABA-A receptor. Like the benzodiazepines, they exert their effects by binding to and activating the benzodiazepine site of the receptor complex. Many of these compounds are subtype selective providing novel anxiolytics with little to no hypnotic and amnesiac effects and novel hypnotics with little or no anxiolytic effects.\n\nNonbenzodiazepines have demonstrated efficacy in treating sleep disorders. There is some limited evidence that suggests that tolerance to nonbenzodiazepines is slower to develop than with benzodiazepines. However, data is limited so no conclusions can be drawn. Data is also limited into the long-term effects of nonbenzodiazepines. Further research into the safety of nonbenzodiazepines and long-term effectiveness of nonbenzodiazepines has been recommended in a review of the literature. Some differences exist between the Z-drugs, for example tolerance and rebound effects may not occur with zaleplon.\n\nThe first three nonbenzodiazepine drugs to enter the market were the \"Z-drugs\", zopiclone, zolpidem and zaleplon. These three drugs are all sedatives used exclusively for the treatment of mild insomnia. They are safer than the older barbiturates especially in overdosage and they may, when compared to the benzodiazepines, have less of a tendency to induce physical dependence and addiction, although these issues can still become a problem. This has led to the Z-drugs becoming widely prescribed for the treatment of insomnia particularly in elderly patients. A little under a third (31%) of all Americans over 65 years of age are taking Z-drugs.\n\nLong-term use is not recommended as tolerance and addiction can occur. A survey of patients using nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs and benzodiazepine hypnotic users found that there was no difference in reports of adverse effects that were reported in over 41% of users and, in fact, Z drug users were more likely to report that they had tried to quit their hypnotic drug and were more likely to want to stop taking Z drugs than benzodiazepine users. Efficacy also did not differ between benzodiazepine and Z drug users.\n\nThe Z-drugs are not without disadvantages, and all three compounds are notable for producing side-effects such as pronounced amnesia and more rarely hallucinations, especially when used in large doses. On rare occasions, these drugs can produce a fugue state, wherein the patient sleepwalks and may perform relatively complex actions, including cooking meals or driving cars, while effectively unconscious and with no recollection of the events upon awakening. While this effect is rare (and has also been reported to occur with some of the older sedative drugs such as temazepam and secobarbital), it can be potentially hazardous, and so further development of this class of drugs has continued in an effort to find new compounds with further improved profiles.\n\nDaytime withdrawal-related anxiety can also occur from chronic nightly nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic usage such as with zopiclone.\n\nSide-effects can differ within the drug class due to differences in metabolism and pharmacology. For example, long-acting benzodiazepines have problems of drug accumulation especially in the elderly or those with liver disease, and shorter-acting benzodiazepines have a higher risk of more severe withdrawal symptoms. In the case of the nonbenzodiazepines, zaleplon may be the safest in terms of next-day sedation, and − unlike zolpidem and zopiclone − zaleplon has been found to have no association with increased motor vehicle accidents even when taken for middle-of-the-night insomnia due to its ultrashort elimination half-life.\n\nIt has been claimed that insomnia causes depression and hypothesized that insomnia medications may help to treat depression. In support of this claim an analysis of data of clinical trials submitted to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concerning the drugs zolpidem, zaleplon, and eszopiclone found that these sedative hypnotic drugs more than doubled the risks of developing depression compared to those taking placebo pills. Hypnotic drugs, therefore, may be contraindicated in patients suffering from or at risk of depression. Hypnotics were found to be more likely to cause depression than to help it. Studies have found that long-term users of sedative hypnotic drugs have a markedly raised suicide risk as well as an overall increased mortality risk. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for insomnia, on the other hand, has been found to both improve sleep quality as well as general mental health.\n\nSleeping pills, including the z-drugs, have been associated with an increased risk of death.\n\nIn older people this family of medications increases the risk of fractures and falls.\n\nThe Z-drug zaleplon may have fewer side effects compared to benzodiazepines.\n\nNonbenzodiazepines should not be discontinued abruptly if taken for more than a few weeks due to the risk of rebound withdrawal effects and acute withdrawal reactions, which may resemble those seen during benzodiazepine withdrawal. Treatment usually entails gradually reducing the dosage over a period of weeks or several months depending on the individual, dosage, and length of time the drug has been taken. If this approach fails, a crossover to a benzodiazepine equivalent dose of a long-acting benzodiazepine (such as chlordiazepoxide or more preferably diazepam) can be tried followed by a gradual reduction in dosage. In extreme cases and, in particular, where severe addiction and/or abuse is manifested, an inpatient detoxification may be required, with flumazenil as a possible detoxification tool.\n\nThe \"Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine\" published a paper that had carried out a systematic review of the medical literature concerning insomnia medications and raised concerns about benzodiazepine receptor agonist drugs, the benzodiazepines, and the Z-drugs that are used as hypnotics in humans. The review found that almost all trials of sleep disorders and drugs are sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry. It was found that the odds ratio for finding results favorable to industry in industry-sponsored trials was 3.6 times higher than non-industry-sponsored studies and that 24% of authors did not disclose being funded by the drug companies in their published papers when they were funded by the drug companies. The paper found that there is little research into hypnotics that is independent from the drug manufacturers. Also of concern was the lack of focus in industry-sponsored trials on their own results showing that use of hypnotics is correlated with depression.\n\nThe author was concerned that there is no discussion of adverse effects of benzodiazepine agonist hypnotics discussed in the medical literature such as significant increased levels of infection, cancers, and increased mortality in trials of hypnotic drugs and an overemphasis on the positive effects. No hypnotic manufacturer has yet tried to refute the epidemiology data that shows that use of their product is correlated with excess mortality. The author stated that \"major hypnotic trials is needed to more carefully study potential adverse effects of hypnotics such as daytime impairment, infection, cancer, and death and the resultant balance of benefits and risks.\" The author concluded that more independent research into daytime impairment, infection, cancer, and shortening of lives of sedative hypnotic users is needed to find the true balance of benefits and risks of benzodiazepine agonist hypnotic drugs in the treatment of insomnia. Significant increases in skin cancers and tumors are found in clinical trial data of the nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics compared to trial subjects having taken placebo tablets. Other cancers of the brain, lung, bowel, breast, and bladder also occurred. An increase of infections, possibly due to decreased immune function, also occurred in the nonbenzodiazepine users. It has been hypothesised that either depressed immune function or the viral infections themselves were the cause of the increased rates of cancer.\n\nInitially, the FDA was hesitant to approve some of the nonbenzodiazepines due to concerns regarding increases in cancers. The author reported that, due to the fact that the FDA requires reporting of both favourable and unfavourable results of clinical trials, the FDA New Drug Application data is more reliable than the peer-reviewed literature, which is subject to serious bias regarding hypnotics. In 2008, the FDA analysed their data again and confirmed an increased rate of cancers in the randomised trials compared to placebos but concluded that the rate of cancers did not warrant any regulatory action.\nLater studies on several common hypnotics found that receiving hypnotic prescriptions was associated with greater than threefold increased hazards of death even when prescribed <18 pills/year and that hypnotics cause mortality through the growing U.S. overdose epidemic.\n\nNonbenzodiazepine hypnotic drugs, similar to benzodiazepines, cause impairments in body balance and standing steadiness upon waking; falls and hip fractures are frequently reported. The combination with alcohol increases these impairments. Partial but incomplete tolerance develops to these impairments. In general, nonbenzodiazepines are not recommended for older patients due to the increased risk of falls and fractures. An extensive review of the medical literature regarding the management of insomnia and the elderly found that there is considerable evidence of the effectiveness and lasting benefits of non-drug treatments for insomnia in adults of all age groups and that these interventions are underused. Compared with the benzodiazepines, the nonbenzodiazepine sedative-hypnotics offer little if any advantages in efficacy or tolerability in elderly persons. It was found that newer agents such as the melatonin agonists may be more suitable and effective for the management of chronic insomnia in elderly people. Long-term use of sedative-hypnotics for insomnia lacks an evidence base and is discouraged for reasons that include concerns about such potential adverse drug effects as cognitive impairment (anterograde amnesia), daytime sedation, motor incoordination, and increased risk of motor vehicle accidents and falls. In addition, the effectiveness and safety of long-term use of these agents remain to be determined. It was concluded that further research is needed to evaluate the long-term effects of treatment and the most appropriate management strategy for elderly persons with chronic insomnia.\n\nA review of the literature regarding hypnotics including the nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs concluded that these drugs cause an unjustifiable risk to the individual and to public health and lack evidence of long-term effectiveness due to tolerance. The risks include dependence, accidents, and other adverse effects. Gradual discontinuation of hypnotics leads to improved health without worsening of sleep. It is preferred that they should be prescribed for only a few days at the lowest effective dose and avoided altogether wherever possible in the elderly.\n\nMore recently, a range of non-sedating anxiolytic drugs derived from the same structural families as the Z-drugs have been developed, such as alpidem (Ananyxl) and pagoclone, and approved for clinical prescription. Nonbenzodiazepine drugs are much more selective than the older benzodiazepine anxiolytics, producing effective relief of anxiety/panic with little or no sedation, anterograde amnesia, or anticonvulsant effects, and are thus potentially more precise than older, anti-anxiety drugs. However, anxiolytic nonbenzodiazepines are not widely prescribed and many have collapsed after initial clinical trials and consumption halted many projects, including but not limited to alpidem, indiplon, and suriclone.\n\nZ-drugs emerged in the last years of the 1980s and early 1990s, with zopiclone (Imovane) approved by the British National Health Service as early as 1989, quickly followed by Sanofi with zolpidem (Ambien). By 1999, King Pharmaceuticals had finalized approval with the American Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market zaleplon (Sonata, Starnoc) across the US. In 2005, the FDA approved eszopiclone (Lunesta) the (\"S\")-enantiomer of zopiclone. That same year, 2005, the FDA finalized approval for Ambien CR, or extended-release zolpidem. Most recently, in 2012 the FDA approved Intermezzo (zolpidem tartate sublingual), which is marketed for middle-of-the-night insomnia, available in doses only half of the strength of immediate-release zolpidem tartrate to avoid residual next-day sedation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013584", "title": "Krishan Kant", "text": "Krishan Kant\n\nKrishan Kant (28 February 1927 – 27 July 2002) was the eleventh Vice President of India from 1997 until his death. Previously, he was Governor of Andhra Pradesh from 1990 to 1997.\n\nKant was born on 28 February 1927 in Kot Mohammad Khan a village of Amritsar district in the Punjab Province of British India. His parents were independence activists Lala Achint Ram and Satyavati Devi.\n\nKant completed his MSc (Technology) from Middle East Technical University, RWTH Aachen (now currently known as the English Institute of Technology, BHU).\n\nThe son of noted Congress politician and later parliamentarian, Lala Achint Ram, Kant's first brush with politics came when he plunged into the Quit India movement, while he was still a student in Lahore. He took part in the Indian Independence Movement as a youth and continued to be involved in politics, eventually being elected to Parliament of India. He was part of the \"Young Turk\" brigade of Indian National Congress party during the time of Indira Gandhi.\n\nHe held important official positions in the parliamentary and organisational wings of the Indian National Congress, the Janata Party and the Janata Dal. For many years, he was a member of the Executive Council of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.\n\nKrishan Kant was the founding general secretary of the People's Union for Civil Liberties and Democratic Rights, of which Jayprakash Narayan was the President in 1976. He was expelled from the Indian National Congress in 1975 for his opposition to the Emergency. He was later a member of Lok Sabha till 1980. He was the chairman of Committee on Railway Reservations and Bookings from 1972 to 1977.\n\nHe with Madhu Limaye was also responsible for the collapse of the Morarji Desai government installed by that coalition, by insisting that no member of the Janata Party could be the member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). This attack on \"dual membership\" was directed specifically at members of the Janata Party who had been members of the Jan Sangh, and continued to be members of the right-wing RSS, the Jan Sangh's ideological parent. The issue led to fall of Morarji Desai government in 1979, and the destruction of the Janata coalition.\n\nA strong protagonist of India going nuclear, Krishan Kant was a member of the executive council of the Institute of Defence Studies and Analysis.\n\nKant was appointed governor of Andhra Pradesh by the V.P. Singh government in 1989 and served in that position for seven years, becoming one of India's longest-serving governors. He stayed at that post till he was elevated as Vice-President of India.\n\nHe was elected vice-president by Parliament as the joint candidate of the Indian National Congress and United Front. \nHe died in New Delhi aged 75 after suffering from a massive heart attack on 27 July 2002, a few weeks before he was to leave the office to lead a retired life. \n\nHe is the only Indian Vice President to die in office. \n\nHe was cremated with full state honours at Nigam Bodh Ghat in New Delhi on the banks of Yamuna river on 28 July, in the presence of various VIPs and was survived by his wife, mother, three children (two sons and a daughter alongside with their respective spouses), several grandchildren and a few great-grandchildren as well as two sisters and numerous other surviving family members. \n\nHis mother Satyavati Devi, another freedom fighter had also outlived him, finally dying in 2010. \n\nA few days after his death, a former Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Bhairon Singh Shekhawat defeated Sushil Kumar Shinde in assuming the vice-presidency through a special election.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013587", "title": "Mita Hachiman Jinja", "text": "Mita Hachiman Jinja\n\nMita Hachiman Jinja (御田八幡神社) is a Shinto shrine in Mita 3-7-16, Minato, Tokyo, Japan. Its festival is on 15 August.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013596", "title": "Midland School", "text": "Midland School\n\nMidland School may refer to;\n\n\nMidland High School (disambiguation)\n"}
{"id": "2013597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013597", "title": "Piano Concerto No. 3 (Bartók)", "text": "Piano Concerto No. 3 (Bartók)\n\nBéla Bartók's Piano Concerto No. 3 in E major, Sz. 119, BB 127 is a musical composition for piano and orchestra. Bartók composed the piece in 1945 during the final months of his life, as a surprise birthday present for his second wife Ditta Pásztory-Bartók. It consists of three movements.\n\nThe Piano Concerto No. 3 was one of the pieces composed by Bartók after departing Hungary following the outbreak of World War II. Bartók's migration from Europe to America preceded that of his music. Lack of local interest, combined with Bartók's extended battle with leukemia and a general sense of discomfort in the American atmosphere prevented Bartók from composing a great deal in his early years in America. Fortunately, the composer was commissioned to create his Concerto for Orchestra which was extremely well received and decreased the composer's financial difficulties.\n\nThis, combined with an abatement of his medical condition, allowed for a change in the composer's general disposition. The changes in the composer's emotional and financial state are considered by a few to be the primary causes for the third piano concerto's seemingly light, airy, almost neoclassical tone, especially in comparison to Bartók's earlier works.\n\nHowever, while the composition of a piece as a gift (his wife Ditta Pásztory-Bartók's upcoming 42nd birthday on October 31, 1945) as opposed to a commission undoubtedly impacted the composing process, some think it more likely that the piece was instead the culmination of a trend of reduction and simplification which began almost ten years prior, with the Second Violin Concerto, and which concluded Bartók's exploration of tonality and complexity.\n\nBartók died on September 26, 1945, with the concerto unfinished. The task of completing orchestration of the final 17 measures, drawing from Bartók's notes, was eventually executed by the composer's friend, Tibor Serly. The Third Piano Concerto was later published in an edition by Serly and Erwin Stein, an editor for \"Boosey & Hawkes\".\n\nIt was premiered in Philadelphia on February 8, 1946 under Hungarian conductor Eugene Ormandy with György Sándor as piano soloist. The piece has since been adapted for two pianos by Mátyás Seiber.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, the composer's son, Peter Bartók, in association with Argentinian musician Nelson Dellamaggiore, worked to re-print and revise past editions of the Third Piano Concerto, to eradicate the many printed errors identified but never corrected by his father. Although few in actual number, changes made to the Piano Concerto affected the pitch content, pedalling and tempos of several key passages. In 1994 Andrey Kasparov was soloist with the Columbus Indiana Philharmonic (formerly Columbus Pro Musica) in the world premiere of the revised edition. According to conductor David Bowden, and Peter Bartók, who was in attendance: “These changes generally make the piano part more accessible or clarify questions of chordal structure...”\n\nThe revised editions of both the two-piano reduction and the orchestral score of the Piano Concerto No. 3 are now available from \"Boosey & Hawkes\".\n\nPiano Concerto No. 3 consists of three movements:\n\nwhich combine for an approximate duration of 23 minutes. The piece was originally scored for 2 flutes (2nd doubling piccolo), 2 oboes (2nd doubling cor anglais), 2 clarinets in A and B (2nd doubling bass clarinet), 2 bassoons,\n4 horns in F, 2 trumpets in C, 3 trombones, tuba, timpani, percussion, strings,\nand piano.\n\nThe first movement, based basically in E major, features an original Hungarian \"folk theme,\" similar to a nineteenth-century Hungarian verbunkos dance. The theme is first introduced by the piano.\n\nThe first chord of the first movement, which consists of four pitches, E, F, A, and B, implying both E Dorian and E Mixolydian, is relatively tonal, especially when compared to the first chord of Piano Concerto No. 1. The chord develops further with the addition of C in the second bar, resulting in the pentatonic, which is followed with G, leaving a major scale short of D. Bartók continues to add D to complete the Mixolydian scale, followed by G natural to suggest the Dorian mode. Finally, in bar six, Bartók displays the Lydian mode through G and A. This complex melodic pattern is an example of what Bartók called \"polymodal chromaticism,\" the rapid succession of many modes through chromatic alteration to produce a chromatic texture.\n\nThe second movement, based in C major, seems to mirror the style of a Beethoven chorale. The string introduction followed by the chorale on piano is a clear allusion to the third movement of Beethoven's String Quartet in A minor.\n\nBartók includes a harmony related to the Tristan chord, a set of intervals from Richard Wagner's \"Tristan und Isolde\" referred to as the \"characteristically sad and yearning harmony of Romanticism.\" The final resolution of the Tristan chord comes as a C-based pentatonic mode, and as Bartók was known to consider pentatony a chief characteristic of ancient Hungarian folksong, this can be considered a musical symbol of his Hungarian homeland. The middle section is in Bartók's Night music style. It contains imitations of natural sounds of insect and bird calls.\n\nThe third and final movement demonstrates a \"joie de vivre\" and apparent optimism often found in Bartók's final movements, though with considerably stronger folk inspiration with its apparent Hungarian folk melody and its rondo-like returning theme. It has been said that this movement \"captures the infectious ebullient spirit of the folk song.\" There is also a central fugato section in almost Baroque style.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013618", "title": "Ningde", "text": "Ningde\n\nNingde (; Foochow Romanized: Nìng-dáik), also known as Mindong (; Foochow Romanized: Mìng-dĕ̤ng; lit. East of Fujian), is a prefecture-level city located along the northeastern coast of Fujian province, People's Republic of China. It borders the provincial capital of Fuzhou to the south, Wenzhou (Zhejiang) to the north, and Nanping to the west. Ningde is listed No.2 in China Integrated City Index 2016's environmental ranking, a study conducted by the National Development and Reform Commission.\n\nThe prefecture-level Ningde City administers 1 district, 2 cities, 6 counties, as well as 124 towns, townships and subdistricts. Listed below are the district, cities and counties, first four of which are coastal whereas the rest locate in mountainous areas.\n\nNingde's history dates back to the Stamped Pottery Culture System ( ). As early as 10,000 to 20,000 years ago during the late Upper Palaeolithic period of the Stone Age (also known as the Old Stone Age) there were already human beings living and multiplying here. In 282, the Jin Dynasty government established magistrate rule here.\n\nDuring the first twenty-three years of the Yuan dynasty (1206−1368), Funingzhou ( ) Administration was set up. In 1736, during the reign of the Yongzheng Emperor of the Qing dynasty, Ningde was promoted to Funingfu ( ) Administration.\n\nIn 1934, an Administration Supervision Zone was set up here under the Republic of China. After the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the Fu'an Special Administration Zone was established. Finally in June 1971 the Zone was promoted to Ningde Prefecture. Xi Jinping served as party chief of Ningde between 1988 and 1990.\n\nSituated roughly north of the Tropic of Cancer, the prefecture of Ningde spans in land area. Like the rest of the province, Ningde sits in a mountainous region but it also enjoys almost of coastline facing the East China Sea.\n\nIt is subjected to a humid subtropical climate, with occasional threat of typhoons. Within the prefecture, the mean annual temperature ranges from , while mean annual rainfall ranges from . The region also enjoys a frost-free period of 235 to 300 days per year, which is highly beneficial for soil agriculture.\n\nThe warm and moist climate and fertile land in the prefecture of Ningde provide it with favorable conditions for agriculture. The largest agricultural exports from Ningde include mushroom and tea. The area also produces large quantities of various fruits, such as shaddocks, Chinese chestnuts, plums, honey peaches, lychees and longans.\n\nTea cultivation has long been an important industry of Ningde. By 1999 statistics, the total area of tea plantations in Ningde had reached and the output of green tea took up 10.5 percent of that of the entire country. More than 1.2 million jobs were created directly and indirectly in different stages of the tea industry. Famous brands include the Tianshan Silver-Needle Tea, Baihao Silver-Needle Tea, Fenghuangshe, Lianyue Flower Tea and Xianyan Snow Peak.\n\nThe mountainous landscape and advantageous climate conditions are also beneficial to the development of forestry. Up to 1999, , or 65.2 percent of the entire prefecture, are forested. Out of this area, bamboo groves occupy , producing an annual output of six million bamboo products. In Fu'an alone, the green bamboo base has extended to and its output of green bamboo shoots takes up more than 60 percent of the entire provincial output.\n\nThe prefecture of Ningde is blessed with vast area of shallow sea, which is suitable for aquaculture. In 2000, aquatic products take up 41.3 percent of the total output value of agriculture from Ningde, with an exporting value of US$82,170,000 and an annual net income exceeding RMB 3,500 for local fishermen. Major products include yellow croakers, oysters, razor clams, prawns and freshwater eels.\n\nLocal government is attempting to use aquaculture as a springboard to eliminate poverty and improve the local economy. Up to 2000, aquaculture had created 370,000 jobs directly and indirectly; a total of RMB 4.5 billion had been invested, drawing an annual output value of RMB 2 billion.\n\nNingde is the producer of many nonmetallic mineral resources, such as granite, diorite and basalt. The confirmed volume of granite reserves extends to 1,140 million cubic meters, while estimated amount of deposits undiscovered stands at several thousand million cubic meters. The mining area for basalt in Bailin, Fuding, known as Fuding Black, covers with a total deposit of up to 50 million cubic meters.\n\nNingde's rich hydropower resources give it a headstart in metallurgical industries. Products such as magnesium, zirconium oxide, aluminum, high-purity silicon carbide, and a series of other silicon products from plants in the prefecture enjoy high reputation and are exempted from examination when exported to Japan. Advances in metallurgical technology also aids the shipbuilding industry, a traditional trade in Ningde. In recent years, local shipyards have been capable of constructing 10,000-ton steamships.\n\nFrom its many agricultural produces sprouted the long-running food processing industry in Ningde. New techniques and formula adopted in recent years have allowed products such as tea, fruits and vegetables, mushrooms and marine products to be exported to the international market.\n\nNingde Nuclear Power Plant\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, Ningde has a registered population of 3,393,698 inhabitants, although 2,821,996 persons declared to be permanent residents. It is also the primary residential region for the She minority people, who take up to 25% of the total population.\nA majority of the population speak Eastern Min.\n\nThe folk arts in Ningde are varied and colorful. Among them \"bantieji\" parade (), puppet lion dance, and paper art are the most representative.\n\nThe \"bantieji\" parade, mostly seen during the Chinese new year, is a folk art performance popularized in Ningde since the Qing Dynasty. During the parade, children dressed as characters from various Chinese folklore sit or stand on parade vehicles, which were also decorated to resemble classic scenes such as the Heavenly Palace. The vehicles then cruise along the streets in the company of jovial music.\n\nThe puppet lion dance, popular in Huotong Town and Jiaocheng District, originated from toys of the local children. The lions, made of colorful fabrics, are connected to wooden racks by ropes. Each individual rope controls a part of the lion's body, such as the head, tail or foot. The racks are set on vehicles moving through the streets. Performers on the vehicles pull on the ropes to make the lions dance or perform various tricks.\n\nPaper art, mainly practised by women, is a specialty of Zherong County. Common forms of the art include traditional flower patterns, words and daily life objects. Because of her paper art achievements, Zherong County was named \"Home of Chinese Folk Arts\" by the Ministry of Culture in 2000.\n\nThe She people have also created and left many precious cultural heritages in their long historical practice. Owing to projects in recent years to protect the She heritage, three volumes of She folk tales, songs and proverbs have been published. In total, 184 tales, 330,000 words in songs, and 6,000 proverbs have been included. Art works have also been produced out of She folklore, which reflects their way of life.\n\nThere are many covered bridges in Ningde, particularly in Pingnan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013621", "title": "Robert S. Ingersoll", "text": "Robert S. Ingersoll\n\nRobert Stephen Ingersoll (January 28, 1914 – August 22, 2010) was an American businessman and former diplomat. Ingersoll was Chief executive officer and Chairman of the Board of BorgWarner and his international business experience was an important factor in his selection as United States Ambassador to Japan from 1972 to 1973, and assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs from 1973 to 1974, both during President Richard Nixon's term in office. He served as United States Deputy Secretary of State from 1974 to 1976 under both Presidents Nixon and Gerald Ford.\n\nIngersoll was born on January 28, 1914 in Galesburg, Illinois. he attended the Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts and graduated from the Sheffield Scientific School at Yale University in 1937. After two years with the Armco Steel Corporation, he was hired in 1939 by his father's company, Ingersoll Steel and Disc Company. The company was a subsidiary of Borg-Warner, and he was named in 1942 as works manager of the firm's Kalamazoo, Michigan plant and as head of its Chicago plant in 1945, before being named as division vice president in 1947 and president in 1950 and then as Borg-Warner administrative vice president in 1953. Ingersoll was named in 1956 as the firm's president and chief operating officer, succeeding his father in the post. He was named as that firm's chairman and chief executive in 1961. As CEO, Ingersoll was an active supporter of Urban League programs, supporting \"better housing, economic opportunities and voting rights for the colored race\" and noting that \"[o]ur labor force will be increasingly Negro\". By 1972, the firm did business in 22 countries around the world and had global sales of $1.15 billion. Shifting to foreign car companies as U.S. domestic manufacturers bought production in house, by 1971 Ingersoll saw automobile transmission sales increase more than tenfold to 487,000 units in the preceding decade.\n\nIngersoll's experience in dealing with business ventures in Japan played a major role in his choice by President Nixon as United States Ambassador to Japan in 1972, where he was only the second person who was not a career diplomat to be chosen in the period following World War II and the first businessperson to be selected. Ingersoll helped deal with differences between the nations regarding Japan's $3.5 billion trade surplus with the United States, negotiating agreements that led to Japanese imports in excess of $1 billion worth of American agricultural and manufactured products. In 1974, he was named as Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and served in that post until 1976. After the Lockheed bribery scandals were disclosed to the public, Ingersoll played a lead role in the State Department's handling of the affair, which he stated had done \"grievous damage\" to U.S. foreign relations, with Lockheed having paid $3 million in bribes to the office of Japanese Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka and more than $1 million in improper payments to Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands. The scandal led to the downfall of governments overseas and the resignations of two senior Lockheed officials.\n\nAs a trustee of the Aspen Institute of Humanistic Studies, he was an active participant in the organization's programs conducted in Colorado, where he participated in discussions with labor officials, politicians and religious leaders on major issues facing society in addition to skiing. Ingersoll was former Chairman of the Panasonic Foundation and also served as the Vice President of the Board of Directors of the United States Chamber of Commerce.\n\nIngersoll died at age 96 on August 22, 2010, at his home in Evanston, Illinois. He was survived by three daughters, 11 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren. His wife, the former Coralyn Reed, died in 2001 after 63 years of marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013623", "title": "Spiers and Boden", "text": "Spiers and Boden\n\nSpiers and Boden were an English folk duo. John Spiers plays melodeon and concertina, while Jon Boden sings and plays fiddle and guitar while stamping the rhythm on a stomp box.\n\nThey began playing together in 1999 and their first album as a duo was \"Through & Through\" (2001). In 2002 they were both session musicians on Eliza Carthy's album \"Anglicana\", and toured with her as part of her band The Ratcatchers. However it was their second album, \"Bellow\", in 2003 that drew significant attention. The tunes and songs were mostly traditional, grounded in the Morris tradition. In the same year they won the \"Horizon Award\" in the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards, followed by the \"Best Duo\" category in 2004. Together they play fiddle, guitar, assorted squeezebox instruments, a stomp box and they both sing – a combination which sounds like a two-man-one-man-band\n\nAn album called simply \"Tunes\" came out in summer 2005 and another, \"Songs\", followed in October of the same year. Their fifth album, \"Vagabond\", was released in 2008.\n\n\"The Works\" was released on 11 July 2011. It's an album of re-recorded tracks from their 5 albums made as a duo. The album features a number of special guests, including: Fay Hield, James Fagan, Nancy Kerr, Maddy Prior, Martin Carthy, Martin Simpson and Eliza Carthy.\n\nIn October 2013, they announced that their 2014 tour would be their last \"for the foreseeable future\".\n\nSpiers and Boden were founding members of the folk band Bellowhead.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013657", "title": "Dinu Brătianu", "text": "Dinu Brătianu\n\nDinu Brătianu (January 13, 1866 – May 20 1950), born Constantin I. C. Brătianu, was a Romanian politician who led the National Liberal Party (PNL) starting in 1934. \n\nBorn at the estate of \"Florica\", in Ștefănești, Argeș County, he was the son of the great Romanian statesman Ion Brătianu, and the brother of Ion I. C. Brătianu and Vintilă Brătianu. He studied engineering at the Bucharest Polytechnic and at the École des mines in Paris.\n\nAlthough first elected to the Chamber of Deputies of Romania in 1895 (and was elected without interruption between 1910 and 1938), he held no governmental position until 1933-1934 (when he was Minister of Finance). \n\nAfter the assassination of Prime Minister Ion G. Duca by the Iron Guard (December 1933), he became head of the PNL. During the inter-war period, he became active in opposing the authoritarian regime of King Carol II and his Prime Minister Gheorghe Tătărescu.\n\nAfter Carol's abdication and the fascist regime known as the National Legionary State, Brătianu offered his support to dictator Ion Antonescu, given that the latter's close relation with Nazi Germany had helped Romania win back territories it had lost to the Soviet Union (Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina, and the Hertza region), taken back through World War II's Operation Barbarossa. The heavy losses inflicted on the Romanian troops and the successful offensives of the Red Army made Brătianu favor King Michael's plan to align Romania with the Allies.\n\nAfter the August 23, 1944 Royal Coup, he was Minister without portfolio in two successive cabinets of Constantin Sănătescu. As leader of the PNL, he was unable to slow down the accession of Romanian Communist Party to power, as the appeal of the party had suffered major blows due to Brătianu's sympathy towards Antonescu.\n\nHe sought to oppose the communists by protesting to the American and British diplomats from Bucharest. Cortlandt Van Rensselaer Schuyler, the American general, portrayed the man who was supposed to fight communists: \"\"Generally, Mr. Brătianu has disappointed me as a political leader\"\", Schuyler wrote in 1945. \"\"He is almost 80 and seems to be wasting his energy. Although he is very unhappy about the actual state of things, he has not offered a constructive programme for recovery, aside from a general opposition to what he calls the exorbitant and unjust demands set by Russia\"\".\n\nHe refused to be part of the communist cabinet formed by Petru Groza on March 6, 1945. Arrested and imprisoned without trial, he died in 1950, probably in Sighet prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013661", "title": "Aegle marmelos", "text": "Aegle marmelos\n\nAegle marmelos L., commonly known as bael (or \"bili\" or \"bhel\"), also Bengal quince, golden apple, Japanese bitter orange, stone apple or wood apple, is a species of tree native to the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia. It is present in Sri Lanka, Tamilnadu, Thailand, and Malesia as a naturalized species. The tree is considered to be sacred by Hindus.\n\nBael is the only member of the monotypic genus \"Aegle\". It is a deciduous shrub or small to medium-sized tree, up to 13 m tall with slender drooping branches and rather shabby crown.\n\nThe bark is pale brown or grayish, smooth or finely fissured and flaking, armed with long straight spines, 1.2–2.5 cm singly or in pairs, often with slimy sap oozing out from cut parts. The gum is also described as a clear, gummy sap, resembling gum arabic, which exudes from wounded branches and hangs down in long strands, becoming gradually solid. It is sweet at first taste and then irritating to the throat.\n\nThe leaf is trifoliate, alternate, each leaflet 5-14 x 2–6 cm, ovate with tapering or pointed tip and rounded base, untoothed or with shallow rounded teeth. Young leaves are pale green or pinkish, finely hairy while mature leaves are dark green and completely smooth. Each leaf has 4–12 pairs of side veins which are joined at the margin.\n\nThe flowers are 1.5 to 2 cm, pale green or yellowish, sweetly scented, bisexual, in short drooping unbranched clusters at the end of twigs and leaf axils. They usually appear with young leaves. The calyx is flat with 4(5) small teeth. The four or five petals of 6–8 mm overlap in the bud. Many stamens have short filaments and pale brown, short style anthers. The ovary is bright green with an inconspicuous disc.\n\nThe bael fruit typically has a diameter of between 5 and 12 cm. It is globose or slightly pear-shaped with a thick, hard rind and does not split upon ripening. The woody shell is smooth and green, gray until it is fully ripe when it turns yellow. Inside are 8 to 15 or 20 sections filled with aromatic orange pulp, each section with 6 (8) to 10 (15) flattened-oblong seeds each about 1 cm long, bearing woolly hairs and each enclosed in a sac of adhesive, transparent mucilage that solidifies on drying. The exact number of seeds varies in different publications.\n\nIt takes about 11 months to ripen on the tree and can reach the size of a large grapefruit or pomelo, and some are even larger. The shell is so hard it must be cracked with a hammer or machete. The fibrous yellow pulp is very aromatic. It has been described as tasting of marmalade and smelling of roses. Boning (2006) indicates that the flavor is \"sweet, aromatic and pleasant, although tangy and slightly astringent in some varieties. It resembles a marmalade made, in part, with citrus and, in part, with tamarind.\" Numerous hairy seeds are encapsulated in a slimy mucilage.\n\n\"Aegle marmelos\" is native across the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia, and is cultivated throughout Sri Lanka, Tamilnadu, Thailand, and Malesia. It occurs in dry, open forests on hills and plains at altitudes from with mean annual rainfall of . It has a reputation in India for being able to grow in places that other trees cannot. It copes with a wide range of soil conditions (pH range 5-10), is tolerant of waterlogging and has an unusually wide temperature tolerance from . It requires a pronounced dry season to give fruit. The tree is a larval food plant for the following two Indian Swallowtail butterflies, the Lime butterfly \"Papilio demoleus,\" and the Common Mormon: \"Papilio polytes\".\n\nThe fruits can be eaten either fresh from trees or after being dried and produced into candy, toffee, pulp powder or nectar. If fresh, the juice is strained and sweetened to make a drink similar to lemonade. It can be made into sharbat or \"Bela pana\", a beverage. Bela Pana made in Odisha has fresh cheese, milk, water, fruit pulp, sugar, crushed black pepper, and ice. \"Bæl pana\", a drink made of the pulp with water, sugar, and citron juice, is mixed, left to stand a few hours, strained, and put on ice. One large bael fruit may yield five or six liters of sharbat. If the fruit is to be dried, it is usually sliced and sun-dried. The hard leathery slices are then immersed in water. The leaves and small shoots are eaten as salad greens. Bael fruits are of dietary use and the fruit pulp is used to prepare delicacies like murabba, puddings and juices.\n\nThe leaves, bark, roots, fruits, and seeds are used in traditional medicine to treat various illnesses, although there is no clinical evidence that these methods are safe or effective.\n\nThe bael tree contains furocoumarins, including xanthotoxol and the methyl ester of alloimperatorin, as well as flavonoids, rutin and marmesin; a number of essential oils; and, among its alkaloids, á-fargarine(=allocryptopine), \"O\"-isopentenylhalfordinol, \"O\"-methylhafordinol. Aegeline (N-[2-hydroxy-2(4-methoxyphenyl) ethyl]-3-phenyl-2-propenamide) is a constituent that can be extracted from bael leaves.\n\nAeglemarmelosine, molecular formula CHNO [α]+7.89° (\"c\" 0.20, CHCl), has been isolated as an orange viscous oil.\n\nAegeline is a known constituent of the bael leaf and consumed as a dietary supplement with the intent to produce weight loss. In 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Defense Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center, and Hawaii state and local health officials identified an outbreak of 97 persons with acute non-viral hepatitis that first emerged in Hawaii. Seventy-two of these persons had reported using the dietary supplement containing aegeline, called OxyElite Pro which was manufactured by the Dallas company, USPlabs. FDA had previously taken action against an earlier formulation of OxyElite Pro because it contained dimethylamylamine, a stimulant that FDA had determined to be an adulterant when included in dietary supplements and could cause high blood pressure and lead to heart attacks, seizures, psychiatric disorders, and death. USPlabs subsequently reformulated this product without informing FDA or submitting the required safety data for a new dietary ingredient.\n\nDoctors at the Liver Center at The Queen's Medical Center investigating the first cases in Hawaii reported that between May and September 2013, eight previously healthy individuals presented themselves at their center suffering from a drug-induced liver injury. All of these patients had been using the reformulated OxyElite Pro, which they had purchased from different sources, and which had different lot numbers and expiration dates, at doses within the manufacturer's recommendation. Three of these patients developed fulminant liver failure, two underwent urgent liver transplantation, and one died. The number of such cases would ultimately rise to 44 in Hawaii. In January 2014, leaders from the Queen's Liver Center informed state lawmakers that they were almost certain that aegeline was the agent responsible for these cases, but the mechanism of how aegeline may damage the liver has not been isolated.\n\nBael is used in the ritual rites of Hindus. Bael is considered as one of the sacred trees of Hindus. Earliest evidence of religious importance of bael appears in \"Shri Shuktam\" of Rig Veda which reveres this plant as the residence of goddess Lakshmi, the deity of wealth and prosperity. Bael trees are considered an incarnation of goddess Parvati. Bael trees can be usually seen near the Hindu temples and their home gardens. It is believed that Hindu deity Lord Shiva is fond of bael trees and its leaves and fruit still play a main role in his worship.\n\nIn the traditional practice of the Hindu and Buddhist religions by people of the Newar culture of Nepal, the bael tree is part of a fertility ritual for girls known as the \"Bel Bibaaha\". Girls are \"married\" to the bael fruit; as long as the fruit is kept safe and never cracks, the girl can never become widowed, even if her human husband dies. This is a ritual that guarantees the high status of widows in the Newar community compared to other women in Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "2013669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013669", "title": "Pat Owens", "text": "Pat Owens\n\nPatrica A. Owens (born 1941) was the mayor of Grand Forks, North Dakota during the flood that devastated the city in April 1997. She actively lobbied then-president Bill Clinton for funds to rebuild the city and construct a permanent flood protection system for the city and neighboring East Grand Forks, Minnesota.\n\nOwens, born in 1941 in East Grand Forks, Minnesota, worked as the mayor's executive assistant for 33 years, before running for mayor herself in 1996. She received 76% of the vote and became Grand Forks' first female mayor. Then in 1997, after less than one year as mayor, the city was struck by the 1997 Red River Flood. She received numerous awards and national recognition for her efforts after the flood. She ran for a second term in 2000, but was defeated by Michael Brown. Also in 2000, Owens was a member of the Mayors' Campaign Against Breast Cancer.\n\nOwens currently resides in Ocala, Florida, where she moved in 2001. That same year, she was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters degree from the University of North Dakota. In 2004 when Florida was struck by a string of hurricanes, she was asked by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to act as an ambassador for them by trying to help give the victims some sort of hope. However, she was unable to as the retirement development had been damaged by two of the hurricanes that hit the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013678", "title": "Civil registration", "text": "Civil registration\n\nCivil registration is the system by which a government records the vital events (births, marriages, and deaths) of its citizens and residents. The resulting repository or database has different names in different countries and even in different US states. It can be called a civil registry, civil register (but this is also an official term for an individual file of a vital event), vital records, and other terms, and the office responsible for receiving the registrations can be called a bureau of vital statistics, registry of vital records and statistics, registrar, registry, register, registry office (officially register office), or population registry. The primary purpose of civil registration is to create a legal document that can be used to establish and protect the rights of individuals. A secondary purpose is to create a data source for the compilation of vital statistics. \n\nThe United Nations General Assembly in 1979 adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, Article 16 of which requires countries to establish compulsory civil registration of marriages. Most countries have a legal requirement for relevant authority to be notified of certain life events, such as births, marriages and deaths. The first country to establish a nationwide population register was France in 1539, using the registers of the Catholic Church. Sweden followed in 1631, on the basis of a register drawn up by the Church of Sweden on behalf of the Swedish king.\n\nThe United Nations defines civil registration as \"the continuous, permanent, compulsory and universal recording of the occurrence and characteristics of vital events pertaining to the population as provided through decree or regulation in accordance with the legal requirements of a country. Civil registration is carried out primarily for the purpose of establishing the legal documents required by law. These records are also a main source of vital statistics. Complete coverage, accuracy and timeliness of civil registration are essential to ensure the quality of vital statistics.\"\n\nVital events that are typically recorded on the register include live birth, death, foetal death, name, change of name, marriage, divorce, annulment of marriage, judicial separation of marriage, adoption, legitimization and recognition. Among the legal documents that are derived from civil registration are birth certificates, death certificates, and marriage certificates. A family register is a type of civil register which is more concerned with events within the family unit and is common in Continental European and Asian countries, such as Germany (\"\"), France, Spain, China (\"Hukou\"), Japan (\"Koseki\"), and North and South Korea (\"Hoju\").\n\nAdditionally, in some countries, immigration, emigration, and any change of residence may require notification. A register of residents is a type of civil register primarily concerned with the current residence.\n\nCivil registration is faced with many challenges, both on the demand side and supply side, especially in low income countries. The demand-side challenges include a lack of awareness of the need and importance of registration of vital events, and the situation is not helped by the many existing barriers to registration. For example, in 2009, the World Health Statistics of WHO estimated that only about 1% of the estimated deaths in low income groups are reported and just about 9% in lower-middle income groups. \n\nThe registration systems in many cases are very difficult, causing potential barriers to accessing the registration. Furthermore, in certain societies, due to stigmatisation based on cultural and religious settings, single mothers may fear questions of paternity during notification through chief or community agents. \n\nOn the supply side, challenges often involve different, and often conflicting, legal frameworks various stakeholders (health institution, civil registry, statistics agency), and as a result, many countries with \"burdensome procedures and non-standardized systems across a country, leading to confusion regarding what individuals need to do or present.\" Other challenges include accessibility of remote areas and also irregular migration caused by civil conflicts and porous borders.\n\nThere have been new developments in civil registration across the globe over the years. With the advent of enhanced and information and communication technology, civil registration has been moving from a paper-intensive, manual-based civil registration to more automated and digitalised systems. Some of the innovations implemented in civil registration include the use of e-birth notification systems, whereby the health officials are able to notify the national population registration system with new births. This system improve registration process, by timely feeding the system with information as soon as a birth occurs. Another innovation, such as that implemented by iCivil Africa in Burkina Faso, is the use of a mobile application to register newborns .\n\nIn Namibia, Civil registration mandate lies with the government through the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration, which has offices in all fourteen region of the country. Although some vital events (e.g., marriages) are recorded by various agencies (e.g., church and courts), vital records are contained in the National Population Register, which is maintained by the department of Civil Registration within the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration. In Namibia, civil registration and identity management systems are integrated and managed by one department. Over the years, Namibia has transformed its civil registration processes, moving away from the manual system to electronic system. In 2017, Namibia, which has at least 22 birth and registration offices based within the maternity wards of hospitals across the country, launched its e-birth notification system. This improvement is expected to \"improve the quality of vital statistics produced in the country. The system is also a welcome departure from the present mechanism of relying on surveys for estimations of birth registration rates and projections of the numbers of births each year.\"\n\nIn South Africa, vital records are contained in the National Population Register, which is maintained by the national Department of Home Affairs. Any Home Affairs office can record a vital event or issue a certified copy of a vital record.\n\nIn Burkina Faso, since 2015, a centralized CRVS (civil registration and vital statistics) system is being implemented by the non-governmental organization iCivil Africa. This \"new tech start up has set themselves a massive task: to register all newborn babies digitally\".\n\nFrance was the first country to create a national Registration. In 1539, King Francis I ordered in the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts, as part of a wider legislation regarding the policing of church benefices, to keep vital records registers in the various church local institutions (mainly parishes). The ordinance orderer the creation of at least a register of baptisms, as a proof of one's date of birth, and a register of burials of churchmen, as a proof of one's date of death. Though both registers were kept by religious authorities, they were authenticated by a public notary, always a layman, and were kept in the local royal administration's archives. In fact, as the church kept parish registers since the Middle Ages (the oldest one in France is Giry's, of 1303), these registers were used to meet the ordinance's dispositions.\n\nThe national registration was fully laicized in 1792 during the French Revolution by order of the French Republic. These records have been continued through the present and are kept at the departmental archives. The Civil Registration includes birth, marriage, divorce, and death records.\n\nIn the Netherlands, maintaining the civil registry (\"basisregistratie personen\") is the duty of the municipalities.\n\nBefore the French Rule, the Netherlands did not have a central registration of its population, which was introduced in some parts of the country in 1796 by the French. In 1811, this registration was introduced throughout the country. The Dutch differentiate between the \"basisregistratie personen\", an ongoing database of citizens' information, and the \"burgerlijke stand\", which is a collection (at the municipal level) of documents evidencing certain events taking place in a given municipality, such as birth, marriage, civil union, and death.\n\nBeginning on 1 January 1850, municipalities were obliged to keep citizen's records in book form (Dutch: bevolkingsregister). Early in the twentieth century this system was replaced by a card system that registered families. The move toward individual registration took place in 1939 with the introduction of the \"persoonskaart\", a single card registering a single individual, kept in the municipality. Information gathered on this card included family name, first names, gender, position within the family, date and place of birth, marital status, address, and church affiliation, besides information on when a person entered and left a municipality.\n\nIn 1940, the Dutch government did not want to mandate citizen's identification, but during World War II the German occupying government mandated it so they could assess who was to be sent to Germany as forced labor and to select Jewish citizens from the general population. When the war was over, mandatory identification was done away with.\n\nIn the 1990s all local registries were automated, and starting on 1 October 1994 the individual registration card was replaced with a digital list containing a person's information as collected by the \"gemeentelijke basisadministratie van persoonsgegevens\" (in 2015 replaced with the 'basisregistratie personen'), kept and maintained at the municipal level. Municipalities exchange information through a closed network at the end of each day to a nationwide database, which can be consulted by officials online. Though it was generally considered \"un-Dutch,\" on 1 January 2005 mandatory identification (when asked by a mandated person) was reintroduced for everyone over 14; official identification is to be presented for all important transactions between citizens and government.\n\nThe civil registry in Portugal is officially established by the \"Civil Registry Code\" of February 18, 1911 (a few months before the promulgation of the Portuguese Constitution of 1911) and is officially called Institute of Registries and Notaries ().\n\nOn April 20, 1911, the \"Law of Separation of the Church of the State\" radicalized the secular state and determined that all parish registers (baptisms, marriages, and deaths) prior to 1911 should be civilly effective and transferred from parishes to newly established Civil Registry Offices. This was a previous struggle that had come since the formation of the Civil Registry Association in 1895, a Masonic organization presented by its mentors as \"a strong anti-clerical and antireligious stronghold\".\n\nIn general, there is a civil registry office () in each Portuguese province, and in the cities of Lisbon, Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia and Setubal there are eleven, four, two and two conservatories respectively. In small and medium-sized municipalities, conservatories also accumulate other functions besides the civil registry, such as land registration (), commercial (legal entities, ) and vehicles ().\nIn Lisbon, the Central Registry Office is located, which is responsible for registrations involving Portuguese citizens abroad and for the management of any procedure that concerns Portuguese citizenship.\n\nCivil registries were introduced in 1806-1812 during the Russian occupation, and they followed the Tsarist model of keeping them with church records. By the \"Communal Law\" (\"Legea comunală\") of 31 March 1864 subsequent record keeping became the responsibility of the mayor in each dwelling, who was allowed to delegate it to one of his helpers. An effort by the state to gather the ancient historical records happened around 1926-1932 but in some cases as late as 1948-1952; a good number of these early records were lost in this process, sometimes literally by the truckload.\n\nVital records (births, deaths and marriages) are called \"Acts of civil state\" or \"Acts of civil status\" (акты гражданского состояния - \"akty grazhdankogo sostoyaniya\") in Russia. These records are available only for relatives of a died person. Acts of civil status replaced \"Metricheskiye knigi\" (Parish registers) in 1918. All registers before 1918 are open for everyone.\n\nBirths, deaths and marriages must be registered by register office called \"Body of registration of acts of civil status\" (орган записи актов гражданского состояния - \"organ zapisi aktov grazhdanskogo sostoyaniya\" or орган ЗАГС - \"organ ZAGS\" for short) or the Palace of Marriages (Дворец бракосочетаний) for civil marriage ceremonies. The system is decentralized. Each Russian federal subject has its own regional body as a part of regional government.\n\nThe Unified state register of acts of civil status (EGR ZAGS, Единый государственный реестр записей актов гражданского состояния - ЕГР ЗАГС) maintained by the Federal Tax Service of Russia began operations since October 1, 2018.\n\nThe system of resident registration in Russia (and former propiska) maintained by centralized federal body is not related to this system.\n\nIn Sweden, the civil registry is maintained by the Swedish Tax Agency (\"Skatteverket\"); up into the 1990s the Church of Sweden was responsible. Recording of births and deaths was stipulated in the early 17th century, formal national censuses have been made since the mid-18th century, and Sweden has one of the longest and most comprehensive suites of civil records of any country.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, civil registration was first introduced with the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1836 which affected England and Wales. The General Register Office for England and Wales was set up and the civil registration of births, marriages, and deaths in England and Wales became mandatory on 1 July 1837. Initially the onus lay on registrars to discover and record events, so parents only had to supply information if and when asked. In 1875, the Births & Deaths Act 1874 came into force, whereby those present at a birth or death were required to report the event. Subsequent legislation introduced similar systems in Ireland (all of which was then part of the United Kingdom) on 1 April 1845 for Protestant marriages and on 1 January 1864 for all birth, marriage and death events. Civil registration was introduced in Scotland on 1 January 1855.\n\nThe administration of individual registration districts is the responsibility of \"registrars\" in the relevant local authority. There is also a national body for each jurisdiction. The local offices are generally responsible both for maintaining the original registers and for providing copies to the national body for central retention. A \"superintendent registrar\" facilitates the legal preliminaries to marriage, conducts civil marriage ceremonies and retains in his/her custody all completed birth, death and marriage registers for the district. The office of the superintendent registrar is the district register office, often referred to (informally) in the media as the \"registry office\".\n\nToday, both officers may also conduct statutory civil partnership preliminaries and ceremonies, citizenship ceremonies and other non statutory ceremonies such as naming or renewal of vows. Certified copies of the entries made by the registrars over the years are issued on a daily basis either for genealogical research or for modern legal purposes such as supporting passport applications or ensuring eligibility for the appropriate junior sports leagues.\n\nOn 1 December 2007 registrars and superintendent registrars became employees of their local authority for the first time following the enactment of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007.\n\nBirths in England and Wales must be registered within 42 days, whilst deaths must be registered within 5 days unless an inquest is called or a post mortem is held.\n\nMarriages are registered at the time of the ceremony by either\n\nThe official registers are not directly accessible by the general public. Instead, indexes are made available which can be used to find the relevant register entry and then request a certified copy of the details.\n\nThe General Register Office—now merged into the Office for National Statistics—has overall responsibility for registration administration.\n\nCivil registration came into force in Scotland on 1 January 1855. A significant difference from the English system is the greater detail required for a registration. This means that if a certified copy of an entry is requested, it will contain much more information.\n\nThe General Register Office for Scotland has overall responsibility for registration administration and drafting legislative changes in this area (as well as census data). They are governed by the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965 and subsequent legislation (responsibility for which has now been devolved to the Scottish Parliament).\n\nIn Mexico, vital records (birth, death and marriage certificates) are registered in Registro Civil, as called in Spanish. Each state has its own registration form. Until the 1960s, birth certificates were written by hand, in a styled-cursive calligraphy (almost unreadable for the new generations) and typically issued on security paper. After the 1960s, they were issued typed by machine.\n\nCurrently all copies (from people born before and after the 1960s) are standardized in brown-security paper and are typed automatically by a computer and the CURP, (control identification number in Mexico) and the specific dates of issuing are already issued.\n\nIn the United States, vital records such as birth certificates, death certificates, and frequently marriage certificates are maintained by the Office of Vital Statistics or Office of Vital Records in each individual state. Other documents such as deeds, mortgage documents, name change documents, and divorce records, as well as marriage certificates for those states not centralizing these records, are maintained by the Clerk of Court of each individual county. However, the term 'civil registry' is not used.\n\nIsraeli citizens are required to register their names, marital status, and religion with the government.\nIn Japan, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare counts the number of births, deaths, stillbirths, marriages and divorces throughout the year and publishes them as Vital statistics annually.\n\nIn the Philippines, civil registrations are maintained by the Philippine Statistics Authority.\n\nIn Australia civil registrations are carried out and maintained by state administrations. Tasmania began registrations in 1838, Western Australia in 1841, South Australia in 1842, Victoria in 1853, Queensland and New South Wales in 1856, Northern Territory in 1870, and Australian Capital Territory in 1911. Prior to those dates, records of baptisms, marriages and burials were kept by individual churches. Because early civil registration often involved the churches, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish whether early records are civil or church records. Civil registration was carried out by government employees independent of the churches. The information recorded in records varies from state to state. South Australia calls the appropriate central registry the Principal Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages and in Victoria it is the Government Statist Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages. The other states call the registry the Office of the Registrar General of Births, Deaths and Marriages.\n\n\nAustralia:\n\nRepublic of Ireland:\n\nUnited Kingdom:\n\nUnited States:\n"}
{"id": "2013679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013679", "title": "Poems (Hesse collection)", "text": "Poems (Hesse collection)\n\nPoems is a collection of 31 poems written by the German author Hermann Hesse between 1899 and 1921. They were selected and translated to English by James Wright in 1970 from \"Die Gedichte\", which was published in German in 1953. This collection was first published in 1971.\n\nEach translated poem in this volume appears alongside the original German text. The poems, and the year they were written, are:\n\nHermann Hesse is best known for his novels, but he was also a poet. In the seven volume German edition of his works, there are some 480 pages of poems. Hesse's novels themselves contain many passages of literal verse.\n\nThe common thread that runs through the poems in this collection is homesickness. On the selection of these poems, James Wright wrote in the Translator's Note: \"All I wish to do is to offer a selection of Hesse's poems which deal with the single theme of homesickness.\" Many of Hesse's novels touched on this subject, including \"Steppenwolf\" (1927):\nIn these poems Hesse has touched this theme with a \"traditionally endearing delicacy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013687", "title": "Vixen (telescopes)", "text": "Vixen (telescopes)\n\nVixen is a Japanese company that makes telescopes, binoculars, spotting scopes and accessories for their products.\n\nAmong many other more mainstream products they have created two unusual varieties of catadioptric telescopes with an open tube design instead of the full-aperture corrector plate of the Schmidt–Cassegrain and most Maksutov–Cassegrain designs.\n\nThis design is based on the Maksutov–Cassegrain. It provides correction of aberrations via a two-element meniscus-shaped corrector lens in front of the secondary mirror. This design was originally envisaged by G. I. Popov with a practical implementation by Yu. A. Klevtsov. It is produced with apertures of 8, 10.25 and 13 inches. The 8-inch model employs a refractor style rack and pinion focuser, while in the larger designs the primary mirror is moved as in most other small to medium-sized Cassegrain designs.\n\nVixen produces an 8-inch aperture-modified Cassegrain design (VC200L) they refer to as a VISAC (Vixen Sixth-Order Aspheric Cassegrain) that is based on a Cassegrain design with a primary mirror that is \"sixth order aspheric\" – somewhat like a hyperbolic mirror but able to be manufactured using mass-production techniques. To compensate for the aberrations the mirror design introduces, Vixen adds a \"field corrector lens\" – actually a three-element corrector in the draw tube of the focuser which also reduces field curvature for wide field applications. The design results in an image that is free of coma and astigmatism. These characteristics have led to the VISAC being referred to as a \"Poor man's Ritchey–Chrétien\". In fact, given that it has no astigmatism and field curvature, it performs better than a true RC. There is the downside of the potential for chromatic aberration due to the refractive elements, but it is hardly noticeable.\n\nThis particular design is also unusual in that it is a Cassegrain design but has a fixed primary and refractor-style rack-and-pinion focuser which removes the image shift issues seen with other catadioptric designs.\n\nThese features together make for a telescope that is very well suited to astrophotography either at the native f/9 or using the optional focal reducer at around f/6.3.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013700", "title": "List of Albanian writers", "text": "List of Albanian writers\n\nThis is a list of Albanian writers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013704", "title": "B. Jeyamohan", "text": "B. Jeyamohan\n\nBahuleyan Jeyamohan (born 22 April 1962) is an Indian Tamil and Malayalam language writer and literary critic from Nagercoil in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.\n\nHis best-known and most critically acclaimed work is \"Vishnupuram\", a fantasy set as a quest through various schools of Indian philosophy and mythology. In 2014, he started his most ambitious work \"Venmurasu\", a modern renarration of the epic \"Mahabharata\".\n\nHis other well-known novels include \"Rubber\", \"Pin Thodarum Nizhalin Kural\", \"Kanyakumari\", \"Kaadu\", \"Pani Manidhan\", \"Eazhaam Ulagam\" and \"Kotravai\". The early major influences in his life have been the humanitarian thinkers Leo Tolstoy and Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. Drawing on the strength of his life experiences and extensive travel around India, Jeyamohan is able to re-examine and interpret the essence of India's rich literary and classical traditions.\n\nBorn into a Malayali Nair family in the Kanyakumari district that straddles Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Jeyamohan is equally adept in Tamil and Malayalam. However, the bulk of his work has been in Tamil. Jeyamohan's output includes nine novels, ten volumes of short-stories/plays, thirteen literary criticisms, five biographies of writers, six introductions to Indian and Western literature, three volumes on Hindu and Christian philosophy and numerous other translations and collections. He has also written scripts for Malayalam and Tamil movies.\n\nJeyamohan was born on 22 April 1962 in Arumanai of Kanyakumari District, Tamil Nadu, to S.Bahuleyan Pillai and B.Visalakshi Amma. Bahuleyan Pillai was an accounts clerk in the Arumanai registrar's office. Visalakshi Amma hailed from a family of trade-unionists. Jeyamohan's siblings were an elder brother and a younger sister. Bahuleyan's family followed him around on his work-related transfers to Thiruvattar and Arumanai towns in the Kanyakumari district.\n\nVery early on, Jeyamohan was inspired by his mother to take up writing. Jeyamohan's first publication during schooldays was in \"Ratnabala\", a children's magazine, followed by a host of publications in popular weeklies. After high school, Jeyamohan was pressured by his father to take up commerce and accountancy in college. The suicide of a close friend drove him to drop out of college and constantly travel the country in search of physical and spiritual experience. He supported himself by taking up odd jobs and writing in pulp magazines all the while reading voraciously. He took up a temporary job at the Telephones department in Kasargode where he became close to the Leftist trade union circles. He received many of his formative ideas on historiography and literary narrative during that period.\n\nVisalakshi and Bahuleyan committed suicide within a month of each other in 1984, and this drove Jeyamohan further into an itinerant lifestyle. He met writer Sundara Ramasamy in 1985 who took on the role of a mentor and encouraged him to take up writing seriously. Jeyamohan also got another mentor in the form of Aatroor Ravi Varma who sensitized him to the delicate balance between art and life. In parallel, Jeyamohan was an avid reader of Indian classics and philosophical texts like the Bhagavad Gita.\n\nIn 1987, the journal \"Kollippaavai\" published his poem \"Kaidhi\" (\"The Prisoner\"). In the same year, \"Nadhi\" (\"The River\") was published in \"Kanaiyazhi\" with a critical mention from writer Ashoka Mitran. The journal \"Nigazh\" published \"Bodhi\", followed by \"Padugai\" ('The Riverbed'). Critics heaped praise on \"Padugai\" for its evocative narrative that wove together myths and contemporary visuals. Jeyamohan wrote his first full-fledged novel \"Rubber\" in 1988 and then re-edited and published it in 1990.\n\nThe novel won the Akilan Memorial prize for its path-breaking portrayal of the ecological and sociological impact of rubber cultivation in the South Indian states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Jeyamohan's speech at the awards function was well received, and he further developed those ideas in \"Novel\" (1990), an exploration of the art form and its ideologies, and \"Naveena Thamizhilakkiya Arimugam\", a comprehensive introduction to modernist Tamil literature.\n\nIn 1993, Jeyamohan met Guru Nitya Chaitanya Yati which proved to be a turning point in his spiritual journey. The dialogues with the Guru opened new views into the body of Indian thought, which culminated in his acclaimed work \"Vishnupuram\" in 1997. Jeyamohan travelled and witnessed first-hand regional issues, droughts and political problems that underlay issues like Naxalism in tribal areas. His experiences convinced him of the continuing relevance of Gandhian idealism and non-violence as the sensible alternative to naked capitalism and militant socialism. The leftist in him had been saddened by the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, and a decade long introspection on the nature of power and self-righteousness found expression in \"Pin Thodarum Nizhalin Kural\" in 1999.\n\nPost-2000, Jeyamohan broke new ground with \"Kaadu\" (2003), an exploration of the forest landscape as a metaphor for lust and the vigour of life. \"Kotravai\" (2005), the renarration of the Kannagi epic, was deemed by the writer and critics as his best yet in terms of structure and depth.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2004, Jeyamohan and his friends edited a literary journal named \"Solputhithu\". In 2009, his readership circle created the 'Vishnupuram Ilakkiya Vattam' to broaden the readership for serious literature in Tamil Nadu and to reward under-recognized pioneers of Tamil literature.\n\nWhen he turned 50, Jeyamohan wrote a set of short-stories, titled 'Aram', that explored the values and idealism that is possible in man. In 2014, Jeyamohan began writing \"Venmurasu\", a re-narration of the Indian epic Mahabharata.\n\nIn parallel, Jeyamohan has produced a prolific output as one of the foremost Literary critics and theorists of modern Indian literature with focus on Tamil. His 30 volumes on criticism and anthologies have earned him a respectable place among critics like Vedasagayakumar.\n\nIn 2013, he was considered as Tamil Author of the year by National Library, Singapore. In 2016, he worked as Writer in residence for 2 months at Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, organized by National Arts Council (Singapore) and National Institute of Education.\n\nJeyamohan had been an active participant in Tamil internet discussion groups like Mayyam, Forumhub and Thinnai.com during the early years of the medium in India. As part of the debates, Jeyamohan produced some of his best essays on literary standards and criticism during this period. Recognizing the possibility of losing some of these important works, Jeyamohan's friend and writer Cyril Alex created the author's website for consolidating the author's works. Over the decade, the website has become an important repository of the author's essays running into thousands.\n\nThe author follows an innovative publishing model in which he serialises all new content on the website and allows free access, while simultaneously offering hardbacks and paperbacks through publishers. More significantly, the website allows the author to freely engage in discussions with thousands of readers on the axioms that govern his works and thought. In early 2011, the Vishnupuram Ilakkiya Vattam has created an online moderated discussion group for discussing literature, criticism, art and related topics.\n\nJeyamohan gravitated towards Gandhian philosophy and political principles through debates with many intellectuals of the era. His considerable writing resulted in the corpus of essays published in 2009 as Indraya Gandhi, a collection that examined the continuing relevance of Gandhi's methods and ideals in modern India. Indraya Gandhi explored new dimensions on Gandhi's life including his relationship with Nehru, Ambedkar and Dalit politics and the topic of Lust. Jeyamohan has continued to highlight many Gandhians who represent the philosophy.\n\nAs a part of the series, he sought to explain how the next generation of Gandhian leaders like Anna Hazare were continuing to inspire the nation towards achieving true democracy and equality. Jeyamohan had been one of the first Indian ideologues to write about Anna Hazare many years before Anna Hazare's popular anti-graft movement. Jeyamohan had personally visited Ralegaon Siddhi to see Hazare's social movements in action, and he also wrote about Hazare's tireless struggle to get the Right to Information Act passed in the Indian parliament.\n\nThroughout 2011, Jeyamohan continued to write about and support Anna Hazare's anti-corruption movement and the Jan Lokpal bill. Rather than focus on the minutiae of the bill itself, Jeyamohan focused readers' attention on the ideology behind Hazare's actions – how he appealed directly to the sense of justice in the common man, his symbolism, and the Gandhian method of achieving the ultimate goal through civil non-violent mass movement without letting up any opportunity to discuss and negotiate with political opponents. Amidst widespread scepticism and slander flamed up by the national and regional media across the political spectrum, Jeyamohan remained rock solid in support of Anna Hazare's movement. By the end of the summer of 2011, Jeyamohan had written close to 60 essays on the topic, many of them in answer to readers who had written in expressing their own doubts and questions. In 2016, on the occasion of state elections in Tamil Nadu, Jeyamohan wrote a series of essays on Democracy in the newspaper Dinamalar which was published as a book.\n\nJeyamohan's works like 'Kaadu' and 'Mathagam' feature elephants in central roles, while his biographical and travel essays capture the centrality of nature, ecology and conservation to the Indian way of life. One such true-life story on the conservationist Dr.V. Krishnamurthy (veterinarian) ('Dr K, the Elephant Doctor') sparked huge interest and discussion among readers on the impact of humans on forest life. Told in semi-fictional form as through the eyes of a forest ranger, the story follows Dr K as, despite having a giant reputation in the naturalist circles, he eschews human accolades and seeks a much more rewarding life in the company of animals in the Indian Forest Department's elephant camps. 'The Elephant Doctor' has been included in the Tamil textbook published by the Department of School Education, Tamil Nadu as part of the revised syllabus for the year 2018.\n\nJeyamohan has found himself at the centre of many controversies:\n\nJeyamohan was introduced to Arunmozhi Nangai as a reader and married her in 1991. Their son Ajithan was born in 1993 and daughter Chaitanya in 1997.\n\nNovels\n\nEpics\n\nShort Story Collections\n\nPlays\n\nChildren's literature\n\nLiterary criticism\n\nPhilosophy/Spirituality\n\nPolitics\n\nCulture\n\nMemoirs/biographies\n\nLife/experience\n\nTravels\n\nGeneral\n\nMalayalam\n\nJeyamohan has collaborated with filmmakers in Tamil and Malayalam and shares credits for story, screenplay and dialogues.\n\nTamil\n\nMalayalam\n\nKannada\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013705", "title": "Tiger (Fleetway)", "text": "Tiger (Fleetway)\n\nTiger was a British comic magazine published from 1954 to 1985.\n\nThe comic was launched under the editorship of Derek Birnage on 11 September 1954, under the name \"Tiger – The Sport and Adventure Picture Story Weekly\", and featured predominantly sporting strips. Its most popular strip was \"Roy of the Rovers,\" a football-based strip recounting the life of Roy Race and the team he played for, Melchester Rovers. This strip proved so successful it was spun out of \"Tiger\" and into its own comic.\n\nThe next editor was Barrie Tomlinson. Barrie became Group Editor in 1976, with Paul Gettens as editor. Following successive mergers with other Fleetway publications in the 1960s the comic was known as \"Tiger and Hurricane\", then \"Tiger and Jag\", then it was coupled with the football magazine \"Scorcher\" in 1974, resulting in \"Tiger and Scorcher\" appearing for more than 6 years. Later there was a further, less successful, merger with another comic called \"Speed\", in 1980.\n\nThe end finally came on 30 March 1985, with some strips moving to \"The Eagle\" from issue #159 of that comic, dated 6 April 1985, which was temporarily titled \"Eagle and Tiger\". In all, 1,555 issues were published, as well as a number of hard-cover annuals.\n\nEditorial Assistants included Tony Peagam, Paul Gettens, and Terence Magee. \nArt Editors included Mike Swanson and Trish Gordon-Pugh. \nArt Assistant: Maurice Dolphin. \nLetterers: Stanley Richardson, Paul Bensberg, Peter Knight, John Aldrich.\n\n\"This list is incomplete. You can help to complete it.\"\n\n\nIn addition, sports stars such as Tony Greig, Geoff Boycott, Trevor Francis, Ian Botham and Charlie Nicholas wrote columns for Tiger. Also many TV stars such as Morecambe and Wise appeared in Christmas issues, usually\ndressed up as Santa Claus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013718", "title": "Moritz Nähr", "text": "Moritz Nähr\n\nMoritz Nähr (August 4, 1859 – June 29, 1945) was an Austrian photographer. Nähr was a friend of the members of the Vienna Secession art group. He is best known for his portraits of Gustav Klimt, Gustav Mahler, and Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\n\nMoriz Nähr (1859–1945), Fotograf\n\n"}
{"id": "2013720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013720", "title": "Disgraceful", "text": "Disgraceful\n\nDisgraceful was Dubstar's debut album. It was released in October 1995 on the Food Records label, a division of EMI that was also home to Blur.\n\nThe album features two covers; \"Not So Manic Now\" which was originally recorded by Brick Supply on their 1994 EP \"Somebody's Intermezzo\", and \"St. Swithin's Day\" which was originally recorded by Billy Bragg on his 1984 album \"Brewing Up with Billy Bragg\".\n\n\"Disgraceful\"'s cover underwent a revision after some time on general release. The original cover—pictured here—contained a furry blue pencil case with a balloon inside, creating a somewhat labia-like effect. This was later revised to the current, slightly less blatant bunny slipper design.\n\nAll tracks written by Steve Hillier except where noted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013727", "title": "Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate)", "text": "Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate)\n\nThe Ukrainian Orthodox Church (UOC; ; ), commonly referred to as the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate (UOC-MP, ) is one of the \"self-governing\" Churches under the jurisdiction of the Moscow Patriarchate (i.e. the Russian Orthodox Church). In the Russian Orthodox Church (ROC), a \"self-governing Church\" is distinguished from of an \"autonomous Church\". The ROC defines the UOC-MP as a \"self-governing Church with rights of wide autonomy\". \n\nCurrently, the UOC-MP is one of two major Eastern Orthodox ecclesiastical bodies in modern Ukraine, alongside the Orthodox Church of Ukraine (OCU). The OCU was created at the Unification Council held on 15 December 2019, a council that was not authorized or recognized by the UOC-MP. Since then, the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople disputes the claims by the Moscow Patriarchate of its ecclesiastical jurisdiction over the territory of Ukraine. \n\nThe UOC-MP enjoys nearly full administrative independence from the ROC's Holy Synod. The Primate of the UOC-MP is the most senior permanent member of that synod and thus has a say in its decision-making in respect of the rest of the ROC throughout the world. Despite the \"de facto\" annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation in 2014, the eparchies of the UOC-MP in Crimea continue to be administered by the UOC-MP.\n\nThe Ukrainian Orthodox Church (MP) insists on its name being just the \"Ukrainian Orthodox Church\", stating that it is the sole canonical body of Orthodox Christians in the country, a Ukrainian \"\"local church\"\" (). \n\nIt is also the name that it is registered under in the State Committee of Ukraine in Religious Affairs.\n\nIt is often referred to, as the \"Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate)\" or \"UOC (MP)\" in order to distinguish between the two rival churches contesting the name of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.\n\nFollowing the creation of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, on December 20, 2018, the Ukrainian parliament voted to force the UOC-MP to rename itself in its mandatory state registration, its new name must have \"the full name of the church to which it is subordinated\". This was protested by UOC-MP adherents. On 11 December 2019 the Supreme Court of Ukraine allowed the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate (UOC-MP) to retain its name. The UOC-MP had argued that their governing center is in (Ukraine's capital) Kiev, not in (Russia's capital) Moscow, it therefore should not be renamed.\n\nThe Ukrainian Orthodox Church considers itself the sole descendant in modern Ukraine of the metropolis of Kyiv and all Rus' within the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople established in Kiev in the 10th century. Due to invasion of the Mongols in the 13th century the metropolitan seat was moved to Vladimir and later to Moscow, while in the Duchy of Halych and Volhynia was created a separate Metropolis of Halych with own Metropolitan. In the 14th century, the Grand Duke of Lithuania Algirdas who established his control over the former territories of Kievan Rus attempted to move the metropolitan seat back to Kiev.\n\nIn 1596, the Metropolitan of Kiev, Halych and all Rus' Michael Rohoza accepted the Union of Brest transforming dioceses of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople into the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church under the Holy See's jurisdiction. In 1620, the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople Cyril Lucaris reestablished Orthodox dioceses for the Orthodox population of what was then the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth — under the Metropolitan of Kiev, Galicia, and all Russia Job Boretsky as the Patriarchal Exarch.\n\nFollowing the transfer of the Cossack Hetmanate under the sovereignty of the Tsardom of Russia in 1654, the Kievan metropolis in 1686 was transferred by the Patriarch Dionysius IV under the jurisdiction of the Moscow Patriarchate, following the election of Gedeon Svyatopolk-Chetvertynsky as the Metropolitan of Kiev, Galicia, and all Russia with the help of the Hetman of Zaporizhian Host Ivan Samoylovych. In late 2018, the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople indicated that information about that it transferred jurisdiction over Ukraine to Moscow Patriarchate is inaccurate as Constantinople temporarily provided Moscow with stewardship over the Ukrainian church. The Russian Orthodox Church retorted immediately by stating that the Constantinople's statement is false and further discussion and revision of historical archives needs to be conducted.\n\nSoon, Gedeon gradually lost control of the dioceses which had been under the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan of Kiev. In January 1688, Gedeon's title was changed by Moscow to the ″Metropolitan of Kiev, Galich, and Little Russia″. Gedeon's successors were effectively mere diocesan bishops under the Moscow Patriarchate and later Russia's Most Holy Synod.\n\nBefore the Battle of Poltava when Ivan Mazepa sided with Carl XII, the new Metropolitan Ioasaf along with bishops of Chernigov and Pereyaslav was summoned by Peter the Great to Glukhov where they were ordered to declare an anathema onto Mazepa. After the battle of Poltava, in 1709 Metropolitan Ioasaf was exiled to Tver and in 1710 a church censorship was introduced to the Kiev metropolia. In 1718 Metropolitan Ioasaf was arrested and dispatched to Saint Petersburg for interrogation where he died.\n\nFrom 1718 to 1722 the Metropolitan see in Kiev was vacant and ruled by the Kiev Spiritual Consistory (under the authority of the Most Holy Synod); in 1722 it was occupied by Archbishop Varlaam.\n\nIn 1730, Archbishop Varlaam with all members of the Kiev Spiritual Consistory were put on trial by the Privy Chancellery. After being convicted, Varlaam as a simple monk was exiled to the Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery in Vologda region where he served a sentence of imprisonment of 10 years. After the death of the Russian Empress Anna in 1740, Varlaam was allowed to return and recovered all his Archiereus titles. He however refused to accept back those titles and, after asked to be left in peace, moved to the Tikhvin Assumption Monastery. In 1750 Varlaam accepted the Great Schema under the name of Vasili and soon died in 1751.\n\nIn 1743, the title of Metropolitan was re-instated for Archbishop Raphael Zaborovsky.\n\nOn 2 April 1767, the Empress of Russia Catherine the Great issued an edict stripping the title of the Kievan Metropolitan of the style \"and all Little Russia\".\n\nMetropolitan Vladimir Bogoyavlensky chaired the All-Ukrainian Church Council that took a break between its sessions on 18 January 1918 and was to be resumed in May 1918. On 23–24 January 1918, the Red Guards of Reingold Berzin occupied Kiev (see Ukrainian–Soviet War). In the evening of 25 January 1918, Metropolitan Vladimir was found dead between walls of the Old Pechersk Fortress beyond the Gates of All Saints, having been killed by unknown people. \n\nIn May 1918, the Metropolitan of Kiev and Halych Antony (Khrapovitsky) was appointed to the Kyiv eparchy, a former candidate to become the Patriarch of Moscow at the Russian Local Council of 1917 and losing it to the Patriarch Tikhon. In July 1918 Metropolitan Antony became the head of the All-Ukrainian Church Council. Eventually he sided with the Russian White movement supporting the Denikin's forces of South Russia, while keeping the title of Metropolitan of Kiev and Halych. After the defeat of the Whites and the exile of Antony, in 1919-21 the metropolitan seat was temporarily held by the bishop of Cherkasy Nazariy (also the native of Kazan). After the arrest of Nazariy by the Soviet authorities in 1921, the seat was provisionally held by the bishop of Grodno and newly elected Exarch of Ukraine Mikhail, a member of the Russian Black Hundreds nationalistic movement. After his arrest in 1923, the Kiev eparchy was provisionally headed by various bishops of neighboring eparchies until 1927. After his return in 1927 Mikhail became the Metropolitan of Kiev and Exarch of Ukraine until his death in 1929.\n\nIn 1945, after the integration of Zakarpattia Oblast into the USSR, eastern parts of the Eparchy of Mukačevo and Prešov were transferred from the supreme jurisdiction of the Serbian Orthodox Church to the jurisdiction of the Exarchate of Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine, and a new Eparchy of Mukachevo and Uzhgorod was formed.\n\nOn 28 October 1990, it was granted a status of a self–governing church under the jurisdiction of the ROC (but \"not\" the full autonomy as is understood in the ROC legal terminology).\n\nMetropolitan Vladimir (Sabodan), who succeeded Filaret (Denysenko), was enthroned in 1992 as the Primate of the UOC under the title Metropolitan of Kyiv and all Ukraine, with the official residency in the Kiev Pechersk Lavra, which also houses all of the Church's administration.\n\nThe church is currently the only Ukrainian church to have full canonical standing in Eastern Orthodoxy, and operates in full communion with the other Eastern Orthodox Churches. The UOC (MP) claims to be the largest religious body in Ukraine with the greatest number of parishes churches and communities counting up to half of the total in Ukraine and totaling over 10,000. The UOC also claims to have up to 75 percent of the Ukrainian population. Independent surveys show significant variance. According to Stratfor, in 2008, more than 50 percent of Ukrainian population belong to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church under the Moscow Patriarch. Razumkov Centre survey results, however, tend to show greater adherence to the rival Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyivan Patriarchate. Many Orthodox Ukrainians do not clearly identify with a particular denomination and, sometimes, are even unaware of the affiliation of the church they attend as well as of the controversy itself, which indicates the difficulty of using survey numbers as an indicator of a relative strength of the church. Also, the geographical factor plays a major role in the number of adherents, as the Ukrainian population tends to be more churchgoing in the western part of the country rather than in the UOC (MP)'s heartland in southern and eastern Ukraine. Many in Ukraine see the UOC-MP as merely a tool of the Putin Government.\n\nThe number of parishes statistics seems to be more reliable and consistent even though it may not necessarily directly translate into the numbers of adherents. By number of parishes and quantity of church buildings, the UOC (MP)'s strong base is central and northernwestern Ukraine. However, percentage wise (with respect to rival Orthodox Churches) its share of parishes there varies from 60 to 70 percent. At the same time, by percentage alone (with respect to rival Orthodox Churches) the urban russophone southern and eastern Ukrainian provinces peak with up to 90 percent of church buildings. The same can be said about Transcarpathia, although there the UOC's main rival is the Greek Catholic Church and thus in all its share is only 40 percent. The capital Kiev is where the greatest Orthodox rivalry takes place, there the UOC (MP) has only half of the Orthodox communities. The only place where the UOC (MP) is a true minority, in both quantity, percentage and support are the former Galician provinces of Western Ukraine. There the total share of parishes does not exceed more than five percent. The UOC (MP) does not have any parishes abroad, as its followers identify themselves under the same umbrella as those of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nAs of 2006 the Ukrainian Orthodox Church had the allegiance of 10,875 registered religious communities in Ukraine (approximately 68 percent of all Orthodox Christian communities in the country), located mostly in central, eastern and southern regions and claims to be the largest religious body in terms of church property in Ukraine.\n\nSince 2014 the church has come under attack for perceived anti-Ukrainian and pro-Russian actions by its clergymen. On 14 September 2015 it urged the pro-Russian separatists of the War in Donbass to lay down their arms and take advantage of the amnesty promised to them in the Minsk II agreement. Ukraine passed laws which the Moscow Patriarchate interpreted as discriminatory in 2017. From 2014 until 2018 around 60 Moscow Patriarchate parishes switched to the Kievan Patriarchate in transfers the leadership of the Moscow patriarchate says were illegal. According to the Razumkov Center, among the 27.8 million Ukrainian members of Orthodox churches, allegiance to the Kiev Patriarchate grown from 12 percent in 2000 to 25 percent in 2016 and much of the growth came from believers who previously did not associate with either patriarchate. In April 2018 Moscow patriarchate had 12,300 parishes and the Kievan Patriarchate 5,100 parishes.\n\nBy decision of the Russian Orthodox Church Bishops’ Council (November 29-December 2, 2017), a separate chapter of the ROC Statute was singled out to confirm the status of UOC with the following provisions:\n\n\nIn December 2017 Security Service of Ukraine published classified documents revealing that the NKGB of the USSR and its units in the Union and autonomous republics, territories and regions were engaged in the selection of candidates for participation in the 1945 council that elected Patriarch Alexy I of Moscow from the representatives of the clergy and the laity. This included \"persons who have religious authority among the clergy and believers, and at the same time checked for civic or patriotic work\". A letter sent in September 1944 and signed by the head of the 2nd Directorate of the NKGB of the USSR Fedotov and the head of the Fifth Division 2nd Directorate of Karpov stated that \"it is important to ensure that the number of nominated candidates is dominated by the agents of the NKGB, capable of holding the line that we need at the Council.\"\n\nOn 13 December 2018 a priest of the church, Volodymyr Maretsky, was sentenced in absentia to 6 years of imprisonment for hindering the Armed Forces of Ukraine in 2014 during the War in Donbass. In November–December 2018, Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) carries out raids across the country targeting the UOC (MP) churches and priests.\n\nIn the week following the creation of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine on 15 December 2018 several parishes announced they would leave the UOC (MP) and join the new church.\n\nOn 20 December 2018, the Verkhovna Rada passed a legislation to change the UOC-MP's registered name. Ukrainian deputy Oleksandr Bryhynets described the law as stipulating if \"the state is recognized as the aggressor state, the church whose administration is based in the aggressor state must have in its title the full name of the church to which it is subordinate\". The Russian Orthodox Church, which the UOC-MP is part of, is based in Russia, which is considered by Ukraine as an aggressor state following the 2014 Russian military intervention in Ukraine. The law also gave it \"no right to be represented in military units on the front line\". On 11 December 2019 the Supreme Court of Ukraine allowed the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate (UOC-MP) to retain its name.\n\nIn October 2014 the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine was subdivided into 53 eparchies (dioceses) led by bishops. Also there were 25 vicars (suffragan bishops).\n\nIn 2008 the Church had 42 eparchies, with 58 bishops (eparchial - 42; vicar - 12; retired - 4; with them being classified as: metropolitans - 10; archbishops - 21; or bishops - 26). There were also 8,516 priests, and 443 deacons.\n\nNotwithstanding the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate) kept control of its eparchies in Crimea. In January 2019 the head of the Information and Educational Department of the UOC-MP, Archbishop Clement, stated that \"from the point of view of the church canon and the church system, Crimea is Ukrainian territory.\"\n\n\nNote: in 1770 the office's jurisdiction was reduced to a diocese's administration as Metropolitan of Kiev and Galicia. The autonomy was liquidated and the church was merged to the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nDue to emigration of Metropolitan Antony in 1919, until World War II Kiev eparchy was often administered by provisional bishops. Also because of political situation in Ukraine, the Russian Orthodox Church introduced a new title in its history as the Exarch of Ukraine that until 1941 was not necessary associated with the title of Metropolitan of Kiev and Halych.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013729", "title": "Yahir", "text": "Yahir\n\nYahir Othón Parra, commonly known as Yahir, (born 21 March 1979) is a Mexican singer and actor from Hermosillo, Sonora. He began his career as one of the participants in the music reality show \"La Academia\" in 2002 and in addition to Yuridia, also from Hermosillo, is one of the most popular stars to come from the show. He became a judge of the show's tenth season.\n\nYahir's mother converted from Roman Catholicism to Jehovah's Witnesses, and although he was brought up in his mother's faith he no longer practices it. He says that despite their differing beliefs his mother is now one of his biggest fans.\n\nHis first hit single was a cover of Italian singer Tiziano Ferro's biggest hit in Mexico, \"Alucinado\", taken from his first album \"Yahir\" in 2003. His next album, \"Otra Historia De Amor\" in 2004 produced the hit single \"La Locura\". In 2005, Yahir decided to make a tribute album to Brazilian singer Roberto Carlos with the entire album being covers of Carlos' hits. This album was titled \"No Te Apartes De Mi\" (2005) and had a hit single in the title track. In 2006, Yahir recorded his fourth album \"Con El Alma Entre Las Manos...\" which produced two hit singles: \"Maldito Amor\" and \"El Amor\". This was followed by a greatest hits album \"Recuerdos\" in 2007, and a new studio album \"Elemental\" in 2009, and a tribute album \"Sexto\" in 2012.\n\nYahir is also a television actor for TV Azteca, having appeared in two telenovelas. Yahir's debut in the telenovela world was through \"Enamórate\"(2003) opposite Martha Higareda in which he played \"Yahir Jimenez\" a son of a prominent businessman. After \"Enamórate\" he started in \"Soñarás\" (You Will Dream) playing \"Rey\" a charismatic young musician who is a waiter at the bar he plays at after his shift. His co star was Vanessa Acosta. He was also the protagonist of \"Bellezas Indomables\"\n\nIn 2019, he was one of the coaches for the first season of the Mexican singing competition show, La Voz on TV Azteca after being acquired from Televisa after 7 seasons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013735", "title": "Jane (German band)", "text": "Jane (German band)\n\nJane is a German progressive rock Krautrock band, that was formed in October 1970 in Hanover, Germany.\n\nPlaying a melodious synthesis of symphonic hard rock, that has occasionally been compared to Pink Floyd, Hanover Krautrockers Jane can trace their origins back to the late sixties psychedelic band \"The J.P.s\" (Justice of Peace). Releasing a single \"Save Me\"/\"War\" in 1968, the band featured future Jane members Peter Panka on vocals, Klaus Hess on bass and Werner Nadolny on saxophone. By late 1970 \"The J.P.s\" had dissolved and regrouped as Jane with Panka on vocals and drums, Hess switching to guitar and Nadolny assuming keyboards. Charly Maucher joined on bass and power vocalist Bernd Pulst completed the band in April 1971 and their first LP \"Together\" was released on the Hamburg-based record label Brain Records in the spring of 1972. Singing in broken English, which helped create passionate effects, a heavy expressive bluesy sound emerged with blistering Les Paul solos and slabs of Hammond organ backdrops, that was consolidated by Peter Panka's almost hypnotic oscillating drum beats, that would characterize Jane's music for almost 40 years. \"Together\" was warmly received by the German music press including Sounds magazine, who had declared Pulst its vocalist of the year for 1971.\n\nThe first of an almost continual succession of lineup changes occurred later that year with Pulst departing and Maucher bowing out for health reasons. Former Justice Of Peace guitarist Wolfgang Krantz joined on bass and guitar with Panka and Hess sharing the vocals, which displayed even more lethargic and stoned out sonic timbres. Applying their proven formula, their 1973 follow up album \"Here We Are\" was somewhat more harmonious with the addition of synthesizers, that provided spacier atmospheres and produced a fan favourite in the form of the sombre rock ballad \"Out in the Rain\". Shortly after the album's release Nadolny left to form a new band Lady with the recovered Maucher returning on bass and vocals. Jane's third endeavour, simply entitled \"Jane III\" (1974), was a scorching guitar blowout and with Krantz on second guitar. The void left by departing keyboardist Nadolny was adequately compensated for with two dueling guitarists as demonstrated by an impressive in-studio jam entitled \"Jane Session\" as well as a spaced out extended track \"Comin' Again\" featuring Maucher's harder edged vocals. Not long after the release of \"Jane III\", Maucher and Krantz departed, eventually forming Harlis on the fledgling Sky Records label. In May 1974 Jane rejuvenated itself by absorbing two members from the recently disbanded hard rock band Dull Knife with Martin Hesse on bass and Gottfreid Janko on vocals and keyboards. The slightly more upbeat album \"Lady\" (1975) was recorded by this lineup in early 1975, during which time Matthias Jabs of Scorpions fame would also join them for a brief period for some live performances. \n\nKeyboardist Werner Nadolny returned in 1976 for Jane's expansive 33 minute symphonic progressive rock masterpiece \"Fire, Water, Earth & Air\" (1976). Featuring layers of Hammonds, Moogs, Mellotrons and synths, it was unquestionably Jane at their creative zenith and the Jane album that would hold the most appeal for progheads. \n\nNadolny would split once again after the completion of \"Fire, Water, Earth & Air\" and was appropriately replaced by Eloy keyboardist Martin Weiczorke for an extensive tour, which spawned another coup de grace for Jane resulting in the stunning \"Live at Home\" (1977) double live LP replete with a cover of a Martian landscape snapped by the Viking Mars lander. Released in early 1977 and broadcast nationally in its entirety on WDR Radio in January of that year, \"Live at Home\" went gold in their native Germany and helped them break the international markets in both North America as well as Japan and South America.\n\nContaining somewhat darker conceptual atmospheres, their 7th studio album \"Between Heaven and Hell\" (1977) once again followed progrock paradigms. Mixed reactions within the German music press did not prevent the album from being embraced by fans, that was at times similar to Pink Floyd's capacious stylings. By this time Jane had become one of the top draws in the German music scene as well as attracting followings in Switzerland and Austria even though they continued to sing in English.\n\nRecorded in the band's personal 24 track studio, 1978's \"Age of Madness\" rocked it out a little harder maintaining emotional spacey timbres and was released internationally, being presented in clear and red vinyl formats on the now defunct Canadian label Bomb Records. A successful European tour ensued but Wieczorke departed in early 1979.\n\nJane's following album \"Sign No. 9\" (1979) was a near disaster with Jane being reduced to a trio forcing Hess to double on keyboards and the album inevitably had a guitar dominated sound, which was devoid of the spacious moods created by lush keyboards on earlier Jane recordings. Signs of creative burnout cast some doubts not only in the minds of fans but within the band themselves. \n\nA new direction was taken in the 1980s on a self-titled album \"Jane (Mask)\" (1980), that is sometimes referred to as \"Mask\" by aficionados. It incorporated new wave, punk and jazzy elements in straight rock configurations and introduced a new vocalist/guitarist/keyboardist, Yugoslavian eccentric Predrag Jovanovic or \"Pedja\". Vocals were never Jane's forte and Pedja's energetic deliveries gave them a fresh sound but unfortunately it was his only appearance with the band and he returned to his native Yugoslavia to form the synth-pop group \"D'Boys\".\n\nBassman Charly Maucher returned to the fold for 1982's \"Germania\" (1982) and although it contained some more experiments including a reggae excursion on the track \"Get Back to You\" Jane remained, for the most part, a straight hard rock band and included a reworked version of \"Your Circle\" from their \"Between Heaven and Hell\" album entitled \"Southern Line\", that even ventured into heavy metal territory.\n\nInternal disagreements between founding members Peter Panka and Klaus Hess resulted in Hess' departure in 1982. He would subsequently release a solo album \"Sternentanz\" in 1983, that would recall earlier Jane stylings.\n\nMeanwhile, after collaborating on the musical production on the German rock Opera \"Warlock\" with other former members of Jane, Peter Panka reformed Jane as a touring band under the moniker Lady Jane in 1984 with various musicians. Unfortunately a coherent unit failed to materialize for the remainder of the decade and only one pop-oriented album \"Beautiful Lady\" was released in 1986 with no real connection to past glories. Two live albums were also released in 1989 and 1990 with the former being limited to only 300 pressings and both featured Panka on drums/vocals, Nadolny on keyboards, Klaus Henatsch on bass and keyboards, and Kai Rueter on guitar performing older Jane material.\n\nIn 1992 Hess and Panka attempted to reconcile and along with Nadolny on keyboards and with Jens Dettmer they embarked on a reunion tour, that included 13 dates in New Zealand! But the reconciliation failed and Jane split into two factions with Hess calling his version Mother Jane while the Panka formation became unofficially known as Peter Panka's Jane as he retained the rights for the band name and logo.\n\nIn 1996 Peter Panka's Jane (initially referred to as Pano's Jane) recorded the studio album \"Resurrection\" and introduced ex-Epitaph member Klaus Walz along with Kai Reuter (formerly of Kasch) on guitars with veteran Nadolny returning on keyboards and Mark Giebeler on bass.\n\nMeanwhile Hess' Mother Jane with younger musicians was also touring playing mostly Jane classics, releasing a single in 1998 and finally a surprisingly impressive live album \"Comes Alive\" in 2000, that reflected the heavier side of Jane.\n\nA more cohesive attempt was made by Panka in 2002 to rekindle the classic Jane groove of the seventies with Klaus Walz joining original members Panka, Nadolny and Maucher. A new album \"Genuine\" (2002) (that also contained some live tracks from the failed 1992 reunion) materialized and was followed by a tour which saw the band performing the new material but focused on renditions of old classics.\n\nA live album, \"Live 2002\" (2002), documented the shows and although not possessing the impact of 1976's \"Live at Home\", it was a definite indication of Jane's return to the limelight attracting both old and new fans. Not content to tour solely as a retro-Jane band, two more studio albums \"Shine On\" (2003) and \"Voices\" (2006) were released, that burned on in the classic Jane tradition. \n\nTragically, founding member Peter Panka died as result of cancer in June 2007, which put the band on hold. However, in compliance with Panka's wishes original member Charly Maucher took over as leader and another studio album \"Traces\" was released in 2009 with the current lineup of Charly Maucher on lead vocals/bass, Klaus Waltz guitar/vocals, Arndt Shulz guitar vocals and Fritz Randow (ex Eloy & Saxon) on drums plus Werner Nadolny on keyboards. Although Werner Nadolny has since left the band, he currently tours with his own Jane tribute band performing vintage Jane material. Klaus Hess' Mother Jane also remains active with a recently released 2009 album titled \"In Dreams\". \n\nAlong with other bands such as Amon Düül II, Grobschnitt and Guru Guru, Jane continues to bear the torch of the early seventies Krautrock phenomenon and continues in that spirit to this day in three different guises led by original members.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013739", "title": "Provisioning of USS Constitution", "text": "Provisioning of USS Constitution\n\nProvisioning for sea was crucial in the 19th century due to the lack of modern conveniences such as refrigeration, freeze-drying and canning. Most foodstuffs and liquids such as spirits, molasses, vinegar, and water, were shipped in casks, the balance in wooden crates and other suitable packing materials.\n\nIt was also commonplace to carry live chickens, both for their eggs and meat, and some small livestock such as sheep, which were butchered when their feed ran out, providing fresh meat before barreled stores such as beef and salt pork were consumed.\n\nThe fare for officers and rations for the crew were distinct, as were dining accommodations, with each reflecting their relative stations in society and the navy.\n\nDue to the inability to maintain water fresh for extended periods of time prior to the advent of modern hygiene, shipboard plumbing, and disinfectants, it was common to ship large quantities of beer to provide both hydration and nourishment in times when water aboard fouled. The beer's alcoholic content served as a preservative.\n\nIn contrast, grog, a mix of rum and water, was provided and consumed daily (with officers provided their rum straight). The rum allotment per man was retained in the United States Navy until the latter part of the 19th century, and all the way until 1970 in the British Royal Navy.\n\nOrdered on a cruise intended to last at least six months, sailed on 30 December 1813, with 485 men provisioned as follows:\n\nFoodstuffs may well be in the hold for months, perhaps years. Two hundred years ago life ashore was tough and life at sea had the advantage that at least you would get three meals a day, however grim they may have been.\n\nIn comparison, on 18 June 1803, Purser James Deblois reported to Commodore Edward Preble that the following provisions would be required for a 400 man crew for a now unknown six months cruise:\n\nBread 20,000 lbs\nBeef 36,000 lbs\nPork 31,200 lbs\nFlour 10,400 lbs\nSuet 5,200 lbs\nCheese 3,900 lbs\nButter 1,300 lbs\nPeas/beans 1,300 gals\nRice 1,300 gals\nMolasses 650 gals\nVinegar 650 gals\nWax candles 500 lbs\nTallow candles 500 lbs\n\n"}
{"id": "2013763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013763", "title": "Spahn Ranch (band)", "text": "Spahn Ranch (band)\n\nSpahn Ranch was an electro-industrial group from Los Angeles. Active from 1992 to 2000, the band played a subgenre of industrial music with its fusion of electronic dance, industrial and gothic music.\n\nThe band was formed in 1992 in Los Angeles by Matt Green and his New York–based collaborator, Rob Morton. They collectively used the funds they had saved up to jump-start the band. Rob Morton had been Matt Green's musical partner for the 5 years prior. That same year in 1992, they signed to Cleopatra Records and released a self-titled, four-song EP, with vocals supplied by Scott \"Chopper\" Franklin (later to become bass player for The Cramps) Scott Franklin left another band to provide vocals for Spahn Ranch.\n\nIn 1993, they added vocalist Athan Maroulis and recorded their debut album, \"Collateral Damage\". Their second album, \"The Coiled One\", appeared two years later in the midst of Morton leaving the band due to creative and logistical differences. After his departure, the line-up was expanded to include Christian Death drummer David Glass, Screams for Tina guitarist Kent Bancroft, and Tubalcain drummer Harry Lewis. This offered a beginning of the fuller, more diverse, dark electro-industrial sound that Spahn Ranch would continue to pursue. By 1997, Spahn Ranch had pared themselves down to the three-piece unit of Green, Maroulis and Lewis.\n\nSpahn Ranch continued to release albums throughout the late 1990s. \"Architecture\", released in 1997, featured contributions from Killing Joke/Prong bassist Paul Raven and Rockats/Nancy Sinatra guitarist Danny B. Harvey. This album took an even more experimental approach to the Spahn Ranch sound, incorporating elements of drum and bass, dub and for the first time, live guitar parts. \"Beat Noir\", in 1998, followed a similar path even further and included work with Bauhaus/Love & Rockets bassist David J.\n\nThe band regularly toured throughout North America during their existence with the likes of Front Line Assembly, Front 242, Switchblade Symphony and Apoptygma Berzerk. Spahn Ranch also made a couple of European treks prior to their demise as a group in 2000.\n\n\"Closure\", their final album, was recorded in 2000 and released in 2001.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013768", "title": "Swansea College", "text": "Swansea College\n\nSwansea College was a further education college in Swansea. It was one of the largest further education colleges in Wales with over 15,000 students and employing approximately 1,000 staff. Swansea College merged with Gorseinon College on 20 August 2010 to create a single sixth form and further education college for the Swansea area called Gower College Swansea.\n\nSwansea College provided preparation for a number of qualifications, including GCSEs, the IB Diploma Programme, A-levels and HNDs, as well as a number of vocational courses leading to BTEC First and National Diplomas, NVQs and other similar qualifications. It also ran EFL programmes for non-native speakers of English.\n\nThe College's mission statement was: \"We will provide high quality, relevant provision for all our learners.\"\n\nThe College operated on several different sites in Swansea.\n\nThe faculty was split into two areas – a specially designed 'B Floor' at the College's Tycoch campus and purpose-built Arts, Media and Performance suites at Llwyn y Bryn. The faculty provided preparation for a number of qualifications, including A-levels, the IB and HNDs, as well as a number of vocational courses leading to BTEC First and National Diplomas, NVQs and other similar qualifications.\n\n\nExtra curricular opportunities were offered, including work experience, educational visits, visiting speakers and entrepreneurship guidance. Courses were designed to provide the student with the knowledge and skills to progress into employment or Higher Education in sport, leisure, tourism, business, hospitality or public services.\n\nThe faculty also housed the Centre for Sporting Development which is dedicated to the physical, personal and intellectual development of student athletes.\n\nThese courses were designed to provide students with a choice of routes into a range of disciplines for either Higher Education or employment. They gave the student a chance to develop the skills, knowledge and understanding that underpin the creation of Engineering and IT systems and services.\n\nThe faculty had fully equipped workrooms as well as specialist computer software.\n\nStudent-built websites include:\n\n\nSome coursework websites may be viewed at http://www.btecnatdip.co.uk.\n\nStudents of hairdressing, beauty and complementary therapy could take part in work experience in a salon environment at either its Broadway or Cefn Hengoed Centre. Health and social care courses were also offered.\n\nCommunity Operations worked closely with partner organisations in Swansea to help to coordinate basic skills and adult community courses throughout the city. Opportunities were on offer to help people improve their employability by encouraging confidence and developing skills for life.\n\nThe Business College was the commercial arm of Swansea College. Many programmes carried national accreditation. Others were bespoke, tailored to the student's particular needs. The Business College was based in Swansea Vale and offers training courses such as NEBOSH, IOSH, CIEH, BIIAB, OCR, RTITB, CMI, ILM, First Aid and NVQ.\n\nSwansea College offered modern apprenticeships throughout the year. There are different levels of apprenticeships available and on successful completion students are awarded with a nationally recognised Modern Apprenticeship framework.\n\nLevels included:\nFoundation Modern Apprentice (NVQ Level 2) \nAdvanced Modern Apprentice (NVQ Level 3/4) \nModern Skills Diploma (NVQ Level 4/5)\n\nIn 2008, the College's pass rates were:\n\n\n\n\nThe College won the LSDA Beacon Award (for Staff Development in ILT) in 1999-2000.\n\nSwansea College merged with Gorseinon College on 20 August 2010 to create a single sixth form and further education college for the Swansea area called Gower College Swansea. The identities of both colleges will however remain and Gorseinon College will retain its campus in Gorseinon as a sixth-form college.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013770", "title": "Racecar Is Racecar Backwards", "text": "Racecar Is Racecar Backwards\n\nRacecar Is Racecar Backwards is the debut full-length album by the British rock band Reuben. It was recorded between July and November 2003, and was produced by Jason Wilson at Stakeout Studios when it was based in Chobham. The album's third single, \"Freddy Krueger\", placed 53rd on the UK Singles Charts and is the band's most recognized song.\n\nThe music on \"Racecar is Racecar Backwards\" has been described as taking influence from a wide array of genres including nu-metal, math rock, grunge, emo and pop rock. The main riff of the song \"Song for Saturday\" was made up on the spot by Jamie when the band's manager asked to hear their new song in soundcheck. The album features the song \"Eating Only Apples\", a song previously heard as a b-side on the band's debut single, \"Scared of the Police.\" It was originally called 'Tonight My Wife Is Your Wife', but Andy Ross from Food records was so upset when the name of the song was changed to something more relevant to the subject matter, the band promised to call another song 'Tonight...' The version of \"Stuck in my Throat\" heard on the album was re-recorded after the single version was finished and before work on the album started, in order to meet the release deadline imposed by Integrity records. Both the single and album version are exactly the same tempo and can be played in perfect unison side by side. \n\nThe line 'party hardy marty' in 'Parties Break Hearts' was copied from the last scene in the film Scrooged, starring Bill Murray. Although the lyrics hadn't been finalised in early performances, the 'Hell Is for Heroes' line in 'No One Wins the War' was written a few weeks before the two bands toured together. The line was subsequently changed to something new about Hell Is For Heroes on most nights of the tour, and in later performances. The song \"Freddy Kreuger\" was written as an auto-biographical song about touring for \"fleeting recognition.\" It would reach number 53 in the UK Singles Charts and go on to become the band's biggest song drawing comparisons to Pop-Punk bands such as Weezer and Fall Out Boy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013773", "title": "Moonlighting (The Rippingtons album)", "text": "Moonlighting (The Rippingtons album)\n\nMoonlighting is the debut album by the contemporary jazz ensemble The Rippingtons. It was released in 1986 on the GRP label, and reached #5 on \"Billboard\"'s Jazz chart.\nThis is also the first appearance of the Jazz Cat on the album cover by artist Bill Mayer. The Jazz Cat has since been on the cover of every Rippingtons album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013774", "title": "Swart gevaar", "text": "Swart gevaar\n\nSwart gevaar (Afrikaans for \"black danger\") was a term used during apartheid in South Africa to refer to the perceived security threat of the majority black African population to the white South African government.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013782", "title": "John Neville (actor)", "text": "John Neville (actor)\n\nJohn Reginald Neville, CM, OBE (2 May 1925 – 19 November 2011) was an English theatre and film actor, who moved to Canada in 1972. He enjoyed a resurgence of international attention in the 1980s as a result of his starring role in Terry Gilliam's \"The Adventures of Baron Munchausen\" (1988).\n\nNeville was born in Willesden, London, the son of Mabel Lillian (\"née\" Fry) and Reginald Daniel Neville, a lorry driver. He was educated at Willesden and Chiswick County Schools for Boys, and after service in the Royal Navy during the Second World War, trained as an actor at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art before starting his professional career as a member of the Trent Players.\n\nNeville was a West End star of the 1950s, hailed as \"one of the most potent classical actors of the Richard Burton–Peter O'Toole generation\". A leading member of London's Old Vic Company, he played many classical leading roles, including Romeo in Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\" (a role he repeated on American television for the anthology series \"Producers' Showcase\"), and an acclaimed Richard in \"Richard II\", with Virginia McKenna as Queen Anne. He also alternated with Richard Burton the parts of Othello and Iago in \"Othello\". He was a frequent performer at the Bristol Old Vic. He received good reviews in the musical adaptation of \"Lolita\", called \"Lolita, My Love\", which closed in Boston.\n\nKnown for his classical good looks and mellifluous voice, the young Neville was regularly described as the young John Gielgud's natural successor. For a while, he took over the leading role of Nestor Le Fripé from Keith Michell in the original West End production of the musical \"Irma La Douce\", with Elizabeth Seal as Irma. He returned to the London stage for a brief period in 1963, playing the title role in \"Alfie\" by Bill Naughton, but by then his theatrical commitment lay outside London.\n\nIn 1961, his weekly pay declining from £200 to £50, he joined the Nottingham Playhouse, becoming joint artistic director with Frank Dunlop and Peter Ustinov when the current Playhouse opened in 1963. It became one of Britain's leading regional repertory theatres. Though Dunlop and Ustinov soon left, Neville remained at the theatre until 1967, when he resigned over funding disputes with the local authority and the Arts Council.\n\nNeville starred as the Duke of Marlborough in the BBC2 serial \"The First Churchills\" (1969), a major television role which also maintained his international profile when the show was broadcast as the very first \"Masterpiece Theatre\" series in the United States in 1971.\n\nWith his family, he left Britain in 1972 and devoted his later career to the Canadian theatre, taking up the post of artistic director at the Citadel Theatre in Edmonton, Alberta (1973–78). He later took similar positions with the Neptune Theatre in Halifax, Nova Scotia (1978–83) and other Canadian theatre companies, including as artistic director of the Stratford Festival of Canada from 1985 to 1989, as well as continuing his acting career. On top of his artistic decisions, Neville helped eliminate the Neptune's deficit with canny promotions, such as giving free tickets to the local taxi drivers and their families, correctly anticipating the recipients to enthusiastically discuss the theatre to passengers and tourists.\n\nDirector Terry Gilliam cast him as the lead in \"The Adventures of Baron Munchausen\" (1988). In the film, Neville plays the character at three different stages of his life; in his 30s, his 50s and his 70s. From 1995 to 1998, Neville had a prominent recurring role in \"The X-Files\" television series as The Well Manicured Man, and in 1998, he reprised the role in the feature film \"The X-Files\". Although he made numerous other television appearances and occasional film roles, the main focus of Neville's career was always on the theatre.\n\nIn his later years, Neville had numerous cameo appearances in films, including primate of the Anglican Church in Australia in \"The Man Who Sued God\" and an admiral in the Earth Space Navy in \"The Fifth Element\". He had a small role as Terrence in David Cronenberg's \"Spider\" (2002). Around the same time, he appeared with Vanessa Redgrave in the film adaptation of \"Crime and Punishment\" (also 2002).\n\nIn 2003, Neville performed a stage reading of John Milton's \"Samson Agonistes\", with Claire Bloom at Bryn Mawr College at the behest of poet Karl Kirchwey. He appeared in an episode of the soap opera \"Train 48\" (2005) as the grandfather of Zach Eisler, who was played by his grandson Joe Dinicol.\n\nHe was appointed a Member of the Order of Canada in 2006.\n\nAccording to publicists at Canada's Stratford Shakespeare Festival, Neville died \"peacefully surrounded by family\" on 19 November 2011, aged 86. Neville suffered from Alzheimer's disease in his later years. He is survived by his wife Caroline (née Hopper), and their six children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013785", "title": "Jake Lingle", "text": "Jake Lingle\n\nAlfred \"Jake\" Lingle, Jr. (July 2, 1891 – June 9, 1930) was an American reporter for the \"Chicago Tribune\". He was shot dead gangland-style in the underpass leading to the Illinois Central Randolph Street station on the afternoon on June 9, 1930, as dozens of people watched. The man convicted of the murder was German-American mob associate Leo Vincent Brothers.\n\nLingle was initially lionized as a martyred journalist, but it was eventually revealed that he was involved in racketeering with the Capone organization and that his death had more to do with his own criminal activities than his journalism.\n\nJake Lingle was born July 1891 and raised on the West Side of Chicago. When he was eight years old, his parents converted from Judaism to Roman Catholicism. He received an education up to the eighth grade at John Calhoun North Elementary. His childhood friend William F. Russell later became the chief of police in Chicago. Before becoming an office boy for the \"Chicago Tribune\", Lingle played semi-professional baseball and worked for a surgical supply company.\n\nJake Lingle began his career in journalism in 1912. Lingle was known for his work as a legman covering gang-related crime stories. He reported from the scene by telephone to a writer at the \"Chicago Tribune\" office and then that person would write up his story. During this period, Lingle made connections outside journalism, and while he earned $65 a week reporting, he had an annual income of $60,000.\n\nIn Chicago, on the afternoon of June 9, 1930, Lingle left the Sherman House Hotel, where he had conversed with some power brokers, to catch the 1:30 pm train to a racetrack in Homewood where he gambled on horses. On his way through the Randolph Street Terminal, he was followed by two men. One of them, described as thin, with blonde hair, and blue eyes, raised his .38 caliber pistol and shot Lingle once directly in the back of the head, killing him.\n\nThe police sent 664 hoodlums out to perform what they called a \"manhunt\" in Chicago. To find the killer quickly, the \"Chicago Tribune\" told readers the newspaper would give them a $25,000 reward if they had information that led them to the killer. Other local newspaper companies said they would throw in an extra $30,000.\n\nIn January 1931, the police received a tip and arrested a man by the name of Leo V. Brothers from St. Louis. Many people swore that he was Lingle's killer. Others, including Brothers, denied his involvement. Convicted, Brothers was given the minimum sentence for murder of 14 years, and he served 8 years of the sentence.\n\nLingle's death brought to the public's attention his connections with gangsters. Lingle turned out to have been setting the price of beer in Chicago and involved in organized dog racing and gambling. He had maintained two homes plus a suite at the Morrison Hotel and had a six-figure stockbroker account. High-placed friends of his in the police department resigned. Not only did some people discover what Lingle's occupation really was, but also they learned about the gangs and about those with whom Lingle was associated.\n\nOnce other journalists learned about Jake Lingle's association with mobsters and his gambling activity, they began questioning the \"Chicago Tribune\" about it. In response, the \"Tribune\" said that it had not been aware of Lingle's activities. However, Frank Wilson, an IRS agent, said Robert McCormick, who was the \"Tribune's\" proprietor, had arranged a meeting between Lingle and himself when he was investigating the Al Capone case, and claimed this proved that the \"Tribune\" knew about Jake Lingle's involvement with gangs.\n\nThe 1931 film \"The Finger Points\" was loosely based on Lingle's life and death, and starred Richard Barthelmess as the reporter, Fay Wray as his love interest, and Clark Gable as the gangster who corrupts him.\n\nIn 1959, the Jake Lingle murder was dramatized on a television episode of \"The Untouchables\".\n\nIn the 1959 film\" Al Capone\", Martin Balsam played a fictional corrupt reporter named Mac Keely, who was Lingle in all but name.\n\nIn the 1979 film \"The Lady in Red\", Lingle is seen as the reporter harassing John Dillinger's escort/girlfriend, Polly Hamilton (called \"Polly Franklin\" in this film). But this is fiction, as Dillinger first met Hamilton in 1934, four years after Lingle's murder.\n\nThe 1988 novel by Howard Browne, \"Pork City,\" depicts Lingle's murder and the subsequent investigation by the Cook County State's Attorney's office.\n\nIn the 1993 series, \"The Untouchables\", Jake Lingle's murder is depicted in the two-part story, \"Murder Ink,\" and is portrayed by David Perkovich.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013786", "title": "Basilica of Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception (Norfolk, Virginia)", "text": "Basilica of Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception (Norfolk, Virginia)\n\nThe Minor Basilica of Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception, located at 232 Chapel Street in downtown Norfolk, in southeastern Virginia is the oldest Roman Catholic parish community in the Diocese of Richmond. It is known locally as \"The Mother Church of Tidewater Virginia\".\n\nThe church was built in 1857-1858, and is a rectangular stuccoed brick church. It features a centrally located, three-stage tower with spire. Also on the property is the contributing rectory. It is a three-story, rectangular brick building in the Late Gothic Revival style.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. The associated Saint Mary's Catholic Cemetery was added in 2001.\n\nThe parish began in 1791 as Saint Patrick Church founded by French Catholics fleeing the French Revolution who were joined by some of the earliest Irish Catholic immigrants to the United States. St. Patrick's was the oldest parish in the Richmond Diocese and predated the formation of the diocese by 29 years.\n\nThe first church edifice was built in 1842, but was destroyed by fire in 1856. The present building was completed in 1858 and was rededicated under the title of the Blessed Virgin Mary of the Immaculate Conception in commemoration of the Marian dogma proclaimed in 1854 by Pope Pius IX.\n\nSince it was in the Southern United States, the racially segregated Christian church was for whites only. Fr. Matthew O’Keefe initiated permitting African American Catholics to sit in an assigned portion of the choir loft for their use only. Local Know Nothing movement anti-Catholics threatened him unless the church instituted segregated Masses, which he refused. Thugs tried to intimidate white parishioners until Fr. O’Keefe obtained police protection. Diocesan records show that local Catholic families believed the Know Nothings ignited the fire that destroyed St. Patrick's in 1856. \"The Assumption,\" a painting donated by King Louis Philippe and Queen Amélie of France, fell victim to the flames.\n\nThe Josephite Fathers arrived in Norfolk from Richmond in 1889. By September of that year, the separate Saint Joseph's Black Catholic parish was founded to serve the religious needs of the city's African American community.\n\nWhen Fr. Matthew O'Keefe moved north to Maryland, he would modeled his new church after St. Mary's. Completed in 1906, Church of the Immaculate Conception in Towson shares the blueprints of St. Mary's with the exceptions of a larger rose window rather than a spire, thicker interior columns, and brownstone accents to the buttress and windows. Father O'Keefe, the first pastor of the new St. Mary's and Immaculate Conception, is buried beneath the altar of the latter.\n\nIn 1961, seventy-two years after its founding, Saint Joseph's Black Catholic parish was clustered with Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception. After an extensive renovation and restoration program, the newly renovated and restored edifice was rededicated on November 1, 1989. Today, St. Mary's Catholic Church is ninety-nine percent African American congregants.\n\nThe parish formerly supported St. Mary Academy, an inner-city school that provided a Christian education to hundreds of urban children, most of whom were non-Catholic; however, circumstances forced the academy to close. The parish also operates a soup kitchen and provides other outreach to Norfolk's poor and homeless.\n\nOn the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the church, December 8, 1991, Pope John Paul II proclaimed the Church of Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception a minor basilica, the only one in the Commonwealth of Virginia and the only one with predominantly African-American parishioners. \n\n"}
{"id": "2013789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013789", "title": "Tripterygium wilfordii", "text": "Tripterygium wilfordii\n\nTripterygium wilfordii, or léi gōng téng (Mandarin) (Chinese:雷公藤, Japanese: \"raikōtō\"), sometimes called thunder god vine but more properly translated thunder duke vine, is a vine used in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\n\"Tripterygium wilfordii\" has been promoted for use in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis; however, due to safety concerns this use is not recommended. Evidence is insufficient to deem it effective as a method of birth control.\n\nNow majorly it is use in Uterine Fibroids patients where Tripterygium Wilfordii helps to reduce Both Estrogen & Progesterone Hormones which reduces Uterine Fibroids size more effectively\n\nThe United Kingdom government does not recommend the use of \"Tripterygium\" due to potential side effects.\n\nEvidence is lacking that \"Tripterygium\" is either safe or effective as a method of birth control in men. Two trials found less sperm in people taking it for rheumatoid arthritis but these trials were observational in nature.\n\nIn China, \"T. wilfordii\" has historically been used as a treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health has noted tentative evidence that \"T. wilfordii\" may improve some RA symptoms. Serious side effects, however, occur frequently enough to make the risks of taking it higher than the possible benefits.\n\nAt medicinal doses, \"T. wilfordii\" extract can have significant side effects, including immunosuppression.\n\nIn August 2011, the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency published a drug safety bulletin advising consumers not to use medicines containing \"lei gong teng\" due to potentially serious side effects.\n\nChina State Food and Drug Administration issued a warning in April 2012 about this medicine, urging caution.\n\nA 2016 review found gastrointestinal symptoms in 13%, adverse reproductive outcomes in 12%, adverse skin reactions in 8%, hematologic events in 6.5%, cardiovascular events in 5%. Also irregular menstruation OR=4.6.\n\nA 2011 review stated that although \"T. wilfordii\" has toxic potential, careful extraction gives an acceptable frequency of adverse reactions, which are largely related to the gastrointestinal tract and amenorrhea. The review found that \"T. wilfordii\" extract is useful remedy for postmenopausal rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nCelastrol, a pentacyclic triterpenoid, and triptolide, a diterpene triepoxide, are putative active components of the extracts derived from \"Tripterygium wilfordii\". Triptolide has pharmacological activities including anti-inflammatory, immune modulation, antiproliferative, and proapoptotic activity, but its clinical use is limited by severe toxicity.. The biological target of triptolide is believed to be the XPB subunit of the TFIIH protein complex (involved in DNA repair and transcription initiation). \n\n"}
{"id": "2013797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013797", "title": "Rooi gevaar", "text": "Rooi gevaar\n\nRooi gevaar () is an Afrikaans phrase, sometimes translated into English as \"Communist danger\". The term gained popularity in South Africa during the Cold War and was associated with the perceived threat of international communism to religious, economic, and political freedom on the Southern African subcontinent. This pretext was used to justify the banning of the South African Communist Party (SACP) and its sister organisation, the African National Congress (ANC), which were regarded as leading anti-apartheid movements. Alternatively, the phrase rooi komplot () was also used. \n\nThe term diminished in use after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "2013800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013800", "title": "Maisons-Alfort", "text": "Maisons-Alfort\n\nMaisons-Alfort () is a commune in the southeastern suburbs of Paris, France. It is located from the center of Paris.\n\nMaisons-Alfort is famous as the location of the National Veterinary School of Alfort. The Fort de Charenton, constructed between 1841 and 1845, has since 1959 housed the \"Commandement des Écoles de la Gendarmerie Nationale\".\n\nOriginally, Maisons-Alfort was called simply Maisons. The name Maisons comes from Medieval Latin \"Mansiones\", meaning \"the houses\".\n\nAt the creation of the commune during the French Revolution, the name of the hamlet of Alfort was joined with the name of Maisons. The name Alfort comes from the manor built there by Peter of Aigueblanche, Bishop of Hereford (England), in the middle of the 13th century. The name of this Manor of Hereford was corrupted into \"Harefort\", then \"Hallefort\", and eventually Alfort. The National Veterinary School of Alfort was settled several centuries later in the manor and its estate.\n\nOn 1 April 1885, 40% of the territory of Maisons-Alfort was detached and became the commune of Alfortville.\n\nIn 1905, Buffalo Bill stayed two months in Maisons-Alfort while his famous \"Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Show\" performed in Paris.\n\nMaisons-Alfort is divided into two cantons:\n\n\nThe commune has:\n\n\nMaisons-Alfort is twinned with Moers in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\nMaisons-Alfort is served by three stations on Paris Métro Line 8: École Vétérinaire de Maisons-Alfort, Maisons-Alfort — Stade, and Maisons-Alfort — Les Juilliottes.\n\nIt is also served by two stations on Paris RER line D: Maisons-Alfort – Alfortville and Le Vert de Maisons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013810", "title": "Adelaide Rams", "text": "Adelaide Rams\n\nThe Adelaide Rams were an Australian professional rugby league football club based in Adelaide, South Australia. The team was formed in 1995 for the planned rebel Super League competition, which eventually ran parallel to the rival Australian Rugby League (ARL) competition in 1997. The Rams lasted two seasons, the first in the Super League competition in 1997 and the second in the first season of the National Rugby League (NRL) in 1998. The Rams were not a successful club, winning only 13 out of 42 games. However crowd numbers in the first season were the fifth highest of any first-grade club that year, but dwindled to sixteenth in the second season. The Adelaide club was shut down at the end of the 1998 season as a result of poor on-field performances, dwindling crowd numbers, financial losses and a reduction in the number of teams in the NRL. They remain the only team from the state of South Australia to have participated in top-level rugby league in Australia.\n\nThe Australian rules football code, with origins as far back as 1843, had long dominated sport in the state. South Australia had two teams competing in the national Australian rules competition, the Australian Football League (AFL): the Adelaide Crows and Port Adelaide Power, the latter starting in the AFL in the same year as the Rams first season in Super League while the Crows won their first two AFL premierships in the same two years the Rams played. The new team from Port Adelaide, who already had a large fan base in the local South Australian National Football League (SANFL) competition, and the Crows successes in 1997–98 made it much harder for the Rams to compete for fan support. They were also competing against the popular Adelaide 36ers who played in the National Basketball League (NBL) which at the time ran a winter season. Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, was considered an Aussie rules stronghold, and in the SANFL had the oldest Aussie Rules Football league, and indeed the oldest league of any code, in Australia, as well as a viable Rugby Union competition which had been running since 1932. The South Australian Rugby League (SARL) also had a First Grade Premiership competition in place since 1976, while league been played competitively in Adelaide since the late 1940s.\n\nThe New South Wales Rugby League premiership (NSWRL) begun in 1908, as a rugby league competition mostly for clubs in the Sydney region of Australia (a team from Newcastle competed in 1908–09), a situation that lasted until 1982. The competition then expanded outside of NSW to Canberra, and to outside of Sydney with a team from Wollongong, and eventually in 1988 to Brisbane and the Gold Coast in Queensland, plus a new team from Newcastle. In 1992 the NSWRL decided to extend the competition further, by admitting four new teams for the 1995 competition, one from Western Australia, one from New Zealand and two from Queensland. The NSWRL also decided to test the viability of a rugby league team from the South Australian capital, and between 1991 and 1995 programmed five matches to be played in Adelaide at the famous Adelaide Oval. In 1991, the St. George Dragons (whose primary sponsor since the mid-late 1970s was Adelaide-based winery Penfolds) and Balmain Tigers match attracted 28,884 people, the largest attendance for any rugby league game in South Australia and the largest of the entire minor round of the 1991 NSWRL season (it was in fact the 6th highest attendance for the entire season, beating the attendance of two of the seven Finals series games). Around 20,000 attended the two matches in 1992 and 1993, and around 10,000 in 1994 and 1995. Despite this evidence of popular appeal, the NSWRL, already in the process of setting up a 20-team competition, could not see their way to admitting a team from Adelaide and their preferred option outside of rugby league strongholds of NSW, Qld and New Zealand was to have a team from Melbourne and another in Perth (the Melbourne Storm would be formed in 1998). By the end of 1995, this was apparent as the ARL had already played two international Test matches involving the Australian Kangaroos in Melbourne, as well as three State of Origin games, with Game 2 of the 1994 State of Origin series attracting a then Australian record rugby league crowd of 87,161 to the Melbourne Cricket Ground.\n\nIn 1994, the media company News Limited began developing a rival competition to the long-established NSWRL premiership: the \"Super League\" premiership. In response to this move the Australian Rugby League (ARL), the governing body of rugby league in Australia, took over the NSWRL. After 8 of the 20 teams in the ARL competition signed with News Limited to play in the proposed Super League competition in 1996 the organization began looking for further teams to make the new competition viable. In June 1995 the South Australian Rugby League (SARL), which governs the game of rugby league in South Australia, officially signed with Super League, who subsequently gave it a licence to form a franchise which would allow the SARL to create a Super League team. Another leading factor in the SARL's decision to sign with SL was the promise of greater financial assistance than they were receiving from the ARL.\n\nThe team was owned and supported by News Limited. Former Australian representatives Tim Pickup and Rod Reddy were named inaugural CEO and head coach respectively.\n\nOn 13 December 1995, the SARL officially launched the 'Adelaide Rams', the tenth and final team to join the Super League competition (the 9th team was the Newcastle based Hunter Mariners). In early March 1996, the ARL were successful in gaining a federal court injunction, a legal ruling that prevented the Super League from beginning competition in 1996 and the Rams were put on hold causing Tim Pickup to stand down from his post in the ensuing months. In mid-1996, News Limited successfully appealed this ruling, which enabled the competition to proceed. Wallaby rugby union halfback George Gregan was approached to switch codes to be the starting halfback for the new team for \"seriously more money than\" he would earn playing rugby union, though he opted to remain in the 15-man code (Gregan would ultimately go on to win the 1999 Rugby World Cup with the Wallabies and would become Wallaby captain in 2001). The first, and only Super League season, was held in 1997, and the Rams team was part of it.\n\nThe SARL appointed the former Auckland Warriors marketing manager Liz Dawson as Pickup's replacement as the Rams' chief executive – the first female chief executive of any rugby league club in either the ARL or the Super League. The club had appointed St. George Dragons international back rower Rod Reddy to be their inaugural coach, along with two-time NSWRL premiership-winning and former Kangaroo tour Kerrod Walters from the Brisbane Broncos to be the first captain of the team. Most of the junior players were drawn from the SARL's lower grade competitions in Adelaide.\n\nThe club played its first premiership match on 1 March against the North Queensland Cowboys in Townsville and, after leading 16–4 at half time, eventually lost 24–16. This was also the first ever match of the Australian Super League's only season.\n\nTheir first home match, against fellow new team the Hunter Mariners in Round 3 on 14 March, was also the Rams' first win, and drew their record home attendance of 27,435 to the Adelaide Oval. This would actually turn out to be one of only two home wins for the season (not counting the 3 World Club Championship wins over visiting English teams Salford, Leeds and Oldham). The Rams also won four away games with their first being in Round 4 against the Auckland Warriors at the Ericsson Stadium in Auckland, New Zealand, but their overall record of 6 wins, 11 losses and 1 draw placed them second last on the Super League premiership ladder, one win ahead of North Queensland.\n\nThe Rams first home game attendance of 27,435 was the 4th highest attendance of the entire 1997 season, behind only the Grand Final at the ANZ Stadium in Brisbane (58,912), the opening game of the season in Brisbane (42,361) and a Round 6 match at the Dairy Farmers Stadium in Townsville (30,122).\n\nFormer Cronulla Sharks goal kicking utility back Kurt Wrigley was the Rams top point scorer for the season with 81 points from 5 tries, 30 goals and 1 field goal. Wrigley, and former South Sydney Rabbitohs and St George Dragons fullback Rod Maybon, were the team's top try scorers with 5 each. Super League's top point scorer for the season was Penrith Panthers centre Ryan Girdler who scored 197 points from 11 tries, 76 goals and 1 field goal while the competition's top try scorer was Canterbury Bulldogs utility back Matthew Ryan who crossed for 17 tries.\n\nFollowing the unification of the Super League and ARL competitions after the 1997 season, a new National Rugby League (NRL) competition was formed. This meant that three teams would be demised, as part of the rationalisation process aimed at reducing teams to an optimal number. With the introduction of the Melbourne Storm (who despite being owned by New Ltd. were not actually a Super League team despite popular belief), and an agreement between Super League and the ARL to have a competition limited to 14 teams by 2000, the future for the Rams looked bleak. However, the Rams' home ground support, which averaged 15,330 fans each week, the 4th highest out of 22 teams across both the SL and ARL competitions, ensured that they remained in the unified 1998 competition.\n\nIn addition to the Telstra Cup, the Adelaide Rams also competed in Super League's 1997 World Club Championship competition. The Rams were placed in Australasia Pool B along with the Hunter Mariners, North Queensland Cowboys and Perth Reds and would be matched up against teams from Europe Pool B including the Leeds Rhinos, Oldham Bears and Salford City Reds. The competition would see the Rams play three games at home and three in England.\n\nThe Rams won their three home games rather easily including a surprise 34–8 win over glamour side Leeds, but only managed to win one of their games in England against Oldham leaving them in third place in their pool. As only one team from Australasia Pool B would go on to the Quarter finals, this meant that the Adelaide Rams did not advance past the group stage of the tournament.\n\nThe demise of three clubs from the Super League and ARL (Western Reds and Hunter Mariners (SL), and South Queensland Crushers (ARL)) saw some player re-shuffling (which saw 1997 Queensland representative Kevin Campion sensationally cut from the club after being told he was not in Rod Reddy's plans for the team), and brought New South Wales halfback Noel Goldthorpe, speedy winger Matt Daylight, and New Zealand national rugby league team test veteran back rower Tony Iro to the Adelaide club. However, after the Rams lost nine of their first ten games, coach Reddy and the entire coaching staff were sacked by the Rams' administration. Reddy was replaced by former Perth Reds coach Dean Lance and mid-season saw the arrival of goal kicking Canberra Raiders utility back Graham Appo.\n\nIn June after numerous financial disagreements with the South Australian Cricket Association (SACA) who at the time owned the Adelaide Oval, the club changed home grounds to the smaller, 16,500 capacity Hindmarsh Stadium, a soccer specific venue which was better suited to a rugby league field than the Adelaide Oval was. The Rams celebrated the move with a record 52–0 win over the Balmain Tigers.\n\nThe club went on to win six of their last fourteen games after Lance's arrival, enough to avoid the wooden spoon awarded to the team finishing lowest on the competition ladder. Their overall results were comparable to those of their first season, coming fourth last in the 20–team competition. Appo broke several team records in his 14 games with the Rams.\n\nThe Adelaide Rams last home game in the penultimate round of the season saw a 36–0 thrashing at the hands of the finals bound North Sydney Bears in front of 7,035 fans on 15 August 1998.\n\nThroughout the 1998 season, the Rams attempted to build a stronger supporter base in order to avoid removal from the competition in 1999 or 2000. However, with the team's lack of on-field success, plus the success of other Adelaide-based sports teams who won national championships in 1997 and/or 1998 including the Adelaide Crows (AFL), Adelaide 36ers (NBL) and Adelaide Thunderbirds (netball), saw average home attendances dropped by more than half (51.3%) from the previous years 15,330 to just 7,472 over the course of the season.\n\nThe NRL had planned to continue a 20–team competition in 1999, with a reduction to 14 teams in 2000. The Rams' management, led by newly named CEO, former dual rugby international and Manly-Warringah 1987 premiership player Michael O'Connor, had their minds set on a place in the reduced competition, and went on a buying spree, obtaining rights for players that they hoped would be productive enough for the team to survive the cut in 2000. However, after the merger between rugby league clubs St. George Dragons and Illawarra Steelers which reduced the number of teams to 19, it was decided to avoid a bye that another team needed to be dropped from the competition. As the league's desire was to keep a team in Melbourne it was decided by the NRL to cut the Rams and owners News Limited then told the club they would no longer receive funding and the club was wound up just days after it had held its 1999 season launch. With little chance of securing a contract with another club just weeks before the start of the 1999 NRL season, the players were then placed in other News Ltd. owned or financed teams including Brisbane, Canberra and Melbourne.\n\nThe cost of building and sustaining an uncompetitive rugby league team in an area dominated by another football sport had resulted in News Limited incurring heavy financial losses with the Rams. Subsequent attempts to merge with a Sydney club (rumoured to be the ARL loyal South Sydney Rabbitohs) failed, however the Canberra Raiders offered to merge with the club and effectively took over the club on 1 December 1998.\n\nWhile the Adelaide Rams cease to no longer exist in their own right, numbers in junior rugby league in Adelaide have risen, and the SARL has begun again to promote the idea of a team based in Adelaide. Due to its efforts, NRL teams have been brought to the city to revive interest; in 2006 the Penrith Panthers scheduled a home game at Adelaide's Hindmarsh Stadium while their home ground was under renovation. The NRL helped with the promotion of the match, although the SARL were disappointed with the small crowd of 7,017. In 2008, Sydney based club the Cronulla Sharks announced they would play three matches over the next three years at Adelaide, with coach Ricky Stuart saying he wanted Adelaide to become the Sharks' second home. SARL general manager Bruce Walker has suggested that the NRL itself should take more responsibility for scheduling games in Adelaide. The 2009 match against North Queensland Cowboys attracted 8,547 people. However, at the end of the 2008 NRL season, the league's Centenary year, the Sharks decided to concentrate on their home fans and were allowed out of their contract to play in Adelaide after just one game. \n\nIn 2010, the Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs took their home match against the Melbourne Storm to Adelaide in which Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs defeating the Melbourne Storm 20–18 where the game attracted 10,350 people at Adelaide Oval.\n\nIn 2008, several NRL club bosses expressed the view that the NRL should be a \"national\" competition, since it now had teams from all around Australia rather than just on the eastern seaboard, arguing that such a move would increase the competition's revenue. Peter Parr, the CEO of the North Queensland Cowboys and former assistant coach for the Rams in 1998, said that if the NRL had stuck with the Adelaide Rams, then rugby league in Adelaide might have flourished, making comparisons with the Melbourne Storm, a team performing successfully on and off the field in the AFL's heartland.\n\nEarly in the 2013 NRL season, the NRL's official free-to-air broadcast partner the Nine Network, began to show their Friday night and Sunday afternoon games live around Australia, including Adelaide, on their digital channel GEM.\n\nThe emblem of the team was a ram (a male sheep). The ram was chosen, according to Super League chief executive John Ribot, because it was \"readily identifiable with strength and hardness\". This name was considered a better alternative to the first choice, the \"Adelaide Aces\" (through a proposed sponsorship link with the Adelaide Casino), which Ribot believed was too soft a name and did not work well as a brand for a Super League team. The main colours of the Adelaide Rams were red and blue, although there was yellow in their emblem to reflect South Australia's traditional sporting colours. Their jerseys remained red and blue until the last game they played in 1998, when they used a mainly yellow jersey to avoid a colour clash with the similar jerseys of the Newcastle Knights (who were the home team).\n\nThe Rams' initial home ground was Adelaide Oval, a round park that had been used for cricket and Australian Rules Football for over a century. For their first season they had average home attendances of 15,330, the fourth highest of the Super League teams and fifth highest of all 22 teams in both competitions. In 1998, however, the Rams' home attendances diminished, dropping to an average of about 7,500, the fourth lowest of any team in the 20–team competition.\n\nDuring 1998, the South Australian Cricket Association had ongoing problems with the SARL and the Rams' use of their stadium, Adelaide Oval. The Rams then moved to Hindmarsh Stadium, a rectangular stadium more suited to rugby league and owned by the South Australian Soccer Association. They celebrated with a 52–0 defeat over Balmain in their first match at the stadium. However, attendances did not improve after the move, falling below 7,500.\n\nThe Rams highest attendance at Adelaide Oval was 27,435 set in their inaugural home game against the Hunter Mariners. Their record attendance at Hindmarsh was 7,459 for their loss to 1997 ARL Grand Finalists, the Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles. In 1998, the Rams played their Round 15 home game against the Illawarra Steelers at the Bennett Oval in Whyalla, in part due to Whyalla's main employer being BHP who were also the Steelers major sponsor. The Steelers won the game 39–4 in front of 5,153 fans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Rams did not win any premierships, minor premierships or wooden spoons in their two seasons. Their biggest win was 52–0 over the Balmain Tigers in 1998 and their biggest losing margin was 42 points, which occurred twice: against the Canberra Raiders in 1997 and the Penrith Panthers in 1998. The Rams had a 32.14% win percentage for all of their premiership games, which made them statistically the sixth worst team in first grade rugby league in Australia, out of 33 teams.\n\nOf the Rams 13 wins, 7 of them were at home while 5 were away. The Rams final win came in Round 20 of the 1998 NRL season when they defeated the Auckland Warriors 22–20 at Hindmarsh Stadium in front of 7,445 fans. The club's final ever home game in Round 23 of 1998 saw them go down 36–0 to the North Sydney Bears in front of 7,035 fans, the lowest recorded attendance at Hindmarsh.\n\nNorth Queensland Cowboys 24 def. Adelaide Rams 16<br>\nDate: 1 March 1997<br>\nVenue: Stockland Stadium (Townsville)<br>\nAttendance: 17,738<br>\nReferee: Brian Grant\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013817", "title": "Xihoumen Bridge", "text": "Xihoumen Bridge\n\nThe Xihoumen Bridge () is a suspension bridge on the Zhoushan Archipelago, the largest offshore island group in China.\n\nLinking Jintang and Cezi islands, the bridge, together with the 27-kilometer cable-stayed Jintang Bridge linking Jintang and Zhenhai in the neighboring city of Ningbo, is part of the second and last phase of a bridging project started in 1999 to connect the Zhoushan Archipelago to the mainland via five bridges. The bridge forms part of the Yongzhou Expressway.\n\nBuilt by the province of Zhejiang at a cost of 2.48 billion yuan (approximately US$363 million), construction began in 2005 and the main span was completed in December 2007. The bridge was opened to traffic on a test basis on 25 December 2009, at 11:58 p.m., local time alongside the Jintang Bridge, before it is officially open for traffic. The opening date was delayed due to a ship collision on 16 November 2009 that slightly damaged the side of Jintang Bridge.\n\nThe 5.3-kilometre suspension bridge connection has a 2.6-kilometre main bridge with a central span of 1,650 metres. The approaches total 2.7 kilometres. When built, it was the second-longest suspension bridge ranked by the length of the centre span after the Akashi Kaikyō Bridge in Japan. \n\n"}
{"id": "2013822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013822", "title": "Taroona High School", "text": "Taroona High School\n\nTaroona High School is a co-educational state high school located in Taroona, a southern riverside suburb of greater Hobart, the capital of the island state Tasmania. The school is located on the shore of the Derwent River, with a rocky beach. The school has approximately 1,100 students in grades 7 to 10. In 2003 Taroona High School underwent a major redevelopment. The school caters for students in the southern suburbs of Hobart such as Taroona, Dynnyrne and Sandy Bay but students also come from a wide range of other areas such as West Hobart and Blackmans Bay. The school opened in 1958. The school's most notable former student is Mary, Crown Princess of Denmark.\n\nTaroona High School features four building areas each with two or more levels:\n\nBuses transporting students to and from school are operated by Metro Tasmania.\n\nArt at Taroona High School includes the International Orange mural (which is actually blue and white) painted in 2015 by Josh Foley. in 2011 in the Art for Public Buildings Scheme, a work called Chaos Theory was made in sandblasted glass and cut vinyl by Designhaus. The exterior of the building and logo thereon was painted by Dyson Painters using Wattyl Solagard.\n\nTaroona High School is committed to transforming the learning environment of the school to promote innovation, creativity and excellence in all aspects of its operations. Mandatory subjects within the school vary depending on grade.\n\nIn its early years, sports included yachting as an option.\n\nTaroona High School participates a great deal with the Taroona Primary School, its neighbouring school, the two education facilities making up the Taroona Learning Centre. As a result, a large number of Taroona High students come from Taroona Primary School. The Taroona Learning Centre thus provides schooling from K - 10.\n\nAssociated schools: Albuera Street, Mount Nelson, Princes Street, South Hobart, Taroona Primary, Waimea Heights.\n\nSchools with access to Taroona High School: Campbell Street, Goulburn Street, \nLansdowne Crescent, Mount Stuart (this is to ensure that students whose \nneighbourhood high schools are single sex schools also have access to a coeducational school).\n\nLobbying for a high school south of Hobart to take students from Sandy Bay, Taroona, and the Channel district happened in 1952.\n\nThe school opened in 1958.\n\nFunds from the commonwealth government were made available in 1968 to construct new science laboratories.\n\nNine students were hurt and hospitalized after an explosion following a reaction of sodium with water on 2 May 1985.\n\nOn 3 July 1990 two students and a teacher from the school drowned in Mystery Creek Cave near Lune River.\n\nA new technology and design centre opened in 1995.\n\nAfter someone started a fire with paper towels in the boys toilet, A block had to be evacuated on 9 October 2009.\n\nSchool houses were called Crayfish, Gellibrand, Cartwright and Droughty after land prominences into the Derwent River.\n\nRhodes scholars from Taroona High are Michael Buchanan (1989), Jessica Radford (2004), Abishek Sharma (2005), Alex Shabala\n(2008), Robert Hortle (2014), Bede Jones (2016), and Brook Dambacher (2019).\n\nThere is a Taroona High School Council, Student Representative Council, Parents and Friends Association, Parents Auxiliary and Old Scholars Association. Taroona High School Association Inc.\n\nTaroona High School is located in Taroona on the shore of the Derwent River. A small sandy beach on the northeast side is called Dixons Beach. A creek runs in a north east direction north of the buildings and main oval, and meets the sea between the car park and the archery field. This is called School Creek. To the south of the school campus is its access road, Meath Avenue and Melinga Place. The rock beneath the school is Paleogene sandstone and conglomerate. A boulder bed formed in the Paleogene makes up the point. A bed of tuff just to the south of A block heads east-northeast to the coast and southwest inland. The whole region north from Belhaven Avenue to School Creek is unstable ground undergoing a slow moving landslide called \"School Creek Landslide\". This started hundreds of years ago before there were any buildings constructed. Movement to the northwest is happening, the tennis court moved about 40 mm in 11 years, and a survey marker near the road entrance has shifted 0.4 m since 1961. Several smaller landslips are parasitic or nearby. These are the Archery Field Landslip, north of the creek; the Dixons Beach Landslip and Carpark Landslip which moved a couple of meters in the late 1980s; and Channel Highway Landslip between the Channel Highway and the primary school. The soil in the area is highly reactive expanding and contracting with changes in water content. The situation is boing monitored with a real time inclinometer, and a vibrating wire piezometer, as well as survey markers and a GPS station to see where the school moves.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013828", "title": "Chhatak", "text": "Chhatak\n\nChhatak (, ; formerly known as Chhatak Bazaar) is a town in northeastern Bangladesh, on the Surma River in Chhatak Upazila of Sunamganj District in the division of Sylhet. This town is ever green. Here, people of all religions live in peace. \n\n"}
{"id": "2013843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013843", "title": "Alloparenting", "text": "Alloparenting\n\nAlloparenting (also referred to as alloparental care) is a term used to classify any form of parental care provided by an individual towards a non-descendant young. Non-descendant refers to any young who is not the direct genetic offspring of the individual, but does not exclude related young such as siblings or grandchildren. Individuals providing this care are referred to using the neutral term of alloparent (or 'helper').\n\nAlloparental care encapsulates a diverse range of parenting systems across a range of animal groups and social structures. The alloparent-young relationship can be mutualistic or parasitic, and between or within species. Cooperative breeding, joint brood care, reciprocal allonursing, brood parasitism and cuckoldry represent situations in which alloparenting plays a role. \n\nIn biology, ethology and sociology, alloparental care is defined as any form of parental care, which is directed towards non-descendant young. It was first used by Edward O. Wilson in 1975, in his book \"Sociobiology\" in an attempt to define a neutral term which could encapsulate the gender and relation specific terms of 'aunite' and 'auncle' which had previously been coined in the literature to describe this sort of behaviour. In addition, Wilson used the term alloparent (or helper) to refer to the individuals providing the care, and proposed allomaternal and allopaternal as phrases that could be used to distinguish the sex of the helper. The word alloparent roughly translates to \"other-parent\" based on the Greek root \"allo\", meaning other, and the Latin root \"parens\", meaning parent.\n\nAlloparenting encapsulates a diverse range of parenting systems and behaviours. Simply, it can be understood as a system of parenting in which individuals other than the direct genetic parents act in a parental role, either for a short, or extended period of time. This definition does not exclude alloparents who are genetically 'related' to the offspring, such as siblings and aunts, who are often observed as 'helpers at the nest'. In instances where this is the case, the alloparent and the offspring share a degree of relatedness (r [the coefficient of relatedness] > 0), and therefore kin selection is often involved in the evolution of the behaviour. Use of the term non-descendant young, as opposed to non-related young is therefore an important distinction in the definition of alloparenting. The non-descendant young in whom the alloparent invests can be conspecific (of the same species) or heterospecific (of a different species), a phenomenon often observed in fish and a select number of bird species.\n\nThere is some debate as to whether interspecific alloparenting (caring for the young of another species) constitutes 'true' alloparental care, particularly when the relationship is parasitic for the alloparent, and the care being directed is therefore 'misdirected' or constitutes a maladaptive behaviour. Though such parasitic relationships, such as what occurs with cuckoo chicks, were not specifically addressed by Edward O. Wilson in his original discussion, adoption and slavery across species in ants was discussed; a relationship which could be described as parasitic for the heterospecific young. This article will consider interspecific and parasitic alloparental behaviours to satisfy the definition of alloparental care.\n\nIn 1972, Robert Trivers defined parental investment as: \"any investment by the parent in an individual offspring that increases the offspring's chance of surviving (and hence reproductive success) at the cost of the parents ability to invest in other offspring\" (Trivers, 1972).\n\nThis concept of parental investment applies to the alloparent in the same way that it does to the genetic parent; however, any investment into the production of gametes, which Trivers included in his definition, is not relevant, and is therefore usually restricted to behavioral considerations for the alloparent. Possible forms of investment provided by an alloparent can be defined by three of the four classifications of energy expenditure proposed by Crawford and Balon (1996): \nGiven that the alloparent is never the genetic parent, and was therefore not involved in the reproductive behavior/copulation that produced the young, the Type I classification, 'energy investment in gametes', is not relevant when we consider alloparental investment.\n\nThe forms of alloparental care which occur in nature are numerous and varied and resist classification. Relationships between the alloparent and the young, and the alloparent and the genetic parent, range from cooperative and mutualistic to exploitative and parasitic. The below outline provides one classification for the many forms of alloparenting which have been observed:\n\nThis form of alloparenting is characterized by interactions/relationships which provide and overall fitness benefit to the alloparent, the young, and the genetic parent. This sort of parental care is often closely tied to social organisation and is thus very common in advanced animal societies such as primates. It can take on the forms of:\n\nRelationships between 'parents' and young that are in some way parasitic, perhaps resulting from reproductive errors or maladaptive behaviour, constitute an interesting and somewhat hazy form of alloparental care. In some cases, alloparents may find themselves investing in heterospecific young, and gaining none, or very little overall fitness benefit. Although ultimately maladaptive, this sort of behaviour may be supported by an inability of parents to recognise their own young (for example stolen fertilisations in fish), or supernormal stimuli 'enslaving' the alloparent into providing the care, as is seen in the case of brood parasitism of the cuckoo bird. The genetic parents and the young are not exempt to parasitism and exploitation either. In some species of fish, males exhibit zygote stealing, or alloparents may kidnap free-swimming young to help reduce selective pressures on their own brood. In some cases, alloparents may exploit young in order to receive immediate benefits. In some primate species, low ranking individuals, particularly males, will temporarily care for young in order to increase social status, gain reproductive benefits or use them for 'agonistic buffering', often with little concern for the welfare of the young. Two well-documented types of parasitic or misdirected alloparenting are:\n\n\nBenefits acquired by the alloparent are dependent on the form of alloparental care, but range from:\n\nIn almost all forms of alloparenting, the young receives an overall fitness benefit from the care provided. In cooperative breeding or joint brood care, the presence of 'helpers' at the nest or den will usually increase the young's probability of surviving. This has been observed in a number of species including the black-backed jackal (\"Canis mesomelas\"). In a study of jackal groups in Tanzania spanning three and a half years, it was found that the presence of sibling helpers in the den had a significant positive correlation to offspring survivorship. Through helping feed the mother and her pups, guarding the litter, and contributing to their grooming and learning of how to hunt, each helper in addition to the parents, added 1.5 surviving pups to the litter. By helping raise their full siblings, with whom they share a coefficient of relatedness of , the helpers were benefiting from increasing their inclusive fitness.\n\nIn cooperative breeding, mothers are able to conserve energy, travel further away from nesting grounds to forage for food/supplies, maintain social interactions, and better protect their offspring from predators. The offspring that experience alloparental care benefit from increased protection from predators, development of social cues, and learning group dynamics through social interactions. The alloparents benefit as they are given the opportunity to gain mothering skills before they have reached reproductive age. The relationships formed through alloparenting have also been seen to enhance the stability of the family, herd, or community over time.\n\nIn some instances of alloparental care the young are exploited, which may lead to mistreatment by the alloparent. An example of this is when male primates use young for 'agonistic buffering' during confrontations with dominant males. If the alloparents are inexperienced as parents, this could pose as a danger to the young. In some cases of brood amalgamation, young are positioned in a way that subjects them to greater predation risk than the genetic young of the alloparent.\n\nAlloparenting, given that the behaviour is often initiated by the alloparent, is rarely a costly act for the individual providing the care. Instances where the alloparent receives no benefits, or incurs a cost, generally involve parasitic relationships, where the individual has performed a reproductive mistake, or is misdirecting their parental care.\n\nIn many discussions of alloparental care, the comment is often made that alloparenting can at first appear altruistic. This appearance stems from the fact that benefits to the alloparent are very rarely immediate, and any fitness benefits gained are indirect. Though alloparenting systems based on reciprocal altruism are well studied, purely altruistic care provided by an alloparent has not been observed. Two of the main evolutionary driving forces of alloparental behaviour are kin selection and reciprocal altruism. In cases where the alloparent and young share no degree of relatedness, other benefits to the alloparent will have contributed to the evolution of the behaviour, such as 'mothering-practice' or increased survivorship through association with a group. The cases where an evolution of such behaviour is most difficult to explain are parasitic relationships such as the cuckoo chick in the nest of a smaller host parent. Behavioral ecologists have cited supernormal stimuli, reproductive errors, or the inability of alloparents to recognize their young as explanations that may support this behaviour.\n\nIn general, the occurrence of alloparental care is the result of both the life history traits of the species (how their evolution has predisposed them to behave), and the ecological conditions in which the individual finds themselves.\n\nCooperative breeding constitutes a unique case of alloparenting with a specific evolution. It is a key example of where the evolution has been driven by the combination of life history traits and ecological factors, which act as the triggers. The first hypothesis put forward for the evolution of cooperative breeding was that a shortage of suitable breeding habitat encouraged young to remain at the nest or territory for a period of time before attempting to raise their own young. For example, habitat saturation was shown to be responsible for the occurrence of cooperative breeding in the Seychelles warbler, a small passerine bird. It was also observed that remaining at the nest correlated to a higher chance of inheriting the parent's territory. Additional ecological constraints have since been proposed as factors favoring cooperative breeding:\nAs a result, cooperative breeding is often seen in populations where there is:\nThis has in turn selected for species producing a small number of offspring who require a large amount of parental care.\n\nAlloparenting behavior is known from 120 mammal and 150 avian species. \"In mammals, care typically encompasses allolactation, pup-feeding, babysitting and carrying young.\" This is seen when male Barbary macaques carry around unrelated infants and care for them for hours at a time. Another example is when warthog sows suckle piglets from other litters after the sows have lost their own litters. \n\nSperm whales (\"Physeter macrocephalus\") are deep diving cetaceans that exhibit alloparental care in the form of 'babysitting'. When the whales are young, they are not able to dive to and remain at the depths that their mothers frequent in order to graze and feed. Yet being left at the surface alone makes them vulnerable to predators like killer whales and sharks. Sperm whale social groups appear to modulate their diving behaviour in order to provide alloparental care to young within the group and reduce the time they spend alone at the surface, at the same time allowing the mother greater foraging freedom. They do this by changing the synchronicity of their dives to limit the time a young whale spends alone. As the 'babysitters' or alloparents dive and resurface the calves swim between them and therefore care is provided by a number of members within the social group.\n\nIn Lake Malawi, it has been observed that a select few species of cichlids will 'farm out' their young into catfish (\"Bagrus meridionalis\") broods, a larger predatory fish. In many cases the cichlid parent will remain close by to participate in mutualistic defense of the young. In a study by Mckaye et al. (1985), 50% of observed catfish broods contained cichlid young; with the catfish offspring in these broods having six times greater survivorship. This increased survivorship of the alloparent's young has been linked to the dilution effect, and the way that the geometry of the interspecific school is manipulated such that the cichlid young are forced to the periphery, where they are more vulnerable to predation. It is through this manipulation that the catfish young gain greater protection from predators. Although placed in a more vulnerable position, the cichlid young still benefit from the interaction; both their genetic and 'allo' parents defend against predators (mutualistic defense), and being a mouth breeding species, this 'farming out' (which frees them from the mouth) may allow the cichlid young to forage more and grow faster. It has also been observed that the bagrid catfish alloparent will allow the cichlid young to feed off the skin on its dorsal surface. This case of interspecific brood care, which in some cases results in full adoption, is unique in that it is uncommon to see care of heterospecifics where the relationship is mutualistic for all parties.\n\nAlloparenting in humans is a common form of parental care in a variety of cultures and can include care giving from siblings, grandparents, other relatives and unrelated family members such as teachers for providing learning and support. One particular example is a situation in which grandparents adopt a parental role. This is sometimes named a \"skipped generation household\". In 1997, 8% of children in the United States lived with their grandparents, with the grandparents being the caregivers in one third of those cases. According to Deihl, the Efé people of Ituri Forest in the Democratic Republic of Congo practice alloparenting, with care for infants coming from siblings, grandparents, and older members of the community. Deihl states that where siblings are alloparents this provides adolescents experience of being a parent.\n\nThe traditional model of child psychology in relation to parents is called, \"Classical Attachment\" in which the child has a strong attachment to one figure (the mother). In alloparenting communities, attachment theory suggest that the same sort of bond is shared between the child and multiple community members. This has potential advantages for the child and the parents. The child has a diversified network of caregivers which can provide intimate emotional support. The parent's cost of child rearing goes down as well as the emotional cost and cost of tangible resources. According to The US National Library of Medicine, alloparenting has proven to activate portions of the brain that are correlated with decreasing stress levels.\n"}
{"id": "2013846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013846", "title": "Jeff Lang", "text": "Jeff Lang\n\nJeff Lang (born 9 November 1969) is an Australian guitarist, songwriter, vocalist and music producer. Lang plays various types of guitar, both slide and standard, as well as banjo, mandolin, Chumbush and drums.\n\nHe is a three-time ARIA Award winner, for his albums \"Rolling Through This World\" (2002), \"Djan Djan\" (2010) and \"Carried in Mind\" (2012). Lang has performed at festivals all across the world including The Dublin Blues Festival, Philadelphia Folk Festival, Quebec City Music Festival, Falcon Ridge Folk Festival, Winterhawk Bluegrass Festival, Fuji Rock, Glastonbury, Echo Park China, Ottawa BluesFest as well as in Australia at Port Fairy, Woodford, Bluesfest Byron Bay and Womadelaide.\n\nLang approaches record deals on a record-by-record basis saying \"I still own all my records. The early albums, like \"Cedar Grove\", still come out through an independent distribution deal\" and he picks his own musicians and how he wishes each record to sound. \n\nJeff Lang became interested in music at age eight, when he started playing the clarinet. His early influences were AC/DC, Bob Dylan, Leo Kottke, Ry Cooder, Roy Buchanan and Neil Young. As a teen, Lang began to learn guitar and commenced performing as a blues guitarist at 17, supporting artists like Albert Collins, Rory Gallagher and Trudy Lynn. His musical vocabulary expanded to include traditional Celtic and folk elements as he began recording his own material in 1990. Along with gigs in local blues bands, Lang formed \"The Jeff Lang Band\" as a showcase for his songwriting skills. The band disbanded in 1993 and concentrated on playing solo shows. Lang said the band disbandment was a \"purely instinctive decision\" and one he's never looked back from.\n\nIn 1994, Lang self-released his debut studio album titled, \"Ravenswood\", which was followed by a live recording titled \"Disturbed Folk\" in 1995. \n\nIn 1996, Lang released \"Native Dog Creek\" on Black Market Music. The album was named Best Australian Blues Album in \"Rhythms Magazine's\" readers poll.\n\nIn 1998, Lang released his third studio album titled, \"Cedar Grove\", which was nominated for ARIA Award for Best Blues and Roots Album at the ARIA Music Awards of 1999. In 1999, Lang released a limited edition album titled, \"The Silverbacks\" with Hat Fritz.\n\nIn 2001, Lang released \"Everything Is Still\" with Angus Diggs. The album was again nominated for ARIA Award for Best Blues and Roots Album at the ARIA Music Awards of 2001. In 2002, Lang join Bob Brozman and collaborated again with Diggs on the album \"Rolling Through This World\". At the ARIA Music Awards of 2002, the album, won the ARIA Award for Best Blues and Roots Album, Lang's first win.\n\nIn July 2004, Lang released his seventh studio album \"Whatever Makes You Happy\", his first on ABC Music. The album, became his first album to reach the ARIA top 100, peaking at number 91. \n\nIn 2005, Lang released \"You Have to Dig Deep to Bury Daddy\" on ABC Classics. Lang said \"There are a couple of instrumental things on this album that were actually recorded some years ago. They were in the background for possible inclusion on other albums. Specifically, tracks like 'And All the Snow Melted' and 'I'm Not the One Sweating Like They Just Told Me a Lie'.. had a darker mood. They didn't seem to fit on the last record. So what I did this time around was, I put them on the table first. I wanted to use these instrumental pieces. So I started with them and recorded stuff with that in mind.\"\n\nIn August 2006, Lang collaborated with Chris Whitley and released \"Dislocation Blues\". The album peaked at number 64 on the ARIA Charts. \"Half Seas Over\" was released in 2008 and \"Chimeradour\" in 2009. All three albums were released on ABC Roots and all nominated for ARIA Awards.\n\nIn 2009, Lang collaborated with Mamadou Diabate and Bobby Singh on the album \"Djan Djan\". The album which was released in 2010. At the ARIA Music Awards of 2010, the album won ARIA Award for Best World Music Album.\n\nIn 2011, Lang released \"Carried in Mind\". \n\nIn 2012, Lang was presented with the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia's National Folk Recording Award.\n\nIn May 2014, Lang released the soundtrack to the TV series \"The Gods of Wheat Street\". This won Lang his first APRA Award at the APRA Music Awards of 2014, where he won Best Television Theme.\n\nIn 2019, Lang released \"Next The Come for You\", on LP. The album is an instrumental recording featuring Lang and his regular drummer Danny McKenna playing music they wrote together without restrictions, constraints.\n\nIn 2020, Lang released \"Some Memories Never Die\". Lang said \"For \"Some Memories Never Die\" I wanted to connect recollections from the life I've lived to some of the songs I've made up along the way. I wasn't looking to write a linear autobiography, with my life's journey laid out in order of occurrence, more a series of stand-alone vignettes was what I had in mind. I wasn't sure exactly how a good many of these tales could be connected to the songs I intended to include, as I don't generally write autobiographical songs. But as I wrote down the varied reminiscences, certain stories seemed to go together and themes became apparent to me. Gradually it all seemed to find it's form, and \"Some Memories Never Die\" is the end result.\n\nThe APRA Awards are presented annually from 1982 by the Australasian Performing Right Association (APRA), \"honouring composers and songwriters\". Lang has been nominated for one award.\nThe ARIA Music Awards is an annual awards ceremony that recognises excellence, innovation, and achievement across all genres of Australian music. Lang has won 3 awards from 10 nominations.\n\nLang primarily plays acoustic guitars, although he has an unorthodox way of amplifying them, running a combination of a built-in microphone and a Sunrise magnetic pick-up together for his clean acoustic sound, while also running the output of the Sunrise pick-up through various effects through an electric guitar amplifier allowing him to obtain both acoustic and distorted electric guitar tones from the same guitar. This approach has been hugely influential in the Australian scene, particularly after the well-known guitarist John Butler was inspired by Lang's playing and sound to pursue a very similar setup.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013847", "title": "Epsilon Geminorum", "text": "Epsilon Geminorum\n\nEpsilon Geminorum (ε Geminorum, abbreviated Epsilon Gem, ε Gem), formally named Mebsuta , is a star in the constellation of Gemini, on the outstretched right 'leg' of the twin Castor. The apparent visual magnitude of +3.06 makes it one of the brighter stars in this constellation. The distance to this star can be determined by parallax measurements, giving a value of , with a margin of error of .\n\n\"ε Geminorum\" (Latinised to \"Epsilon Geminorum\") is the star's Bayer designation. It bore the traditional names \"Mebsuta\", \"Melboula\" or \"Melucta\". \"Mebsuta\" has its roots in ancient Arabic where it and the star Mekbuda (Zeta Geminorum) were the paws of a lion. \"Mebsuta\" ('Mabsūṭah' مبسوطة) comes from a phrase referring to the outstretched paw. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Mebsuta\" for this star.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Well (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of ε Geminorum, μ Geminorum, ν Geminorum, γ Geminorum, ξ Geminorum, 36 Geminorum, ζ Geminorum and λ Geminorum. Consequently, ε Geminorum itself is known as (, .)\n\nThe spectrum of this star matches a stellar classification of G8 Ib, where the luminosity class of Ib indicates this is a lower luminosity supergiant star. Alternatively, it may be a star that has passed through the asymptotic giant branch stage and possesses a detached shell of dust. The estimated mass of this star is over 19 times the mass of the Sun, and it has expanded to a radius measured at around 105–175 times that of the Sun. Since 1943, the spectrum of this star has served as one of the stable anchor points by which other stars are classified.\n\nEpsilon Geminorum is radiating around 8,500 times the luminosity of the Sun from its outer atmosphere at an effective temperature of 4,662 K. It is this temperature that gives it the yellow-hued glow of a G-type star. A surface magnetic field with a strength of has been detected on this star. This topologically complex field is most likely generated by a dynamo formed from the deep convection zone in the star's outer envelope.\n\nEpsilon Geminorum lies near the ecliptic, so it can be occulted by the Moon or a planet. Such an occultation took place on April 8, 1976 by Mars, which allowed the oblateness of the planet's outer atmosphere to be measured. Epsilon Geminorum was occulted by Mercury on June 10, 1940, and on September 3, 2015 it was occulted by the asteroid Iphigenia.\n\nUSS Melucta (AK-131) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star.\n"}
{"id": "2013853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013853", "title": "Delta Geminorum", "text": "Delta Geminorum\n\nDelta Geminorum (δ Geminorum, abbreviated Delta Gem, δ Gem), formally named Wasat , is a triple star system in the constellation of Gemini.\n\n\"δ Geminorum\" (Latinised to \"Delta Geminorum\") is the system's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Wasat\", which derives from the Arabic word for \"middle\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Wasat\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Celestial Wine Cup\", refers to an asterism consisting of Delta Geminorum, 57 Geminorum and Omega Geminorum. Consequently, Delta Geminorum itself is known as (, .). From this Chinese name, the name \"Ta Tsun\" has appeared.\n\nDelta Geminorum is a subgiant star with the stellar classification F0 IV. It is about distant. This star has 1.57 times the mass of the Sun and is rotating rapidly with a projected rotational velocity of . The estimated age is 1.6 billion years.\n\nIt has an apparent visual magnitude of +3.53, allowing it to be seen with the naked eye. It is 0.18 degree south of the ecliptic so it is occasionally occulted by the Moon and, rarely, by a planet; and is eclipsed by the sun from about 10-12 July. Thus the star can be viewed the whole night, crossing the sky, in mid-January. The last occultation by a planet was by Saturn on June 30, 1857, and the next will be by Venus on August 12, 2420. In 1930, the dwarf planet Pluto was discovered about 0.5° to the east of this star by American astronomer Clyde Tombaugh.\n\nDelta Geminorum is a triple star system. The inner components form a spectroscopic binary with a period of 6.1 years (2,238.7 days) and an orbital eccentricity of 0.3530. A cooler class K companion is not apparent to the naked eye but clearly visible in a small telescope. It orbits the inner pair with a period of 1,200 years and an eccentricity of 0.11. Although according to its radial velocity is away from the Sun, it is actually approaching the Solar System. In about 1.1 million years, it will make its closest approach at a separation of roughly .\n"}
{"id": "2013861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013861", "title": "Jack McKinney (writer)", "text": "Jack McKinney (writer)\n\nJack McKinney was a pseudonym used by American authors James Luceno and Brian Daley before the latter's death.\n\nAs well as adapting \"Robotech\" into novel form, they were also responsible for the series which continued to expand the Robotech Universe. They also wrote the Black Hole Travel Agency series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013864", "title": "1938 in South Africa", "text": "1938 in South Africa\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1938 in South Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013865", "title": "Lethbridge, Victoria", "text": "Lethbridge, Victoria\n\nLethbridge is a rural township outside Geelong, Victoria, Australia. Bluestone from Lethbridge quarries was used to build several significant buildings in Melbourne, including the steps to the Parliament House. At the , Lethbridge had a population of 1,014.\n\nLethbridge Post Office opened on 10 September 1857 and closed in 1980.\n\nThe community of Lethbridge has a range of facilities and services including:\n\nThe railway came to the town with the opening of the Geelong-Ballarat line in 1862, with the local railway station opened soon after, but today only grain and fruit trains use the line.\n\nMoranghurk, a Lethbridge homestead dating from approximately the 1840s, located on the Midland Highway, is listed on the Victorian Heritage Register.\n\nPeter Lalor, the leader of the Eureka Stockade rebellion, hid overnight in Lethbridge while fleeing from Ballarat to Geelong in November 1854.\n\nGeorge Elmslie, first Labor Premier of Victoria, was born in Lethbridge in 1861.\n"}
{"id": "2013867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013867", "title": "Lambda Sagittarii", "text": "Lambda Sagittarii\n\nLambda Sagittarii (λ Sagittarii, abbreviated Lambda Sgr, λ Sgr), formally named Kaus Borealis , is a star in the southern constellation of Sagittarius. The star marks the top of the Archer's bow.\n\nWith an apparent visual magnitude of +2.82, this is one of the brighter members of the constellation and, according to the Bortle Dark-Sky Scale, it is readily visible to the naked eye. Based upon parallax measurements, it is from the Sun.\n\nBeing 2.1 degrees south of the ecliptic, Lambda Sgr is sometimes occulted by the Moon and, rarely, by a planet. The last planet to pass in front of it was Venus, on 19 November 1984. The previous occasion was 5 December 1865, when it was occulted by Mercury.\n\nKaus Borealis is a subgiant star with a stellar classification of K0 IV. It has a mass 2.6 times that of the Sun. The interferometry-measured angular diameter of this star, after correction for limb darkening, is . At the estimated distance of Lambda Sagittarii, this yields a physical size of about 11 times the radius of the Sun. This expanded outer envelope is radiating energy at an effective temperature of 4,770 K, causing it to glow with the cool orange hue of a K-type star. It appears to be rotating at a leisurely rate, with a projected rotational velocity of .\n\n\"λ Sagittarii\" (Latinised to \"Lambda Sagittarii\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Kaus Borealis\", which derives from the Arabic قوس \"qaws\" 'bow' and Latin \"boreālis\" 'northern'. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Kaus Borealis\" for this star.\n\nThis star, with Gamma Sagittarii, Delta Sagittarii, Epsilon Sagittarii, Zeta Sagittarii, Sigma Sagittarii, Tau Sagittarii and Phi Sagittarii comprises the \"Teapot\" asterism.\n\nIn the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium\" of Al Achsasi al Mouakket, this star was designated \"Rai al Naaim\", which was translated into Latin as \"Pastor Struthionum\", meaning \"keeper of the ostriches\".\n\nThis star is Al Tizini's \"Rāʽi al Naʽāïm\" (ألراع ٱلنعم), the Keeper of the Naʽams (Ostrich), meaning the \"keeper\" the two asterisms \"Al Naʽām al Wārid\" ( الوارد النعم ), \"The Going Ostriches\" and \"Al Naʽām al Ṣādirah\" (النعم السادرة), \"The Returning Ostriches\".\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Dipper\", refers to an asterism consisting of Lambda Sagittarii, Phi Sagittarii, Mu Sagittarii, Sigma Sagittarii, Tau Sagittarii and Zeta Sagittarii. Consequently, Lambda Sagittarii itself is (, .)\n\n\\end{align}</math></ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "2013871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013871", "title": "Microbiology Society", "text": "Microbiology Society\n\nThe Microbiology Society (previously the Society for General Microbiology) is a learned society based in the United Kingdom with a worldwide membership based in universities, industry, hospitals, research institutes and schools. It is the largest learned microbiological society in Europe. Interests of its members include basic and applied aspects of viruses, prions, bacteria, rickettsiae, mycoplasma, fungi, algae and protozoa, and all other aspects of microbiology. Its headquarters is at 14–16 Meredith Street, London.<ref name=\"microbiologysociety.org/why-microbiology-matters/contact-us.html\"></ref> The Society's current president is Prof. Judy Armitage. The Society is a member of the Science Council.\n\nThe society was founded on 16 February 1945 as the Society for General Microbiology. Its first president was Alexander Fleming. The Society's first academic meeting was in July 1945 and its first journal, the \"Journal of General Microbiology\" (later renamed \"Microbiology\"), was published in 1947. A symposium series followed in 1949, and a sister journal, the \"Journal of General Virology\", in 1967. The society purchased its own headquarters in Reading in 1971, after initially sharing accommodation with the Biochemical Society in London. In 2014 the Society moved to Charles Darwin House, London, sharing the premises with several other learned societies. In 2015, the Society changed its name to the Microbiology Society, after its members voted in favour of the change. In 2019 the Society moved to its new headquarters at 14–16 Meredith Street, London.\n\nThe Society currently organises a large Annual Conference and a number of smaller Focused Meetings, which cover a specific microbiology discipline. It publishes a magazine, \"Microbiology Today\" (formerly SGM Quarterly), and academic journals in virology and microbiology:\n\nThe Microbiology Society awards a range of prizes in recognition of significant contributions to microbiology.\n\nIn 2009, the Society announced the Society for General Microbiology Prize Medal, awarded annually to a microbiologist of international standing whose work has had a far-reaching impact beyond microbiology. The first medal was awarded to Stanley Prusiner. The recipient of the Prize Medal gives a lecture based on the work for which the award has been made, which is usually published in a Society journal. In 2015, the prize was renamed the Microbiology Society Prize Medal.\n\nThe Marjory Stephenson Prize is awarded annually for an outstanding contribution of current importance in microbiology. The winner receives £1000 and gives a lecture on his/her work at a Society meeting. The lecture is usually published in a society journal. Marjory Stephenson was the second president of the Society (1947–1949) and a distinguished pioneer of chemical microbiology.\n\nThe Fleming Prize Lecture is awarded annually to recognise outstanding research in any branch of microbiology by a microbiologist in the early stages of his/her career. Sir Alexander Fleming was the first President of the Society (1945-1947) and received a Nobel Prize for his discovery of penicillin.\n\nThe Sir Howard Dalton Young Microbiologist of the Year Competition is presented annually to a Society member who is a PhD student or early-career postdoctoral researcher. The competition is judged on the participants’ oral or poster presentations at Society conferences. The prize was renamed in 2009 in honour of the late Howard Dalton.\n\nThe Peter Wildy Prize Lecture is awarded annually for contribution to microbiology education or communication. It is named after Peter Wildy, a virologist It was established in 2001.\n\nSource: Microbiology Society\n"}
{"id": "2013872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013872", "title": "Eta Geminorum", "text": "Eta Geminorum\n\nEta Geminorum (η Geminorum, abbreviated Eta Gem, η Gem), formally named Propus , is a triple star system in the constellation of Gemini. It is a naked-eye variable star around 380 light years from the Sun.\n\n\"Eta Geminorum\" is the star's Bayer designation. The traditional names \"Tejat Prior\", \"Propus\" (from the Greek, meaning forward foot) and \"Praepes\" and \"Pish Pai\" (from the Persian Pīshpāy, پیش‌پای, meaning foreleg). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Propus\" for this star.\n\nThis star, along with γ Gem (Alhena), μ Gem (Tejat Posterior), ν Gem and ξ Gem (Alzirr) were \"Al Han'ah\", \"the brand\" (on the neck of the camel). They also were associated in \"Al Nuḥātai\", the dual form of \"Al Nuḥāt\", \"a Camel's Hump\".\n\nIn Chinese lunar mansion, Tejat Prior is the only member of the lunar mansion 钺 (Pinyin: \"Yuè\", Chinese 'Battle Axe').\n\nη Geminorum lies at the foot of the Castor side of Gemini, about two degrees west of μ Geminorum and two degrees southeast of the bright open cluster M35. Between the two stars are several faint areas of nebulosity. η Gem just to the west of the supernova remnant shell IC 443. Further east around μ Gem is the emission nebula S249. In between is the small faint emission nebula IC 444 around the 7th magnitude 12 Geminorum.\n\nη Geminorum is 0.9 degree south of the ecliptic, so it can be occulted by the Moon and, rarely, by planets. The last occultation by a planet took place on July 27, 1910, by Venus, and the next to last on July 11, 1837, by Mercury.\n\nIn 1865, Julius Schmidt first reported that η Geminorum was a variable star. The light variations were described by Schmidt and other observers as having long maxima of constant brightness, minima of greatly varying size and shape, and a period around 231 days. The star was classified as both a semiregular variable and an eclipsing variable. The eclipse period has been set at about eight years, corresponding to the orbit of an unseen companion. The eclipses have been questioned many times, but special observations are still been made at the times of predicted eclipses.\n\nThe semi-regular variations have been classified as type SRa, indicating relatively predictable periodicity with some variations in amplitude and light curve shape. These types of variable are considered to be very similar to Mira variables, but with smaller amplitudes. Many long-period variables show long secondary periods, typically ten times longer than the main period, but these changes have not been detected for η Geminorum. The main period has been refined to an average of 234 days.\n\nη Geminorum is a triple system, with the luminous class M star having a close companion known only from radial velocity variations, and a more distant companion resolved visually.\n\nIn 1881, Burnham observed that η Geminorum had a close companion (η Gem B). At that time the separation was measured to be 1.08\". This has now increased to 1.65\" and an orbit has been calculated to be 474 years long and rather eccentric. Little is known about the companion, although it is 6th magnitude. It is given a G0 spectral type and is assumed to be a giant on the basis of its brightness.\n\nIn 1902, William Wallace Campbell reported that η Geminorum A showed radial velocity variations. The assumption was that the star was a spectroscopic binary, although no period or other orbital parameters were determined. An orbit calculated in 1944 is essentially unchanged today, with a period of 2,983 days and an eccentricity of 0.53. Observations were made looking for sign of eclipses corresponding to the derived orbit, but the evidence was regarded as inconclusive. Due to the appearance of the spectrum, the spectroscopic companion is suspected to be a fainter M-class star.\n\nThe luminous main component of η Geminorum is an asymptotic giant branch star, a highly evolved cool luminous star that was originally on the main sequence. How the system contains 3 evolved stars with very different masses remains to be seen.\n\nUSS Propus (AK-132) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star.\n"}
{"id": "2013874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013874", "title": "Rothersthorpe", "text": "Rothersthorpe\n\nRothersthorpe is a small village of medieval origin, in South Northamptonshire, England, with a population of 500 in the 2001 Census, reducing to 472 at the 2011 census. It is from the town of Northampton.\n\nThe village is in the area of South Northamptonshire District Council and Harpole and Grange ward, together with the villages of Milton Malsor, Gayton, Harpole and Kislingbury. The ward had a total population of 1,721 in the 2001 census. The village is part of the Daventry constituency.\n\nThe Berry ringworks are medieval fortifications built and occupied from the late Anglo-Saxon period to the later 12th century. They are situated between the junction of North Street and Church Street and were small defended areas of buildings surrounded partly or completely by large ditches and earthworks topped by wooden palisades. They are rare nationally.\n\nThe Berry is the site of a ringwork which stood at the centre of medieval Rothersthorpe. The site is irregularly shaped with a wide ditch on the north and west sides. There are the remains of an inner rampart in the north east corner and southern end. Features in the west of the interior of the works show the locations of former buildings. Remains of ridge and furrow farming are on the eastern side.\n\nThe remains of Andrzej Kulesza, 27, were found in a field in the village in April 2011 by a woman walking her dog and confirmed as his in July 2011. A £20,000 reward was offered for information about his kidnap and murder. He disappeared from his home in Stamford Hill in September 2010 after going out to shop. His girlfriend received ransom calls and paid some money, but the calls stopped days after he went missing. Two men were arrested on suspicion of kidnap and murder and bailed to return later. On 7 August 2013 Kamil Dreszer was convicted of Kulesza's murder and sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 22 years. Artur Janik was found guilty of manslaughter, kidnapping, false imprisonment and preventing the lawful burial and disposal of a corpse. He was jailed for 11 years. Daniel Kosowski was found guilty of preventing the lawful burial and disposal of a corpse and jailed for 30 months.\n\nThe 2001 Census shows 500 people living in the parish, 237 male and 263 female, in 191 dwellings.\n\nThe village has a mixed Church of England primary school, and the church of SS Peter and Paul. A pub, The Chequers, closed in 2011.\n\nThe M1 motorway with the Northampton (formerly known as Rothersthorpe) Service Area and junction 15A is nearby but mostly out of hearing as the prevailing wind is south-westerly. There is, however, light pollution from the service area and a large area of warehouses in the nearby area of Northampton.\n\nThe Northampton Arm of the Grand Union Canal, built in 1815 passes near to Rothersthorpe. Seventeen locks, taking the canal into Northampton and its junction with the River Nene, takes about two hours for a boat to travel through.\n\nThe village is bisected by the Banbury Lane, an ancient drovers' road along which cattle were once taken to market in Banbury from as far afield as Scotland. Along this road a mile or so south was a level crossing with the West Coast Main Line railway route from London Euston to Glasgow, Scotland. The crossing was one of few left on the line and the first outside Euston, some 65 miles south. The level crossing and an adjacent bridge over the Grand Union Canal were replaced by a curved bridge in 2005. This was for safety reasons following projected speed increases to 125 miles per hour on the line operated by tilting Class 390 \"Pendolino\" trains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013881", "title": "Electra (star)", "text": "Electra (star)\n\nElectra , designated 17 Tauri, is a blue-white giant star in the constellation of Taurus. It is the third-brightest star in the Pleiades open star cluster (M45); the most visible stars in this group are named for the Seven Sisters of Greek mythology.\n\nThe star has an apparent brightness of 3.72, the third-brightest of the stars in the group. Electra belongs to the spectral class B6 IIIe and is approximately 400 light-years from the Sun. The Pleiades cluster is thought to be 444 light-years away.\n\nThe projected rotational velocity of this star is 181 km/s, making it a fast rotator. This is the velocity component of the star's equatorial rotation along the line of sight to the Earth. The estimated inclination of the star's pole is , giving it a true equatorial rotational velocity of . The rapid rotation rate of this star flattens the poles and stretch the equator. This makes the surface gravity of the star non-uniform and causes temperature variation. This effect is known as gravity darkening, because it results in a variation of radiation by latitude. The rapid rotation extends the life span of the star by increasing the core density and reducing the radiation output.\n\nThis is classified as a Be star, which is a B-type star with prominent emission lines of hydrogen in its spectrum. The Be stars have a rotation rate that is 1.5–2 times the rotation of normal B-type stars. This high rate of rotation may allow mass loss during even minor prominences. Changes in the radial velocity measurements indicate that this star may have a companion, which would make Electra a spectroscopic binary.\n\nInfrared observations of this star showed an excess level of radiation equal to about 0.5 magnitudes. This emission is probably from a gaseous disk created by radiation-driven mass loss and rapid rotation of the star. These disks are created by an ejection of material roughly every ten years, which then settles into the equatorial plane about the star. However, the bright nebulosity that surrounds this star makes the observation uncertain.\n\n\"17 Tauri\" is the star's Flamsteed designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Electra\". Electra was one of the Pleiades sisters in Greek mythology. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Electra\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nUSS \"Electra\" (1843) and USS \"Electra\" (AK-21/AKA-4), both of United States Navy.\n"}
{"id": "2013883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013883", "title": "The Clash of the Wolves", "text": "The Clash of the Wolves\n\nThe Clash of the Wolves is a 1925 American silent Western/adventure film produced and distributed by Warner Bros. Directed by Noel M. Smith, the film stars canine actor Rin Tin Tin, Charles Farrell and June Marlowe. It was filmed on location in Chatsworth, California, and at what would later become the Joshua Tree National Park. It was transferred onto 16mm film by Associated Artists Productions in the 1950s and shown on television. A 35mm print of the film was discovered in South Africa and restored in 2003. In 2004, \"The Clash of the Wolves\" was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry. \n\nLobo, wolfdog leader of a wolf pack, has a price on his head. One day suffering from a thorn in his paw, he is found by Dave Weston, a borax prospector and befriended. The animal returns love and loyalty. Later Lobo saves Dave from attacks of scheming villain William 'Borax' Horton, who has designs on Dave's claim. Once again the villain attacks the young prospector and leaves him for dead on the site of the claim. Lobo arrives and Dave sends him with a message to town for help. In the meantime a posse is hunting Lobo, but he manages to escape them and at the same time, decoy them to Dave. There, they learn that Lobo is man's best friend.\n\n\nMichael L. Simmons wrote in the \"Exhibitors Trade Review\", that \"He (Rin-Tin-Tin) brings to the role of leader of a wolf-pack, an intelligence, a beauty of motion, an impressive cleverness that should find wide favor. He is a spectacle, in my opinion, well worth the price of admission.\" Simmons went on to say that \"It is obvious throughout; every time the human cast stacks up alongside the exploits of the animal players, the latter stands out far ahead in the ability to compel interest.\" \"Motion Picture News\" reviewer George T. Pardy praised the performance of Rin-Tin-Tin, saying; \"his work all through is extraordinary and far above that of his average doggish contemporaries in filmland...the thrills are many and pungent, mostly arising from the endeavors to trap or shoot Lobo of folks who know that there is a price set on the head of the kingly wolf.\" A review in \"The Film Daily\" was critical of the film stating, \"No doubt the author is chiefly to blame for furnishing a script that is a mixture of dizzy melodrama, burlesque, caricature - anything in fact far removed from reality. Director Noel Smith struggled bravely with it. He deserves credit for getting over the dog sequences with a snap and a punch. The rest of the weak story seemed to have him licked.\"\n\nAccording to Warner Bros records the film earned $232,000 domestically and $38,000 foreign.\n\nA 35mm projection print of \"The Clash of the Wolves\" was found in South Africa and returned to the United States. It underwent restoration and preservation in 2003. Abridged and full versions survive in the Library of Congress Packard Campus for Audio-Visual Conservation.\n\nIn 2004, \"The Clash of the Wolves\" was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the United States Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry. \n\n"}
{"id": "2013896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013896", "title": "Beta Virginis", "text": "Beta Virginis\n\nBeta Virginis (β Virginis, abbreviated Beta Vir, β Vir), formally named Zavijava , is (despite its designation 'beta') the fifth-brightest star in the constellation of Virgo. Larger and more massive than the Sun, it is comparatively metal-rich (that is, it has a higher preponderance of elements heavier than helium).\n\nIt is 0.69 degrees north of the ecliptic, so it can be occulted by the Moon and (rarely) by planets. The next planetary occultation of Zavijava will take place on 11 August 2069, by Venus.\n\n\"β Virginis\" (Latinised to \"Beta Virginis\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nIt bore the traditional names \"Zavijava\" (also \"Zavijah\", \"Zavyava\" and \"Zawijah\") and \"Alaraph\". \"Zavijava\" is from the Arabic \"زاوية العواء\" \"zāwiyat al-awwa’\" 'corner of the barking (dog)'. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Zavijava\" for this star on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Right Wall of Supreme Palace Enclosure\", refers to an asterism consisting of Beta Virginis, Sigma Leonis, Iota Leonis, Theta Leonis and Delta Leonis. Consequently, the Chinese name for Beta Virginis itself is (, .), representing (), meaning \"The Right Law Administrator\". 右執法 (Yòuzhífǎ), spelled \"Yew Chi Fa\" by R.H. Allen, means \"the Right-hand Maintainer of Law\" \n\nAccording to Nelson & Angel (1998), Beta Virginis could host two or three jovian planets in wide orbits. The authors have set an upper limit of 1.9, 5 and 23 Jupiter masses for the putative planets with orbital periods of 15, 25 and 50 years respectively. Also Campbell et al. 1988 inferred the existence of planetary objects or even brown dwarfs around Beta Virginis.\nHowever more recent studies have not confirmed the existence of any substellar companion around Beta Virginis yet. McDonald Observatory team has set limits to the presence of one or more planets with masses between 0.16 and 4.2 Jupiter masses and average separations spanning between 0.05 and 5.2 Astronomical Units.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013901", "title": "1989 Norwegian parliamentary election", "text": "1989 Norwegian parliamentary election\n\nParliamentary elections were held in Norway on 10 and 11 September 1989. The Labour Party remained the largest party in the Storting, winning 63 of the 165 seats.\n\nThe non-socialist parties gained a majority, and Jan P. Syse became prime minister of a coalition minority cabinet consisting of the Conservative Party, the Christian Democratic Party, and the Centre Party. This cabinet was disbanded a year later after the Center Party broke with the Conservatives due to the Norwegian EU membership issue. Thus the Labour Party was again in government at the 1993 election four years later.\n"}
{"id": "2013905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013905", "title": "Honda Clarity", "text": "Honda Clarity\n\nThe Honda Clarity is a nameplate used by Honda on alternative fuel vehicles. It was initially used only on hydrogen fuel-cell electric vehicles such as the 2008 Honda FCX Clarity, but in 2017 the nameplate was expanded to include the battery-electric Honda Clarity Electric and the plug-in hybrid electric Honda Clarity Plug-in Hybrid, in addition to the next generation Honda Clarity Fuel Cell.\n\nThe Honda FCX Clarity is based on the 2006 Honda FCX Concept and only available as a hydrogen fuel-cell electric vehicle. The FCX Clarity had electric car qualities such as zero emissions while offering five minute refueling times and long range in a full function large sedan. It was the first hydrogen fuel cell vehicle available to retail customers.\n\nProduction began in June 2008 with leasing in the U.S. commenced in July 2008. It was introduced in Japan in November 2008. The FCX Clarity was available for lease in the U.S., Japan and Europe. In the U.S., it was only available to customers who live in Southern California where several hydrogen fuel stations are available. FCX Clarity were leased for a month in 2010, including collision coverage, maintenance, roadside assistance and hydrogen fuel. There were around 10 others on lease in Japan and another 10 in Europe in 2009. One of the reasons for such a low number of cars in the U.S. was a lack of hydrogen filling stations. In 2014 Honda announced to phase out the FCX Clarity. From 2008 to 2015, Honda leased a total of 48 FCX units in the US.\n\nThe FCX Clarity electrical power comes from a 100 kW Honda Vertical Flow (V Flow) hydrogen fuel cell stack whereby electricity is supplied on demand. In common with many electric vehicles, the car has regenerative braking and uses a separate battery to store energy recovered during braking.\n\nThe electric motor is based on the motor used in the EV Plus, rated at and torque @0-3056 rpm. The range on a full hydrogen tank (4.1 kg @ 5000psi) is EPA certified at 240 miles (~386 km). The vehicle is estimated to get about per kilogram hydrogen in the city, per kilogram highway and per kilogram in combined driving.\n\nThe FCX Clarity is about shorter than a 2008 Honda Accord. It comes with an innovative cockpit: the display in the dashboard includes a dot that changes color and size as hydrogen consumption grows, to make it easier for the driver to monitor their driving efficiency. A separate display shows the battery power level and another shows motor output. A speedometer is placed above the cockpit display, to make it easy for the driver to keep eyes on the road. In the interior, upholstery on the seats and door linings are made with Honda's plant-derived Bio-Fabric.\n\nThe FCX Clarity was produced in Japan at a dedicated fuel-cell-vehicle assembly line in the Honda Automobile New Model Center (Takanezawa-machi, Shioya-gun, Tochigi Prefecture). The fuel cell stack itself is produced at Honda Engineering Co., Ltd. (Haga-machi, Haga-gun, Tochigi Prefecture).\n\nIt is reported that Honda plans to offer hydrogen fuel cell vehicle at costs competitive with gasoline mid-size cars by 2020 although its 2005 hand-built predecessor to the Clarity cost about $1 million.\n\nIn July 2014 Honda announced the FCX Clarity would be discontinued and replaced by a new and higher-volume hydrogen fuel-cell vehicle to be introduced.\n\nIt is reported in 2009 that hydrogen made from natural gas cost about $5 to $10 per kilogram in California, and after compression cost and transportation cost, retails for $12-$14 per kilogram. Although it was more than double the equivalent amount of gasoline during the summer of 2009, fuel-cell cars have double the efficiency of similar models with a gasoline engine. The FCX Clarity averaged 60 miles per kilogram of hydrogen.\n\nThe FCX Clarity's features include an AM-FM car radio with CD player, integration for iPod and iPhone, a USB port, auxiliary input, a voice-activated GPS navigation system, XM satellite radio, cloth seating surfaces, Bluetooth, and digital instrumentation.\n\nSince the car's unveil at the 2007 Los Angeles Auto Show, it was reported in May 2008 there were 50,000 people inquiring about the car through its Web site.\n\nRetail deliveries of the 2017 Honda Clarity Fuel Cell began in Southern California in December 2016. The Clarity is available in 12 approved Honda dealerships located in select California markets, including six dealerships in Southern California, five in the San Francisco Bay Area, and one in Sacramento. The Clarity Fuel Cell, with range of , had the highest EPA driving range rating of any zero-emissions vehicle in the U.S, including fuel cell and battery electric vehicles, until the Hyundai Nexo was released in early 2019. The 2017 Clarity also has the highest combined and city fuel economy ratings among all hydrogen fuel cell cars rated by the EPA, with a combined city/highway rating of 67 miles per gallon gasoline equivalent (MPGe), and 68 MPGe in city driving.\n\nIn April 2016, Honda announced that in addition to the new generation Clarity Fuel Cell there are two additional variants - the Clarity Electric and Clarity Plug-in Hybrid, which were both released in 2017. The all-electric Clarity EV with a 25.5 KWh battery has of range, and is only available for a three-year lease (US$199/month with US$899 down) for residents of California or Oregon.\n\nFor the US market, the Clarity Electric is equipped with SAE J1772-2009 (Type 1) receptacle for 120-240 V Level 1 and 2 AC charging, and associated Combined Charging System (Combo 1) for DC fast charging. Approximate charging time at 240 V is 3.5 hours and 19 hours at 120 V.\n\nProduction stopped at the end of 2019 citing low demand.\n\nThe plug-in hybrid (PHEV) model was launched December 1, 2017 in the U.S. market with a starting MSRP of $34,290; it is eligible for the full $7,500 federal tax credit in the U.S. compared to other PHEV due to its longer electric-only range, along with other incentives for plug-ins in certain states. The Clarity PHEV has an EPA-rated all-electric range of , with a total combined gas/electric range of . The equipped 1.5 L engine boasts an industry-leading 40 percent thermal efficiency.\n\nIt is the only Clarity model available in all 50 U.S. states as well as Canada, where it was launched nationwide in the latter on December 14, 2017 starting at an MSRP of C$39,990, before available government incentives up to C$13,000.\n\nFor the North American market, the Clarity Plug-in Hybrid is equipped with SAE J1772-2009 (Type 1) receptacle for 120-240 V Level 1 and 2 AC charging. Approximately 13 hours at Level 1 and 2.5 hours at Level 2 are needed to charge Clarity Plug-in Hybrid's battery to full.\nThe Clarity PHEV was subsequently released in Japan on July 20, 2018, with an MSRP of ¥5,880,600 including 8% consumption tax, with an advertised all-electric range of on the JC08 driving cycle or on the WLTP driving cycle. Compare to the North American model, the Japanese model includes an additional CHAdeMO DC fast charging connector, providing an 80% battery charge in 30 minutes.\n\nThe following table shows fuel economy ratings from the United States Environmental Protection Agency test procedures for both the 2014 FCX Clarity and the 2017 Clarity Fuel Cell, expressed in miles per gallon gasoline equivalent (MPGe). One kg of hydrogen is roughly equivalent to one U.S. gallon of gasoline.\n\nOn 25 July 2007 the United States Internal Revenue Service announced that the Honda FCX Clarity met the requirements of the Alternative Motor Vehicle Credit as a qualified fuel-cell motor vehicle. Purchasers of the 2005 and 2006 Honda FCX were eligible for a Section 30B(b) income tax credit, but consumers were not allowed to purchase the vehicle, as it was only available leased in Southern California, where public hydrogen refueling stations are available. The tax credit expired in 2014.\n\nThe leasing program began in July 2008 at a price of per month for three years which includes collision coverage, all maintenance and roadside assistance. Honda announced Power Honda Costa Mesa, Honda of Santa Monica and Scott Robinson Honda as the initial dealers, which were chosen for their proximity to hydrogen refueling stations.\n\nThe Clarity Fuel Cell is eligible for a federal tax credit of , as the tax credit for fuel-cell vehicles was given in December 2015 a short-term extension through the end of 2016. As a zero-emission vehicle (ZEV), the Clarity FCV is eligible for a purchase or lease rebate in California of through the Clean Vehicle Rebate Project. However, Honda only currently offers the Clarity FCV for lease, so the federal incentives are retained by Honda rather than the lessee; leasee is able to receive the CVRP rebate from California.\n\nOwners of the Clarity Plug-In Hybrid are eligible for a maximum tax credit through U.S. federal tax credit programs.\n\nThe Honda FCX Clarity was the pace car in 2008 Indy Japan 300 which took place at the Twin Ring Motegi in Tochigi, Japan, April 2008. It also served as the official pace car for the 2011 Honda Grand Prix of St. Petersburg in March 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013908", "title": "Pi Sagittarii", "text": "Pi Sagittarii\n\nPi Sagittarii (π Sagittarii, abbreviated Pi Sgr, π Sgr) is a triple star system in the zodiac constellation of Sagittarius. It has an apparent visual magnitude of +2.89, bright enough to be readily seen with the naked eye. Based upon parallax measurements, it is roughly from the Sun.\n\nThe three components are designated Pi Sagittarii A (officially named Albaldah , from the traditional name of the entire system), B and C.\n\n\"π Sagittarii\" (Latinised to \"Pi Sagittarii\") is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the three constituents as \"Pi Sagittarii A\", \"B\" and \"C\", derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nThe system bore the traditional name \"Albaldah\", which comes from the Arabic بلدة \"bálda\" 'the town'. In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Albaldah\" for the component Pi Sagittarii A on 5 September 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium\" of Al Achsasi al Mouakket, this star was designated \"Nir al Beldat\", which was translated into Latin as \"Lucida Oppidi\", meaning 'the brightest of the town'.\n\nThis system, together with Zeta Sagittarii and Sigma Sagittarii may have been the Akkadian \"Gu-shi-rab‑ba\", 'the Yoke of the Sea'.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Establishment\", refers to an asterism consisting of Pi Sagittarii, Xi² Sagittarii, Omicron Sagittarii, 43 Sagittarii, Ro¹ Sagittarii and Upsilon Sagittarii. Consequently,the Chinese name for Pi Sagittarii itself is (, .)\n\nThe spectrum of the system's primary, Pi Sagitarii A, matches a stellar classification of F2 II. The 'II' luminosity class is for a bright giant star that has exhausted the hydrogen at its core and has followed an evolutionary track away from the main sequence of stars like the Sun. Because it has nearly six times the mass of the Sun, it reached this stage in a mere 67 million years. The outer envelope is radiating energy at an effective temperature of about 6,590 K, giving it the yellow-white hue of an F-type star.\n\nPi Sagittarii A has two nearby companions. The first is separated by 0.1 arcseconds, or at least 13 AUs. The second is 0.4 arcseconds away, which is 40 AU or more. Nothing is known about the orbits of these stars.\n\nBeing 1.43 degrees north of the ecliptic, Pi Sagittarii can be occulted by the Moon, and, very rarely, by planets. The next occultation by a planet will be by Venus on February 17, 2035.\n"}
{"id": "2013909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013909", "title": "Henry Shepherd Pearson", "text": "Henry Shepherd Pearson\n\nHenry Shepherd Pearson (c. 1775–1840) was acting Governor of Penang from 1807 to 1808.\n\nAccording to \"The Worthies of Westmorland\" by George Atkinson, Pearson was the second son of Sir Richard Pearson and Hannah Shepherd. He was christened at Saint Mary the Virgin in Dover, Kent on 8 February 1777. Another source holds that he was born in Dover on 20 October 1776, and that his mother was the former Margaret Harrison. In 1820 he married Caroline Lyons, daughter of John Lyons of Antigua and Catherine Walrond, and had the following children:\n\n\nWhen Pearson was writing his will (held in National Archives, PROB 11/1931, Image Reference 227/203) in July 1839, he noted that he was \"formerly of Bombay\" but currently was \"of Liverpool House, Dover\" (actually Walmer, Kent) and was residing in Boulogne sur Mer, Kingdom of France. He continued to live in Boulogne sur Mer and was there when he wrote a final codicil to his will on 14 January 1840. In his will Pearson wrote that he wished to be buried where he died in the plainest manner possible. Evidence from the proving of his will on 28 July 1840 would suggest that he died in Boulogne sur Mer in mid July 1840 and is probably buried there. Another source gives his date of death as 13 April 1840.\n\nApril 4. Mr. W. C. Clubley, appointed deputy secretary. Government Orders. Fort Cornwallis 10 April. The whole of the troops at the presidency to parade this afternoon, at half past four o'clock, in front of the Government-house, to attend the remains of the honourable Philip Dundas, late Governor &c., &c., &c., of this island, to the place of interment, with all military honours due to his high rank and station. Lieutenant-colonel Basset to command. Three rounds of light cartridges per man to be served to the 20th regiment, which corps only is to fire over the grave, on account of the narrowness of the ground. Forty-five minute guns, corresponding with the years of age of the deceased, to be held in readiness to be fired during the funeral procession, and to be commenced by signal from the Government-house. The Bengal artillery to furnish the carrying party. The garrison colours to be hoisted at half mast at sun-rise, and continue until sun-set. (signed) JOHN DRUMMOND, Town Major. 13 April. A salute of 19 guns to be fired, on H. S. Pearson Esq. taking his seat as governor of this island. Also a salute of 11 guns on W. E. Phillips, Esq. taking his seat as member of council. By order of the honourable the governor and council. (signed) Thomas Raffles, Secretary to government.\n\nOccurrences for October. Oct. 17. Yesterday the Hon. Colonel Norman Macalister in conformity with the orders of the hon. the governor general in council, took the usual oaths and his seat as governor of this presidency. A salut of 19 guns was fired on the occasion. Henry Shepherd Pearson Esq. also took the oaths and his seat, as second member of council. Appointments. Captain M'Innes, to be private secretary to the governor, with the established salary of 120 Spanish dollars per month. Lieut. Robert Campbell, to act as aids-de-camp to the hon. the governor. Mr. Robert Ibbetson, to be assistant in the collector's office. Mr. Quintin Dick Thompson, to be paymaster, and commissary of provisions and petty stores. Mr. John Macalister, to be assistant collector of customs and land revenues at Malacca. Mr. William Bennet, to be assistant to the warehouse-keeper. The office of deputy warehouse-keeper is to be abolished from the first of the ensuing month. Henry Shepherd Pearson, Esq. to be warehouse-keeper and paymaster. Mr. J. C. Lawrence, to be acting Malay translator to government.\n"}
{"id": "2013910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013910", "title": "Smoke deflectors", "text": "Smoke deflectors\n\nSmoke deflectors, sometimes called \"blinkers\" in the UK because of their strong resemblance to the blinkers used on horses, and \"elephant ears\" in US railway slang, are vertical plates attached to each side of the smokebox at the front of a steam locomotive. They are designed to lift smoke away from the locomotive at speed so that the driver has better visibility. On the South Australian Railways they are called \"valances\".\n\nSmoke deflectors became increasingly common on later steam locomotives because the velocity of smoke exiting the chimney had been reduced as the result of efficiency gains obtained by improved smokebox design, such as the Kylchap exhaust and Giesl ejector.\n\nVarious styles of smoke deflectors have been used by different railway operators. However, many are essentially a variation of one of two designs of \"Windleitbleche\" (wind deflecting plates) developed by the Deutsche Reichsbahn-Gesellschaft (the German State Railway Company) between the World Wars: the earlier, larger \"Wagner\"-type deflector, and the later, smaller \"Witte\"-type deflector.\n\nThe Southern Railway in the UK was one of the first adopters and standardised on its own distinctive style where the deflectors only reached to halfway up the smokebox from the running plate. Wind tunnel testing showed that these less tall deflectors would adequately lift the smoke on the locomotives for which they were designed, without unduly detracting from the appearance.\n"}
{"id": "2013912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013912", "title": "David Nasmith", "text": "David Nasmith\n\nDavid Nasmith (March 1799 – 17 November 1839) founded The City Mission Movement in the UK, the US and in Europe.\n\nBorn in Glasgow, Scotland, Nasmith began life in manufacturing as an apprentice. He set up The Young Men's Society for Religious Improvement (1824), Glasgow City Mission (1826), Edinburgh City Mission (1832), and London City Mission (1835). He \"died poor\", in 1839, aged 40, in Guildford, Surrey, England. He was buried in Bunhill Fields. His wife was later buried in Highgate Cemetery and some friends from the City Missions erected a monument to David Nasmith over her grave. The inscription reads:\n\nIN MEMORY OF\nDAVID NASMITH\n[BORN A.D. 1799 _ DIED A.D. 1839]\nFOUNDER OF THE LONDON CITY MISSION\nAND OF VARIOUS CITY AND TOWN\nMISSIONS THROUGHOUT\nENGLAND, SCOTLAND, IRELAND,\nAND AMERICA.\nA FEW FRIENDS CONNECTED WITH\nTHESE SOCIETIES\nHAVE ERECTED THIS STONE\nAS A MEMORIAL\nOF THEIR ESTEEM AND RESPECT\nFOR HIS CHARACTER AND WORKS.\n\n\"City\" and \"Gospel\" missions, also known as Gospel Rescue Missions in the USA, are practical religion outside the walls of the church and an example of Evangelical parachurch organisations.\n\"David Nasmith originated the Young Men’s Christian Association in Glasgow, and set the institution at work in other cities and around the world. His life work was noted for being instrumental in welding the various denominations together for useful purposes. In 1821 he became secretary of the “Religious Societies of Glasgow” at the “Institution Rooms,” 59 Glasswork Street. Nasmith possessed a marvelous power of organization and capacity for work. He was a true reformer, and thoroughly sincere in his endeavors to benefit others. He founded City Missions and Young Men’s Christian Associations\". (A. G. Callant, author of \"Saint Mungo's Bells\")\n\n\"Clubs and associations, missions and societies were in his blood. So many of them could claim him as founder that it is doubtful whether, at the age of thirty-six, he could have kept an accurate record of them all. As a founder of missions, it would be hard to find his equal.\" (Phyllis Thompson, author of \"To the Heart of the City\")\n\n"}
{"id": "2013920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013920", "title": "Karol Świerczewski", "text": "Karol Świerczewski\n\nKarol Wacław Świerczewski (; callsign Walter; 10 February 1897 – 28 March 1947) was Pole serving as the Red Army general. He was a Bolshevik party member and Soviet officer in the wars fought abroad by the Soviet Union including the one against Polish as well as Ukrainian Republics and in Republican Spain. In 1939 he participated in the Soviet invasion of Poland again. At the end of World War II in Europe he was installed as one of leaders of the Soviet-sponsored Polish Provisional Government of National Unity. Soon later, Świerczewski died in a country-road ambush shot by the militants from OUN-UPA. He was an icon of communist propaganda for the following several decades.\n\nBorn in Warsaw in Congress Poland, Karol Świerczewski grew up in a poor family and began working at age 12 in a local Warsaw factory. During the First World War, at the age of 18 he was evacuated in 1915 to Moscow by the Russian Imperial Army. In 1918 he joined the Bolshevik Party, and fought in the Russian Civil War as a soldier of the Red Army. In 1919 during the Polish-Soviet War he fought on the Soviet side against the Polish Second Republic and was wounded. He remained in Russia and in 1928 on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of establishment of the Red Army he was awarded the Order of the Red Banner (no. 146), his first military award.\n\nFrom 1921, Świerczewski taught in the Soviet School for the Red Commissars. In 1927 he graduated from Frunze Military Academy in Moscow and worked in the Red Army General Staff. In 1936, under the name General Walter, he was sent to Spain during the Spanish Civil War, where he led the XIV International Brigade in the battle of Lopera, and later the 35th International Division in the Segovia offensive, and the battles of Brunete, Belchite, Teruel, the Aragon Offensive. and the Battle of the Ebro.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Second World War and the Soviet invasion of Poland, Świerczewski served as general in the Soviet Army. His Russian commanders, seeing Świerczewski's apparent incompetence and worsening alcoholism, moved him to a reserve command away from the front lines—the decision was made by General Georgi Zhukov himself. The fact that Świerczewski gave most of his orders under influence of alcohol had tragic consequences for his soldiers, described in General Zygmunt Berling's book \"Wspomnienia\" (Memories).\nIn 1943 he became one of the generals charged with the creation of the Soviet-controlled Polish Armed Forces in the East, the 1st Polish Army. His alcoholism and disregard for the life and health of his soldiers stirred conflict with Zygmunt Berling, and led to his removal from command on several occasions. Świerczewski's alcoholism-related orders gained criticism from other Polish generals as well, including General Aleksander Waszkiewicz.\n\nIn 1944 he became one of the leaders of the Polish Workers' Party and the government of People's Republic of Poland. In the winter of 1944 and the spring of 1945 he led the Polish Second Army during the fighting for western Poland and the Battle of Berlin. His leadership in the Battle of Bautzen (Budziszyn) has been severely criticized by modern historians, and he is held responsible for the Second Army's very heavy casualties in that engagement. While commanding, he might have been drunk, and was temporarily relieved of his command. However, due to important backing in the Soviet political apparatus (Main Intelligence Directorate or NKVD), not only did he retain his command, but his mistakes were hushed up, and after the war he was gloried as a hero.\n\nIn February 1946 Świerczewski became the Deputy Defense Minister of Poland. He was involved in the persecution of the anti-communist underground movement in Poland, and signed many death sentences, while establishing the communist regime.\n\nŚwierczewski was heavily wounded in a skirmish near Baligród in March 1947 while driving in a car without escort for the inspection of Polish troops fighting Ukrainian insurgents. He was ambushed by a unit of Ukrainian Insurgent Army, and died from his wounds within hours. There were several conspiracy theories claiming that the ambush was arranged by the Soviet intelligence due to his insubordination. According to one theory, the information about the general's arrival to the area was passed to Ukrainians by the NKVD and his escort prevented from leaving by mechanical problems with both trucks that transported the escort's soldiers. Most other hypotheses also suggest Soviet or even direct orders from Stalin. The general, a Pole by ethnicity but essentially a Soviet officer with a military record from the Spanish Civil War and a long Red Army war record, had been previously placed lower in the command structure than prewar Polish officers Berling and Rola-Żymierski.\n\nFor several years after the Second World War ended, the Ukrainian Nationalist insurgency, led mainly by the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, continued fighting in the South-East of Poland. This war, largely supported by the local Ukrainian part of the population, continued until 1949, with some sporadic fights taking place as late as 1956. Świerczewski's death was used as direct cause for the forcible expulsion of the Ukrainian civilian population in Operation Vistula from the territories in the South Eastern part of the post-war Poland to the Recovered Territories (Ziemie Odzyskane, areas of western Poland, which before the war had been part of Germany). In the socialist Poland many myths were created around Karol Świerczewski (\"The General of Three Armies\"), but details of his life and especially his service in the Red Army during Polish-Soviet War as well as the details of his Spanish War record were never mentioned.\n\nIn People's Republic of Poland, the Polish communist propaganda made him into a hero, and many controversial aspects of his life such as alcohol abuse and his incompetence during the Battle of Bautzen, as well as postwar Stalinist crimes were hushed up. In 1953, a Polish two-part film depicting the life of Świerczewski, \"Żołnierz zwycięstwa\" (\"A Soldier of Victory\"), was released. Józef Wyszomirski portrayed the General.\n\nDuring the years 1975–1996 Karol Świerczewski's picture was on the popular 50 złoty banknote, initially the equivalent of two bottles of cheap Vodka. \nAfter 1989 with the end of the Warsaw Pact and the coming to power of Solidarity, many of his monuments were removed and streets renamed because of his role in implementing the communist regime in Poland.\n\nOn May 21, 2003, the Polish organization of former veterans and independence fighters applied to the Institute of National Remembrance (IPN) to investigate 'crimes against the Polish nation' committed by Karol Świerczewski. In a letter, they recall that he was \"one of the people who consciously worked towards [the] enslavement of Polish nation, through enforced communist regime that was [a] vassal towards Moscow\". Among crimes that are not subject to expiry and should be investigated by the IPN are 29 death sentences on Polish soldiers and officers, which were signed by Świerczewski during his command of the Soviet-controlled 2nd Polish Army.\n\nWhile generally unwilling to let himself be photographed, General Walter was a keen amateur photographer. His daughter donated 333 of his photographs to the \"Asociación de Amigos de las Brigadas Internacionales\" in Albacete, Spain, to form a permanent part of their archive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013928", "title": "Crazy Quilt", "text": "Crazy Quilt\n\nCrazy-Quilt is the name of several characters in DC Comics.\n\nThe Earth-Two Crazy Quilt first appeared in \"Boy Commandos\" #15 (March 1946) and was created by Jack Kirby.\n\nThe Paul Dekker version of Crazy Quilt first appeared in \"Blackhawks\" #180 and was created by artist Dick Dillon and an uncredited writer.\n\nThe unidentified female version of Crazy Quilt first appeared in \"Villains United\" #2 and was created by Gail Simone and Dale Eaglesham.\n\nCrazy Quilt is an unnamed noted painter who leads a double-life as a master criminal. He gives the plans for his crimes to various henchmen through clues left in his paintings. His criminal empire crashes to a halt when one of his henchmen double-crosses him. Blinded by a gunshot wound, he volunteers for an experimental procedure that restores his vision, but is unfortunately left unable to see anything but bright colors. In his second published appearance, this is combined with a special helmet that emits bright colored lights, enabling him to see under most circumstances.\n\nIn a 1963 issue of \"Blackhawk\" taking place on Earth-One, a fence named Paul Dekker uses the name Crazy Quilt, but the title heroes capture him. As a result of this appearance, some resources report the original Crazy-Quilt's true identity as Dekker. This includes at least one comic, the Kevin Smith-penned \"Batman: The Widening Gyre\" #4. However, the earlier \"Batman Encyclopedia\", another official source endorsed by DC Comics, states that Dekker is a separate character from the original Crazy Quilt.\n\nIn the Post-Crisis, Paul Dekker's history is similar to the Earth-Two Crazy Quilt. Crazy Quilt's sight is restored briefly for a time after he kidnaps a surgeon to assist him. Batman and Robin intervene. In self-defense, Robin reflects the madman's light beams back into his newly restored eyes. Unintentionally, Quilt is permanently blinded. Obsessing over his young adversary, he becomes one of the few bat-villains to hate Robin more than his mentor.\n\nLater, thinking to enact his revenge upon Grayson, he mistakenly takes out his aggression on Jason Todd, who was new to the role at the time. Todd is nearly beaten to death. Again, it is Robin who is pivotal to stopping Crazy Quilt's plans.\n\nCrazy Quilt later fought Jason Todd after knocking Batman unconscious.\n\nWhen Ra's al Ghul caused a mass prison break at Arkham Asylum and Blackgate Penitentiary, Crazy Quilt was among the freed inmates that worked for Ra's al Ghul by abducting Alfred Pennyworth, Commissioner James Gordon, Vicki Vale, Harvey Bullock, and Julia Pennyworth.\n\nCrazy Quilt was later seen in Arkham Asylum when Batman was Arkham Asylum's latest patient. He joins the other inmates in attacking Batman who ends up defeating them.\n\nDuring the \"Underworld Unleashed\" storyline, Crazy Quilt was among those who were offered a carved black candle of Neron.\n\nCrazy Quilt appears in the Belle Reve riot in \"Justice League #34\", lugging around the eviscerated body of the prison warden. The prisoners, along with much of humanity, were being affected by the entity Mageddon. It had affected fellow prisoner, telepath Hector Hammond, who then altered the minds of the inmates.\n\nCrazy Quilt also has a role in one of the many reincarnations of the Secret Society of Super Villains. He and dozens of villains gather in response to the JLA's new moonbase and extended team efforts. During the meeting, Quilt has his outfit insulted by the Monocle. The meeting turns out to be a JLA trap and all the villains are captured.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe) during the story arc \"\", Dr. Paul Dekker appears as the person Batman suspects supplied the Joker with his newest serum, but is found out to not be guilty. He is also a member of the Doctors Three along with Doctor Death and Hugo Strange. Dekker calls out claiming that the Joker has given him the opportunity to become one of the Dionysian men as well and gleefully injects himself with a syringe despite Batman's warnings. Almost immediately, Dekker's tissues begin to decay and rot from his body and he drops from the window into the waiting crowd of infected who tear what remains of him to pieces.\n\nIn a nod to his Pre-Crisis alter ego, Dekker is found covering his nude body with a patchwork quilt.\n\nApparently the Society, led by Alexander Luthor, Jr., has in its roster a new version of Crazy Quilt, a female one with the characteristic costume and vision-helmet of the previous villain. She has appeared in the \"Villains United\" series. She works with many other supervillains to take down the 'Secret Six'. In \"Outsiders\" #50, she is captured by the Suicide Squad.\n\nIn the Secret Six series, she is one of the villains who accepts the offer of a bounty on the heads of the Secret Six from mysterious crime boss, Junior. She is possibly shot by the Six, and stabbed in the stomach by Scandal.\n\nShe later appears in James Robinson's \"Justice League: Cry For Justice\" mini as one of the many villains who attacks the team.\n\nCrazy-Quilt has a helmet that allows him to hypnotize his victims using flashing lights of various colors. It can also project lethal laser beams, blinding lights, and functions as artificial eyes since his own eyes no longer function; the lenses feed their input signal straight into his brain.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013936", "title": "Konstanty Hrynakowski", "text": "Konstanty Hrynakowski\n\nKonstanty Hrynakowski (May 21, 1878 – September 4, 1938) was a Polish chemist.\n\nHe studied natural sciences at the St. Vladimir University, branching into inorganic chemistry and mineralogy at the Kiev Polytechnic Institute, and earning a degree in 1904.\n\nHaving participated in student riots during the 1905 revolution he was exiled to Siberia, where he worked at the Technological Institute in Tomsk as an assistant professor and physics and chemistry teacher.\n\nHe received a scholarship which enabled him to remove to Göttingen in Germany, where he was interned when the First World War broke out. Upon release from the internment camp he moved to Stockholm, where he worked at the High Technical School.\n\nIn March 1920 Hryniewiecki became the first director of the Pharmaceutical Chemistry Division at the University of Poznan. He revamped the basement of the Poznan castle to contain chemical and analytic laboratories and initiated the construction of Poznan's Collegium Chemicum.\n\nHryniewiecki published over 210 pieces, including over 100 scientific studies and several chemistry manuals. He presided over the Poznan branch of the Polish Chemistry Association and was vice-president of the national PCA office.\n"}
{"id": "2013937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013937", "title": "Jayaram Padikkal", "text": "Jayaram Padikkal\n\nR. Jayaram Padikkal was a police official in India. He had served as the Director General of Police (DGP), the highest rank in the force in the period 1993-94.\n\nJayaram Padikkal I.P.S. was born in Peruvemba village Palghat in Kerala as the son of an Indian Army officer and had his education in Pune. He was said to be a good hockey player and a voracious reader, especially history, crime and philosophy and later joined the Indian Police Service.\n\nIn 1982 he was made the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), for the state of Kerala and thus became the youngest DIG in the country. He was one of the few Indian Police officers to have received training at the Scotland Yard. He was a recipient of \"President's Police Medal\".\n\nWhen he was Deputy Inspector General (Crime Branch) of Kerala police, he and Pulikkodan Narayanan were accused of complicity in the torture and death of a student named Rajan at the hands of the police during the period of The Emergency. He was convicted but the conviction was overturned on appeal. He was known to maintain a good relationship with the then Kerala Chief minister K. Karunakaran.\n\nA book about his life and career, called \"The Crime Diary of Jayaram Padikkal\", was written by Venganoor Balakrishnan in 1997. It describes him as \"a notorious and controversial IPS officer from Kerala, India.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2013962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013962", "title": "The Magic Numbers", "text": "The Magic Numbers\n\nThe Magic Numbers are an English pop rock band comprising two pairs of brothers and sisters from Hanwell in west London. The group was formed in 2002, releasing their debut album titled \"The Magic Numbers\" on 13 June 2005. Their follow-up album, \"Those the Brokes\" was released on 6 November 2006, \"The Runaway\" was released on 6 June 2010, \"Alias\" was released on 18 August 2014, and their most recent album, \"Outsiders\", was released on 11 May 2018.\n\nThe Magic Numbers consists of Romeo Stodart (lead guitar, vocals), his sister Michele (bass guitar, vocals, glockenspiel), Angela Gannon (melodica, percussion, keyboard, vocals) and her brother Sean Gannon (drums).\n\nThe Stodarts are the children of a Scottish father and a Portuguese mother and were born in Trinidad in the Caribbean, where their mother was an opera singer and had her own TV show. When the family fled an Islamic coup attempt there in 1990, they were raised in New York City. In the mid-1990s, when Romeo was 16 and Michele was 10, they moved to London.\n\nThe Gannons are of Irish descent but lived in Hanwell, London where they became friends with their neighbours the Stodarts. Prior to forming the Magic Numbers, Romeo and Sean spent time trying to form a band together under various guises, and previously performed under the name 'Guess'.\n\nIn late 2002 The Magic Numbers formed in their present guise, and they began touring the London circuit, gradually developing their sound and building a small cult following, not least amongst some already established artists including The Chemical Brothers, Travis, and Ed Harcourt, with the latter later influential in their signing to record label Heavenly Records, narrowly choosing that label over Rough Trade Records.\n\nTheir rise came swiftly, beginning in the summer of 2004 and later that year when they began supporting well-known artists such as Travis, Ed Harcourt and Snow Patrol and appearing on the bill of some low-key UK festivals, building a larger following by increasing their live performances. In November 2004, they released a limited edition 7\" vinyl single, \"Hymn for Her\", to coincide with a three-show residency at The Borderline in London.\n\nOn the back of releasing just one commercially available single, \"Forever Lost\", and even before their debut album was released, they played a sold-out show to a crowd of over 2,000 at The Forum in Kentish Town, London, where a limited number of live albums of the gig were released. They played their first live session on UK radio on the Dermot O'Leary Show for BBC Radio 2.\n\nTheir eponymous debut album was recorded in late 2004 and early 2005 at Metropolis Studios in London, and released on 13 June 2005. The album was produced and recorded by American producer Craig Silvey. Prior to release, only \"Forever Lost\" was promoted as a commercial single. This was followed up by later single releases \"Love Me Like You\", \"Love's a Game\" and \"I See You, You See Me\".\n\nFollowing the release of their debut album, the remainder of 2005 and the first few months of 2006 were spent touring and promoting their album and singles, throughout the UK and United States, across Europe and also in New Zealand, Australia and Japan. Their Japanese tour was featured as a side documentary on Jonathan Ross's \"Japanorama\".\n\nThey received a large amount of press attention for being the first band to walk off the TV show \"Top of the Pops\" after host Richard Bacon allegedly insulted their physiques (calling them \"a big fat melting pot of talent\" in their introduction) shortly before they were due to appear on the show to promote their single \"Love Me Like You\".\n\nThe album was shortlisted in 2005 for the coveted Mercury Music Prize.\n\nAfter their heavy touring and promotion of their self-titled debut, The Magic Numbers would return in autumn of 2006 with their follow-up album, \"Those the Brokes\". The band did another extensive run of shows to promote and tour for the album, including supporting The Who in Southampton, and an appearance at the 2007 Glastonbury Festival.\n\nThe album was partly recorded in New York at Allaire Studios in Spring 2006, a venue which has also been used in the past by David Bowie, The Strokes and Ryan Adams, and was recorded and engineered by Richard Wilkinson.\n\nA live album entitled \"Live at the Kentish Town Forum\" was released in February 2007, featuring a live performance of songs from both of the band's two albums.\n\nThe band took some time off during 2008, before reconvening in late 2009 to begin work on their third studio album. The band's website was updated to inform fans that the new album would be entitled \"The Runaway\". The album was produced by Romeo Stodart with Valgeir Sigurðsson, who has previously worked with artists such as Björk, Bonnie Prince Billy and Múm. The album was mixed by Ben Hillier, and features string arrangements by the late Robert Kirby, who worked on Nick Drake's Five Leaves Left album. The album was released on 26 July 2010.\n\nThe Magic Numbers played at the 2010 Splendour in the Grass festival. During their time in Australia, they did shows in Melbourne and Sydney with Blue Mountains band Cloud Control. They also played at the annual Glastonbury Festival.\n\nIn 2012, Michele Stodart released a solo album with a strong country music influence, \"Wide-Eyed Crossing\", accompanying herself on the guitar. It contains a duet with Conor O'Brien from the Villagers and was promoted on a solo tour by Stodart.\n\nIn 2016, she released her 2nd solo album, \"Pieces,\" on One Little Indian Records. The album featured guest appearances from her brother Romeo Stodart and singer-songwriter Kathryn Williams.\n\nIn May 2013, The Magic Numbers announced their first-ever acoustic tour. The five-week tour saw the band play in the intimate surroundings of some of the most beautiful theatres, churches and live music venues across the UK and Ireland supported by British act Goldheart Assembly.\n\nThe band's fourth album \"Alias\" was released in August 2014.\n\nIn November 2015, The Magic Numbers toured the UK with McAlmont and Butler, acting as the support act and providing backing vocals and instrumentation to Bernard Butler and David McAlmont.\n\nThe Six track Undecided EP featured alternate versions of two tracks from their 2006 album 'Those The Brokes' (an edit of 'Undecided' and a re-recording of 'Let Somebody In') plus four previously unreleased recordings.\n\n\nThis was a pre-release EP for their then-forthcoming album \"The Runaway\" that came out July 26, 2010. Two songs from this EP were not included in the full album.\n\n\nThe Magic Numbers have made appearances on various other artists' releases, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013970", "title": "Gmelinite", "text": "Gmelinite\n\nGmelinite-Na is one of the rarer zeolites but the most common member of the gmelinite series, gmelinite-Ca, gmelinite-K and gmelinite-Na. It is closely related to the very similar mineral chabazite. Gmelinite was named as a single species in 1825 after Christian Gottlob Gmelin (1792–1860) professor of chemistry and mineralogist from Tübingen, Germany, and in 1997 it was raised to the status of a series.Gmelinite-Na has been synthesised from Na-bearing aluminosilicate gels. The naturally occurring mineral forms striking crystals, shallow, six sided double pyramids, which can be colorless, white, pale yellow, greenish, orange, pink, and red. They have been compared to an angular flying saucer.\n\nThe aluminosilicate framework is composed of tetrahedra linked to form parallel double six-membered rings stacked in two different positions (A and B) in the repeating arrangement AABBAABB. The framework has no Al-Si order. Within the structure there are cavities with a cross-section of up to 4 Å, and also wide channels parallel to the c axis with a diameter of 6.4 Å. Space group: P6/mmc. Unit cell parameters: a=13.72 Å, c=9.95 Å, Z=4.\n\nGenerally occurs in Si-poor volcanic rocks, marine basalts and breccias, associated with other sodium zeolites such as analcime, Na(SiAl)O·HO, natrolite, Na(SiAl)O·2HO, and chabazite-Na, NaCa(SiAl)O·12HO. It also occurs in Na-rich pegmatites in alkaline rocks, and as an alteration product in some nepheline syenite intrusions. No sedimentary gmelinite has been found. It is generally assumed that it forms at low temperatures, less than 100 °C. It is widespread as a hydrothermal alteration product of ussingite, NaAlSiO(OH), associated with gobbinsite, Na(SiAl)O·11HO, gonnardite, (Na,Ca)(Si,Al)O·3HO, and chabazite-K.\n\nGmelinite-Na occurs extremely rarely at the Francon Quarry, Montreal, Canada, in sills of the igneous volcanic rock phonolite which are rich in dawsonite, NaAl(CO)(OH). It occurs both as pure gmelinite-Na and interlayered with chabazite in water-quenched basalts in Western Tasmania.\n\nAssociated minerals include other zeolites, especially chabazite, quartz, aragonite and calcite.\n\nType Locality: Monte Nero, San Pietro, Montecchio Maggiore, Vicenza Province, Veneto, Italy. Also found in Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Japan, Russia, UK and US.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013972", "title": "James Gomez", "text": "James Gomez\n\nJames Gomez is a Singaporean academic and former politician. He is presently Professor of Communications and Associate Dean (International Affairs) at the School of Communication Arts, Bangkok University, Thailand. In 2015, he founded the Asia Centre, a regional educational enterprise based in Bangkok, Thailand.\n\nGomez was a member of the Workers' Party from 2001 to 2006 and Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) from 2010 to 2015. He also served as the Executive Director of Singaporeans for Democracy (a former non-governmental organisation) from 2010 to 2012 and he was a founding Executive Director of Think Centre, Singapore's oldest political association in 1999.\n\nGomez came to national attention in Singapore during the 2006 general election campaign following an incident in which he accused the Elections Department of losing his minority-race candidate's application form, but was later forced to apologise when closed-circuit television evidence showed that he had placed the form in his briefcase. He stood as a member of the Workers' Party's team in the Aljunied Group Representation Constituency at the election, ultimately losing to the team of the governing People's Action Party (PAP) in the constituency by 44% of the votes to 56%.\n\nGomez has previously been the Deputy Associate Dean (International) at the School of Humanities, Communications and Social Sciences at Monash University (Australia) and has lectured and conducted research at various tertiary institutions including Thammasat University (Thailand), Mahidol University (Thailand) Universiti Utara Malaysia, Keio University (Japan) and United International College (China). Gomez was also a Programme Officer at the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance in Sweden, and a Research and Project Manager for the Friedrich Naumann Foundation.\n\nGomez was born in 1965. His father, Thomas Vincent Gomez, was a founder and prominent member of the Singapore Manual and Mercantile Worker's Union (SMMWU).\n\nGomez studied at Serangoon Secondary School and Nanyang Junior College before going on to the National University of Singapore (NUS) from 1988–92, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in Political Science. He then completed a Master of Arts degree in Politics and Human Rights at the University of Essex in the United Kingdom in 1994.\n\nGomez was appointed as a Visiting Associate at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore in 1995, and was as a Visiting Researcher at the National Institute of Education Centre for Research in 1997–98. He taught a course on the NUS Southeast Asian Studies programme in 1997, and on the University of Leeds distance learning Master's degree programme in Asia-Pacific Studies from 1997–2000. He occasionally contributed book reviews that appeared in \"The Straits Times\" and other local publications. He also wrote opinion pieces on culture and identity that appeared in various local magazines.\n\nGomez began working for the Friedrich Naumann Foundation in Asia in 1996. He also continued his interest in academia through several research organisations and tertiary institutions. He was a Visiting Fellow at the Media and Communications Department at the Hong Kong Baptist University in 2002, and also presented guest seminars at the University of Hong Kong. From 2002–04, he co-ordinated and guest lectured on a course on International Ethics and Human Rights at Thammasat University in Thailand, and was also an Adjunct Lecturer on the Human Rights Programme at Thailand's Mahidol University.\n\nIn 2004, Gomez began studying for a Ph.D. at the Monash Asia Institute of Monash University in Australia. While he was there, he co-ordinated a publication project entitled the Singapore Studies Workshop Series, which resulted in three special issue journals (two in print and 1 online). They include \"SOJOURN: Journal of Social Issues in Southeast Asia\" vol 20/2 (October 2005) as a special focus issue entitled \"Democracy and Civil Society: NGO Politics in Singapore\"; \"Asia Rights\" (online journal) issue 5 (December 2005) \"Human Rights Spotlight: Singapore\"; and the \"Copenhagen Journal of Asia Studies\" vol 23 (July 2006) \"Stability, Risks and Opposition in Singapore\".\n\nGomez also worked as a Programme Officer at the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance in Sweden from 2006 to 2008. From 2008–09, Gomez was a Visiting Scholar in the Department of Political Science at Keio University in Japan. In between May 2009 to end May 2011 Gomez was the Deputy Associate Dean (International) and Head of Public Relations at the School of Humanities, Communications and Social Sciences at Monash University.\n\nGomez presently serves on the editorial board of \"Asia Rights\", an online journal of human rights produced by the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies (RSPAS) at the Australian National University.\n\nGomez was a founding editor of Think Centre (an NGO which works on democracy, rule of law and human rights issues in Singapore) and served as the Executive Directory of Singaporeans for Democracy (a former human rights NGO). During 2015, Gomez co-founded the Asia Centre, an educational enterprise based in Bangkok that seeks to connect peoples and regions through collaborative partnerships.\n\nIn 2015, Gomez along with other Singaporean activists, nominated Dr Chia Thye Poh for the Nobel Peace Prize, in recognition of the 32 years Dr Chia spent as a prisoner of conscience and his pioneering work of speaking up for political and other freedoms in Singapore.\n\nGomez has written extensively on civil society, democracy, human rights and new media in Singapore and in the Southeast Asian region.\n\nHis first book was \"Self Censorship: Singapore's Shame\" (1999). He then went on to write \"Internet Politics: Surveillance and Intermediation in Singapore\" and other academic articles on new media and politics on Singapore and countries in the Southeast Asia region. For his work on and off the internet he was ranked as one of Asia's 50 most powerful communicators in 2001.\n\nGomez joined the Workers' Party in 2001. He was a member of the Workers' Party team which attempted to contest the Aljunied Group Representation Constituency at the 2001 general election, but were disqualified because their nomination papers were incomplete. The name of the Group Representation Constituency (GRC) they were intending to contest had not been written down on the form.\n\nHe stood as a member of the Workers' Party's team in the Aljunied Group Representation Constituency at the election, ultimately losing to the team of the governing People's Action Party (PAP) in the constituency by 44% of the votes to 56%.\n\nIn the lead up to the election, Gomez drew international attention when he accused the Elections Department of losing his minority-race candidate's application form.\n\nThe \"James Gomez Saga\" attracted considerable media attention during the 2006 general election. It began after Gomez claimed that he had submitted his minority-race candidate's application form during a visit to the Elections Department with Workers' Party Chairman Sylvia Lim on 24 April. (As teams of candidates in GRCs must include a minority-race candidate, a candidate from each party's team in a GRC must make such an application before the election.) Two days later, Gomez called in at the Elections Department to enquire about the status of the form. He was indignant when he was told that they had not received his form, and he told an officer from the department that there would be \"consequences\" if it had been misplaced. The following day, the Elections Department confirmed that their closed-circuit television footage had revealed that Gomez had in fact put the form in his bag and left the building without submitting it.\n\nOn 29 April 29, Gomez apologised after the release of the CCTV evidence and admitted that he had not filed his application, contrary to his earlier claims. He said that he had been distracted by his busy schedule. (His failure to submit the form did not prevent the Workers' Party team from running in Aljunied GRC because they had a second minority candidate on their team, Mohammed Rahizan bin Yaacob, who had submitted the required paperwork.)\n\nPAP candidate Inderjit Singh speculated that Gomez's non-submission of the form may have been an intentional ploy to try and gain publicity and cause confusion. Gomez responded by insisting that he had made a genuine mistake and called for others to \"move on\" from the issue. On the eve of polling day, the Workers' Party leader, Low Thia Khiang, backed Gomez and stated that \"the incident was merely an unintentional omission, a mistake made while busy\". However Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng said that the facts showed that Gomez had lied.\n\nOn polling day, Gomez and his Workers' Party colleagues in Aljunied GRC lost to the PAP's team by 56,593 votes (43.9%) to 74,843 (56.1%). This was the highest percentage of the vote garnered by any opposition losing candidates, and was therefore enough to secure one of the team's members (Party Chairman Sylvia Lim) a seat as a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament (NCMP).\n\nImmediately after the election, the Elections Department filed a complaint about Gomez threatening a member of their staff by saying there would be \"consequences\" if his form has been lost.\n\nOn 8 May, two days after the election, Gomez was stopped by police at Changi Airport and prevented from boarding a flight to Stockholm (where he worked at the time for the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance). He was held for questioning over whether he had committed criminal intimidation in his dealings with the Elections Department. Gomez and other members of the Workers' Party, including Low Thia Kiang and Sylvia Lim, were questioned regarding the issue. On 9 May, Gomez was questioned for a second time for five hours, and for a third time on 10 May for three hours. Meanwhile, Low assured police that there would be full co-operation with the police on the matter.\n\nIn the end, Gomez was let off with a \"stern warning\" regarding the incident. The police maintained that there had been \"several serious inconsistencies\" in the account of events that Gomez had given. However the public prosecutor stated that the willingness of Gomez to co-operate with the police and his lack of a previous criminal record led to the decision. Following this, former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew said that the decision not to prosecute did not make Gomez any less dishonest and called him a \"bad egg\".\n\nAs a result of the saga, \"James Gomez\" became the most searched term on Technorati in May 2006.\n\nGomez joined the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) in November 2010.\n\nAt the 2011 general election, Gomez stood as an SDP candidate in the Sembawang Group Representation Constituency. The SDP's team was defeated by the team from the PAP by 63.9% of the votes to 36.1%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013974", "title": "Delta Aquarii", "text": "Delta Aquarii\n\nDelta Aquarii (δ Aquarii, abbreviated Delta Aqr, δ Aqr), officially named Skat , is the third-brightest star in the constellation of Aquarius. The apparent visual magnitude is 3.3, which can be seen with the naked eye. The distance to this star is about based upon parallax measurements, and it has a close companion.\n\n\"δ Aquarii\" (Latinised to \"Delta Aquarii\") is the star's Bayer designation. It also has the Flamsteed designation 76 Aquarii.\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Skat\" (also rendered \"Scheat\", \"Seat\", \"Sheat\", etc., which was erroneously applied to Beta Pegasi in late medieval times), from the Arabic الساق \"al-sāq\" \"shin\".\n\nIn 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Skat\" for this star on 21 August 2016, and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Palace Guard\", refers to an asterism consisting of Delta Aquarii, 29 Aquarii, 35 Aquarii, 41 Aquarii, 47 Aquarii, 49 Aquarii, Lambda Piscis Austrini, HD 212448, Epsilon Piscis Austrini, 21 Piscis Austrini, 20 Piscis Austrini, Upsilon Aquarii, 68 Aquarii, 66 Aquarii, 61 Aquarii, 53 Aquarii, 50 Aquarii, 56 Aquarii, 45 Aquarii, 58 Aquarii, 64 Aquarii, 65 Aquarii, 70 Aquarii, 74 Aquarii, Tau Aquarii, Tau Aquarii, 77 Aquarii, 88 Aquarii, 89 Aquarii, 86 Aquarii, 101 Aquarii, 100 Aquarii, 99 Aquarii, 98 Aquarii, 97 Aquarii, 94 Aquarii, PsiAquarii, PsiAquarii, PsiAquarii, 87 Aquarii, 85 Aquarii, 83 Aquarii, Chi Aquarii, Omega Aquarii and Omega Aquarii. Consequently, the Chinese name for Delta Aquarii itself is (, ).\n\nThe spectrum of Delta Aquarii matches a stellar classification of A3 Vp, indicating this is a chemically peculiar A-type main-sequence star that is generating energy through the nuclear fusion of hydrogen at its core. This star has double the Sun's mass and a radius 2.4 times as large. It is radiating 26 times the luminosity of the Sun from its outer atmosphere at an effective temperature of around 9,000 K. This heat gives it the characteristic white-hued glow of an A-type star. It has a relatively high rate of rotation, with a projected rotational velocity of 81 km s.\n\nDelta Aquarii does not display a strong signal of excess infrared emission that might indicate the presence of circumstellar matter. Delta Aquarii is a probable stream star member of the Ursa Major Moving Group, which has an estimated age of 500 million years.\n\nAn analysis of Hipparcos data strongly suggested a close companion object. An orbit was derived with a 483-day period, an eccentricity of 0.12, and an inclination of 41°. When Delta Aquarii was first examined for the companion, it could not be seen. Any possible companion beyond was constrained to be less than . Infrared interferometric observations did then find a companion, a likely G5 main sequence star around from the primary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2013975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013975", "title": "Italiotes", "text": "Italiotes\n\nThe Italiotes (, \"\") were the pre-Roman Greek-speaking inhabitants of the Italian Peninsula, between Naples and Sicily.\n\nGreek colonization of the coastal areas of southern Italy and Sicily started in the 8th century BC and, by the time of the Roman ascendance, the area was so extensively hellenized that Romans called it \"Magna Graecia\", that is \"Greater Greece\". \n\nThe Latin alphabet is a derivative of the Western Greek alphabet used by these settlers, and was picked up and adopted and modified first by the Etruscans and then by the Romans.\n\nTarentum controlled the Italiote League from about the end of the 5th century BC and levied troops from the Greek cities. Dionysius I of Syracuse conquered southern Italy (Magna Graecia), crushing the Italiote (Greek) League at the Battle of the Elleporus and destroying Rhegium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2013994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013994", "title": "The Ivor Novello Appreciation Bureau", "text": "The Ivor Novello Appreciation Bureau\n\nThe Ivor Novello Appreciation Bureau is a voluntary organisation that was formed in Quedgeley, Gloucester, to foster interest in and preserve the memory of the Welsh composer and actor Ivor Novello.\n\nAn annual 'Ivor Day' event is held in the Berkshire village of Littlewick Green in June. A cast of performers gather in St. John's Church to perform recitals of prose and songs.\n\nA Thanksgiving Service was held on 6 March 2001, in the \"Actors' Church,\" St Paul's, Covent Garden, London to mark the 50th anniversary of the passing of Ivor Novello. This was followed by a concert in the Salon of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane.\n\nA lilac tree was planted in the grounds of St. John's Church, Littlewick Green, on 10 June 2001.\n\nThe Honorary Administrator is Nicholas Gaze, and he is assisted by Mary Falby and Chris Sansom.\n\nThe patrons are the sopranos Marilyn Hill-Smith and Sandra Watkins.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014019", "title": "Delta Herculis", "text": "Delta Herculis\n\nDelta Herculis (δ Herculis, abbreviated Delta Her, δ Her) is a multiple star system in the constellation of Hercules. Though it only shines with an apparent magnitude of 3.12, it is the third-brightest star in its constellation. Based on parallax measurement taken during the Hipparcos mission, it is approximately from the Sun.\n\nIt consists of a binary pair, designated Delta Herculis A, together with three potential companions, designated Delta Herculis B, C and D, although 'B' is believed to be an optical companion. 'A's' components are themselves designated Delta Herculis Aa (officially named Sarin , the traditional name of the system) and Ab.\n\n\"δ Herculis\" (Latinised to \"Delta Herculis\") is the system's Bayer designation. The designations of the four constituents as \"Delta Herculis A\", \"B\", \"C\" and \"D\", and those of \"A's\" components - \"Delta Herculis Aa\" and \"Ab\" - derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nIt bore the traditional name \"Sarin\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Sarin\" for the component Delta Herculis Aa on 12 September 2016 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nIn the catalogue of stars in the \"Calendarium\" of Al Achsasi al Mouakket, this star was designated \"Menkib al Jathi al Aisr\", which was translated into Latin as \"Humerus Sinister Ingeniculi\", meaning \"the left shoulder of the kneeling man\".\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Left Wall of Heavenly Market Enclosure\", refers to an asterism which represents eleven old states in China which is marking the left borderline of the enclosure, consisting of Delta Herculis, Lambda Herculis, Mu Herculis, Omicron Herculis, 112 Herculis, Zeta Aquilae, Theta Serpentis, Eta Serpentis, Nu Ophiuchi, Xi Serpentis and Eta Ophiuchi. Consequently, the Chinese name for Delta Herculis itself is (, ), and represents the state of Wei (魏), together with 33 Capricorni, according to Ian Ridpath version or Phi Capricorni and Chi Capricorni in R.H. Allen's version in \"Twelve States\" (asterism).\n\nDelta Herculis A presents as an A-type main-sequence subgiant with a stellar classification of A3IV. It has both a mass and radius that are roughly two times solar yielding a total luminosity of about \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014021", "title": "IBMDOS.COM", "text": "IBMDOS.COM\n\nIBMDOS.COM is the filename of the DOS kernel. Loaded and initially invoked by the DOS BIOS in IBMBIO.COM during the boot process, it contains the hardware-independent parts of the operating system, including the embedded FAT12, FAT16 and, in newer versions, the FAT32 file system code, as well as the code to provide the DOS API to applications.\n\nThe file exists in PC DOS 1.0 to 7.10 and DR DOS 5.0 and higher (except for DR-DOS 7.06), with MS-DOS using MSDOS.SYS (from version 1.10 to 6.22) for the same purpose. DR DOS 3.31 to 3.41 used the equivalent DRBDOS.SYS file instead. (For compatibility purposes with some DOS applications the IBMDOS.COM file name was briefly also used by the IBM version of OS/2 1.0, where it resembled the OS2DOS.COM OS/2 kernel file as used by Microsoft.)\n\nBy default, the file is located in the root directory of the bootable drive/partition (normally C:\\) and has the \"hidden\", \"read-only\", and \"system\" file attributes set. As IBMDOS.COM is a binary image containing executable code rather than a true COM-style program, the \"hidden\" attribute is set to keep the file from being accidentally invoked at the command prompt, which would lead to a crash. This is not necessary for DR-DOS 7.02 and higher, because under these systems the file is a fat binary also containing a tiny COM-style stub just displaying some version info and exiting gracefully when loaded inappropriately.\n\nIn Digital Research terminology, the kernel component of the operating system is called the BDOS (Basic Disk Operating System), a term originally coined by Gary Kildall in 1975 for CP/M, but which is continued to be used in all other DRI operating systems (except for Concurrent DOS 286 and FlexOS). Microsoft has used this name as well when referring to the kernel of the MSX-DOS operating system. The FAT file system specific code is called the FDOS in DRI terminology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014023", "title": "Daughters of the Dust", "text": "Daughters of the Dust\n\nDaughters of the Dust is a 1991 independent film written, directed and produced by Julie Dash and is the first feature film directed by an African-American woman distributed theatrically in the United States. Set in 1902, it tells the story of three generations of Gullah (also known as Geechee) women in the Peazant family on Saint Helena Island as they prepare to migrate to the North on the mainland.\n\nThe film gained critical praise for its lush visuals, Gullah dialogue and non-linear storytelling. The cast features Cora Lee Day, Alva Rogers, Barbara-O, Trula Hoosier, Vertamae Grosvenor, and Kaycee Moore and was filmed on St. Helena Island in South Carolina. \"Daughters of the Dust\" was selected for the Sundance 1991 dramatic competition. Director of photography Arthur Jafa won the top cinematography prize. The film is also known for being the first by an African American woman to gain a general theatrical release.\n\nDash has written two books about \"Daughters of the Dust\", one about the making the film, co-authored with Toni Cade Bambara and bell hooks, and one novel, a sequel set 20 years after the film's story. In 2004, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.\" For its 25th anniversary, \"Daughters of the Dust\" was restored and re-released in 2016 by the Cohen Media Group.\n\n\"Daughters of the Dust\" is set in 1902 among the members of the Peazant family, Gullah islanders who live at Ibo Landing on St. Simons Island, off the Georgia coast. Their ancestors were brought there as enslaved people centuries ago, and the islanders developed a language—known as Gullah or Sea Island Creole English—and culture that was creolized from West Africans of Ibo, Yoruba, Kikongo, Mende, and Twi origin and the cultures and languages of the British Isles, with the common variety of English being the superstratum in this case Developed in their relative isolation of large plantations on the islands, the enslaved peoples' unique culture and language have endured over time. Their dialogue is in Gullah creole.\n\nNarrated by the Unborn Child, the future daughter of Eli and Eula, whose voice is influenced by accounts of her ancestors, the film presents poetic visual images and circular narrative structures to represent the past, present and future for the Gullah, the majority of whom are about to embark for the mainland and a more modern way of life. The old ways are represented by community matriarch Nana Peazant, who practices African and Caribbean spiritual rituals and who says of the Unborn Child, \"We are two people in one body. The last of the old and the first of the new.\"\n\nContrasting cousins, Viola, a devout Christian, and Yellow Mary, a free spirit who has brought her lover, Trula, from the city, arrive at the island by canoe from their homes on the mainland for a last dinner with their family. Yellow Mary plans to leave for Nova Scotia after her visit. Mr. Snead, a mainland photographer, accompanies Viola and takes portraits of the islanders before they leave their way of life forever. Intertwined with these narratives is the marital rift between Eli and his wife Eula, who is about to give birth after being raped by a white man on the mainland. Eli struggles with the fact that the unborn child may not be his.\n\nSeveral other family members' stories unfold between these narratives. They include Haagar, a cousin who finds the old spiritual beliefs and provincialism of the island \"backwards,\" and is impatient to leave for a more modern society with its educational and economic opportunities. Her daughter Iona longs to be with her secret lover St. Julien Lastchild, a Native American, who will not leave the island.\n\nWhile the women prepare a traditional meal for the feast, which includes okra, yams and shellfish prepared at the beach, the men gather nearby in groups to talk. The children and teenagers practice religious rites on the beach and have a Bible-study session with Viola. Bilal Muhammad leads a Muslim prayer. Nana evokes the spirits of the family's ancestors who worked on the island's indigo plantations. Eula and Eli reveal the history and folklore of the slave uprising and mass suicide at Igbo Landing. The Peazant family members make their final decisions to leave the island for a new beginning, or stay behind and maintain their way of life.\n\nOriginally conceived in 1975, Dash planned to make a short film with no dialogue as a visual account of a Gullah family's preparation to leave their Sea Island home to a new life in the North. She was inspired by her father's Gullah family, who migrated to New York City in the early 20th century during the Great Migration of African Americans from the southern states. Her narrative forms were also inspired by the writing of Toni Morrison, Alice Walker and Melville Herskovits. As the story developed for more than 10 years, Dash clarified her artistic vision and together with Arthur Jafa, her cinematographer and co-producer, she put together a short film to use for marketing.\n\nShe was initially rejected by Hollywood executives, as this was to be her first full-length film. Dash said they thought it was \"too different\" as she thought their reaction was part of a systematic exclusion of black women from Hollywood. Persisting, Dash finally got $800,000 financing from PBS' \"American Playhouse\" in 1988.\n\nWith funding secured, Dash and Casting Director Len Hunt, cast a number of veterans of black independent cinema in various roles, as a tribute to the work they had done and the sacrifices they had made to work in independent films. She also hired a mostly African-American crew. Considering she had cast principal actors who were union members. A number of non-union members were cast because of their familiarity with the Gullah Language. Union technicians were also hired. Dash's budget of $800,000 was very small.\n\nFor the sake of authenticity and poetry, the characters from the island speak in Gullah dialect. Ronald Daise, author of \"Reminiscences of Sea Island Heritage\" (1987), was the dialect coach for her actors, none of whom knew Gullah at the start of production.\n\nThe narrative structure is non-linear, of which Dash explained:\n\nI didn't want to tell a historical drama about African-American women in the same way that I had seen other dramas. I decided to work with a different type of narrative structure...[and] that the typical male-oriented western-narrative structure was not appropriate for this particular film. So I let the story unravel and reveal itself in a way in which an African Gullah would tell the story, because that's part of our tradition. The story unfolds throughout this day-and-a-half in various vignettes. It unfolds and comes back. It's a different way of telling a story. It's totally different, new.\n\nDirector of photography Arthur Jafa began shooting on location at St. Helena Island and Hunting Island, off the South Carolina coast. Principal photography lasted 28 days, with a majority of the time spent shooting at exterior locations, such as the beach, in front of rustic homes, or further inland, where Nana's home is located near the island's graveyard. The sets, including cabins, the graveyard, and a figurative-sculpture dock at Igbo Landing, were constructed mostly using materials the Gullah would have had available at the time of the story. The costumes feature the women in long indigo-dyed and bright white dresses. The majority of closeups in the film are on the women, and the majority of dialogue is spoken by women and girls.\n\nDuring production on Hunting Island, the crew were evacuated to Charleston, South Carolina to avoid the incoming Hurricane Hugo. Hugo changed track and scored a direct hit on Charleston, causing an historic amount of damage.\n\nEditing began in January 1990, and it took nearly a year to complete the film. Dash chose not to use subtitles, preferring to have audiences be immersed in the language. The soundtrack was composed by John Barnes, featuring a blend of Synclavier percussion with traditional instruments, including the Middle Eastern santour, and African bata and talking drums.\n\n\"Daughters of the Dust\" screened at the 1991 Sundance Film Festival where it was nominated for the Grand Jury Prize and won the Excellence in Cinematography Award. It was released by Kino International—the first feature film made by an African-American woman to be distributed theatrically in the United States.\n\nThe film opened in January 1992 to mostly critical acclaim. \"The Boston Globe\" called it \"Mesmerizing ... a film rich with [black women's] faces, voices and movement.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" lauded the film's languid pace and \"spellbinding visual beauty\" while noting that its unconventional narrative structure made the characters in relation to the story at times difficult to follow. Critic Stephen Holden said the individual stories in the film formed a \"broad weave in which the fabric of daily life, from food preparation to ritualized remembrance, is ultimately more significant than any of the psychological conflicts that surface.\" He hailed Dash as a \"strikingly original film maker.\"\n\nRoger Ebert called the film a tone-poem and highlighted the screenplay's Gullah dialect: \"The fact that some of the dialogue is deliberately difficult is not frustrating, but comforting; we relax like children at a family picnic, not understanding everything, but feeling at home with the expression of it.\"\n\nUpon its 2016 re-release, \"The Village Voice\" review commended the film's \"stunning motifs and tableaux, the iconography seemingly sourced from dreams as much as from history and folklore.\" \"Guardian\" critic Peter Bradshaw called the film \"mysterious, fabular and sometimes dreamlike,\" comparing it to Chekhov or a performance of Shakespeare's Tempest.\n\nThe film holds a 98% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 41 reviews, with a weighted average of 8.08/10. The site's consensus reads: \"\"Daughters of the Dust\" addresses its weighty themes with lovely visuals and a light, poetic touch, offering an original, absorbing look at a largely unexplored corner of American culture\".\n\nDespite the positive reviews, the promise of an illustrious film career did not pan out for Dash. She concluded that industry executives were uncertain about the film's unconventional form, stating in 2007 that \"Hollywood and mainstream television are still not quite open to what I have to offer.\"\nNonetheless, the film has continued to resonate with critics and audiences and Dash would go on to a productive television career.\n\nThe Library of Congress added \"Daughters of the Dust\" to the National Film Registry in 2004, noting its status as the first feature-length film by an African-American woman to receive wide theatrical release, calling it an \"evocative, emotional look at family, era and place.\"\n\nFor its 25th anniversary, the Cohen Media Group restored \"Daughters of the Dust\" for a screening at the 2016 Toronto Film Festival and a theatrical release. When Beyoncé's acclaimed visual album \"Lemonade\" aired on HBO and online in the spring of that year, critics noted that \"Lemonade\" made several visual references to \"Daughters of the Dust\". Beyoncé's modern take featured young women, some in long white dresses, walking toward a beach or settled on the front porch of a rustic island cabin. The homage brought attention to the film in articles for \"Vanity Fair\", \"Rolling Stone\", NPR, and \"Essence\", among other media outlets. With new acclaim, \"Daughters of the Dust\" was re-released in theaters in November, along with a new trailer and poster.\n\n\nDash has written two books related to \"Daughters of the Dust\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014031", "title": "Antonín Švehla", "text": "Antonín Švehla\n\nAntonín Švehla (15 April 1873 in Prague – 12 December 1933 in Prague) was a Czechoslovak politician. He served three terms as the prime minister of Czechoslovakia. He is regarded as one of the most important political figures of the First Czechoslovak Republic; he was the leader of the Agrarian Party, which was dominant within the Pětka, which was largely his own invention. Švehla is also credited with the slogan of the Pětka: \"We have agreed that we will agree.\"\n\nHe supported professor T. G. Masaryk in his fight for Czechoslovak independence. \n\nThe garden of the European Campus of Sciences Po Paris in Dijon, France is named \"Garden of the Agrarians of Antonín Švehla (1873-1933)\" in memory of Antonín Švehla. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014040", "title": "Te Araroa Trail", "text": "Te Araroa Trail\n\nTe Araroa (The Long Pathway) is New Zealand's long distance tramping route, stretching circa along the length of the country's two main islands from Cape Reinga to Bluff. It is made up of a mixture of older tracks and walkways, new tracks, and link sections alongside roads. Tramping the full length of the trail generally takes three to six months. It is becoming increasingly popular.\nThe idea of a national walkway goes back to the 1970s, when it was first advocated for by the Federated Mountain Clubs of New Zealand and in 1975 the New Zealand Walkways Commission was established, but in 15 years made little progress. In 1994, journalist Geoff Chapple advocated a New Zealand-long walking track, and founded Te Araroa Trust. Advocacy and negotiations for access continued, and by 2006 plans for the trail began being part of local government plans. The route officially opened on 3 December 2011 after 10 years of work by hundreds of volunteers. Construction coordinated by the trust is ongoing.\n\nThe trail has approximately 300 sections ranging from walks of one to two hours through to an approximately nine-day route in the South Island where most trampers haul large amounts of food and gear. About sixty per cent of the trail crosses conservation land managed by the Department of Conservation, and the Government allocated $3.8 million for development of new sections of the trail on conservation land in 2007.\n\nAs of 2019 there are further plans to upgrade the trail, including a long-term goal to reduce road-walking to under 5% of the trail.\n\nThe straight-line distance from Cape Reinga to Bluff is , but the Te Araroa stretches roughly , varying in distance when sections are upgraded or otherwise changed. The trail is a mix of tracks, including wilderness tracks, paths through paddocks, beaches, roads, and highways, as well as a section which is a river and must be kayaked. Many parts of the trail are challenging. In these sections, trip planning, river crossing and navigation skills are recommended, as well as a good level of fitness and heavy boots.\n\nMost through-hikers take between three and six months for a complete trip. The full trail was completed in 53 days by British ultra-marathoner Jez Bragg with a dedicated support crew during the 2012–13 season. The youngest to walk the trail was Jonathan Rapsey, who finished it at the age of 7 with his sister Elizabeth aged 9 and their parents.\n\nHundreds of thousands people walk some part of Te Araroa each year, and in the 2018/19 summer the Te Araroa Trust counted 1200 through-walkers. This was up from 550 people attempting a through-hike in 2016-17, and 350 the year before. Sections of the track can see more traffic; for example, one section is seeing 70,000 to 80,000 people each year. In that example, the section is on private land and has been rising, and such traffic can make using the land as a farm impractical.\n\nWith the exception of a short section of the Queen Charlotte Track at the trail's northern terminus in the South Island, neither permit nor fee is required to walk Te Araroa. However, the Te Araroa Trust requests a donation of $500 per person tramping the full trail, $250 for those walking one island only, and smaller amounts for section hikers. Through-hikers will also pay $92 for a six-month Department of Conservation Backcountry Hut Pass if they wish to sleep in New Zealand's extensive network of back-country huts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014051", "title": "American Standard Companies", "text": "American Standard Companies\n\nAmerican Standard Companies, Inc. was a global manufacturer of plumbing, heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems and services, bath and kitchen products and vehicle control systems.\n\nThe company was formed in 1929 through the merger of the American Radiator Company and Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company forming the American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corporation. The group was renamed to the \"American Standard Corporation\" in 1967.\n\nThe company divested all but the HVAC business in 2007, and renamed itself Trane. Trane was acquired by Ingersoll Rand in 2008.\n\nIn 1929, the American Radiator Company (founded 1892) merged with the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company (founded in 1875) to form the American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corporation (as mentioned above in bold). The plumbing division, Standard Sanitary, would continue to sell their products under the \"Standard\" label until 1967, when the company changed its name to American Standard Corporation. The American Standard label was used for both divisions from that year on.\n\nIn 1929, American Standard bought the Kewanee Boiler Company which it kept until the early 1970s. \n\nIn 1968 the group purchased the Westinghouse Air Brake Company's earthmoving and mining product range. It divested itself of these assets in 1984.\n\nIn 1984, the group acquired HVAC company Trane. In 1999, American Standard purchased control of the United Kingdom-based Armitage Shanks and Ceramica Dolomite of Italy from Blue Circle Industries for $430 million.\nOn 1 February 2007, the company announced it would break up its three divisions. The plan included the sale of its kitchen and bath division; and the spin off of its vehicle control systems business; the remainder of the company, primarily its air conditioning business was to be retained, and renamed \"Trane\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014055", "title": "Lympstone Village railway station", "text": "Lympstone Village railway station\n\nLympstone Village railway station serves the village of Lympstone in Devon, England.\n\nLympstone station was opened with the railway on 1 May 1861. It was renamed Lympstone Village in the 1990s to avoid confusion with the new Lympstone Commando railway station that had opened on 3 May 1976.\n\nFollowing the privatisation of British Rail it was operated by Wales & West, latterly Wessex Trains, until 31 March 2006 when the franchise was taken over by First Great Western.\n\nIt is situated on an embankment, with a single platform; a disused second platform is now heavily overgrown. To the south the line crosses the village on a low viaduct. \nThe station is unstaffed and tickets cannot be purchased at the station. There are stands for bicycle parking and a 20-space car park.\n\nLympstone Village is served by trains on the Avocet Line from to and . Connections are available at for also and stations to London Waterloo station; passengers for other main line stations change at Exeter St Davids.\n"}
{"id": "2014058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014058", "title": "Laraaji", "text": "Laraaji\n\nLaraaji (born 1943) is an American multi-instrumentalist specializing in piano, zither and mbira.\n\nBorn Edward Larry Gordon in Philadelphia, he studied violin, piano, trombone and voice in his early years in New Jersey. He attended Howard University, a historically black university in Washington, D.C., where he studied composition and piano. After studying at Howard, he spent time in New York City pursuing a career as a stand-up comedian and actor.\n\nIn the early 1970s, he began to study Eastern mysticism and believed he'd found a new path for his music and his life. It was also at this time he bought his first zither from a local pawn shop. Converting it to an electronic instrument, he began to experiment using the instrument like a piano. By 1978, he developed enough skill to begin busking in the parks and on the sidewalks of New York. He favored the northeast corner of Washington Square Park, where he would improvise for hours on end with his eyes closed.\n\nThe following year he was \"discovered\" by Brian Eno while playing in Washington Square Park. The result was his most widely recognized release, \"Ambient 3: Day of Radiance\", the third installment of Brian Eno's Ambient series. This was his first album released under the name of Laraaji.\n\nThis international exposure led to requests for longer versions of his compositions which he supplied to meditation groups on cassette tapes. It also resulted in an expansion of his mystic studies with such gurus as Swami Satchidananda and Shri Brahmananda Sarasvati, founder of the Ananda Ashram in Monroe, New York.\n\nLaraaji's also started the Laughter Meditation Workshops which he still presents around the globe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014064", "title": "Hopwood, Worcestershire", "text": "Hopwood, Worcestershire\n\nHopwood is a small settlement in Worcestershire, located south of Birmingham, England on the Worcester and Birmingham Canal. The settlement is developed around an inn, where users of the canal would have broken their journey.\n\nToday's Hopwood is the location of Hopwood Park services, a motorway service station on the M42 motorway.\n\nPlaces nearby include: Barnt Green, Alvechurch, Bittell Reservoir and Longbridge.\n"}
{"id": "2014068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014068", "title": "Pi Alpha Phi", "text": "Pi Alpha Phi\n\nPi Alpha Phi Fraternity, Inc. (ΠΑΦ, also Pi Alpha Phi or PAPhi) is an American university-level fraternity. It was founded in 1929 at the University of California, Berkeley, and is the oldest active Asian-American interest fraternity in the nation. As of 2019, the fraternity has 20 active chapters and 7 colonies nationwide. Pi Alpha Phi Fraternity is a member of the National APIDA Panhellenic Association.\n\nIn 1928, three enterprising members of the class of 1930 conceived the idea to form a fraternity to serve the several hundred students of Chinese descent at the University of California, Berkeley. Wing C. Chan, from the Central California town of Oroville; Dong Wing Tom, from San Francisco; and Elmer Leong from Berkeley, did much of the preliminary work towards the formation of the Fraternity. In the fall of 1928, the three approached Tim Jang, a freshman starting his first year at the university to join.\n\nOn February 1, 1929, the six founding fathers signed the fraternity's constitution in both Chinese and English and officially established Pi Alpha Phi at the University of California, Berkeley. The six founders were D. Wing Tom, Wing Chan, Elmer Leong, Chack Chan, Tim Jang, and George Lee.\n\nThe founding fathers of Pi Alpha Phi hailed primarily from the state of California. Elmer Leong, George Lee, and D. Wing Tom were from the San Francisco Bay area. Tim Jang, Wing Chan, and his younger brother Chack Chan came from the Central Valley region of California. All were born in America with the exception of Wing Chan, who came from China at an early age.\n\nThe men studied science and engineering, which was considered a better path to employment after graduation since discrimination prevented most Asians from entering into law, medicine or other graduate disciplines.\n\nTheir challenges grew as they found out that student lodging was often not rented to those of Asian heritage. It was especially difficult for Tim, Wing and Chack from the Central Valley for whom commuting was not an option. The problem was solved by the goodwill of a sympathetic German woman known as Mother Tusch, who also had been a victim of racism. The seeds of brotherhood were planted in the cabin she rented to Wing, Elmer and D. Wing Tom behind her house near Sather Gate.\n\nThe six men proceeded with their college careers, engaging in academic and social events, as well as athletics. Elmer Leong even joined the university track team. They found great comfort and camaraderie in their small group but felt compelled to turn their group into more than a circle of friends, more than a club, more than a social gathering. They decided to form a formal fraternity of brothers that would bind them forever; a fraternity that would break the status quo and seek recognition by the university system.\n\nFollowing graduation in the early 1930s, the founding fathers found life difficult. The country was in the midst of the Great Depression and discrimination against those of Asian heritage for jobs was even more prevalent. Four of the six—Wing Chan, Chack Chan, D. Wing Tom and George Lee—went to southern China to find employment and new lives. Tim and Elmer decided to stay in America to continue their education and start a career despite the difficult circumstances. The four in China prospered, with Wing teaching chemistry at a university in Canton, Chack Chan working in the local aircraft industry, George Lee pursuing a medical degree; and all four became married and started their families.\n\nIn 1937, with the advent of war in China, all returned home to America with the exception of Wing, who returned after World War II. During wartime, each of the founding fathers made contributions to their country. For example, Tim enlisted in the U.S. Navy Seabees. He served as a construction corpsman for the 132nd Naval Construction Battalion in the Pacific. Chack put his engineering skills to use as a draftsman at the famed Henry J. Kaiser naval shipyard in Richmond, California, where many of the country's great war ships were built.\n\nPi Alpha Phi focuses itself on several core values, which are written into its constitution. The five pillars of the fraternity are: academic excellence, Asian awareness, brotherhood, leadership, and philanthropy.\n\nThe fraternity creates a studious environment and encourages each of its members to achieve his greatest academic potential. The fraternity supports all educational endeavors and recognizes exceptional academic achievement.\n\nThe fraternity believes in learning Asian-American culture, heritage and history. The fraternity encourages its members to pass on this knowledge to others.\n\nWhen Pi Alpha Phi was founded in the 1920s, traditional Greek fraternities along with the rest of the nation, legally discriminated against men of color. Since they were banned from joining a traditional Greek fraternity, Pi Alpha Phi's founding fathers wanted to ensure that Asian-American awareness would forever be an important part of the fraternity.\n\nToday, the basic premise of the fraternity remains largely unchanged. Although the fraternity is open to people of all ethnic backgrounds it still retains its Asian-American character. With emphasis on brotherhood, the fraternity works to create lifelong bonds that extend far beyond the university setting. The basic goals of brotherhood attained through shared experience, friendship and academics remain unaltered. Although the organization evolves from generation to generation, the underlying vision and heart of the fraternity is as solid today as it was for six young Berkeley men in 1926.\n\nEstablished in 1975, a non-profit organization dedicated to bringing together people with a common interest in the history of Chinese and Chinese Americans in Southern California. The Society conducts research, collects materials and artifacts, and disseminates information.\nPi Alpha Phi Alumnus are mentioned quite a few times in this book.\nRefer to Notable Alumni section.\n\nFrom the mid-1980s to the early 2000s, Pi Alpha\nPhi was a mainstay in the parade, operating what had\naffectionately become known as the “Pi Alpha Phi\nDragon”.\nIt was an event that truly exemplified the close bonds\nof brotherhood among the chapters of the fraternity:\nan opportunity for fraternity members all over to come\ntogether, have fun, and celebrate a cultural tradition.\n\nSince 2002, due to several factors including the retiring\nof our dragon as well as criteria changes for\nparticipating organizations, the fraternity has not\nparticipated in the parade.\n\nTheir efforts were rewarded when the parade committee\ngraciously extended a parade invitation to Pi Alpha\nPhi and its partner the Jade Ribbon Campaign to operate\na Jade Ribbon Dragon.\n\nThe Jade Ribbon Campaign spreads awareness of the\ngreatest health disparity between Asian Americans and\nCaucasian Americans: liver cancer, 80% of which is caused\nby chronic hepatitis B infection.\n\nThe dragon the fraternity purchased was thought to\nhave a capacity of only 20 people, but when it was put\ntogether, it was much longer. Although the dragon may\nnot have been the most elaborate of the parade, it was\ndefinitely the longest, as the crowd surely recognized\nas the dragon snaked through the downtown parade\nroute.\n\nThe fraternity members took advantage of the opportunity\nby having a great turnout: almost 100 fraternity\nmembers showed up to participate and share in the\nbonds of brotherhood. Running a dragon at the parade\nhad always been a great opportunity for the fraternity’s\nmembers to work together, build the bonds of brotherhood,\nand celebrate cultural traditions.\n\nThe fraternity encourages mutual trust, respect, and loyalty among its members. The fraternity creates an extended family that nurtures lifelong \"friendships\" through the shared bonds of tradition, shared values, and unity.\n\n\n\nThe fraternity provides opportunities to fulfill important duties within the organization and helps members develop leadership skills in preparation for their future careers and endeavors.\n\nThe fraternity is committed to its responsibility to serve others and encourages participation in activities for the betterment of not only the Asian-American community, but the community as a whole. One of its national events is the Jade Ribbon Campaign.\n\nThe Jade Ribbon Campaign spreads awareness of the\ngreatest health disparity between Asian Americans and\nwhite Americans: liver cancer, 80% of which is caused\nby chronic hepatitis B infection.\n\nThe dragon the fraternity purchased was thought to\nhave a capacity of only 20 people, but when it was put\ntogether, it was much longer. Although the dragon may\nnot have been the most elaborate of the parade, it was\ndefinitely the longest, as the crowd surely recognized\nas the dragon snaked through the downtown parade\nroute.\n\nThe fraternity members took advantage of our opportunity\nby having a great turnout: almost 100 fraternity\nmembers showed up to participate and share in the\nbonds of Brotherhood. Running a dragon at the parade\nhas always been a great opportunity for the fraternity’s\nmembers to work together, build the bonds of Brotherhood,\nand celebrate cultural traditions. This year, they\nwere also able to support a great philanthropic cause:\nthe Jade Ribbon Campaign.\n\n\nhttp://www.legacy.com/obituaries/sfgate/obituary.aspx?n=ralph-fong&pid=144335993&fhid=5486\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014070", "title": "Miranda railway station", "text": "Miranda railway station\n\nMiranda railway station is located on the Cronulla line, serving the Sydney suburb of Miranda. It is served by Sydney Trains T4 line services.\n\nMiranda station opened on 16 December 1939 when the Cronulla line opened from Sutherland to Cronulla. It initially had a goods siding.\n\nOn 15 July 1985, the line between Gymea and Caringbah was duplicated with a new track laid north of the existing single line, with the platform converted to an island platform.\n\nMaianbar Bundeena Bus Service operates one route from Miranda station:\n\nTransdev NSW operates 15 routes via Miranda station::\n\nTransit Systems operates two routes from Miranda station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014077", "title": "Film Portrait", "text": "Film Portrait\n\nFilm Portrait (1972) is a full-length autobiographical film directed by, and about, the life of Minnesotan film-maker and artist, Jerome Hill.\n\nJerome Hill died shortly after the completion of \"Film Portrait\", and so the work is often described as his memoir from his privileged childhood in the Midwest to his restless adult years.\n\nIn 2003, \"Film Portrait\" was added to the National Film Registry at the Library of Congress, recognizing the cultural, historical and aesthetic significance of the work, as well as ensuring the preservation of the original film footage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014080", "title": "Gymea railway station", "text": "Gymea railway station\n\nGymea railway station is located on the Cronulla line, serving the Sydney suburb of Gymea. It is served by Sydney Trains T4 line services.\n\nGymea station opened on 16 December 1939 when the Cronulla line opened from Sutherland to Cronulla.\n\nOriginally, Gymea was one of two crossing loops on the line, with the other being at Caringbah. The section from Gymea to Caringbah was duplicated in 1985, and under the Rail Clearways Program, the remaining sections of single line railway from Sutherland to Gymea and Caringbah to Cronulla were duplicated in April 2010.\n\nTransdev NSW operates two routes via Gymea station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014081", "title": "The Metro Theatre", "text": "The Metro Theatre\n\nThe Metro Theatre (commonly the Metro) is a music venue located on George Street, in the city centre of Sydney, Australia. The venue was redeveloped, from two former cinemas, by property developer Leon Fink.\n\nThe foyer of the Metro, designed by leading Australian stage designer Brian Thomson, features a lightweight plastic replica of the Art Deco crystal chandelier which once hung in Regent Theatre which formerly stood opposite the Metro in George Street.\n\nActs who generally perform at the Metro usually are Heavy Metal music, indie-rock and alternative bands, often of international fame. It was the venue for the now-legendary Sydney concerts in 1995 by Jeff Buckley and a record seven sold out shows in a row over six days in 1996 by You Am I, among many others.\n\nIt has two separate performance spaces inside the building, the Forum (often simply called the Metro) and the Transit Lounge (which, in January 2007, was re-launched and re-branded as the Lair). Up until 2007 it was not uncommon for both spaces to be used on the same night for different acts, with the larger of the two, the Forum, generally hosting the more famous act. Since the launch of the Lair the space has seldom been used for a public performance, as its primary function was to house MTV Australia's the Lair live music programme.\n\nFor a brief period in the second half of 2006 the venue was known as the Century Theatre after it went into receivership and was acquired by Century Venues. It was changed back to the Metro Theatre by October 2006.\n\nOn 16 September 2009 the Metro was rebranded as the Virgin Mobile Metro, after a sponsorship deal had been made. Dappled Cities Fly and the Seabellies both played at the launch night on 29 September 2009.\n\nA list of some of the more famous musical acts that have performed at the Metro:\n\nAustralian acts that have played there include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014094", "title": "Jerome Hill", "text": "Jerome Hill\n\nJerome Hill (March 2, 1905 – November 21, 1972) was an American filmmaker and artist known for his award-winning documentary and experimental films. \n\nHe was educated at Yale, where he drew covers, caricatures and cartoons for campus humor magazine \"The Yale Record\".\n\nHis 1950 documentary \"Grandma Moses\", written and narrated by Archibald MacLeish, was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Short Subject, Two-reel. He won the 1957 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature for his film \"Albert Schweitzer\".\n\nIn addition to making films, he was a painter and composer.\n\nHis last film, the autobiographical \"Film Portrait\" (1973), was added to the National Film Registry in 2003.\n\nHill was a stakeholder in Sugar Bowl Ski Resort. He had a chalet built at Sugar Bowl and while living there, paid for and operated \"The Magic Carpet\", the first aerial tramway on the west coast.\n\nHill founded the Jerome Foundation, which gives grants to non-profit arts organizations and artists in Minnesota and New York City. Hill started it as the Avon Foundation in 1964, but after his death it was renamed the Jerome Foundation.\nAmong the projects the foundation funds is the American Composers Forum's Jerome Fund for New Music, which supports the creation of new works of music with grants to composers.\nHill also founded the Camargo Foundation in 1967, which administers an artists residency in Cassis, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014096", "title": "Epsilon Carinae", "text": "Epsilon Carinae\n\nEpsilon Carinae (ε Carinae, abbreviated Epsilon Car, ε Car), officially named Avior , is a binary star in the southern constellation of Carina. At apparent magnitude +1.86 it is one of the brightest stars in the night sky, but is not visible from the northern hemisphere. The False Cross is an asterism formed of Delta Velorum, Kappa Velorum, Iota Carinae and ε Carinae. It is so called because it is sometimes mistaken for the Southern Cross, causing errors in astronavigation.\nEpsilon Carinae is located roughly from the Sun. Measurements during the Hipparcos mission give the pair an angular separation of 0.46 arcseconds with a difference in magnitude of 2.0. At their estimated distance, this angle is equivalent to a physical separation of around 4 astronomical units.\n\nThe primary component has an apparent visual magnitude of 2.2, which by itself would still make it the third-brightest star in the constellation. It is an evolved giant star with a stellar classification of K0 III. However, examination of the ultraviolet flux from this star suggests it may instead be of spectral type K7. The fainter secondary companion has an apparent visual magnitude of 4.1, which, if it were a solitary star, would be bright enough to be seen with the naked eye. This is a hot, core hydrogen-fusing B-type main sequence star of spectral class B2 Vp. The secondary may itself have an orbiting stellar companion of spectral class F8. This pair may form an eclipsing binary system with a period of 785 days (2.15 years), resulting in a magnitude change of 0.12 during each eclipse.\n\n\"ε Carinae\" (Latinised to \"Epsilon Carinae\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nThe name \"Avior\" is not classical in origin. It was assigned to the star by HM Nautical Almanac Office in the late 1930s during the creation of The Air Almanac, a navigational almanac for the Royal Air Force. Of the fifty-seven navigation stars included in the new almanac, two had no classical names: Epsilon Carinae and Alpha Pavonis. The RAF insisted that all of the stars must have names, so new names were invented. Alpha Pavonis was named \"Peacock\", a translation of Pavo, whilst Epsilon Carinae was called \"Avior\". In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN's first bulletin of July 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the WGSN; which included \"Avior\" for this star.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Sea Rock\", refers to an asterism consisting of ε Carinae, Iota Carinae, HD 83183, HD 84810 and Upsilon Carinae . Consequently, ε Carinae itself is known as (, .)\n"}
{"id": "2014110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014110", "title": "Mu Geminorum", "text": "Mu Geminorum\n\nMu Geminorum (μ Geminorum, abbreviated Mu Gem, μ Gem), formally named Tejat , is a single star in the northern constellation of Gemini. From parallax measurements obtained during the Hipparcos mission, it is roughly distant from the Sun.\n\nMu Geminorum forms the primary or 'A' component of a double star system designated WDS J06230+2231 along with UCAC2 39641417 (also designated WDS J06230+2231BC), itself a binary pair.\n\n\"μ Geminorum\" (Latinised to \"Mu Geminorum\") is the star's Bayer designation. WDS J06230+2231 is the double star's designation in the Washington Double Star Catalog. The designations of the double star's components as WDS J06230+2231A and BC derive from the convention used by the Washington Multiplicity Catalog (WMC) for multiple star systems, and adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU).\n\nMu Geminorum bore the traditional name of \"Tejat\" (or more precisely, \"Tejat Posterior\"), from an old southern Arabic word of unknown meaning, \"tiḥyāt\". The name \"Tejat Posterior\" was formerly applied to an asterism consisting of this star, along with Gamma Geminorum (Alhena), Nu Geminorum, Eta Geminorum (Propus), and Xi Geminorum (Alzirr). In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN decided to attribute proper names to individual stars rather than entire multiple systems. It approved the name \"Tejat\" for the component WDS J06230+2231A (i.e. Mu Geminorum) on February 1, 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nThe names \"Calx\" (Latin, meaning 'heel'), \"Pish Pai\" (from the Persian پیش‌پای ('pīshpāy', meaning 'foreleg'), and \"Nuhatai\" (from Arabic 'Al Nuḥātai', the dual form of 'Al Nuḥāt', 'a Camel's Hump') have also been applied to Mu Geminorum.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Well (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of Mu Geminorum, Gamma Geminorum, Nu Geminorum, Xi Geminorum, Epsilon Geminorum, 36 Geminorum, Zeta Geminorum and Lambda Geminorum. Consequently, Mu Geminorum itself is known as (, ).\n\nMu Geminorum has an average apparent visual magnitude of 2.9, which makes it the fourth-brightest member of Gemini. It is 0.8 degrees south of the ecliptic, so it is subject to occultations by the Moon and, rarely, by planets. Seen from Earth, its brightness is reduced by 0.07 magnitudes by extinction from intervening gas and dust.\n\nIt is a slow irregular variable of type LB. Its brightness varies between magnitude +2.75 and +3.02 over a 72-day period, along with a 2,000-day period of long term variation. It is a red giant at a stellar classification of M3 III, with a surface temperature of 3,773 K, meaning it is brighter, yet cooler, than the Sun. The star is currently on the asymptotic giant branch and is generating energy through the nuclear fusion of hydrogen and helium along concentric shells surrounding an inert core of carbon and oxygen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014117", "title": "Road tax", "text": "Road tax\n\nRoad tax, known by various names around the world, is a tax which has to be paid on, or included with, a wheeled vehicle to use it on a public road.\n\nAll states and territories require an annual vehicle registration fee to be paid in order to use a vehicle on public roads; the cost of which varies from state to state and is dependent on the type of vehicle. The fee is known colloquially as 'rego' (pronounced with a soft g, short for registration). Queensland road tax is based on the number of cylinders or rotors the vehicle's engine has. There is also a small traffic improvement fee. New South Wales road tax is paid based on the vehicle's tare weight.\n\nPassenger cars pay a registration fee based on the engine displacement and power output (degressive towards 2014 (66% in 2012, 33% in 2013, 0% in 2014) and environmental criteria such as CO g/km output (increasingly towards 2014). The more CO g/km the car produces, the higher the fee will be.\n\nEvery year, the plate number owner has to pay the annual road tax contribution. This tax is based on the engine displacement (0-799cc = fiscal HP 4, above 800cc each 200cc is one class higher). Due to CO-based regulations, diesel cars with above average displacement (>2,000cc) are favoured, and petrol cars with bigger displacements are put at a disadvantage). A supplementary annual fee has to be paid for cars that run on LPG/CNG (0-799cc: €84/year, 800-2,499cc; €148/year and >2,500cc: €208/year) to compensate financial loss for the state due to the absence of excise at the pump.\n\nIn Brazil, the states may collect an annual Vehicle Licensing Fee (\"Taxa de Licenciamento Veicular\") which has a fixed value for each vehicle category determined by each state. In addition, each state may impose a Vehicle Property Tax (\"Imposto sobre a Propriedade de Veículos Automotores\"), with a rate up to 4%.\n\nThe Costa Rican car property tax, commonly referred to as \"Marchamo\", is among the highest in Latin America, with rates that can go up to 3.5% of the fiscal value of the vehicle yearly. When compared to the Costa Rican minimum wage (₡331,516.22 a month, equivalent to US$597.33), the tax on an average US$15,000 (₡8,600,000) car can be ₡302,000 (US$525), or 80% to 120% of a month's pay. Even though Costa Ricans receive a yearly bonus equivalent to a month's salary, the property tax negates this for most car owners, which has led to calls for tax law reform.\n\nOpponents to the car property tax argue that common cars already pay 100% tariff when imported, meaning that a car in Costa Rica is twice as expensive as in the country of origin. Additionally, gas refills include 65% fuel tax. Owning a car that would cost US$7,500 to purchase (in the United States) for seven years can result in the owner paying up to US$29,595 in total taxes (around US$4,227.85 a year). The Ministry of Finance also has the right to step up the fiscal value of a car, effectively a negative depreciation.\n\nIn France, the \"vignette\" was abolished for private vehicles in 2001 and was replaced by a tax on toll-road operators at a rate of €6.85 per 1,000 kilometres travelled. In addition, a tax is levied on vehicles registered to companies. Since 2006, the tax is levied according to CO emissions ranging from €2 per gramme to €19 per gramme.\n\nIn Germany, the Motor Vehicle tax (\"Kraftfahrzeugsteuer\") is an annual tax on all vehicles. It ranges from €5 per 100cc to €25 per 100cc for petrol engines and €13 to €37 for diesel engines. Vehicles first registered before June 30, 2009 are taxed according to engine displacement and national/European \"emission class\", whereas vehicles which were registered after that date are taxed solely based on CO emission in grams per km (g CO/km). An on-line tax calculator has been made available.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the licence fee is according to the category (passenger cars, goods vehicles, taxis, etc.) of the vehicle first. Then, for passenger cars (known as private cars), it is calculated by the engine size. The lowest tax band is under 1500 cc, then the tax band changes at 2500 cc, 3500 cc and 4500 cc. Due to this system of license fee, most of 1600 cc to 1800 cc car models do not sell well. Most people prefer 1500 cc for compact cars. Due to this reason, some manufacturers provide only the 1500 cc version of their compact cars to Hong Kong market such as Toyota Corolla and Nissan Tiida. Both of these two cars only have 1500 cc version available.\n\nBy engine displacement: \n\nIn Hungary, since 2009, this tax is based on the vehicle's engine performance and the vehicle's age. Before this so-called performance tax, this tax was based on the vehicle's weight and unofficially it was called a weight tax.\n\nIn India, road tax is imposed by the respective state governments (lifetime and also annual for commercial vehicles) also, further there could be toll for specific usage of roads( charge depends on distance, type, etc). At the time of purchase of the vehicle, the government levies GST (Goods & Services Tax) at the rate of 28% and additional cess is levied based on the cubic capacity of the engine of the vehicle(1% for small cars with CC< 1200 CC, 3% for CC between 1200 and 1500 CC, 15% for above 1500 CC). Electric cars are levied lower tax of 5%.\n\nThe motor vehicles tax (called road tax) is calculated on the basis of various factors including engine capacity, seating capacity, unladen weight and cost price. Each state has different rules and regulations for charging the road tax.\n\nThere is proposal to have uniform rules and also tariff across the country in line with the governments initiative of having \"One Nation-One Tax\".\n\nIn these days, in India there is a movement called \"Digital India\" in which every type of work related to every departments are getting digitalized and \"Ministry of Road Transport & Highways\" has created a portal called \"Vahan\" for online road tax payment to ease the pain of paying of taxes to the government in offline mode. It is a very smooth experience to pay such taxes from home and saving time.\n\nMotor tax is payable as an annual duty (subject to exemptions) in Ireland. \nPrior to 2008, the annual tax was levied on the engine size ranging from €199 pa for an engine under 1,000cc to €1,809 for cars with an engine over 3,001 cc. \nSince July 2008, the tax rates for new private cars are based on the vehicle's carbon dioxide emissions. The tax bands for CO2 emissions range from €120 pa with emissions of 0-80 g/km to €2,350 pa with emissions over 225g.\nCommercial vehicles including 5 seater large 4WD vehicles no matter what size engine or CO emissions are €333 the highest rate is €2345 for passenger vehicles. All vintage vehicles are taxed at €56 per year; a vehicle is considered vintage 30 years after the date of first registration.\n\nA tax is collected under the Local Tax Act of 1950 that is paid every May based on the vehicle's engine's displacement. The tax is then determined by whether the vehicle is for business or personal use. Brackets are determined based on exterior dimensions and engine displacement as defined under the dimension regulations. The tax to be paid is then based on the engine's displacement starting with engines below 1,000 cc, and increasing at 500 cc intervals to a top bracket of 6,000 cc and above.\n\nPersonal vehicles pay more than vehicles identified as business use. If the car has been certified as a low-emissions vehicle, under the Japanese low-emission vehicle certification system, the tax obligation is reduced. Kei cars (Japanese vehicles with 660 cc engines and reduced exterior dimensions) have significant tax advantages because their tax is about a quarter of that of a 1,000 cc car.\n\nThe legislation is similar to a European approach to taxing engine horsepower, while the Japanese approach taxes engine displacement.\n\nLight Motor Vehicle Tax\n\nOn 31 May 1971 until 31 March 2010, the Japanese government passed a law creating the . It was modified on 31 March 2010, and the next day, on 1 April 2010. The tax is paid every year in conjunction with the engine displacement based road tax. The weight determination is made in metric tonnes.\n\nAs of 1 April 2010, the tax requirements are as follows. The determination of whether the vehicle is for business or personal use has been added, similar to the engine displacement regulations:\n\nThe following is the tax rates for passenger vehicles used for both personal and business use, incremented by 500 cc engine displacement.\n\nThe following table is the tax bracket for lorries or vehicles built with a load carrying section without seats and a single bench seat in the front of the vehicle in an enclosed passenger compartment.\n\nThe following table is the tax bracket for buses, or vehicles designed to carry many passengers.\n\nThe vehicle operating tax on cars first registered after January 1, 2005 that have registration certificates with information on total weight, engine volume and engine maximum power, shall be paid by summing up tax rates according to total weight, engine volume and engine maximum power of the car as follows:\n\nAn annual tax is applied to each vehicle. In 2013, as an example, the annual tax for a BMW 330D 2004 model was €224.\n\nIn Malaysia, the latest road tax information and calculations is different in East Malaysia and West Malaysia, which the former in general has lower rate than the latter because of the poor geographical condition and road surface. Besides, within both the two areas, the tax amount also varies according to car variants as well as engine capacity. Private cars are classified as ‘saloon’ vehicles such as hatchbacks, convertibles and sedans, whose road tax rate is different from non-saloon vehicles such as MPV, SUV or pickup trucks.\n\nUntil 2011, the federal government charged an annual vehicle tax, Tenencia Vehicular, depending on the value and other vehicle characteristics. Although the tax was federal, the states collected the tax. This tax was created in 1961 and in 2006 represented about 1.6% of the total tax income (around 13 billion pesos).\n\nIn 2012, vehicle tax became a state matter with some states charging the tax, others charging a partial tax (mostly on cars above a certain value) and others such as Morelos and Querétaro, charging no tax.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a tax is applied to the vehicle based on its weight and fuel type, and the region. Electric vehicles and classic cars over forty years old are exempt from road tax.\n\nIn Norway, a registration fee is applied to all new motor vehicles when sold new. The fee is calculated by several variables such as vehicle classification, emissions (CO and NOx) and vehicle weight and generally rewards vehicles with smaller engines, low emissions and low weight. This fee can be in the hundreds of thousands of Norwegian kroner. In addition, there is an annual road tax applied to motor vehicles, failure of payment will generally lead to license plates being withdrawn. The road tax varies by vehicle classification, as of 2013 for ordinary passenger cars (less than 7,500 kg) it is 2,940 kr (with a slightly higher amount, 3,425 kr, for diesel cars without diesel particulate filters).\n\nIn Romania, every owner that owns a registered vehicle owes a yearly property tax, \"'Impozit\"', on that vehicle that is mainly based on the engine's Cubic capacity for passenger cars and buses, and mass and number of Axles for Trucks and Semi-trailer trucks.\n\nAlthough the template for the collection of vehicle property tax depending on the vehicle's type is drafted by the national government, the property tax is owed to the local government in which the vehicle is currently registered and the local council can vote to reduce or to increase the tax owed by a margin (for example, in the year 2018, the local council of the Municipality of Timișoara voted to increase the owed vehicle property tax by 50%, effectively making it the highest in the country).\n\nThe framework for calculating the basic vehicle property tax is the following:\n\nFor example: The owner of a normal gasoline-powered vehicle with an engine of 2000 cc, registered in the mun. of Cluj-Napoca (where there is a 0% markup) will have to pay an yearly vehicle property tax of 180 RON. (Rate: 18 RON/200cc, 2000 / 200 = 10, 18 * 10 = 180 RON). Meanwhile someone who lives in the Mun. of Timișoara and owns a vehicle that has the same capacity will pay 274 RON (Timișoara has a 50% markup).\n\nAnother example of a vehicle with a cubic capacity of 3000, registered in Alba county, which has a 16.05% markup: Rate: 144 RON/200cc, 3000 / 200 = 15. Normal Tax owed: 15* 144 = 2160. Tax owed in Alba county (16.05% markup): 2160 * 116.05/100 ~= 2507 RON.\n\nThis system of taxation results in incredibly high taxes for vehicles with engines bigger than 3000 cc (Upwards of 6000 RON per year), and low taxes for engines smaller than 2000 cc. As a result, many people have tried to dodge the system either by registering their vehicles in another EU country with smaller taxes, or by converting their vehicles to fit the legal definition of a Utility Vehicle, which is included in category 8 and have a rate of only 30 RON / 200cc in stead of 290 RON / 200cc. For example, the owner of a vehicle that has a cubic capacity of 4000 cc will have to pay 5800 RON per year, compared to 480 RON per year owed by someone who owns a pickup truck (also a Utility Vehicle) with the same cubic capacity of 4000. The main legal requirement for a vehicle to be considered a Utility Vehicle is that it must have a cargo area that is separated from the passengers and cannot be accessed from within the vehicle. Many passenger cars (especially SUVs) can easily be modified to fit this requirement by installing a barrier between the trunk area and the back seats.\n\nHybrid vehicles owners will pay a reduced tax (50% to 100% reduction). Electric vehicle and Classic car owners will pay no tax at all. All vehicle owners get a 10% reduction if they pay the tax before May 1 (which is the deadline for paying the vehicle tax). Handicaped people and war veterans do not owe any vehicle property tax no matter the vehicle type.\n\nOn top of paying an annual Vehicle Property Tax, all vehicles that travel outside of city limits must pay the \"\"Rovinieta\",\" including internationally registered vehicles that travel temporarily on Romanian roads which ranges from 28 Euros a year for passenger cars to 1210 Euros for Trucks that have a Maximum Authorized Mass greater than 12 t and more than 4 axles. Classic cars are exempt from the Rovinieta.\n\nIn Spain two taxes apply to motor vehicles:\n\nIn the United Kingdom it is a requirement to pay 'Vehicle Excise Duty', which is paid to the government for a vehicle licence. Previously, vehicle licences in the form of paper discs were required to be displayed on vehicles, and this licence would remain valid until its expiry date even if the vehicle is transferred to another keeper. The paper discs were abolished in October 2014, meaning that the licence is merely an entry in the centralized database; moreover, following this change the licence is cancelled if the vehicle is transferred. Vehicles that are not used or kept on public roads must be the subject of a \"Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN)\" if they are not licensed.\n\nIn 1937, the direct relationship that existed between the tax and government expenditure on public roads was cut, the proceeds being treated as general taxation.\n\nIn the 2015 budget, the government announced that from 2020 the revenue would be ring-fenced for expenditure on the strategic road network.\n\nEach state requires an annual registration fee which varies from state to state.\n\nAdditionally, in some states, counties and/or municipalities are allowed to also impose a vehicle tax. For example, in Illinois, Cook County taxes vehicles that are registered in unincorporated areas, and a number of municipalities have their own annual vehicle registration fee. In Massachusetts, the excise tax is billed separately from registration fees, by the town or city in which the vehicle is registered, and was set at a fixed rate of 2.5% statewide by a 1980 law called Proposition 2½. Within some states, the fees may vary from county to county, as some counties have surcharges per vehicle; an example of this is Virginia's personal property tax. New York State, on the other hand, charges a tax based on the vehicle's weight, rather than on its value, which is charged at the time of registration renewal.\n\nIn California and New Hampshire, the registration tax is calculated by the current value of the vehicle. As a result, older and more inexpensive vehicles will have a low registration fee, whereas newer and more expensive vehicles will have fees in the hundreds of dollars.\n\nThere is also a federal Heavy Vehicle Use Tax (HVUT) for vehicles with gross weights of 55,000 pounds or more, including trucks, truck tractors and buses. Generally, vans, pickup trucks, panel trucks and the like are not subject to this tax. The tax does not apply to vehicles that are used for 5,000 miles or less (7,500 miles or less for agricultural vehicles) on public highways during a tax period.\n\nAdditionally, \"New York State imposes a highway use tax (HUT) on motor carriers operating certain motor vehicles on New York State public highways (excluding toll-paid portions of the New York State Thruway). The tax rate is based on the weight of the motor vehicle and the method that you choose to report the tax.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2014128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014128", "title": "Mu Cephei", "text": "Mu Cephei\n\nMu Cephei (μ Cep, μ Cephei), also known as Herschel's Garnet Star, is a red supergiant or hypergiant star in the constellation Cepheus. It appears garnet red and is located at the edge of the IC 1396 nebula. Since 1943, the spectrum of this star has served as the M2 Ia standard by which other stars are classified.\n\nMu Cephei is visually nearly 100,000 times brighter than the Sun, with an absolute visual magnitude of −7.6. It is also one of the largest known stars with a radius around 1,000 times that of the sun (), and were it placed in the Sun's position it would engulf the orbit of Mars and possibly Jupiter.\n\nThe deep red color of Mu Cephei was noted by William Herschel, who described it as \"a very fine deep garnet colour, such as the periodical star ο Ceti\". It is thus commonly known as Herschel's \"Garnet Star\". Mu Cephei was called \"Garnet sidus\" by Giuseppe Piazzi in his catalogue. An alternative name, \"Erakis\", used in Antonín Bečvář's star catalogue, is probably due to confusion with Mu Draconis, which was previously called \"\" in Arabic.\n\nIn 1848, English astronomer John Russell Hind discovered that Mu Cephei was variable. This variability was quickly confirmed by German astronomer Friedrich Wilhelm Argelander. Almost continual records of the star's variability have been maintained since 1881.\n\nThe angular diameter of μ Cephei has been measured interferometrically. One of the most recent measurements gives a diameter of at , modelled as a limb-darkened disk across.\n\nMu Cephei is a variable star and the prototype of the obsolete class of the Mu Cephei variables. It is now considered to be a semiregular variable of type SRc. Its apparent brightness varies erratically between magnitude 3.4 and 5.1. Many different periods have been reported, but they are consistently near 860 days or 4,400 days.\n\nA very luminous red supergiant, Mu Cephei is among the largest stars visible to the naked eye, and one of the largest known. It has been described as a hypergiant.\n\nThis is a runaway star with a peculiar velocity of . The distance to Mu Cephei is not very well known. The Hipparcos satellite was used to measure a parallax of milliarcseconds, which corresponds to an estimated distance of 1,333–2,857 parsecs. However, this value is close to the margin of error. A determination of the distance based upon a size comparison with Betelgeuse gives an estimate of , so it is clear that Mu Cephei is either a much larger star than Betelgeuse or much closer (and smaller and less luminous) than expected.\n\nThe bolometric luminosity, summed over all wavelengths, is calculated from integrating the spectral energy distribution to be , making μ Cephei one of the most luminous red supergiants in the Milky Way. Its effective temperature of 3,750 K, determined from colour index relations, implies a radius of . Other recent publications give similar effective temperatures. Calculation of the luminosity from a visual and infrared colour relation give and a corresponding radius of . An estimate made based on its angular diameter and an assumed distance of 2,400 light years gives it a radius of .\n\nMore recent measurement based on a distance of gives the star a lower luminosity below and a correspondingly lower radius of , and as well as a lower temperature of 3,551 K. These parameters are all consistent with those estimated for Betelgeuse.\n\nThe initial mass of Mu Cephei has been estimated from its position relative to theoretical stellar evolutionary tracks to be between and .\n\nMu Cephei is surrounded by a shell extending out to a distance at least equal to 0.33 times the star's radius with a temperature of . This outer shell appears to contain molecular gases such as CO, HO, and SiO.\n\nInfrared observations suggest the presence of a wide ring of dust and water with an inner radius about twice that of the star itself, extending to about four times the radius of the star.\n\nThe star is surrounded by a spherical shell of ejected material that extends outward to an angular distance of 6″ with an expansion velocity of . This indicates an age of about 2,000–3,000 years for the shell. Closer to the star, this material shows a pronounced asymmetry, which may be shaped as a torus. The star currently has a mass loss rate of a few times per year.\nMu Cephei is nearing death. It has begun to fuse helium into carbon, whereas a main sequence star fuses hydrogen into helium. When a supergiant star has converted elements in its core to iron, the core collapses to produce a supernova and the star is destroyed, leaving behind a vast gaseous cloud and a small, dense remnant. For a star as massive as Mu Cephei the remnant is likely to be a black hole. The most massive red supergiants will evolve back to blue supergiants, Luminous blue variables, or Wolf-Rayet stars before their cores collapse, and Mu Cephei appears to be massive enough for this to happen. A post-red supergiant will produce a type IIn or type II-b supernova, while a Wolf Rayet star will produce a type Ib or Ic supernova.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014129", "title": "Dhondo Keshav Karve", "text": "Dhondo Keshav Karve\n\nDhondo Keshav Karve (18 April 1858 – 9 November 1962), popularly known as Maharshi Karve, was a social reformer in India in the field of women's welfare. In his honour, Queen's Road in Mumbai (Bombay) was renamed to Maharshi Karve Road. Karve was a pioneer in promoting widows' education. The Government of India awarded him with the highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, in 1958, the year of his 100th birthday.\n\nThe appellation \"Maharshi\", which the Indian public often assigned to Karve, means \"a great sage\". He was also sometimes affectionately called \"Annā Karve\"; in the Marathi-speaking community to which Karve belonged, the appellation \"Annā\" is often used to address either one's father or an elder brother. He was the first living Indian to appear on a postal stamp of India.\n\nDuring 1891–1914, Karve taught mathematics at Fergusson College in Pune, Maharashtra.\n\nKarve wrote two autobiographical works: Ātmawrutta (1928) in Marathi, and Looking Back (1936) in English.\n\nThe Marathi play Himalayachi Saavli (The Shadow of the Himalayas) by Vasant Kanetkar, published in 1972, is loosely based on the life of Karve. The character of Nanasaheb Bhanu is a composite character based on Karve and other Marathi social reformers of the late 19th and early 20th century. The play itself depicts the tension between Bhanu/Karve's public life as a social reformer and his family life due to the social backlash and economic hardships his children and wife had to endure.\n\nThe 2001 film \"Dhyaas Parva\" by Amol Palekar, based on the life of Karve's son Raghunath, also depicts the Karve family, and their social reformation projects. Taluka Dapoli, a research based initiative, made a documentary on life of Maharshi Dhondo Keshav Karve in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014136", "title": "Ideal Standard", "text": "Ideal Standard\n\nIdeal Standard International is a privately held multinational bathroom, sanitary ware and plumbing fixture company headquartered in Belgium. It operates primarily in Europe, Middle East and North Africa.\n\nThe brand Ideal Standard dates to the early 1900s. By the late 1940s, Ideal Standard used some products of companies of the American Standard group. The \"Ideal\" brand traces back to the \"Ideal Boilers\" and \"American Radiators\" brands used by the American Radiator Company.\n\nA new company, known as Ideal Standard International, was formed in 2007 by the sale of the bath and kitchen products businesses of American Standard Companies for $1.745 billion to Bain Capital Partners. The North American and Asian operations of American Standard were sold to Sun Capital and Lixil Group respectively, with the European and Latin American operations retained as Ideal Standard.\n\nThe company was then restructured, implementing cost-cutting measures, as well as moving some of company's production facilities to Asia and Eastern Europe – a new production site was opened in Bulgaria. The acquisition by Bain Capital was facilitated by Credit Suisse and Bank of America; the creditors subsequently struggled to dispose of their debt.\n\nThe restructuring program was complete in 2011, but the company was loss making in 2012/3 due to poor sales. In 2013 the company reduced its workforce by 250 due to poor sales; further restructuring was proposed in 2014, including a debt for equity swap with bondholder Anchorage Capital. In 2014 the EU competition commission approved Anchorage Capital becoming joint owner of the company together with Bain Capital.\n\nAs of 2014 the company is headquartered in Belgium, and has over 10,000 employees. Its products include bathroom fittings including bathrooms, sanitary ware, and showers, sold under brands including Armitage Shanks, \"Ceramica Dolomite\", \"Porcher\" and \"Vidima\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2014143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014143", "title": "Jackie Burkhart", "text": "Jackie Burkhart\n\nJacqueline Beulah Burkhart is a fictional character portrayed by Mila Kunis on the Fox Network sitcom \"That '70s Show\". Jackie is one of the two female leads throughout the show's life, and a love interest of Michael Kelso.\n\nJackie is a self-centered, spoiled, vain member of a wealthy family. She is generally insensitive to the needs and feelings of others, although regarded by many as attractive and fashionable. She is one of the program's most conceited characters, and she can behave quite selfishly. She looks down upon those of lower status in her school and has been said to treat them unfairly, and on the occasions she has treated them with respect, she has not continued to do so for very long or only did it knowing that she could be rewarded for behaving in such a manner, such as when she ran for the title of \"Snow Queen\" but was utterly disappointed when she loses the election.\n\nFor the most part, Jackie only cares about herself, and fashion is one of the few other things that she is concerned about. She believes herself to be very beautiful and appealing and has been involved in romantic relationships with Michael Kelso, Steven Hyde, and Fez at different points in the series. She starts to change when she starts dating Hyde and by doing so, becomes cemented as a member of the group. Even after her break up with Hyde, they remained good friends and she continued hanging around. She also becomes less shallow and cares about others. In the season 8 episode \"Fun It\", it is revealed she has had coulrophobia (an irrational fear of clowns) since her seventh birthday party.\n\nJackie's friendships tend to be complicated. While people might be endeared to her good heart and her triumphs over major life upheavals, her habit of being condescending to others keeps them at a distance.\n\nAlthough she frequently criticizes Donna's dress, physique and feminism, she repeatedly calls herself Donna's best friend ever since they first met in 1973 when Jackie first came to Point Place and Donna hit her with a ball in the gymnasium. Even though she thinks Donna is boring and unattractive when compared to herself, she believes Donna could do much better than Eric. Despite their extremely different personalities, Donna serves as Jackie's de facto big sister and often tries to look out for her when she feels Jackie is making a mistake, more often than not due to lack of common sense. After her father is sent to prison in the middle of season five, Jackie moves in with the Pinciottis after the Formans learn that she has secretly been living with Hyde in his basement room. Jackie is also defensive of Donna; she displays this often by insulting or kicking Eric for doing something stupid, for example Eric makes a sexist comment so Jackie kicks him in the shin in the episode \"Won't Get Fooled Again\". Although both girls often tease one another they show genuine friendship. In the episode \"Squeeze Box\" Donna shows how much she trusts Jackie when she runs in to talk about Eric. Jackie also demonstrates her level of care for Donna when she helps pay for Donna's wedding ring in the episode \"No Quarter\".\n\nOf the group, Jackie and Eric seemed to dislike each other the most in the beginning, though as the series progresses, they develop a friendship. She is more like a sister to him in comparison to his own sister, Laurie. Throughout the series, the two have a clear \"frenemy\" relationship. They demonstrate their annoyance with each other, but show compassion for each other many times, and through it all, are close. In the beginning of the series, Jackie admits to trusting and liking Eric, confiding in him that she might be pregnant. In \"The Pill\", for example, she says to Eric's surprise, \"Look, I've always been able to trust you—and, God, you are such a nice guy.\" Later in the episode, once Kelso threatens to break up with Jackie, Eric yells at him, having developed protective feelings towards her. This proves that their burning of each other throughout the show is only for laughs and friendly bickering, as none of their hostility is ever serious. Eric is consistent in ignoring Jackie as an object of sexual desire, but this changes in \"What Is and What Should Never Be\" where Hyde helps Eric realize that Jackie is \"hot\". After this, Eric has shown to have a sexual attraction to her, as shown in many episodes. Jackie is sometimes demeaning towards Eric, as she is to almost everyone, mostly due to his dorkiness and lack of physical prowess. They occasionally help each other out. In the episode \"Jackie's Cheese Squeeze\", Eric admits that they are \"friends\", as long as they don't refer to each other as such in public, and in the season seven finale, Jackie calls Eric from Chicago and admits that she's always cared for him and that he was always very special to her.\n\nEarly on, Red remarks she was the favorite of Eric's friends for her ability to hold a flashlight on a car. Jackie has run crying into Red's arms no fewer than three times, all of which left him baffled and uncomfortable. Red finds Jackie as annoying as everyone else, but she still loves him because he's the closest thing she has to a father.\n\nWhen the show premieres, Jackie is dating Michael Kelso, a good-looking, brainless goofball. She decides to finally lose her virginity to him when he is released from jail after being mistakenly arrested for driving a stolen car. Jackie gets on Kelso's friends' nerves on a daily basis and Kelso repeatedly says that he is going to break up with her. However, in the first season it is Jackie who ends the relationship – twice. First, after Kelso is caught kissing Pam Macy (they get back together in the very same episode) and again after a pregnancy scare. However, admitting that they miss each other, they get back together at the Junior Prom.\n\nIn season 2, Kelso is seduced by Eric's promiscuous and manipulative sister, Laurie, who later on begins a physical affair with him. Later in the season, Jackie eventually discovers his repeated infidelities and breaks up with him without realizing that Kelso has told Laurie that he is done with her since he only loves Jackie. After this breakup she is openly hostile to Kelso and many things clearly remain unfinished between them. She often insults him in front of his friends to get his attention and just for the sake of bringing him up. By season 3, she does eventually warm up to him. Following Kelso's breakup with Laurie, Kelso apologizes to Jackie for cheating on her because now he knows how it feels to be cheated on as Laurie cheated on him, except he states that what happened to him and Jackie was different because they were actually really in love. After this, Jackie begins to notice that Kelso has matured somehow, so Jackie devises a series of \"tests\" for Kelso to see if they should reconcile. He passes her tests and they get back together. Kelso remains loyal to Jackie after that and stays with her throughout season four, and they enjoy a happier, more loving relationship. However, towards the end of season 4, Jackie's father tells her that if she stays with Kelso, he will cut her off financially. She ends up choosing Kelso, and gets a job. Later, Kelso begins to spend less time with Jackie as a result of his joining a modeling agency and she is caught kissing her boss by Eric. This event spurs a period of discovery for Jackie and Kelso. After reading \"Cosmopolitan\", Kelso realizes that the reason he cheated on Jackie with Laurie was because Jackie has always bossed him around and made him feel bad about himself. Following this revelation, he breaks up with her (true to form, the breakup doesn't stick and they reunite one episode later).\n\nIn the season four finale, Jackie and Kelso both agree that they don't want to stay broken up. So, Jackie has Kelso choose to kiss any girl at The Hub to make things even between them and they can move on and be together again. Kelso surprises Jackie when he pretends to look around the room, but ends up choosing to kiss her. Jackie decides that it's time for Kelso to really choose her. Without warning, she brings up marriage to Kelso and decides that they're getting married. Kelso, feeling overwhelmed, runs away to California. When he returns in the beginning of season five, he (along with the others) is horrified to learn that she has begun dating Hyde. Jackie continues to date Hyde for most of the season, but when Kelso introduces Annette to the gang, Jackie finds herself clearly jealous and tells Donna that Michael is still supposed to pine over her. Later in the episode, she claims to not be jealous anymore, but the moment she sees Annette kissing Kelso, she screams, \"Get off my boyfriend!\" For the rest of the season, Kelso is clearly not over Jackie and doesn't realize that he's indirectly trying to win her back. Towards the end of season five, as Jackie comforts Kelso, he states that no one understands him like she does. In the finale, Kelso and Hyde make Jackie choose between the two of them and she chooses herself. By the beginning of season six, Kelso claims that he is happy and genuinely enjoying their new friendship. He spends the rest of the season trying to move on with his life, joins the police academy and impregnates a girl named Brooke and spends the rest of season 6 and 7 taking care of the baby. Towards the end of season seven, however, Kelso drives Jackie to Chicago after her break-up with Hyde, and Jackie asks him to spend some time with her before he leaves. He is later seen entering Jackie's hotel room in only a towel, implying that he and Jackie were about to sleep together, but runs off nude into the night when he sees that Hyde has come to the hotel to get Jackie back. \n\nIn the beginning of season eight, with Hyde married to a stripper, Jackie figures out her own life. Kelso considers marrying Jackie and states that the happiest time of his life was with Jackie and claims he still loves her. When Fez tells Jackie what Kelso intends, she considers the proposal and decides that if he asks, she will accept. However, he gets offered a job out of town and realizes he can move on with his life, but Fez reveals to him that he has already told Jackie of the proposal. Kelso grows angry, and states that he loves Jackie and that he knows in the future, they will be together, but now is not the right time, but since Fez has implied that Kelso will lose all of his chances with Jackie if he doesn't propose now, Kelso ends up proposing at Red and Kitty's anniversary party, though, she turns him down giving practically the same reasons as Kelso, which is that she loves him, but he has a lot of maturing to do and she has her own life to figure out so now is not the right time for them yet. They both feel an unexpected relief, and end on good terms.\n\nJackie and Steven Hyde are, from the beginning of the show, polar opposites and even enemies. She is disgusted by his poverty and crass behavior, he scorns her superficiality and materialism. They strongly dislike each other during the first season, but begin to form a bond when Hyde helps Jackie cope with her breakup with Kelso in season two. This leads to a brief period in which Jackie is infatuated with Hyde, but her feelings gradually fade. It isn't until season five, when Kelso is in California, that their romance begins. After watching \"The Price Is Right\" together all summer, the two begin making out every time they have a moment alone. When their friends discover the relationship, they each insist that they are not dating and that it is purely physical, but finally give in and admit that what they have goes deeper than just sex. They date for most of season five until Jackie sees Kelso kissing Annette and yells \"Get off my boyfriend!\" Hyde reacts angrily to this and grows suspicious of Jackie. When he sees Jackie holding Kelso in her arms, knowing Jackie and Kelso's long history and on-off relationship, Hyde assumes that something must be going on between her and Kelso again. Despite her pleas that she was only comforting him and that nothing untoward happened, he doesn't believe her and he takes revenge by spending the night with another woman. When he realizes that Jackie has been telling the truth, he confesses his infidelity. A heartbroken Jackie ends the relationship immediately.\n\nIn the beginning of season six, Kelso and Hyde are in competition to get Jackie back because they both still love her. She decides she needs time to think about it, leaving them to wait and agonize, but chooses Hyde in the end. Their relationship goes on until Jackie is offered a job in Chicago. She is torn between her relationship and her professional ambition, but tells Hyde that she will stay if he can gives her the merest hope that they will eventually get married. Hyde has no immediate answer, and when he finally decides, he is upset to realize that she has already gone (or so he thinks). Jackie has no way out of Point Place, and in a final attempt to get an answer out of Hyde, she goes to the basement. Hiding his hurt and anger that she \"left\" him, Hyde tells her to have a good trip.\n\nHyde decides he still wants her, and goes to her Chicago hotel to persuade her to take him back. During his conversation with Jackie, Kelso walks into the hotel room with a towel around his waist and a bucket of ice in his hands and implying that he and Jackie were about to have sex. Hyde goes to Las Vegas. When he comes back to Point Place, he has impulsively married a stripper named Samantha and she follows him back to Wisconsin. This effectively ends his and Jackie's relationship.\n\nThroughout season eight, Jackie remains single. She and Hyde, no longer together, have since remained good friends. However, their behavior regresses to how it was in the earlier seasons. Fez tells Jackie that Kelso intends to propose to her, and she decides that she will accept, but after considering it, she turns him down claiming that though she loves Kelso, he still has a lot of maturing to do, and now is not the time for them to be together. Feeling that she is in a low point in her life, Jackie decides to find someone that would be perfect for her and writes out a list of what she wants in a man. She is surprised to find out that Fez matches everything on the list. She denies this at first, but quickly comes around to the idea and decides to wait for Fez to come to her. Fez, however, is clueless of her attraction to him and is instead seeing other women at the time, which makes it hard for her. Jackie then chooses to go to him. She kisses him and asks if they can be together because he is the one good thing in her life right now, but Fez turns her down, feeling that she is treating him as a last resort, citing how she has already dated both Kelso and Hyde. Jackie then goes to the bathroom and cries, but immediately after vows revenge on Fez. She flushes his toothbrush, microwaves his lotion, and ruins his car with graffiti. To get back at Jackie, Fez dyes her hair green, and says that now she is ugly on the outside like she is on the inside. Hurt by Fez's words, Jackie decides to move out. However, she later learns through one of his friends that he loves her and wishes that he had never said those things. They eventually reconcile and in the final episode, Fez and Jackie finally get together and kiss atop the water tower.\n"}
{"id": "2014150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014150", "title": "Pakistan Coast Guards", "text": "Pakistan Coast Guards\n\nThe Pakistan Coast Guards (reporting name: PCG) is a branch of the Pakistan Army that performs riverine operations, anti-narcotics missions, anti-human trafficking, tracking illegal immigration through the coastal areas, and taking initiatives in anti-smuggling. \n\nThe Coast Guards branch is different from the Navy's Maritime Security Agency (MSA) that has the ability to conduct search and rescue operations in deep sea and has foremost responsibility of defending the coastal areas while conducting the military operation to maritime law enforcement in national and international waters. Instead, the Army's Coast Guard takes responsibility of policing role by preventing all sort of criminal activities in the coastal areas such as country's beaches.\n\nFrom 1947–60s, the Pakistan Customs had the law enforcement responsibility for the defense of land and sea based frontiers of Pakistan with the objective to prevent smuggling of contraband items into and from Pakistan. In 1971, the headquarters of the Coast Guard was established in Karachi with Pakistan Army's Brigadier Sajjad Husain becoming its first director-general. \n\nIts constitutional status was granted through the Parliamentary procedures in 1972 and became a federal law enforcement agency in 1973 while remaining a branch with the Army. The Pakistan Coast Guards are responsible for maintaining the constitutional law at the Pakistan's beaches and patrolling the riverine platforms while the combat sea-based search and rescue missions, enforcement of admiralty law in the international waters, and preventing the armed piracy falls under the responsibility of the Maritime Security Agency (MSA).\n\nSince then, it has upgraded its facilities and fleet to bolster its capabilities of littoral patrolling of the coast line. The Army's Coast Guard is headed by an appointed Brigadier who is formally known as Director General. The officers of the Force are seconded from the Army and Navy for a period of two to three years, while the troops are permanent. In addition to land based troops, the Coast Guards also maintains a small fleet of patrol boats to perform its sea-borne duties, although the operations in deep water and dangerous undertaking are conducted by its counterpart Maritime Security Agency (MSA) of Pakistan Navy.\n\nThe exact number of personnel and equipment held with Coast Guards remains classified. The Pakistan Coast Guards works under administrative control of Ministry of Interior in peace time whereas it will come under operational control of Pakistan Army in wartime situations.\n\nThe Headquarters with its complements and PCG Hospital. \n\nPCG Battalions are led by commandants with the rank of lieutenant colonel, appointment coming from the Army. The Battalions are located as follows:\n\nThe battalions are each subdivided into 3-4 companies (commanded by majors/captains seconded from the Army).\n\nPakistan Coast Guards as a whole is spread all over to safeguard coastal belt of 1050 km as well as up to 12 NM Territorial Waters of Pakistan. Marine Wing of PCG is entrusted with the responsibility of 12 NM of territorial waters. The Marine Wing is based at Karachi and commanded by a commander of operation branch, seconded from Pakistan Navy. MW is equipped with Fast Patrol Crafts, lethal Interceptor Boats and other Utility Boats with latest equipment on board. MW has full facility to train its men in the relevant fields and able to conduct general and technical cadres. Marine Wing PCG has also established Search and Rescue Centre to safe the precious life in distress and to prevent property loss or damage. \n\nAT Coy is based in Korangi with a Training Wing and is responsible for maintaining horses, camels and cattle for use in the field, as well as a dog section. It is commanded by a seconded captain from the Remount, Veterinary and Farm Corps (RV&FC) of the Army.\n\nTo keep a check on smugglers and stop their activities of smuggling (inbound as well as outbound) through the sea routes. PCG Battalions have special check posts all along the coastal belt and also pickets the threatened areas randomly. In addition, \"The Intelligence Wing\" has a network of agents and informers and establish pickets in consultation with Commandants of the PCG Battalions when a potential smuggling activity is reported to take place. PCG has been equipped with modern communication and surveillance equipment; including radars, to perform this task. \n\nThe Pakistan Coast Guard has in recent years, undertaken greater operations against drug & weapon and even human trafficking/smuggler networks operating in the coastal waters.\n\nPCG is responsible for narcotics control along Pakistan's coastline.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014152", "title": "Tanaidacea", "text": "Tanaidacea\n\nThe crustacean order Tanaidacea (known as tanaids) make up a minor group within the class Malacostraca. There are about 940 species in this order.\n\nTanaids are small, shrimp-like creatures ranging from in adult size, with most species being from . Their carapace covers the first two segments of the thorax. There are three pairs of limbs on the thorax; a small pair of maxillipeds, a pair of large clawed gnathopods, and a pair of pereiopods adapted for burrowing into the mud. Unusually among crustaceans, the remaining six thoracic segments have no limbs at all, but each of the first five abdominal segments normally carry pleopods. The final segment is fused with the telson and carries a pair of uropods.\n\nThe gills lie on the inner surface of the carapace. The thoracic limbs wash water towards the mouth, filtering out small particles of food with the mouthparts or maxillipeds. Some species actively hunt prey, either as their only food source, or in combination with filter feeding.\n\nMost are marine, but some are also found in freshwater coastal habitat or estuaries. The majority of species are bottom-dwellers in shallow water environments, but a few live in very deep water, exceeding for some species . In some deep sea environment, they represent the most abundant and diverse fauna to be found.\n\nTanaids do not undergo a true planktonic stage. The early developmental period is spent while young are within the marsupium of the mother. Subsequently, post-larvae, called mancas, emerge as epibenthic forms. Some species are hermaphroditic.\n\nThe order Tanaidacea is divided into the following sub-orders, superfamilies and families:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014153", "title": "2 Young", "text": "2 Young\n\n2 Young () is a 2005 Hong Kong romantic comedy-drama film directed by Derek Yee. The film was released in Mainland China on 15 April 2005 and in Hong Kong on 28 April 2005.\n\nThe literal translation of, (早熟) is \"early maturity\" and the English title, \"2 Young\", is a pun on the words \"too young\". The controversial topic of a pre-marital pregnancy of a minor is what the plot of \"2 Young\" is framed around. Although the seriousness of the subject matter is woven throughout the film and is treated with respect, the overall objective of director, Derek Yee, was to keep the film light with moments of situational and appropriate humor.\n\n\"2 Young\" stars Jaycee Chan and Fiona Sit with a supporting cast including Eric Tsang, Teresa Mo, Anthony Wong, and Candice Yu, who play the parents of Jaycee's and Fiona's characters respectively.\n\nKa Fu (Jaycee Chan) and Natalie (Nam) (Fiona Sit), are from two different family backgrounds. Ka Fu's father (played by Eric Tsang) is a mini-bus driver and his mother (played by Teresa Mo) is a restaurant hostess. Natalie is from a very affluent family and her parents (played by Candice Yu and Anthony Wong) are lawyers. In the beginning, Ka Fu and his two close friends, Bing and Sai wait to see Natalie outside her school every single day until she invited them to her school's Christmas party despite knowing that visitors were forbidden to go. They were eventually discovered by the school principals. While Bing and Sai successfully escaped, Ka Fu was caught but they decided to forgive him. Ka Fu took Natalie home, where they celebrated her 16th birthday, and Ka Fu spent the night there.\n\nAnother contrast is that Ka Fu has a loving relationship with his parents, but Natalie's relationship with her parents is distant as they are often away on business trips. Eventually, Ka Fu and Natalie gotten close with each other as they got to know each other more. It is exactly this window of opportunity of Natalie's parents' absence that causes the two to have a weak moment in their budding love for each other, which results in Natalie getting pregnant during a camp out for New Year's Eve. Natalie eventually found out herself when her pregnancy test came back positive.\n\nOriginally, they thought about getting an abortion in order to take care of the problem after getting an advice from Sai but upon seeing the operation room, Natalie decided not to and ran out in horror. Despite her anxiety of this issue, she decides to go through with the pregnancy in complete support from Ka Fu, along with Bing and Sai. However, Natalie, being underage and about two years younger than Ka Fu, causes her parents, especially her father, to fly into a rage and a lawsuit gets under way for Ka Fu and his parents. Ka Fu's parents also scold him and express that they do not want him to make the same mistakes they did. Upon knowing her pregnancy, Natalie's father's plan was for her to get an abortion, and send her to the United States to continue with her education, which Natalie aggressively objected, and she scolded her father for always making decisions for her. Her father gets angry and canceled her bank account, internet services and her cell phone. He ordered his wife to be at home and watch over her 24/7.\n\nLearning of the impending legal action, and also because of the plan on aborting the baby, Ka Fu and Natalie, with the help of Bing and Sai, run away and make out a living for themselves in the countryside, where Sai used to live. Ka Fu worked in various jobs such as construction to make money to support themselves while Natalie stays home. Because of Natalie's father, Ka Fu made the headlines, depicting him as a rapist that kidnapped Natalie. Therefore, making Ka Fu a wanted person. The young lovers are eventually discovered by Ka Fu's parents after they forced Bing and Sai to tell them. When Natalie goes into early labor, they are forced to return to the city, where she gives birth to a baby boy (prematurely, although the baby survives) and Ka Fu is arrested. During the court scene, the relationships of the parents and their son and daughter are resolved as Natalie's father decided to let it go for the sake of the baby. During court, he revealed that he gave false information to the police about Natalie being underage due to his anger and prejudice towards Ka Fu. He eventually realized that even though Ka Fu got his daughter pregnant, he did try to make up his responsibility as he truly loves Natalie so he asked the judge to release him. Ka Fu was also sentenced to 3 months in a rehabilitation center for his actions. Upon his release, he is greeted by Natalie and their child.\n\n\n25th Hong Kong Film Awards\n42nd Golden Horse Awards\n11th Golden Bauhinia Awards\n8th Changchun Film Festival\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014172", "title": "Henry Pierrepoint", "text": "Henry Pierrepoint\n\nHenry Albert Pierrepoint (30 November 1877 – 14 December 1922) was an English executioner from 1901 until 1910. He was the father of Albert Pierrepoint and brother of Thomas William Pierrepoint.\n\nPierrepoint was born in Normanton on Soar, Nottinghamshire, the fourth child and second son of Thomas Pierrepoint, a plate layer on the railway, and Ann Pierrepoint, formerly Marriott. \n\nBy 1891, he and his family had moved to Clayton, near Bradford, where he was employed in a worsted mill. Henry was unhappy working there, and so in 1893 his father arranged an apprenticeship for him at a large butchers in Bradford. Three years later he left the apprenticeship and moved to Manchester where his sister Mary was one of the managers at a cabinet making firm. Not long after this he met a local girl, Mary Buxton, and they were married at St Anne's Church in Newton Heath, Manchester on 26 December 1898.\n\nIn 1901, Henry was appointed to the list of executioners after repeatedly writing to the Home Office to offer his services. He participated in his first hanging on 19 November, as an assistant to James Billington. \n\nOver the next few years, he worked primarily as an assistant to William and John Billington before becoming the principal executioner of Britain in 1905. In 1906, he carried out all eight hangings in the country.\n\nPierrepoint later persuaded his elder brother Thomas to join the family business, and reputedly trained him in a stable with a rope and sacks of corn. Later, an interview he gave, published in a local newspaper, inspired his son Albert to do the same. In his nine-year term of office Henry carried out 105 executions. His career was finished when he arrived the day before an execution at Chelmsford Prison \"considerably the worse for drink\", and fought his assistant John Ellis. Ellis reported the incident to the Home Office which decided, after receiving confirmation by the warders' account of the matter, to strike Henry from the list of approved executioners.\n\nHenry was never officially \"dismissed\", but he was removed from the list of executioners and invitations to conduct executions ceased to arrive.\n\nThroughout his career as an executioner, Pierrepoint occupied various other jobs, such as a position in Huddersfield gasworks, to supplement the relatively low pay English hangmen received.\n\nHenry had been suffering from a terminal illness for several years and died on 14 December 1922, aged 44, although he was incorrectly registered as 48.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014176", "title": "Thomas Pierrepoint", "text": "Thomas Pierrepoint\n\nThomas William Pierrepoint (6 October 1870 – 11 February 1954) was an English executioner from 1906 until 1946. He was the brother of Henry Pierrepoint and uncle of Albert Pierrepoint.\n\nPierrepoint was born in Sutton Bonington, Nottinghamshire, in 1870, the second child and eldest son of Thomas Pierrepoint, a plate layer on the railway, and Ann Pierrepoint, formerly Marriott. The Pierrepoint family were still living in Sutton Bonington at the time of the 1881 census, but by the 1891 census they had moved to Clayton, near Bradford, Yorkshire, where Thomas and his father were employed as stone quarrymen. He was married to Elizabeth Binns on 5 December 1891.\n\nBy 1914, Pierrepoint had taken on a number of \"sidelines\", including a carrier service founded by his brother, a small farm, and an illegal bookmaking business.\n\nThomas Pierrepoint began working as a hangman in 1906 under the influence of his brother, Henry. His career spanned 39 years, and ended in 1946, by which time he was in his mid-seventies. During this time, he is thought to have carried out 294 hangings, 203 of which were civilians executed in England and Wales, whilst the remainder were executions carried out abroad or upon military personnel. Among those he executed was the poisoner Frederick Seddon in 1912.\n\nDuring World War II he was appointed as executioner by the US Military and was responsible for 13 out of 16 hangings of US soldiers at the Shepton Mallet military prison in Somerset. In this capacity, Pierrepoint carried out executions not only for murder but also rape which, at the time, was a capital crime under US military law although not in British law. In six of these cases he was assisted by his nephew Albert - who was principal hangman for the remaining three executions.\n\nIn 1940, his medical fitness for the job was questioned by a medical officer who called him \"unsecure\" and doubted \"whether his sight was good\". The Prison Commission discreetly asked for reports on his performance during executions in the following time, but evidently found no reason to take action, although one report said that Thomas Pierrepoint had \"smelled strongly of drink\" on two occasions when reporting at the prison. This, however, appears to clash with Thomas Pierrepoint's instruction to Albert (when the latter acted as his assistant) not to take a drink if on the job and never to accept the drink customarily given to all witnesses at executions in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThomas never officially retired, rather his name was removed from the list of executioners and invitations to conduct executions ceased to arrive. He died at his daughter's home in Bradford on 11 February 1954, aged 83.\n"}
{"id": "2014180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014180", "title": "Hoderi", "text": "Hoderi\n\n, in Japanese mythology and folklore, was a deity of the bounty of the sea and enchanted fisherman.\n\nHe is called in the \"Kojiki\", and or in the \"Nihon Shoki\".\n\nIn Japanese mythology, he appears with his younger brother Yamasachi-hiko (Hoori). When the fish hook he lends to his younger brother is lost at sea, he demands its return rather than to accept any compensation. Later, he is defeated and subjugated by his younger brother, who has obtained mastery of the tides with a magic jewel.\n\nAccording to the \"Kojiki\", Umisachi-hiko or Hoderi (\"Fire Shine\") was the eldest son of the god Ninigi and the blossom princess Konohanasakuya-hime, who gave birth to triplets during the same delivery. \n\nThe \"Nihon Shoki\" refers to the birth of the triplets redundantly several times, and the names are represented inconsistently. In the main text, the eldest is given as in one passage, and in another. Either way, Ho-no-suseri is described as the one with the \"sea-gift\". One alternate text cited in \"Nihon Shoki\" makes him the middle brother.\n\nThe blossom princess Konohanasakuya-hime, with several alises including , announced her pregnancy after just one day of matrimonial relationship with Ninigi. Ninigi suspected the conception was not by him (the heavenly son), but had been previously fathered by one of the earth deities (\"kuni-tsu-kami\"). Offended by the suggestion, the princess sought to prove proper paternity by undergoing ordeal by fire: she declared she would seal herself up inside a maternity house, and set it aflame; then she avowed, may no child survive the birth if they were not of the seed of the divine Ninigi. Three children were born sound and hale, though they arrived at different hours, and the eldest born when fire was most intense became Hoderi, meaning \"Fire Shine\" (account according to \"Kojiki\"), The \"Nihon Shoki\" differs in saying the eldest son was born when the fire started, or when it was still smoldering, but the next son was born when the fire grew more intense. and as already noted, goes by the different name Ho-no-susori, perhaps meaning \"flame skirt\".\n\nHoderi is recorded in these ancient chronicles as the ancestor of hayato people of Aka (Satsuma and Ōsumi Provinces).\n\nHoderi grew to be a handsome youth along with his brother Hoori. His father, Ninigi, bequeathed onto his eldest son Hoderi a magic hook with the luck of the sea and bestowed on to his brother, Hoori, a magic bow to ensure both sons would be successful in each of their endeavors. With the gift of the magic hook, Hoderi spent most of his days fishing, at which he excelled. Hoderi saw that his brother Hoori, with his gift could go to the woods and hunt rain or shine, whereas he could not set his boat out to fish during any rain storm or heavy weather. Jealousy overwhelmed Hoderi and he insisted that his brother had the better of the two gifts and he being the older of the two should have the greater of the two gifts. Hoderi insisted that he and Hoori exchange gifts, thus Hoderi would then have the bow and become a hunter and his brother receive the hook and then be the more unfortunate one and become the fisherman. Hoori agreed to the exchange of two gifts in order to please his older brother.\n\nWhile Hoderi was out hunting in the mountains his younger brother Hoori spent the day fishing and proved to be a meager fisherman and he even had the misfortune to lose his brother's magic hook. During this time Hoderi spent the entire day hunting in the woods with the magic bow and every time he drew the magic bow the arrow would miss its intended mark. Disappointed and furious, Hoderi demanded that they return each other's magic gifts to its rightful owner. Hoori revealed to his older brother that he had lost his magic hook. Upon hearing the news Hoderi became furious and demanded that his brother find and return his hook. Hoori could not find his brothers hook and took his own sword, which he held dear, and broke it to many pieces. With the fragments of his sword Hoori constructed 500 fishing hooks which he presented to his brother. With the absence of his magic hook only infuriated Hoderi more and he threatened to kill his own brother if he did not find his magic hook.\n\nIn searching for his brother's magic hook he fell in love with princess Toyotama-hime, daughter of Ōwatatsumi-no-kami, the dragon kami of the sea, and made her his wife. Hoori explained the circumstance with his brother to his father in law, who summoned all the fishes in the sea to his palace and found the lost hook for Hoori. Ōwatatsumi-no-kami gifted his new son in law with two jewels, one to raise tides and one to lower tides and had a spell put on the hook that would give bad luck to its user.\n\nUpon seeing that his brother returned home Hoderi attacked his brother and Hoori countered his attack with the use of his jewel that raised the tide in order to make him drown. Hoderi, drowning because of the tide, pleaded to his brother to save his life, so Hoori used the other jewel to lower the tide and saved his brother’s life. Being saved by Hoori, Hoderi vowed to his brother that he and his descendants would then on serve his brother and his children for all eternity. Hoderi's descendants are the Hayato who guard the palace to this day.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014189", "title": "Licheń Stary", "text": "Licheń Stary\n\nLicheń Stary is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Ślesin, within Konin County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately south-east of Ślesin, north-east of Konin, and east of the regional capital Poznań. The village has a population of 1,100.\n\nThe village's name means \"old Licheń\"; it is often referred to as simply Licheń. \n\nLicheń Stary is the site of Poland's largest church, the Basilica of Our Lady of Licheń, completed in 2004, which houses the icon of the Virgin Mary called \"Our Lady of Sorrows, Queen of Poland\". It was constructed to accommodate the large number of pilgrims (ca 1 million each year) who come to venerate the image of the Virgin Mary, which according to tradition has been miraculous.\n\nLicheń Stary is also the site of Poland's largest organ (157 stops, 6 manuals and pedalboard, created by prof. Andrzej Chorosiński and manufactured by Polish organbuilder \"Zych - Zakłady Organowe\"); this instrument is also the fourth largest in Europe and thirteen largest in the world. It is located in the Basilica of Our Lady of Licheń.\n\n\n \n<br> \n"}
{"id": "2014195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014195", "title": "Mike Bate", "text": "Mike Bate\n\nChristopher Michael Bate FRS (born 21 December 1943) is an Emeritus Professor of developmental biology at the Department of Zoology and fellow at King's College, Cambridge. \n\nThe son of John Gordon Bate, M.B. Ch.B., an R.A.F. doctor, of Holmbury St Mary, Dorking, his paternal grandfather was Herbert Bate, Dean of York 1932-41. His mother, Rachel Denise, was daughter of Samuel Ronald Courthope Bosanquet, K.C., recorder of Walsall, Chancellor of the Diocese of Hertford; a great-uncle on the maternal side, William Temple, was Archbishop of Canterbury from 1942 to 1944.\n\nMike Bate is a member of European Molecular Biology Organization. His research is concerned with the way in which the machinery underlying coordinated movement is assembled during embryonic development. This involves both the analysis of the way in which muscles are assembled, specified and patterned, and the investigation of the way in which motor circuits are generated and begin to function.\n\nBate worked with the fruit fly, \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and applied a combination of genetic, molecular and cellular techniques to bear on the issues of neuromuscular development. Mike Bate also worked on the genetic basis of myoblast recruitment and fusion and on an electrophysiological and structural analysis of the way in which functional properties are acquired by embryonic neurons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014197", "title": "Lucia Cormani", "text": "Lucia Cormani\n\nLucia Cormani was a 19th and early 20th-century Italian ballet dancer and one of the founders of the Royal Academy of Dance.\n\nLucia's life is not well documented, in part because she never danced in the most famous female roles. She was probably born about 1854 and died shortly after 1934. Her name appears on posters of ballet performances in Berlin, Brussels, St Petersburg, Guatemala, Boston (1883) and New York City (1884). In 1889 she appeared as the Premiere Danseuse Assoluta in \"Cinderella; Or, Ladybird, Ladybird, Fly Away Home\" at Her Majesty's Theatre, London and in 1900 she danced the role of Canio in a Metropolitan Opera production of Pagliacci (Philadelphia).\n\nBecause of her tall muscular frame, Lucia was several times cast as a \"travesty dancer\" (a woman dressed as a man) -- for example as a male pirate chief in the ballet \"Algeria\" in 1887, and as a sorcerer in \"Enchantment.\" Such roles were sometimes added for effect in ballets without being properly integrated into the plot.\n\nLucia's greatest success was as a choreographer from about 1893 to 1911. In 1903 she choreographed a production of \"Carmen\" for the Alhambra Theatre in London. She also taught, using the stage of the Alhambra since she had no studio of her own. In 1920, she collaborated with four other great dancers -- Adeline Genée, Tamara Karsavina, Edouard Espinosa, and Phyllis Bedells—to form the Association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing, which was later to become the Royal Academy of Dance. Between them, the five represented the principal dance training methods of the time - Genée the Danish school, Karsavina the Russian school, Cormani the Italian school, Espinosa the French school, and Bedells the English school. In 1923 the Association began a series of Annual Matinées; ten of Cormani's students participated in the premier performance, dancing a tarantella.\n\nHer collected letters are in the London Theatre Museum and there are dozens of photographs of Cormani in the National Portrait Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014200", "title": "Land grants in the Swan River Colony", "text": "Land grants in the Swan River Colony\n\nThe Swan River Colony, established in June 1829, was the only British colony in Australia established on the basis of land grants to settlers. Under the conditions stipulated by the Colonial Office, settlers would be granted land in proportion to the value of assets and labour that they brought to the colony. To ensure \"productive\" use of land, settlers were not given full title to their grants until they had been sufficiently \"improved\". The system of land grants continued until 1832, after which crown land was disposed of by sale at auction.\n\nUnder the initial land grant conditions, settlers were granted 40 acres (162,000 m²) of land for every £3 of assets invested in the colony. Assessment of the value of assets was left to the discretion of the authorities, whose valuations were inaccurate and inconsistent. One settler observed a tendency to overvalue cattle while undervaluing general cargo, and Statham (1981) cites an example where two rabbits entitled a settler to a grant of 200 acres (809,000 m²).\n\nFor the purposes of assessing land entitlements, assets had to be physical capital applicable to land use; money was not assessed. In consequence, many settlers maximised their land entitlements by arriving with large amounts of expensive capital but very little cash. This gross overcapitalisation caused the financial ruin of many early emigrants, and had a lasting deleterious effect on the colony's economy. Moreover, much of the larger machinery that was imported was useless in Western Australian conditions.\n\nSettlers were also entitled to 200 acres (809,000 m²) of land for every adult introduced at their expense, with lesser entitlements for children. This condition had the effect of encouraging settlers to bring out indentured servants, and some brought out more than they were capable of employing and supporting in the long term. Indentured servants received their keep, but earned no wages until they had paid off their passage; thus the widespread use of indentured servants tended to immobilise the labour workforce and reduce the market for goods and services.\n\nWhen the first settlers arrived at the colony, it was quickly discovered that the quantity of good land had been greatly exaggerated. In fact the only good farmland near the site of the colony was a narrow corridor of alluvial soil along the Swan and Canning rivers, and much of this was immediately taken up by government officials and military personnel. The vast amounts of land promised to settlers was so far out of proportion to the available good land that Stirling was obliged to limit the amount of river frontage per grant, forcing the Surveyor-General John Septimus Roe to grant long thin \"ribbon\" allotments each with a small amount of river frontage. Stirling also limited the amount of land that each settler could claim near Perth, with the balance of their entitlements to be claimed further out, in areas yet to be declared available for selection.\n\nTo ensure that land holdings were used productively, and to discourage speculation, settlers were initially granted only right of occupation. Full ownership of the land, including the right to sell, was withheld until every acre had been improved by at least one shilling and six pence, through clearing, fencing, cultivation, and so on. Settlers who failed to improve at least a quarter of their grant within three years could be fined, and land not wholly improved within ten years would be resumed by the crown.\n\nSettlers were not permitted to average their improvements over their grant; the conditions specifically stated that every acre had to be improved by 1s 6d. This was to cause much inefficient use of capital in the early years of the colony, as settlers were forced to spread their efforts across their entire grant, rather than consolidating a smaller area first.\n\nDespite the conditions, some settlers found creative ways to retain their land without working it. For example, when George Fletcher Moore arrived in the colony in 1830, he obtained half of William Lamb's grant on the Swan River, by agreeing to perform the improvements necessary to secure title to the entire grant.\n\nAlthough the land grants to settlers were conditional on their meeting improvement conditions, many unconditional grants were also made. A number of important officials and capitalists were granted large areas of land as reward for service; James Stirling, Charles Fremantle and Thomas Peel were all recipients of such grants. In addition, military personnel were permitted to claim land in lieu of pay, and these grants did not have conditions attached. Much of the land obtained in this way was not developed, being instead held for speculative reasons. The large amounts of good land tied up in this way was often blamed later for the slow progress of the colony.\n\nLand grant conditions changed a number of times in the following years. In 1830, in an attempt to discourage speculation, Stirling halved the rate of land grants to 20 acres (81,000 m²) per £3 of assets plus 100 acres (404,000 m²) per adult, and reduced the time limit for improvements from ten years to four. At the end of 1830 the new settlement had granted over 1 million acres (4,000 km²) to settlers, of which only 169 acres (684,000 m²) were actively being farmed.\n\nIn 1831, the Colonial Office published what became known as the Ripon Regulations, which declared that crown land in Australia would from 1832 onwards be sold rather than granted. In Western Australia, public opinion held that the abolition of land grants would end emigration to the colony. So concerned were the settlers that Stirling was sent to England to plead their case on this and other matters. He was largely unsuccessful, and the granting of crown land ceased in 1832.\n\nSettlers who had previously been granted land continued to be bound by the grant conditions. In 1837, the Secretary of State for War and the Colonies, Lord Glenelg, responded to constant complaints by settlers about the strict enforcement of improvement conditions, by introducing land surrender provisions that allowed settlers to claim title to part of their grant by surrendering the remainder. Glenelg's intention was to enforce concentrated settlement in accordance with Edward Gibbon Wakefield's colonisation principles, which were in vogue at the time. However, because most settlers had elongated grants of which only a small portion was productive, the effect was to allow many settlers to secure title to their productive land by discarding the unproductive land. Being no longer obliged to improve their holdings, settlers of means could then invest their time and money in discovering and buying good land further from the settlement. Thus the effect was to further disperse the colony, and to concentrate the colony's wealth in a few hands.\n\nIn the framing of the land grant conditions, no provisions were made for the indigenous people of the area, who were incorrectly thought to be nomads with no claim to the land over which they travelled. Most settlers refused the indigenous people permission to camp on or even pass through their grants. As more and more land was granted and fenced off, the indigenous people were increasingly denied access to their sacred sites and traditional hunting grounds. For example, by 1832 the \"Beeliar\" group were unable to approach the Swan or Canning Rivers without danger, because land grants lined the banks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014217", "title": "Pandanus tectorius", "text": "Pandanus tectorius\n\nPandanus tectorius is a species of \"Pandanus\" (screwpine) that is native to Malesia, eastern Australia, and the Pacific Islands. It grows in the coastal lowlands typically near the edge of the ocean. Common names in English include thatch screwpine, Tahitian screwpine, hala tree, pandanus, and pu hala in Hawaiian. The fruit is sometimes known as hala fruit.\n\n\"P. tectorius\" is a small tree that grows upright to reach in height. The single trunk is slender with brown ringed bark. It is spiny, grows to 4.5–11 m (15–35 ft) in width, and forks at a height of . It is supported by prop roots that firmly anchors the tree to the ground. Roots sometimes grow along the branch, and they grow at wide angles in proportion to the trunk.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" is dioecious, meaning male and female flowers are borne on separate trees, with very different male and female flowers. Male flowers, known as racemes, are small, fragrant, and short-lived, lasting only a single day. The flowers are grouped in 3 and gathered in large clusters surrounded by big, white bracts. these clusters are about 1 ft in length and are fragrant. Female flowers resemble pineapples.\n\nIn Hawaiʻi the male flower is called \"hīnano\" and the bracts are used for making very fine mats (\"moena hīnano\"' or \"ʻahu hīnano\").\n\nThe female \"P. tectorius\" trees produce a segmented, large fruit. Although not closely related, the fruit resembles a pineapple. The fruit of \"P. tectorius\" is either ovoid, ellipsoid, subglobose or globose with a diameter of and a length of . The fruit is made up of 38–200 wedge-like phalanges, often referred to as keys or carpels, which have an outer fibrous husk and are 8 inches in length. There are roughly 40 to 80 keys in each fruit and the color of the fruit can be yellow, orange, or red with a green top. Phalanges contain two seeds on average, with a maximum of eight reported. The phalanges are buoyant, and the seeds within them can remain viable for many months while being transported by ocean currents.\n\nThe leaves of \"Pandanus tectorius\" are usually in length and in width. They possess saw-like margins. Some varieties have spines along the edges and ribs throughout the leaves. The leaves are spirally arranged at the end of the branches.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" was first described by Sydney Parkinson in 1774. It is an angiosperm belonging to the genus \"Pandanus\" of the family Pandanaceae.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" grows natively from the Philippines through the Pacific Ocean to Hawaii. It is found in parts of Malesia (the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Java, the Lesser Sunda Islands, the Maluku Islands and the Philippines), throughout Papuasia, and in most of the tropical Pacific. In Australia, it is native to an area from Port Macquarie in New South Wales to northern Queensland. Both the US and the Hawaiian Islands recognize only one indigenous species, \"P. tectorius\". Its exact native range is unknown due to extensive cultivation; it may be an early Polynesian introduction to many of the more isolated Pacific islands on which it occurs. These islands include Micronesia and Melanesia. In Hawaii, \"P. tectorius\" is found natively on all the main islands except Kahoʻolawe., and it is known to have predated human settlement, based on seed and pollen samples taken from Kauai's Makauwahi Cave.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" naturally grows in coastal regions, such as on mangrove margins and beaches, at elevations from sea level to . It requires of annual rainfall and seasons will fluctuate from wet to dry.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" is considered more drought tolerant than coconut trees. The trees have adapted to drought by reducing fruiting. Thatch Screwpine is well adapted to grow in the many soil types present on coasts, including quartz sand, coral sand, and peat, as well as in limestone and basalt. \"P. tectorius\" is salt and wind tolerant and favors slightly acidic to basic soil (pH of 6-10). The trees are strong and can typically withstand tropical storms. It prefers to grow in full sunlight, but grows well with 30-50% shade. It will not tolerate shade above 70%.\n\nThere are a wide range of natural enemies that pose a threat to \"P. tectorius\" such as parasites, pathogens, and herbivores. They attack the leaves, roots, stems, and growing points. The stick insect \"Megacrania batesii\" lives and feeds only on this species.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" plants grown from seed tend to flower at around 15 years old versus those grown from branch cutting. Flowering from trees grown these way happen much earlier, always by 6 years old and typically by 3 to 4 years of age. (thom) The trees are either male of female. Female trees typically flower 1 to 3 times per year while male trees will flower every 2 months. It is thought to produce sexually in Hawaii, but there is some evidence that apomixis occurs. Small insects, such as bees, and wind are usually the pollinators. It takes 1 to 2 years from pollination to harvest to produce fruit on female trees.\n\nSeasons vary amongst locations and varieties. For example, in Fiji the pollination season is March to May, in Northern Australia it is April to August, and in Micronesia, there are two season December to March and July to September. Most varieties produce 8 to 12 fruits per tree every 2 years. Each fruit usually weighs between 7 and 15 kg and contains 35 to 80 edible keys.\n\n\"Pandanus tectorius\" plants are usually propagated by seed in Hawaii. Soak the keys in cool tap water for 5 days while frequently changing the water. Viable keys will float, so it is important to keep them. In \"Growing native Hawaiian plants: a how-to guide for the gardner\", Bornhorst says to remove the fleshy layer of the key and then bury the seed half-way in planting soil. It is important to keep the soil most.\n\n\"P. tectorius\" can also be grown from large cutting. Selected forms are propagated by stem cuttings in Micronesia. Morphological traits looked for include aerial roots. Plants selected have 2/3 of their leaves trimmed off to prevent water loss. In Native Hawaiian plants for tropical seaside landscaping, Moriarty says for best results use mature branches with leaves and small aerial roots. Then root in a sand bed. Plants grown from cutting produce fruit in 4 to 6 years.\n\nPropagation by grafting is not applicable.\n\nThe fruit can be eaten raw or cooked and is a major source of food in Micronesia, especially in the atolls. It is also one of the traditional foods of Maldivian cuisine. The fibrous nature of the fruit also serves as a natural dental floss. It is also used in Samoan culture as a \"Ula Fala\", a necklace made out of the dried fruit painted in red and is worn by the Matai during special occasions and functions.\n\nAustralian Aborigines extracted the slender, edible seeds. This seed and the fruit, was an important food.\n\nThe tree's leaves are often used as flavoring for sweet dishes such as kaya jam. It is also used in Sri Lankan cookery, where the leaves are used to flavor a variety of curries. Leaves were used by the Polynesians to make baskets, mats, outrigger canoe sails, thatch roofs, and grass skirts.\n\nA large shrub or small tree of immense cultural, health, and economic importance in the Pacific, it is second only to coconut on atolls. It grows wild mainly in semi-natural vegetation in littoral habitats throughout the tropical and subtropical Pacific, where it can withstand drought, strong winds, and salt spray. It propagates readily from seed, but it is also widely propagated from branch cuttings by local people for farms and home gardens. It grows fairly quickly, and all parts are used, from the nutritious fruits of edible varieties to the poles and branches in construction to the leaves for weaving and garlands. The plant is prominent in Pacific culture and tradition, including local medicine.\n\nHundreds of cultivated varieties are known by their local names and characteristics of fruits, branches, and leaves. At present, there is evidence that this diversity is declining, with certain varieties becoming difficult to find. The reasons include less replanting, deforestation, fire, flagging interest by the new generation, and rapid population growth leading to urbanization.\n\nThe seal of Punahou School in Honolulu, Hawaii features the hala tree, in part because lauhala, the art of weaving with the leaves of that tree, is pivotal to the history of the island, with everything from houses to pillows being made in this fashion. Local legend tells of an aged Hawaiian couple who lived long ago above the present Punahou campus, and had to travel far for water. They prayed each night for a spring, but to no avail. Finally one night, in a dream answering their prayers, they were told to uproot the stump of an old hala tree. They did as they were told and found a spring of clear, sweet water, which they named Ka Punahou, the New Spring. According to legend, Punahou School's lily pond is fed by this same spring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014222", "title": "Knuts Skujenieks", "text": "Knuts Skujenieks\n\nKnuts Skujenieks (born September 5, 1936 in Riga) is a Latvian poet, journalist, and translator from fifteen European languages.\n\nHe spent his childhood near Bauska, Zemgale (Southern Latvia). Skujenieks later studied at University of Latvia in Riga and at the Maxim Gorky Literature Institute in Moscow.\n\nIn 1962, he was convicted of anti-Soviet activities, and sentenced to seven years in prison camp in Mordovia, Russia. Although he was and is a prolific poet, he could publish his first collection of poetry only in 1978. The poems he wrote during his captivity were published in 1990. Skujenieks' poetry has been translated into many European languages. Books of his poetry have been published in Sweden and Ukraine. In 2008 he was awarded the Baltic Assembly Prize for Literature.\n\nDirector Ivars Tontegode is shooting a biographical documentary feature The Deviant/Nepareizais about the life of Knuts Skujenieks.\n\n\"Lirika un balsis\" (Lyrics and Voices; Riga, Liesma Publ., 1978)\n\n\"Iesien baltā lakatiņā\" (Tie it into a White Cloth; Riga, Liesma Publ., 1986)\n\n\"Sēkla sniegā\" (Seed in the Snow; Riga, Liesma Publ., 1990)\n\nhttp://www.filmneweurope.com/news/latvia-news/item/110323-production-ivars-tontegode-shooting-the-deviant\n"}
{"id": "2014223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014223", "title": "Mark Jacobs (game designer)", "text": "Mark Jacobs (game designer)\n\nMark Jacobs is an American game designer, programmer, author and businessman, and the former GM/VP/CEO of Mythic Entertainment, Inc. Best known as a lead designer of \"Dark Age of Camelot\" (2001) and \"Camelot Unchained\" (2019), he also created two early MUDs, \"Aradath\" and \"Dragon's Gate\", serving as both the designer and programmer in addition to his duties as President/CEO. He founded A.U.S.I. (Adventures Unlimited Software Inc.) in 1983 and worked on a number of computer games for systems such as the Apple II. He is also a screenwriter, having penned a number of screenplays including one based on the game Imperator Online.\n\nHe is known for his strong position against \"real money transfer\", a.k.a. \"gold selling\". Jacobs left EA in June 2009 after the company decided to merge BioWare with Mythic Entertainment.\n\nJacobs attended Syracuse University and graduated, \"magna cum laude\" with a Bachelor of Arts degree. He then attended Georgetown University Law Center and graduated with a Juris Doctor. While at GULC, he started his first computer game company, Adventures Unlimited Software Inc. in 1983. In the 1980s and until 1995, he created online games for both local networks and nationwide networks such as GEnie, AOL and Kesmai's Gamestorm network.\n\nIn 1995, he was the co-founder (along with Rob Denton), President and CEO of Mythic Entertainment, Inc.. He was involved in all Mythic Entertainment games since 1995, including their most successful product, the MMORPG \"Dark Age Of Camelot\".\n\nIn March 2011, he was the co-founder of City State Entertainment, along with Andrew Meggs, President of City State Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014226", "title": "GE Dash 8-40C", "text": "GE Dash 8-40C\n\nThe GE C40-8 is a 6-axle diesel-electric locomotive built by GE Transportation Systems between 1987 and 1992. It is part of the GE Dash 8 Series of freight locomotives, and its wheel arrangement is of a C-C type.\n\nThis locomotive model is often referred to as a Dash 8-40C or simply \"Dash 8\". \"Dash 8\" in general refers to the electrical control series, \"Dash\" being a carryover from the older syntax of C40-8. The \"40\" refers to the baseline horsepower rating () of the unit, although some units may be re-rated to .\n\nLater units were supplied with a wide-nose cab and are designated Dash 8-40CW, the \"W\" indicating a wide-nose cab.\n\nSome railroads, the Chicago and North Western Railway in particular, upgraded some of their units to ~ and designated them as C42-8. This designation was modified by the Union Pacific Railroad to C41-8 after its takeover of C&NW in 1995. Former C&NW units are usually identified by a grab-iron on the front nose just above the Union Pacific shield logo, and/or the \"C41-8\" designation on the cab side. The final three C&NW C40-8s were built with , and the prior 32 units were similarly modified as well. Although none of these units were ever officially classed as C41-8 by GE, a safety cab version was built as the Dash 8-41CW.\n\nThe companies that still own C40-8 locomotives as of 2006 include: CSX Transportation with 146, the Norfolk Southern Railway with 88, and the Union Pacific Railroad with 298 (includes former C&NW C41-8 units). In 2010, CN bought 35 C40-8 locomotives (2100-2134) from UP and 67 C40-8W locomotives (2098-2099, 2135-2199) from BNSF. Another 42 C40-8s were bought by CN in 2013 (these 42 units are numbered between 2000-2041) marking all 77 of the ex CNW Dash 8-40Cs now owned by CN. CN has 6 C40-8s that were painted for the 15th anniversary and they are numbers 2107, 2112, 2113, 2115, 2124, and 2128.\n\nIn 2016, Pan Am Railways bought 20 C40-8 locomotives (7489, 7517-7518, 7523, 7528, 7534-7535, 7541-7542, 7545, 7552, 7561, 7585, 7605, 7609, 7620, 7622, 7627, 7635, 7643) from CSX. In 2017, Pan Am Bought 4 More C40-8s: 7500, 7575, 7594, and 7595. As of early 2019, Pan Am has painted numbers 7518, 7552, and 7635 into their Phase 3 paint. In 2018, the Providence and Worcester Railroad bought 4 C40-8 locomotives from Norfolk Southern. All units are painted in the Genesee & Wyoming orange paint scheme. As of early 2020, Pan Am has painted 4 more C40-8s: 7523, 7542, 7561, and 7585 into the Phase 3 paint.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014227", "title": "Ravine", "text": "Ravine\n\nA ravine is a landform that is narrower than a canyon and is often the product of streambank erosion. Ravines are typically classified as larger in scale than gullies, although smaller than valleys.\n\nA ravine is generally a fluvial slope landform of relatively steep (cross-sectional) sides, on the order of twenty to seventy percent in gradient. Ravines may or may not have active streams flowing along the downslope channel which originally formed them; moreover, often they are characterized by intermittent streams, since their geographic scale may not be sufficiently large to support a perennial watercourse.\n\nOther terms for ravine include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014230", "title": "George Clarke (disambiguation)", "text": "George Clarke (disambiguation)\n\nGeorge Clarke (1661–1736) was a British Judge Advocate General, Secretary at War, Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty.\n\nGeorge Clarke may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014235", "title": "Brian Bromberg", "text": "Brian Bromberg\n\nBrian Bromberg (born December 5, 1960) is an American jazz bassist and record producer who performs on both electric and acoustic instruments. Though he tends to gravitate towards the genre of smooth jazz, Bromberg has released some straight-ahead jazz records in which he performs with a trio, and has even ventured into more rock-oriented jazz fusion territory as of late. His innovative and technically demanding style of playing extends to both electric and upright bass. On his acoustic bass albums, Bromberg performs jazzy interpretations of various pop and rock staples from the 1960s and '70s completely solo. Regarding his work with electric bass, Bromberg, among other bassists, helped popularize the piccolo bass, or bass with each string tuned an octave up, by releasing several albums in which he plays both the bass line and melody. For instance, upon first listen many will be surprised to learn that, although soaring guitar can be heard throughout the album, Bromberg's 2005 release \"Metal\" contains only Bromberg on two overdubbed basses, one of which is heavily effects-laden to make it sound like an electric guitar.\n\nBromberg was born on December 5, 1960, in Tucson, Arizona. His father and brother, David, who both played drums, influenced him to take up the instrument himself. At the age of 13, he began seriously pursuing a career as a drummer. However, at around the same time, the leader of his school orchestra steered him towards the upright bass. From then on, he committed to stick to a strict practice regimen and even \"tested out of high school early\" because of the rigorous schedule he set for himself. Still, plucking away in his basement was only half of the plan. It was integral for Bromberg to gain experience playing in live situations. Thus, he accepted virtually every gig he could get. It was somewhat common for Bromberg to play \"five to seven nights a week with several different bands.\"\nIn 1979, Marc Johnson, the bassist working for the jazz pianist Bill Evans, heard Bromberg's playing. Johnson later suggested Bromberg to saxophonist Stan Getz, who was in search of a new bass player. Getz took the suggestion seriously, and auditioned Bromberg soon thereafter. Within only six years of picking up the bass, Bromberg found himself at the age of 19 touring internationally with Getz. Other than the thrill of playing with a world-class tenor saxophonist, more opportunities began to reveal themselves to the young bass player, who would go on to work with many big names in the music business and eventually become a producer of various artists in his genre.\n\nIn March 2011, Brian partnered with Carvin Guitars to produce a signature model electric bass. The B24 and B25 were based on his own design, which was previously manufactured by Peavey and Dean. In 2014, Carvin rebranded to Kiesel for most new instruments, and the Brian Bromberg model followed suit in 2015.\n\nBromberg's first several albums were in the smooth jazz genre. He began with two records that caught smooth jazz radio's attention: \"A New Day\" in 1986 and \"Basses Loaded\" in 1988. His third album, \"Magic Rain\" (1989) \"became the most played album on radio during the first week of its release\". Bromberg's fourth record, \"BASSically Speaking\", which is his oldest material re-mastered with some new additions, reached the top 5 on the radio charts and No. 7 on the \"Billboard\" sales charts.\n\nWith solid following among smooth jazz fans, he put out a straight ahead jazz album, \"It's About Time, The Acoustic Project\". This album reached number four on the mainstream jazz charts in 1991. Bromberg recorded in a trio with Freddie Hubbard and Ernie Watts. After \"It's About Time, The Acoustic Project\" he returned to smooth jazz. The label that released \"Brian Bromberg\" (1993) went out of business the week of its release.\n\nIn 1996, after a short break from recording to design basses for Peavey and touring as a clinician, Bromberg signed with Zebra Records. In February 1998, he released \"You Know That Feeling\", which as recorded with Rick Braun, Joe Sample, Jeff Lorber, and Everette Harp. The album became Bromberg's most successful, later to be topped by \"Wood\", and his first smooth jazz number one record of his career. \"You Know That Feeling\" had three singles in a row that each went to number three on the charts. It spent seventeen consecutive months on the charts, eight months in the top ten, nearly six months in the top five. Bromberg's album was the fifth most-played album from the top 100 albums of the year in smooth jazz. Songs from \"You Know That Feeling\" are still regularly played in smooth jazz stations across America. Additionally, in 2003, Bromberg made a record simply titled \"Jaco\" in which he performs many of Jaco Pastorius's notable songs.\n\nAfter \"You Know That Feeling\", Bromberg's albums deviated from his smooth jazz roots. \"Wood\" (2002), produced by a Japanese label, was recorded with pianist Randy Waldman and brother David Bromberg on drums. \"Wood\" contains solo jazz versions of \"Carry on My Wayward Son\" by Kansas and \"Let 'Em In\" by Paul McCartney. In addition to the solo pieces, \"Wood\" and \"Wood 2\" (with drummer Vinnie Colaiuta replacing David Bromberg) contain interpretations of music by Wayne Shorter and Woody Herman. On an even sharper turn from his smooth jazz past, Bromberg released \"Metal\" (2005) with drummer Joel Taylor.\n\nAs a record producer, Bromberg has produced eight top-ten hits, seven top-five hits, and two number-one hits. Apart from his 300-year-old double bass, he uses Dean, Bob Mick, Mick Donner and Peavey basses with Epifani amplification. He also owns a signature edition Carvin bass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014236", "title": "West Vračar", "text": "West Vračar\n\nWest Vračar or Zapadni Vračar (Serbian Cyrillic: Западни Врачар), is a former urban neighborhood and municipality of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It was located in Belgrade's municipality of Savski Venac to which northern section it generally corresponds today.\n\nZapadni Vračar was located in the area which today covers the northern part of the municipality of Savski Venac. It bordered the neighborhoods of Savamala and Bara Venecija to the north, Istočni Vračar (today Vračar) to the east and Senjak and Jatagan Mala (today Mostar and Prokop) to the south. It makes the western part of the much larger former neighborhood of Vračar.\n\nBuilding of Zapadni Vračar marks the start of the construction of modern Belgrade, after the Ottoman occupation. It was constructed with broad streets and boulevards, parks and monuments. It was housing all Serbian public buildings and state institutions, in the first half of the 19th century.\n\nThe Christian population which lived within the moat of the medieval Belgrade's Kalemegdan fortress, overpopulated the city. Due to the Turkish presence, it was demanded that Prince Miloš Obrenović spread the surroundings.\n\nThe immediate surroundings comprised the villages of Savamala, Palilula, and large uninhibited reclaimed areas of what used to be the \"Ciganska Bara\", later renamed into Bara Venecija, broad swampy areas and vineyards). Belgrade's rich went hunting wild geese to the unnamed pool, nowadays the crossroads of \"Kneza Miloša\" and \"Kralja Milana's\" streets. Where the Zeleni Venac market is today, at the beginning of the 20th century was a pool, as well as the site of an unsuccessful attempt of the construction of the National Theatre.\n\nFrom 1929 to 1935 a public swimming pool was built within the complex of the DIF building. It was the second such venue in Belgrade, after the 1904 pool at the Steam Bath of the Brothers Krsmanović, in the neighborhood of Dorćol.\n\nThe municipality of Vračar was officially formed in 1952 after Belgrade was administratively reorganized from districts (rejon) to municipalities. Already on September 1, 1955 Vračar was divided into Zapadni Vračar and Istočni Vračar. Year and a half later, on January 1, 1957, parts of Istočni Vračar merged with the municipality of Neimar and the western part of the municipality of Terazije to create new, albeit the smallest one municipality in Belgrade. Zapadni Vračar merged with the municipality of Topčidersko Brdo to create the municipality of Savski Venac, while the easternmost section of Istočni Vračar became part of the municipality of Zvezdara. Zapadni Vračar is still a name of the small local community within Savski Venac, with a population of 7,644 in 2002 (15,991 including neighboring local communities).\n\nThe is located in the neighborhood, at 27 Deligradska Stret. It is better known today as the Old DIF (\"Stari DIF\"). The building was constructed from 1929 to 1935. Original plans envisioned much more sculptural ornaments on the façade, but during the construction the project was reduced to the more plain appearance. It was designed by architect , known as the \"Serbian Gaudi\", and is today considered his best public service object in Belgrade. The building was declared a cultural monument in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014241", "title": "Stockholm Codex Aureus", "text": "Stockholm Codex Aureus\n\nThe Stockholm Codex Aureus (Stockholm, National Library of Sweden, MS A. 135, also known as the Codex Aureus of Canterbury and Codex Aureus Holmiensis) is a Gospel book written in the mid-eighth century in Southumbria, probably in Canterbury, whose decoration combines Insular and Italian elements. Southumbria produced a number of important illuminated manuscripts during the eighth and early ninth centuries, including the Vespasian Psalter, the Stockholm Codex Aureus, three Mercian prayer books (the Royal Prayer book, the Book of Nunnaminster and the Book of Cerne), the Tiberius Bede and the British Library's Royal Bible.\n\nThe manuscript has 193 surviving folios which measure . It contains the text of the four Gospels in Latin written in an uncial script on vellum leaves that alternately are dyed purple and undyed. The purple-dyed leaves are written with gold, silver, and white pigment, the undyed ones with black ink and red pigment. On some folios, the differing colours of ink are arranged to form geometric patterns. Purple parchment was, in the Roman and Byzantine Empires, reserved for Imperial manuscripts, and in the West reserved for the grandest commissions, and often only seen on a few pages.\n\nThe illustration programme includes two surviving evangelist portraits, six canon tables and seven large decorated initials. The manuscript is the oldest surviving example of initials decorated with gold leaf. The style is a blend of Insular art, as in the Chi-Rho initial shown, and Mediterranean traditions, possibly including some from early Carolingian art. In the opening shown at the start of Matthew the evangelist portrait to the left is in a consistent adaptation of Italian style, probably closely following some lost model, though adding interlace to the chair frame, while the text page to the right is mainly in Insular style, especially in the first line, with its vigorous Celtic spirals and interlace. The following lines revert to a quieter style more typical of Frankish manuscripts of the period. Yet the same artist almost certainly produced both pages, and is very confident in both styles. The other surviving evangelist portrait of John includes roundels with Celtic spiral decoration probably drawn from the enamelled escutcheons of hanging bowls. This is one of the so-called \"Tiberius group\" of manuscripts, which leant towards the Italian style, and appear to be associated with Kent, or perhaps the kingdom of Mercia in the heyday of the Mercian Supremacy. It is, in the usual chronology, the last English manuscript in which \"developed trumpet spiral patterns\" are found.\n\nAn inscription asks for prayers for four individuals, one a goldsmith (Wulfhelm). The others are Ceolhard, Niclas and Ealhhun, who were presumably the monks responsible for creating the manuscript and the elaborate metalwork cover it no doubt originally possessed. In the late ninth century it was looted by a Viking army and Ealdorman Aelfred (Alfred), ealdorman of Surrey, had to pay a ransom to get it back. Above and below the Latin text of the Gospel of St. Matthew is an added inscription in Old English recording how the manuscript was ransomed from a Viking army who had stolen it on one of their raids in Kent by Alfred, and given to Christ Church, Canterbury. It reads:\n\nIn the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries it was in Spain, and in 1690 it was bought for the Swedish royal collection. It is now kept in the National Library of Sweden.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014242", "title": "Georgette", "text": "Georgette\n\nGeorgette is a feminine given name, the French form of (\"Geōrgia\"), the feminine form of George.\n\nGeorgette may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014243", "title": "Hoori", "text": "Hoori\n\n, also known as , is in Japanese mythology, the third and youngest son of Ninigi-no-Mikoto and the blossom princess Konohanasakuya-hime. He is one of the ancestors of the Emperors of Japan as the grandfather of Emperor Jimmu. He is also known as .\n\nHoori's legend is told in both the \"Kojiki\" and the \"Nihon Shoki\". Hoori was a hunter, and he had an argument with his brother Hoderi, a fisherman, over a fish-hook that Hoori had forced his elder brother to lend him and had lost. Hoderi claimed that Hoori should give back the fish-hook, for he refused to accept another one (due to the belief that each tool is animated and hence unique). Hoori then descended to the bottom of the sea to search, but was unable to find it. Instead, he found Toyotama-hime, the daughter of the sea god, Ryūjin. The sea god helped Hoori find Hoderi's lost hook, and Hoori later married Toyotama-hime.\n\nHoori lived with his wife in a palace under the sea for three years, but after that Hoori became home-sick and wished to return to his own country. His brother forgave him after he returned the hook, and Toyotama-hime gave birth to a son named Ugayafukiaezu. During the time when Toyotamahime was giving birth to her child, she had Hoori swear not to attempt to see her real figure. But he broke his promise and discovered her true form was a dragon (specifically a \"wani\"). She was ashamed and returned to her father, never to return. Ugayafukiaezu married Toyotama-hime's sister, Tamayori-hime, who brought him up, and she gave birth to Emperor Jimmu, who was the first Emperor of Japan. Hoori reigned in Takachiho, Hyuga Province for 560 years.\n\nHoori is often associated with both his parents and his wife. He is worshiped mainly as a god of cereals or grain. In Japanese mythology, it was said that the part of his name meant fire, but etymologically, it is a different character pronounced , which refers to crops, particularly rice. indicates a crop that is so rich, it bends under its own weight. His alias Hohodemi means \"many harvests\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2014248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014248", "title": "East Vračar", "text": "East Vračar\n\nEast Vračar or Istočni Vračar (Serbian Cyrillic: Источни Врачар) is a former urban neighborhood and municipality of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It was located in Belgrade's municipality of Vračar to which it generally corresponds today.\n\nIstočni Vračar was located in the area which is today covered by the territory of the municipality of Vračar and the westernmost section of the municipality of Zvezdara (local community (\"mesna zajednica\") of Vračarsko Polje) and represents the eastern part of the former, much larger neighborhood of Vračar (see Zapadni Vračar).\n\nIstočni Vračar started to be built since 1880 when a Scottish businessman and Nazarene Francis Mackenzie bought a large piece of land nearby (which eventually became known as Englezovac, Serbian for \"Englishman's place\"), parcelled it out into lots for selling and donated a piece of land to the Serbian Orthodox Church for the construction of the Temple of Saint Sava. Later, Istočni Vračar extended to Grantovac, an area of land belonging to the American consul Edward Maxwell Grant and Krunski Venac around the \"Krunska street\", a street starting from the Royal Park and ending with Kalenić market. Kalenić market is the largest open air market in Belgrade and is the commercial centre of modern Vračar.\n\nThe municipality of Vračar was officially formed in 1952 after Belgrade was administratively reorganized from districts (rejon) to municipalities. On 1 September 1955, Vračar was divided into Zapadni Vračar and Istočni Vračar. A year and a half later, on 1 January 1957, parts of Istočni Vračar merged with the municipality of Neimar and the western part of the municipality of Terazije to create a new, albeit smaller, municipality in Belgrade. Zapadni Vračar became municipality of Savski Venac, while the easternmost section of Istočni Vračar became part of the municipality of Zvezdara.\n"}
{"id": "2014249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014249", "title": "Lemnian language", "text": "Lemnian language\n\nThe Lemnian language was spoken on the island of Lemnos in the 6th century BC. It is mainly attested by an inscription found on a funerary stele, termed the Lemnos stele, discovered in 1885 near Kaminia. Fragments of inscriptions on local pottery show that it was spoken there by a community. In 2009, a newly discovered inscription was reported from the site of Hephaistia, the principal ancient city of Lemnos. Lemnian is largely accepted as being closely related to Etruscan. After the Athenians conquered the island in the latter half of the 6th century BC, Lemnian was replaced by Attic Greek.\n\nThe Lemnian inscriptions are in Western Greek alphabet, also called \"red alphabet\". The red type is found in most parts of central and northern mainland Greece (Thessaly, Boeotia and most of the Peloponnese), as well as the island of Euboea, and in colonies associated with these places, including most colonies in Italy. The alphabet used for Lemnian inscriptions is similar to an archaic variant used to write the Etruscan language in southern Etruria.\n\nA relationship between Lemnian and Etruscan, as a Tyrsenian language family, has been proposed by German linguist Helmut Rix due to close connections in vocabulary and grammar. For example, \n\nRix's Tyrsenian family has been confirmed by Stefan Schumacher, Carlo De Simone and Simona Marchesini. Common features between Lemnian, Etruscan, and Rhaetic have been found in morphology, phonology, and syntax. On the other hand, few lexical correspondences are documented, at least partly due to the scanty number of Rhaetian and Lemnian texts. \n\nThe Tyrsenian family, or Common Tyrrhenic, in this case is often considered to be Paleo-European and to predate the arrival of Indo-European languages in southern Europe.\n\nThe Lemnian language could have arrived in the Aegean Sea during the Late Bronze Age, when Mycenaean rulers recruited groups of mercenaries from Sicily, Sardinia and various parts of the Italian peninsula.\n\nLike Etruscan, the Lemnian language appears to have had a four-vowel system, consisting of \"i\", \"e\", \"a\" and \"u\". Other languages in the neighbourhood of the Lemnian area, namely Hittite and Akkadian, had similar four-vowel systems, suggesting early areal influence.\n\nThe stele was found built into a church wall in Kaminia and is now at the National Archaeological Museum of Athens. The 6th century date is based on the fact that in 510 BC the Athenian Miltiades invaded Lemnos and Hellenized it. The stele bears a low-relief bust of a man and is inscribed in an alphabet similar to the western (\"Chalcidian\") Greek alphabet. The inscription is in Boustrophedon style, and has been transliterated but had not been successfully translated until serious linguistic analysis based on comparisons with Etruscan, combined with breakthroughs in Etruscan's own translation started to yield fruit.\n\nThe inscription consists of 198 characters forming 33 to 40 words, word separation sometimes indicated with one to three dots. The text consists of three parts, two written vertically and one horizontally. Comprehensible is the phrase \"aviš sialχviš\" (\"aged sixty\", B.3), reminiscent of Etruscan \"avils maχs śealχisc\" (\"and aged sixty-five\"). \n\nTranscription:\n\nAnother Lemnian inscription has been found during excavations at Hephaistia on the island of Lemnos. The inscription consists of 26 letters arranged in two lines of boustrophedonic script.\n\nTranscription:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014251", "title": "Hard Head", "text": "Hard Head\n\nHard Head is a platform game developed by SunA Electronics and released in arcades in 1988. The gameplay and visuals are similar to \"Super Mario Bros.\", but with a more bizarre and offbeat twist.\n\nPlayer(s) take the roles of the game's titular twins, who can use a bubble gun to entrap enemies, then jump on their heads to defeat them. Enemies include monsters and ducks. Both twins can use their heads to break bricks, some of which contain power-ups, hence the name \"Hard Head\". Levels are completed by finding a soccer ball and kicking it through a goal to finish the stage; there are 16 levels in total. The game can be played in either single player mode or cooperative mode, allowing Player 2 to control the second Hard Head twin whenever they choose to join the gameplay.\n\n\"Advanced Computer Entertainment\" compared the game to \"Super Mario Bros.\" and called it \"unoriginal but addicting fun.\" \"Your Sinclair\" also compared the game to \"Super Mario Bros.\", calling it a tribute to Nintendo's game. They also made note of the game's offbeat humor, saying that the game was a \"good laugh\" and \"exactly the same as one of the funniest computer games ever.\" They rated the game an 8 out of 10.\n\nIn 1991, a sequel was produced, titled Hard Head 2. It was released in North America by Space Age Electronics. Unlike the first game, Hard Head 2 based on Toki. In the game's story, Hard Head is dancing with his girlfriend when the devil captures her. In between levels, the devil chews on his girlfriend, and Hard Head says \"I am going to rescue you, may you being safe!...\". Hard Head can take two hits from an enemy. After one hit from an enemy, Hard Head loses his overalls and runs around completely naked. Also, the function of the bubble gun has been changed: enemies can't be enclosed in the bubbles anymore, now it is just a regular gun. New weapons have been added: a club and a morning star. Also, now Hard Head can pick up wings, which make him able to glide by holding the jump button down.\n"}
{"id": "2014255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014255", "title": "Current Procedural Terminology", "text": "Current Procedural Terminology\n\nThe Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code set is a medical code set maintained by the American Medical Association through the CPT Editorial Panel. The CPT code set (copyright protected by the AMA) describes medical, surgical, and diagnostic services and is designed to communicate uniform information about medical services and procedures among physicians, coders, patients, accreditation organizations, and payers for administrative, financial, and analytical purposes.\n\nNew editions are released each October. The current version is the CPT 2020. It is available in both a standard edition and a professional edition.\n\nCPT coding is similar to ICD-9 and ICD-10 coding, except that it identifies the services rendered, rather than the diagnosis on the claim (ICD-10-CM was created for diagnostic coding- it took the place of Volume 3 of the ICD-9). The ICD code sets also contain procedure codes (ICD-10-PCS codes), but these are only used in the inpatient setting.\n\nCPT is currently identified by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as Level 1 of the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System.\n\nThe Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) was developed by the American Medical Association (AMA).\n\nThere are three types of CPT code: Category I, Category II, and Category III.\n\nCategory I CPT Code(s). There are six main sections:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCPT II codes describe clinical components usually included in evaluation and management or clinical services and are not associated with any relative value. Category II codes are reviewed by the Performance Measures Advisory Group (PMAG), an advisory body to the CPT Editorial Panel and the CPT/HCPAC Advisory Committee. The PMAG is composed of performance measurement experts representing the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), the American Medical Association (AMA), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and the Physician Consortium for Performance Improvement. The PMAG may seek additional expertise and/or input from other national health care organizations, as necessary, for the development of Category II codes. These may include national medical specialty societies, other national health care professional associations, accrediting bodies and federal regulatory agencies.\n\nCategory II codes make use of an alphabetical character as the 5th character in the string (i.e., 4 digits followed by the letter F). These digits are not intended to reflect the placement of the code in the regular (Category I) part of the CPT codebook. Appendix H in CPT section contains information about performance measurement exclusion of modifiers, measures, and the measures' source(s). Currently there are 11 Category II codes. They are:\n\n\nCPT II codes are billed in the procedure code field, just as CPT Category I codes are billed. Because CPT II codes are not associated with any relative value, they are billed with a $0.00 billable charge amount.\n\n\nThe CPT code revisions that affect counselors are simple and straightforward. Here is a list of psychotherapy CPT codes that will be retired, and their 2013 comparables:\n\n90801 –> \\\nFamily therapy codes (90847 and 90846) will remain unchanged, as will codes for psychological testing.\n\nCPT is a registered trademark of the American Medical Association, and its largest single source of income. The AMA holds the copyright for the CPT coding system. However, in \"Practice Management v. American Medical Association\" the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that while the AMA owned the copyright, it could not enjoin a competitor on the basis that the AMA had misused its copyright. Practice Management had argued that the publication of the CPT into federal regulation invalidated the copyright; the general debate around copyright and regulation access was revived in 2012 by a petition motivated by an Administrative Conference of the United States recommendation.\n\nDespite the copyrighted nature of the CPT code sets, the use of the code is mandated by almost all health insurance payment and information systems, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and HIPAA, and the data for the code sets appears in the Federal Register. As a result, it is necessary for most users of the CPT code (principally providers of services) to pay license fees for access to the code.\n\nIn the past, AMA offered a limited search of the CPT manual for personal, non-commercial use on its web site.\n\nAs the AMA decided in April 1960, the \"Current Medical Terminology\" (CMT) handbook was first published in June 1962 – 1963 to standardize terminology of the Standard Nomenclature of Diseases and Operations (SNDO) and International Classification of Diseases (ICD), and for the analysis of patient records, and was aided by an IBM computer. Procedural information was dropped in the transition from the SNDO to CMT, but was released separately as the \"Current Procedural Terminology\" in 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014285", "title": "Croker Oars", "text": "Croker Oars\n\nCroker Oars is an Australian manufacturer of rowing oars that was started by Howard Croker OAM in Sydney, Australia. They are now manufactured on Oxley Island, Taree, on the banks of the lower Manning River, in New South Wales. During the 1950s, Croker and his two brothers were students at Newington College and their father was a rowing coach at the school. Howard Croker went on to be a successful rower in the 1960s, winning both State and National rowing titles. Croker rowed for the then Haberfield Rowing Club at Dobroyd Point and was a coach in the years 1975 and 1976 at The Scots College. Croker Oars currently produce sculling and sweep oars for the Australian and international market. Croker also manufactures surf boat oars. Many elite rowers use Croker oars and together with Concept2 oars they make up the majority of oars used in international competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014286", "title": "Udham Singh Nagar district", "text": "Udham Singh Nagar district\n\nUdham Singh Nagar District is a district of Uttarakhand state in northern India. Rudrapur is the district headquarters. This district consists of seven Tehsils named Bajpur, Gadarpur, Jaspur, Kashipur, Kichha, Khatima, Sitarganj. The district is located in the Terai region, and is part of Kumaon Division. It is bounded on the north by Nainital District, on the northeast by Champawat District, on the east by Nepal, and on the south and west by Bareilly, Rampur, Moradabad, Pilibhit and Bijnor District of Uttar Pradesh state. The district was created in October 1995 by Mayawati government out of Nainital District. It is named for freedom fighter and Indian revolutionary Udham Singh.\n\nAs of 2011 it is the third most populous district of Uttarakhand (out of 13), after Haridwar and Dehradun.\n\nG.B. Pant University in Pantnagar, noted for its engineers & agriculture scientists, is located 5 km from Rudrapur.\n\n\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Udham Singh Nagar district has a population of 1,648,902, roughly equal to the nation of Guinea-Bissau or the US state of Idaho. The population in the age range of 0-6 years was 229,162. The number of literates in Udham Singh Nagar district is 1,037,839 (62.9%), with 598,525 (68.7%) male literates and 751,789 (55.6%) female literates. The effective 7+ literacy of the district is 73.1%. The sex ratio of 920 females for every 1,000 males. The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population was 238,264 and 123,037 respectively. There were 308581 households in the district in 2011.\nThe major languages of the district according to the 2011 census are Hindi (%), Punjabi (%), Bengali (%), Urdu (%), Kumaoni (%), Bhojpuri (%), and Tharu (%). The two Tharu languages spoken are Buksa (mostly in the development blocks of Bajpur and Gadarpur), and Rana (in the areas of Khatima and Sitarganj).\n"}
{"id": "2014292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014292", "title": "A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy", "text": "A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy\n\nA Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy is a novel by Laurence Sterne, written and first published in 1768, as Sterne was facing death. In 1765, Sterne travelled through France and Italy as far south as Naples, and after returning determined to describe his travels from a sentimental point of view. The novel can be seen as an epilogue to the possibly unfinished work \"The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman\", and also as an answer to Tobias Smollett's decidedly unsentimental \"Travels Through France and Italy\". Sterne had met Smollett during his travels in Europe, and strongly objected to his spleen, acerbity and quarrelsomeness. He modeled the character of Smelfungus on him.\n\nThe novel was extremely popular and influential and helped establish travel writing as the dominant genre of the second half of the 18th century. Unlike prior travel accounts which stressed classical learning and objective non-personal points of view, \"A Sentimental Journey\" emphasized the subjective discussions of personal taste and sentiments, of manners and morals over classical learning. Throughout the 1770s female travel writers began publishing significant numbers of sentimental travel accounts. Sentiment also became a favorite style among those expressing non-mainstream views, including political radicalism.\n\nThe narrator is the Reverend Mr. Yorick, who is slyly represented to guileless readers as Sterne's barely disguised alter ego. The book recounts his various adventures, usually of the amorous type, in a series of self-contained episodes. The book is less eccentric and more elegant in style than \"Tristram Shandy\" and was better received by contemporary critics. It was published on 27 February, and on 18 March Sterne died.\n\nYorick's journey starts in Calais, where he meets a monk who begs for donations to his convent. Yorick initially refuses to give him anything, but later regrets his decision. He and the monk exchange their snuff-boxes. He buys a chaise to continue his journey. The next town he visits is Montreuil, where he hires a servant to accompany him on his journey, a young man named La Fleur.\n\nDuring his stay in Paris, Yorick is informed that the police inquired for his passport at his hotel. Without a passport at a time when England is at war with France (Sterne traveled to Paris in January 1762, before the Seven Years' War ended), he risks imprisonment in the Bastille. Yorick decides to travel to Versailles, where he visits the Count de B**** to acquire a passport. When Yorick notices the count reads \"Hamlet\", he points with his finger at Yorick's name, mentioning that he is Yorick. The count mistakes him for the king's jester and quickly procures him a passport. Yorick fails in his attempt to correct the count, and remains satisfied with receiving his passport so quickly.\n\nYorick returns to Paris, and continues his voyage to Italy after staying in Paris for a few more days. Along the way he decides to visit Maria—who was introduced in Sterne's previous novel, \"Tristram Shandy\"—in Moulins. Maria's mother tells Yorick that Maria has been struck with grief since her husband died. Yorick consoles Maria, and then leaves.\n\nAfter having passed Lyon during his journey, Yorick spends the night in a roadside inn. Because there is only one bedroom, he is forced to share the room with a lady and her chamber-maid (\"fille de chambre\"). When Yorick can't sleep and accidentally breaks his promise to remain silent during the night, an altercation with the lady ensues. During the confusion, Yorick accidentally grabs hold of something belonging to the chamber-maid. The last line is: \"when I stretch'd out my hand I caught hold of the fille de chambre's...End of vol II\". The sentence is open to interpretation. You can say the last word is omitted, or that he stretched out \"his\" hand, and caught \"hers\" (this would be grammatically correct). Another interpretation is to incorporate 'End of Vol. II' into the sentence, so that he grabs the Fille de Chambre's 'End'.\n\nBecause Sterne died before he could finish the novel, his long-time friend John Hall-Stevenson (identified with \"Eugenius\" in the novel) wrote a continuation. It is titled \"Yorick's Sentimental Journey Continued: To Which Is Prefixed Some Account of the Life and Writings of Mr. Sterne\".\n\nIn the 1880s, American writer Elizabeth Robins Pennell and her artist husband Joseph Pennell undertook a journey following Sterne's route. Their travels by tandem bicycle were turned into the book \"Our sentimental journey through France and Italy\" (1888).\n\nViktor Shklovsky considered Sterne one of his most important precursors as a writer, and his own \"A Sentimental Journey: Memoirs, 1917–1922\" was indebted to both Sterne's own \"Sentimental Journey\" and \"Tristram Shandy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2014294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014294", "title": "Alexandre Deulofeu", "text": "Alexandre Deulofeu\n\nAlexandre Deulofeu Torres (20 September 1903, in L'Armentera – 27 December 1978, in Figueres) was a Spanish politician and philosopher of history. He wrote about what he called the \"Mathematics of History\", a cyclical theory on the evolution of civilizations.\n\nDeulofeu was born at L'Armentera in the province of Girona, Catalonia (Spain), where his father was a pharmacist. When he was three years old his family moved to Sant Pere Pescador, and then to Figueres nine years later.\n\nHe attended high school in the Institut Ramon Muntaner of Barcelona. Later he studied pharmacy and chemistry in Madrid, completing his studies in chemistry in Barcelona. Once back in Figueres, after a competitive examination he was awarded a teaching post at the Institute of Figueres. At the same time, he became strongly involved in politics. First he was a leader of the Republican Nationalist Youth in Empordà and afterwards he became a town councilor of the independentist party ERC (\"Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya\"). During the Spanish Civil War he became mayor of Figueres by chance, and while serving in this office he tried to keep the peace, and prevent looting and political witch hunts. He also served in the Republican Army as a health officer.\n\nOn 5 February 1939, Deulofeu accompanied the defeated republican forces into exile where he followed several trades: working as a teacher of various subjects; experimenting with farming, particularly hydroponics inventing his own growth solutions; working as a bricklayer, as a factory worker, and as a writer and poet.\n\nHe played the violin and the saxophone in several music groups, both modern and classical.\n\nAfter returning from exile on 22 January 1947 he dedicated himself to pharmacy, carried out research and continued to write, although he died without finishing the extended version of his main work, \"Mathematics of History\".\nDuring his life he was friends with Francesc Pujols and Salvador Dalí.\n\nDeulofeu argued that civilizations and empires go through cycles which correspond to the natural cycles of living beings. Each civilization passes through a minimum of three 1700-year cycles. As part of civilizations, empires have an average lifespan of 550 years. He also stated that by knowing the nature of these cycles, it could be possible to modify the cycles in such a way that change could be peaceful instead of leading to war. He wanted mankind to modify the cycles and bring about a universal confederation of free people.\n\nHis mathematical laws related to the evolution of people can be summarized as below (Chapter III of \"Mathematics of History\", 1967 edition):\n\n\nDeulofeu's thoughts are related to the ideas of Oswald Spengler and Arnold J. Toynbee, who also theorised on the cyclical character of civilizations, but not in the same precise mathematical way as Deulofeu.\n\nA lifelong visitor of museums, temples and monuments in different countries, Deulofeu believed he had found the origin of Romanesque art, during the 9th century, in an area between Empordà and Roussillon, which he argued was the cradle of the second cycle of western European civilization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014296", "title": "Yang Kang", "text": "Yang Kang\n\nYang Kang is the fictional antagonist in the wuxia novel \"The Legend of the Condor Heroes\" by Jin Yong (Louis Cha). He also serves as a foil to Guo Jing, the protagonist.\n\nYang Kang's hometown is in Niu Family Village. His father, Yang Tiexin, was originally from Shandong but moved to Lin'an (present-day Hangzhou) after the Jurchen-led Jin Empire conquered the northern part of the predominantly Han Chinese Song Empire. Yang Tiexin met Bao Xiruo in the neighbouring town, Hongmei Village, and married her. Two years after their marriage, Yang Tiexin was apparently killed when soldiers raided the village. Bao Xiruo was heavily pregnant with Yang Kang then, and was rescued by Wanyan Honglie, the sixth prince of the Jin Empire. She gave birth to Yang Kang, who was raised as a Jurchen noble and adopted his foster father's family name, \"Wanyan\". He was initially known as \"Wanyan Kang\" before his real identity is revealed.\n\nYang's given name, \"Kang\", is the complementary of his sworn brother's \"Jing\". Together, their given names form \"Jingkang\" (靖康). Their fathers and Qiu Chuji named them as such to remind them of the Jingkang Incident and to be loyal to their native land, the Song Empire. Yang Kang is also a descendant of Yang Zaixing, a Song general who participated in the Jin–Song Wars.\n\nYang Kang discovers his true heritage when Yang Tiexin, who was supposedly killed many years ago, suddenly reappears in front of Bao Xiruo. Bao Xiruo tries to explain to her son that Yang Tiexin is his father. However, Yang Kang refuses to acknowledge Yang Tiexin as his father. To him, Wanyan Honglie is a fatherly figure who showers love and care on him and provides him with everything he wants. In fact, Wanyan Honglie is responsible for the deaths of Yang Kang's parents: Yang Tiexin and Bao Xiruo commit suicide after being cornered by Wanyan Honglie and his men.\n\nWhen Yang Kang finally meets his sworn brother, Guo Jing, the latter attempts to persuade him to take the Song Empire's side. Although Yang Kang initially agreed to join the Song Empire, he changes his mind later after witnessing how the Han Chinese society of the Song Empire is plagued by problems such as political corruption, internal conflict, and cowardice in the face of Jurchen aggression. Disgusted, Yang Kang succumbs to the temptation of being a Jurchen noble and denounces his ethnicity again. He collaborates with the Jurchens to exploit his own race (the Han Chinese) and pretends to have acknowledged his ethnicity. At one point, he attempts to kill Guo Jing by stabbing him with a dagger when Guo tries to persuade him to revert again. He murders Ouyang Ke so that he can take the latter's place as Ouyang Feng's apprentice. Yang Kang is also responsible for the deaths of five of the \"Seven Freaks of Jiangnan\", and for framing Guo Jing for the murder of Ouyang Ke.\n\nYang Kang gets his retribution in the Temple of the Iron Spear in Jiaxing. Huang Rong is about to reveal the truth behind the deaths of Ouyang Ke and the Freaks when Yang Kang attacks her with a palm strike in an attempt to silence her. However, he accidentally hits the spikes on her soft armour, which is stained with venom from a deadly breed of snakes. The poison seeps through the wounds into his body and kills him eventually. Ironically, the venom that killed Yang Kang was used by him to kill one of the Freaks. Ouyang Feng refuses to save Yang Kang when he learns that the latter was the one who murdered Ouyang Ke.\n\nYang Kang dies a slow and painful death in the temple as the poison works its way through his body. Wanyan Honglie and his men abandon him for fear of being infected. Before dying, Yang Kang finally sees his mistakes after Wanyan Honglie left and blames him for his plight but is too late. When Guo Jing reaches the temple, he is horrified to see that Yang Kang's corpse had been devoured by crows and ravens. He buried whatever that is left of Yang Kang outside the temple. Yang Kang's teacher, Qiu Chuji, arrives later and constructs a tomb for his apprentice after Ke Zhen'e informed him about the incident. Qiu Chuji writes on the headstone: \"Yang Kang, an unworthy apprentice. Erected by his untalented master, Qiu Chuji.\"\n\nYang Kang meets his love interest, Mu Nianci, for the first time in a martial arts contest for a spouse. He defeats her but refuses to marry her after his victory. He is unaware that Mu Nianci's foster father, Mu Yi, is actually his biological father, Yang Tiexin. However, their romance is often strained as they have conflicting views over where their loyalties lie. Yang Kang wants to remain as a Jurchen noble and indulge in wealth, fame and power, while Mu Nianci remains loyal to the Song Empire.\n\nMu Nianci is disappointed with Yang Kang when she recognises his treachery and stubborn refusal to acknowledge his ethnicity. She sees him as a traitor and decides to leave him for good. She never saw him again. However, she is already pregnant with his child. She gives birth to a boy, who is named \"Yang Guo\" by Guo Jing.\n\nQiu Chuji of the Quanzhen Sect finds Yang Kang and accepts him as a student upon learning that the boy is Yang Tiexin's son. He teaches Yang Kang some Quanzhen martial arts to prepare for an upcoming contest with Guo Jing, as well as some skills he created to counter the \"Seven Freaks of Jiangnan\". Yang Kang also learnt an incomplete set of the Yang Family Spear Movement (楊家槍法) from Qiu Chuji, whose knowledge of the skill is based on recollections of his encounter with Yang Tiexin.\n\nYang Kang learns from Mei Chaofeng the 'Nine Yin White Bone Claw' (九陰白骨爪), an unorthodox version of the skills in the \"Nine Yin Manual\". He stumbled upon her hiding place and agreed to provide her with food and shelter. In return, she taught him the 'Claw'.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014297", "title": "Immersed tube", "text": "Immersed tube\n\nAn immersed tube is a kind of undersea tunnel composed of segments, constructed elsewhere and floated to the tunnel site to be sunk into place and then linked together. They are commonly used for road and rail crossings of rivers, estuaries and sea channels/harbours. Immersed tubes are often used in conjunction with other forms of tunnel at their end, such as a cut and cover or bored tunnel, which is usually necessary to continue the tunnel from near the water's edge to the entrance (portal) at the land surface.\n\nThe tunnel is made up of separate elements, each prefabricated in a manageable length, then having the ends sealed with bulkheads so they can be floated. At the same time, the corresponding parts of the path of the tunnel are prepared, with a trench on the bottom of the channel being dredged and graded to fine tolerances to support the elements. The next stage is to place the elements into place, each towed to the final location, in most cases requiring some assistance to remain buoyant. Once in position, additional weight is used to sink the element into the final location, this being a critical stage to ensure each piece is aligned correctly. After being put into place, the joint between the new element and the tunnel is emptied of water then made water tight, this process continuing sequentially along the tunnel.\n\nThe trench is then backfilled and any necessary protection, such as rock armour, added over the top. The ground beside each end tunnel element will often be reinforced, to permit a tunnel boring machine to drill the final links to the portals on land. After these stages the tunnel is complete, and the internal fitout can be carried out.\n\nThe segments of the tube may be constructed in one of two methods. In the United States, the preferred method has been to construct steel or cast iron tubes which are then lined with concrete. This allows use of conventional shipbuilding techniques, with the segments being launched after assembly in dry docks. In Europe, reinforced concrete box tube construction has been the standard; the sections are cast in a basin which is then flooded to allow their removal.\n\nThe main advantage of an immersed tube is that they can be considerably more cost effective than alternative options – i.e., a bored tunnel beneath the water being crossed (if indeed this is possible at all due to other factors such as the geology and seismic activity) or a bridge. Other advantages relative to these alternatives include:\n\nDisadvantages include:\n\nTubes can be round, oval and rectangular. Larger strait crossings have selected wider rectangular shapes as more cost effective for wider tunnels.\n\nThe first tunnel constructed with this method was the Shirley Gut Siphon, a six-foot sewer main laid in Boston, Massachusetts in 1893. The first example built to carry traffic was the Michigan Central Railway Tunnel constructed in 1910 under the Detroit River.\nThe Marmaray, Istanbul, Turkey, is the world's deepest immersed tunnel.\nThe Fehmarn Belt Fixed Link connecting Denmark and Germany is expected to be completed as the world's longest immersed tunnel in 2021. Currently the longest completed immersed tube tunnel is the 4.2-mile-long (6.7-kilometre) tunnel portion of the Hong Kong-Macau Bridge.\n\n\n5. \"Foundation of a tunnel by the sand-flow system\", Tunnels and Tunnelling, July, 1973 by A. Griffioen and R. van der Veen\n\n"}
{"id": "2014299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014299", "title": "Lympstone", "text": "Lympstone\n\nLympstone is a village and civil parish in East Devon in the English county of Devon. It has a population of 1,754. There is a harbour on the estuary of the River Exe, lying at the outlet of Wotton Brook between cliffs of red breccia. The promontory to the north of the harbour is topped by a flat pasture, Cliff Field, that is managed by the National Trust and used for football matches and other local events.\n\nLympstone has rail services on the Avocet Line to Exmouth and Exeter from Lympstone Village railway station.\n\nIt is known locally for Peter's Tower, an Italianate riverfront brick clock tower built around 1885 by W.H. Peters as a memorial to his wife, and for its tradition of residents drying washing on the foreshore. The riverside houses back directly on to the shore, with no continuous seawall, and the passageways between them to the beach are equipped with metal flood gates that are closed by residents when they are warned of high tides by a local alert network.\n\nNear the village is the Commando Training Centre Royal Marines (CTCRM), the principal military training centre for the Royal Marines. The training centre has its own dedicated railway halt, Lympstone Commando (not in public use), on the Exeter–Exmouth branch line.\n\nLympstone AFC were formed in 1906, they have sides in the Devon & Exeter Football League.\n\nLympstone has a non-league football club Royal Marines A.F.C. who play at Endurance Park CTCRM. They have since folded in April 2012.\n\nThe Exeter–Exmouth cycle route passes through the village. The cycle route is popular for commuters and recreational cyclists. Prior to the opening of the cycle route the only direct route to cycle between Exmouth and Exeter was along the busy A376. The cycle route passes through the centre of the village bringing custom to the shop, cafe and pubs and adds to the vibrancy and sustainability of the village centre and its businesses. Despite this, a minority group is currently campaigning to change the route and are concerned it affects the village centre and could be made safer for users and villagers.\n\nThe 1st Lympstone Sea Scouts Group celebrated its centenary in 2012. It currently has flourishing Scout and Cub sections. It meets in the Scout HQ on Cliff Field.\n\nLympstone Manor is an historical house which now provides hotel and restaurant accommodation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014301", "title": "Mudanjiang", "text": "Mudanjiang\n\nMudanjiang (; Manchu: \"Mudan bira\"), alternately romanized as Mutankiang, is a prefecture-level city in the southeast part of Heilongjiang province, People's Republic of China. It was called \"Botankou\" under Japanese occupation. It serves as a regional transport hub with a railway junction and an international airport connecting with several major Chinese cities as well as Incheon International Airport serving Seoul. Mudanjiang is located from Vladivostok, Russia. In 2011 Mudanjiang had a GDP of RMB 93.48 billion with a 15.1% growth rate. In 2015 Mudanjiang had a GDP of RMB 118.63 billion.\n\nIts population is 2,798,723 at the 2010 census whom 965,154 live in the built-up area made of 4 urban districts. In 2007, the city is named China's top ten livable cities by Chinese Cities Brand Value Report, which was released at 2007 Beijing Summit of China Cities Forum.\n\nMudanjiang was originally populated by the Sushen 2,300 years ago. They lived in the valley of the Mudan River, and established the State of Mo (). During the Tang dynasty, Balhae established their Upper capital Longquan Fu (Yongcheon bu) near Lake Jingpo south of Mudanjiang around 755 AD. On January 14, 926, Yongcheon fell while Balhae was defeated by the Khitans.\n\nMudanjiang is named after the eponymous Mudan River (literally, \"Peony River\") flowing through it. Imperial Russia built a train station for the Chinese Eastern Railway in Mudanjiang in 1903, after which local development started boosting. Both Chinese and Russian settlers established themselves here. Mudanjiang was little more than a large village until the 1920s. By that time, Mudanjiang was strongly overshadowed by the nearby county town of Ningan (Former Ninguta). However, merchants from several countries including France, Russia, Britain and Denmark set up sub-agencies in Mudanjiang during this period, which led the trade area of the city to a rapid expansion.\n\nAfter the Japanese invasion of Manchuria began on September 19, 1931, the whole Manchuria was seized by Japan following the Mukden Incident. Mudanjiang experienced a substantial growth in the 1930s under the Japanese occupation. Mudanjiang also became a military and administrative center going by the name Botankou, particularly after the railway from Tumen to Jiamusi was constructed in 1933. By that time several light industries including light engineering, lumbering, and food processing was established in the town. On December 1, 1937, Botankou City was established by the Manchukuo government, administering five counties. On October 15, 1938, Japanese Government set up a consulate in Botankou and promoted Botankou as a municipality directly under the Manchukuo Government. As Manchukuo collapsed, Mudanjiang was captured by the Soviet Army on August 16, 1945.\n\nMudanjiang was controlled by the Communist forces and became the capital of Songjiang Province in 1948. However, after Songjiang Province was merged into Heilongjiang Province on June 19, 1954, Mudanjiang was reduced to a prefecture-level city.\n\nMudanjiang, spanning from 128° 02' to 131° 18' E longitude and 43° 24' to 45° 59' N latitude, is located in southeastern Heilongjiang province. It is also the province's southernmost prefecture. Neighboring prefectures are:\nIt also borders Russia's Primorsky Krai to the east. The average elevation in the prefecture is , with the terrain primarily consisting of mountains and hills. The east of the prefecture begins to ascend to the Changbai Mountains, while the central parts belong to the Hegu Basin. The lowest part of the prefecture is Suifenhe City, bordering Russia, at a minimum elevation of , while the highest point is Zhangguangcai mountain, at .\n\nMudanjiang features a monsoon-influenced, humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dwa\") with hot, humid summers and very cold and dry winters; spring and autumn are brief. However, winter temperatures here are far warmer than much of the rest of the province, and the city's basin location helps protect it from biting winds. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from in January to in July; the annual mean is . Close to three-fifths of the annual rainfall occurs from June to August. With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 46% in July to 62% in February and March, the city receives 2,368 hours of bright sunshine annually. Extreme temperatures have ranged from to .\n\nIn 2010, the city's GDP rose 18.5% to RMB 78.1 billion, ranked fourth in Heilongjiang Province after Harbin, Daqing and Qiqihar. Tourist industry and light manufacturing are the mainstays of Mudanjiang's economy. Mudanjiang's pillar industries include accessory industry for automobiles, paper making, forest industry, petrochemicals, new materials, pharmacy and energy industry. The foreign trade value increased 71.8% to US$9 billion in 2010, making up three-fourth of Heilongjiang Province's gross.\n\n\nMudanjiang is a railway hub in eastern Heilongjiang Province. Binsui(Harbin-Suifenhe) Railway and Tujia(Tumen-Jiamusi) Railway meet here. Trains from Mudanjiang Railway Station connect the city with Beijing, Jinan, Dalian, Harbin, Changchun and several other cities in China.\n\nMudanjiang Hailang Airport is the second largest international airport in Heilongjiang Province. It operates daily flights to Beijing, Dalian and several other major cities in China. In addition there are also scheduled international flights between Mudanjiang and Seoul and Incheon in South Korea.\n\nMudanjiang is linked to the national highway network through the G11 Hegang–Dalian Expressway and G10 Suifenhe-Manzhouli Expressway.\n\nMudanjiang normal university is a provincial higher education institution in Heilongjiang Province. The predecessor of the college is the Nenjiang Branch of Northeast Agricultural College. It was founded in September 1958 and was closed in 1964. The Bei'an Teachers' College was established on the basis of the closed Nenjiang branch. The State Council approved in January 1965. In 1964, Bei'an Normal College moved to the original Ning'an County Breeding Farm, renamed Ning'an Teachers' College of Heilongjiang Province. It was approved by the Heilongjiang Provincial Revolutionary Committee in December 1970 and expanded into Mudanjiang Teachers College. The school has now developed into a master's degree. Full-time undergraduate students, international students, adult education, and other comprehensive teachers' colleges with more than 22,000 students. The school covers an area of 1.05 million square meters, and the school building area is nearly 390,000 square meters. It is a provincial-level garden-style unit. The school recruits students nationwide and now has 15 secondary colleges. In 2015, Mudanjiang Teachers College will be renamed Normal University. On February 26, 2018, Soft Science 2018 \"China's Best University Ranking\" was released, and Mudanjiang Teachers College ranked 551.[12]\n\nMudanjiang University was founded in 1983 and is the first batch of 100 local universities in the country. The school consists of three parts: the school headquarters, the Hailin campus and the industrial park training base. It covers an area of 500,000 square meters and a building area of 186,000 square meters. The total value of fixed assets is 450 million yuan, the total value of teaching equipment is 90 million yuan, and the library has 644,800 books. At present, there are more than 10,000 students in the school, 10 secondary schools and 43 majors. Among them, there are 2 key construction majors supported by the central government and 6 key construction majors supported by the provincial finance. The school is well equipped and the school conditions are good. There are 104 on-campus laboratories and training bases, and 125 off-campus training bases. The major in mechatronics, animation design and production, and computer information security storage was identified by the Ministry of Education as a national backbone teacher training base.[13]\n\nMudanjiang No. 1 High School, referred to as Mudanjiang Yizhong, is located in Mudanjiang City, southeast of Heilongjiang Province, and is the first demonstration high school in Heilongjiang Province. Founded in September 1945, it was originally named Mudanjiang Municipal High School; in 2001, it was renamed Mudanjiang No. 1 High School; in September 2007, the school moved to the new campus as a whole. The new campus covers an area of 218,000 square meters and the construction area is 9.3. 10,000 square meters, green area of 73,000 square meters, sports area of 70,000 square meters. In 2009, it was awarded the National 100 High School Construction Project Experimental School; in 2011, it was identified as a pilot school for provincial science projects. As of February 2015, there were 359 faculty members, 123 teachers with master's degree, 8 special teachers, 144 senior teachers, 107 national, provincial and municipal academic leaders and backbone teachers, and more than 5,200 students.[14]\n\nMudanjiang is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014305", "title": "Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund", "text": "Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund\n\nThe Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund are financial tools set up to implement the regional policy of the European Union. They aim to reduce regional disparities in income, wealth and opportunities. Europe's poorer regions receive most of the support, but all European regions are eligible for funding under the policy's various funds and programmes. The current Regional Policy framework is set for a period of seven years, from 2014 to 2020.\n\nThe Structural Funds are made up of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ESF). \nTogether with the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund make up the great bulk of EU funding, and the majority of total EU spending.\n\nApart from funds under the Cohesion policy, there are other funds that have the potential to contribute to the regional development. These are:\n\nThe Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund make up one of the largest items of the budget of the European Union.\n\nIt is up to the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to define the tasks, priority objectives and the organisation of the Structural Funds (the Regional Policy framework), through the ordinary legislative procedure and consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions (leading to the publication of Regulations).\n\nSections below present information about objectives that have been defined for the programming period, which runs from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013. The overall budget for this period is €347bn: €201bn for the European Regional Development Fund, €76bn for the European Social Fund, and €70bn for the Cohesion Fund.\nThe objectives setup shapes the main focus of interventions (eligible activities and costs) and the overall allocations of funds from the EU budget.\n\nThe key indicator for the division of regions under singular objectives is the Gross National Product per capita (GNP p.c.) level. This is subject to criticism based on the fact that GDP p.c. is unable to reflect the real socio-economic reality of regions. Some groups (e.g. Beyond GDP) and organisations propose the creation of a set of alternative indicators that could substitute the GDP and its derivates.\n\nThis objective covers regions whose GDP per capita is below 75% of the EU average and aims at accelerating their economic development. It is financed by the ERDF, the ESF and the Cohesion Fund. The priorities under this objective are human and physical capital, innovation, knowledge society, environment and administrative efficiency. The budget allocated to this objective is €283.3bn in current prices.\n\nThis objective covers all regions of the EU territory, except those already covered by the Convergence objective. It aims at reinforcing competitiveness, employment and attractiveness of these regions. Innovation, the promotion of entrepreneurship and environment protection are the main themes of this objective.\nThe funding – €55bn in current prices – comes from the ERDF and the ESF.\n\nEuropean Territorial Cooperation is an objective of the European Union’s Cohesion Policy for the period 2007–2013, serving its ultimate goal to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the Union. Regions and cities from different Member States are encouraged to work together, learning from each other and developing joint projects and networks.\nWith the Convergence Objective and the Regional Competitiveness and Employment Objective it aims at contributing to reduce regional disparities across Union's territory.\n\nThe EUR 8.7 billion allocated to the European Territorial Cooperation objective represents 2.5% of the total budget for Cohesion Policy in 2007–2013 and is financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). It supports cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation programmes, helping Member States to participate in European Union (EU) external border cooperation programmes supported by other instruments (Instrument for Pre-Accession and European Neighbourhood Policy Instrument).\n\nHistory\n\nThe European Territorial Cooperation Objective replaced the previous INTERREG Community Initiative (in the period 2000–2006) and thus many European Territorial Cooperation programmes bear the name INTERREG.\nThe \"objectives\" were introduced with the Single European Act as a criterion to make the Structural Funds spending more effective as Regional Policy started to be rationalised in a perspective of economic and social cohesion. The Single European Act, that entered into force in 1987, institutionalised the goal of completing the internal market with a total borders opening, by 31 December 1992. Regional competition would be tighter and a Cohesion Policy was needed to mitigate the negative side effects of market unification.\nThe \"objectives\" were then created to discipline the capture of funds in terms of economic and social cohesion across the Union's territory. In the first multiannual financial framework, 1988–1999, there were seven objectives, which have been progressively reduced. \nEven though European Territorial Cooperation Objective is the smallest of the three Cohesion Policy objectives (in terms of budget), it gained a critical importance to address the key challenges of the European Union, particularly with some redefinitions of the Treaty of Lisbon ( entered into force on 1 December 2009), and for contributing to achieve the goals of Europe 2020, the EU's growth strategy.\n\nInstitutional and legal framework\n\nIn its title on Economic, Social and Territorial Cohesion, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union establishes that ‘the Union shall develop and pursue its actions leading to the strengthening of its economic, social and territorial cohesion’. By introducing the concept of territorial cohesion, the Treaty of Lisbon recognised a strong territorial dimension for the cohesion policy. This territorial approach requires a unique and modern governance system, combining different levels of government (European, national, regional and local).\n\nMember States thus conduct their economic policies and coordinate them for the promotion of the ‘economic, social and territorial cohesion’. European Territorial Cooperation is a component of the economic policy framework of the Union.\n\nThe current Regional Policy framework, sustained by Structural Funds, is set for a period of seven years, from 2007 to 2013. For this period, the following regulations (and the changes in detail made to them by means of subsequent regulations) are especially important in defining the organisation of European Territorial Cooperation:\nThe European Territorial Cooperation Objective is financed by the European Regional Development Fund, whereas the remaining two objectives of the Cohesion Policy set for the 2007–2013 period are also financed by the European Social Fund (Regional Competitiveness and Employment Objective), and, in the case with the Convergence Objective, also the Cohesion Fund.\n\nOrganization\n\nAs with the remaining two objectives, the European Territorial Cooperation Objective is delivered by means of multi-annual programmes aligned on the Union's objectives and priorities, expressed on the multi-annual financial framework. \nEach programme has a managing authority and a Joint Technical Secretariat, headquartered within the area it serves. They are responsible for the correct implementation of the programme, both from a financial and from an operational perspective. \n\nWithin European Territorial Cooperation, there are three types of programmes:\nIn particular, cross-border actions are encouraged in the fields of entrepreneurship, improving joint management of natural resources, supporting links between urban and rural areas, improving access to transport and communication networks, developing joint use of infrastructure, administrative cooperation and capacity building, employment, community interaction, culture and social affairs.\nTogether and in their specific fields, these programmes provide a framework for exchanging experience between regional and local bodies in different countries. \nThe Instrument for Pre-Accession and the European Neighbourhood Policy Instrument are the two financial instruments dedicated to support territorial cooperation between European Member States border regions and their neighbours in accession countries and in other partner countries of the Union. The former currently finances 10 programmes and the latter 13 programmes.\n\nThe ERDF supports programmes addressing regional development, economic change, enhanced competitiveness and territorial co-operation throughout the EU. Funding priorities include modernising economic structures, creating sustainable jobs and economic growth, research and innovation, environmental protection and risk prevention. Investment in infrastructure also retains an important role, especially in the least-developed regions.\n\nThe ESF focuses on four key areas: increasing the adaptability of workers and enterprises, enhancing access to employment and participation in the labour market, reinforcing social inclusion by combating discrimination and facilitating access to the labour market for disadvantaged people, and promoting partnership for reform in the fields of employment and inclusion.\n\nThe Cohesion Fund contributes to interventions in the field of the environment and trans-European transport networks. It applies to member states with a Gross National Income (GNI) of less than 90% of the EU average. As such, it covers the 13 new member states as well as Greece and Portugal.\n\nThis section explains the interplay between different political levels – European, national and regional – in determining the priorities for the Structural Funds and the guidelines for implementing regional projects. In general, the overarching priorities for the Structural Funds are set at the EU level and then transformed into national priorities by the member states and regions.\n\nAt the EU level the overarching priorities are established in the Community Strategic Guidelines (CSG). These set the framework for all actions that can be taken using the funds. Within this framework, each member state develops its own National Strategic Reference Framework (NSRF). The NSRF sets out the priorities for the respective member state, taking specific national policies into account. Finally, Operational Programmes for each region within the member state are drawn up in accordance with the respective NSRF, reflecting the needs of individual regions.\n\n\nThe Community Strategic Guidelines (CSG) contain the principles and priorities of the EU's cohesion policy and suggest ways the European regions can take full advantage of the funding that has been made available for national and regional aid programmes for the period 2007–2013. There are three priorities: \n\nA National Strategic Reference Framework (NSRF) establishes the main priorities for spending the EU structural funding a member state receives between 2007 and 2013. Each member state has its own NSRF. Adopting an NSRF is a new requirement of the Structural Funds regulations for 2007 to 2013. Each NSRF functions as a high-level strategy for the Operational Programmes in the respective member state. The document provides an overview of the economic strengths and weaknesses of the member state's regions, and out the approach to future Structural Funds spending across the member state.\nAn Operational Programme (OP) sets out a region's priorities for delivering the funds. Although there is scope for regional flexibility, a region's priorities must be consistent with the member state's NSRF. There is an Operational Programme for each region in the EU. These OPs, just like the NSRF, have to be approved by the European Commission before any implementation.\n\nAlthough the Structural Funds are part of the EU budget, the way they are spent is based on a system of shared responsibility between the European Commission and the member state authorities:\n\n\nPrior to 1989, funding decisions were taken by the European Commission. This was followed by a period where EU member states tried to maximize control, with little systematic project appraisal and a focus on a small number of large projects. Since 1994 more systematic, co-ordinated and complex methods of allocating resources start to be introduced. For example, most funds within the 2004–06 Integrated Regional Operational Programme (IROP), and its 2007–13 successor (ROP), are allocated through largely need-based project-selection mechanisms. Regions with low GDP receive more funds. However, within these regions, more funds go to relatively rich local areas with the best institutions. It has been argued that part of this can be explained by the frequent need to co-fund projects, and the needed capacity to prepare applications.\n\nThe European Commission has adopted a draft legislative package which will frame cohesion policy for 2014–2020. The new proposals are designed to reinforce the strategic dimension of the policy and to ensure that EU investment is targeted on Europe's long-term goals for growth and jobs (\"Europe 2020\").\n\nThrough Partnership Contracts agreed with the Commission, Member States will commit to focussing on fewer investment priorities in line with these objectives. The package also harmonises the rules related to different funds, including rural development and maritime and fisheries, to increase the coherence of EU action.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014307", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of the United States", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of the United States\n\nIn the United States, vehicle registration plates, known as license plates, are issued by a department of motor vehicles, an agency of the state or territorial government, or in the case of the District of Columbia, the district government. Some Native American tribes also issue plates. The U.S. federal government issues plates only for its own vehicle fleet and for vehicles owned by foreign diplomats. Until the 1980s, diplomatic plates were issued by the state in which the consulate or embassy was located.\n\nThe appearances of plates are frequently chosen to contain symbols, colors, or slogans associated with the issuing jurisdiction. The term \"license plate\" is frequently used in statutes, although in some areas \"tag\" is informally used. The official three letter DSIT (coinciding with its ISO code) international code attributed to the United States is USA.\n\nPlate designs often contain symbols, colors, or slogans associated with the issuing jurisdiction. Registration number formats, typically alphanumeric, are designed to provide enough unique numbers for all motor vehicles a jurisdiction expects to register. For example, the small states of Delaware and Rhode Island are able to use formats of 123456, while California uses the seven-character format 1ABC234, and several other populous states use seven-character ABC-1234 or AB-12345 formats. Other formats include those that incorporate a county coding system (e.g. Vehicle registration plates of Idaho) or a month of expiration into the plate number.\n\nNon-passenger vehicle plates tend to have a separate design, including a special numbering format.\n\nIn the United States, many states distinguish their license plates through distinctive color schemes and logos, which persist over time. For example, the cowboy logo often associated with the state of Wyoming has appeared on that state's license plates continuously since 1936. Some early Tennessee plates were produced in a parallelogram shape approximating that of the state.\n\nVermont license plates have frequently featured a green and white color scheme, while Alaska has preferred yellow and blue. Other states and territories, such as California and Virginia, offer simpler schemes, often with a white background and little decoration.\n\nFlorida, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and West Virginia have placed the address of the state's official or tourism web site on their general issue plates. Most plates in District of Columbia contain the phrase \"Taxation without representation\" to highlight the District's lack of a voting representative in Congress.\n\nAs of 2019, the three oldest plate designs in use – each with slight to moderate cosmetic changes since inception – are that of Delaware (in production since 1959), Colorado (since 1960, continuously since 1978), and Minnesota (since 1978).\n\nTypically, the registration number is embossed – or, more rarely, impressed – onto the license plate. Other identifying information, such as the name of the issuing jurisdiction and the vehicle class, can be either surface-printed or embossed; Virginia, for example, does the former for passenger cars and the latter for most non-passenger vehicles. However, it is increasingly common in the U.S. for the registration number to be surface-printed using digital printing technology. Colorado, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Oregon, and Washington do so only for certain types of license plates, such as vanity plates and special issues; Alabama, Arizona, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Jersey, North Dakota, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Wyoming, and the District of Columbia have switched to the so-called \"flat plate\" technology for all their license plates. Nevada formerly issued flat plates but has returned to making embossed plates. Delaware license plates have not been embossed for several decades. Wyoming normally issues flat plates but also issues embossed license plates for an extra fee.\n\nIn 2018, California started a pilot program in which the city of Sacramento issued license plates on battery-powered digital displays, for an extra fee. The registration number is displayed on an electronic paper screen that can theoretically update itself to display different messages. The license plate itself is also equipped with a beacon that can be tracked in case the car associated with the plate is stolen.\n\nLicense plates originally were not embossed, but were merely flat plates in various forms, typically rectangular. In the 1930s the states found that the plates could be easily forged, and subsequently began embossing plates to thwart counterfeiting.\n\nIn 1956, the U.S. states and Canadian provinces came to an agreement with the Automobile Manufacturers Association that fixed the size of all passenger vehicle plates at , although the dimensions may vary slightly by jurisdiction. In North America, only Saint Pierre and Miquelon has not adopted these standards (although Northwest Territories has a plate shaped like a polar bear that's cut out of a standard rectangular plate). Smaller-sized plates are used for motorcycles and, in some jurisdictions, mopeds and certain types of trailers and construction equipment. Furthermore, the US territory of Puerto Rico has a European sized specialty plate.\n\nHistorically, license plates were replaced every year, although the most common practice now is to issue new validation stickers every year or two, to indicate that the vehicle registration is still valid.\n\nExpired vehicle registrations may attract the attention of law enforcement, because indicators of an expired plate, such as an old or invalid sticker, give officers probable cause to lawfully initiate a traffic stop. A delinquent registration tag is often an indicator that the vehicle may be stolen, that the vehicle's owner has failed to comply with the applicable law regarding emission inspection or insurance, or that the vehicle's owner has unpaid traffic or parking tickets. Most states historically required all license plates to be replaced every few years; that practice is being abandoned by many states because of the expense of continually producing large numbers of plates. Washington stopped the practice of mandatory replacement in 2015. Maryland previously mandated that all license plates be replaced every five years (except for apportioned trailers, which were registered on an eight-year schedule), but has not done so since 1986.\n\nIn jurisdictions that use validation stickers on the plate, the month and year of expiration may be separated into two decals, or issued in a single sticker. For example, North Carolina previously issued separate month and year decals, but recently switched to a single sticker. In others, such as Texas, the plate's validation is a decal displayed from the inside of the windshield. The colors of plate stickers and windshield decals often change annually, to support enforcement of registration laws.\n\nMost validation stickers are either serialized (with the serial number recorded on the registration), or are printed by a special printer at the time of registration or renewal with the vehicle's license plate number on them to discourage fraudulent sticker use, as the sticker will be valid only for the plate for which it was intended. In the District of Columbia, the license plate is validated with a windshield sticker that indicates the expiration date in MM/DD/YY format, the license plate number, the year and make of vehicle, and part of the vehicle identification number, allowing easier fraud detection, in addition to serving as a parking permit for neighborhood residents. In Illinois, the plate stickers have both the plate number and the serial in between the expiration month and year. This state is currently the only one that has this, since 2006\n\nNew York, Texas, and the District of Columbia use windshield stickers exclusively, rather than plate stickers, for most vehicle classes. Their registration stickers include the month and year of expiration (and, in the District of Columbia, the day) in large type, so that an expired registration windshield sticker is obvious. In 2015, Texas eliminated the requirement to display a windshield vehicle inspection decal with the registration. Connecticut switched to windshield stickers in September 2006, and in August 2010, eliminated registration stickers completely, primarily to reduce costs. New Jersey required the use of plate decals for a few years, beginning with November 2000 expiration dates, but has not required them on passenger cars since October 1, 2004. New Jersey passenger vehicles do not display any registration information other than the license plate itself.\n\nPennsylvania issued validation stickers for Philadelphia residents that were displayed in the lower left corner of cars' rear windows for a few years to thwart sticker theft from plates; the practice ended in late 2003 with the last issued stickers bearing January 2005 expirations. As of January 2017, Pennsylvania no longer issues any registration stickers.\n\nIn Hawaii, counties compete over the cost of vehicle registration dues. Vehicles are purchased at a discount on Oahu compared to the neighboring islands where there is usually only one dealer per vehicle make. Because the outlying counties issue plates starting with M (Maui County), K (Kauai), or H (Big Island of Hawaii), the source of the vehicle can be identified.\n\nIn Minnesota and Washington state, license plate registration stickers are often called \"tabs.\"\n\nUnder U.S. law, when a person moves to a new state with the intent to remain indefinitely, they are required to register personal vehicles in the new state. The new state will then issue a plate or plates that must be attached to the vehicle. One significant exception is active duty military service members; under federal law, they do not change their legal residence (domicile) upon moving to a new posting and are not obliged to obtain new vehicle registrations. Undergraduate students attending college or university in a state outside their state of legal residence are also typically exempted from transferring their registration, while graduate students are typically not exempt. Louisiana does not extend this privilege to leased vehicles used by students, and requires local registration.\n\nWhen a vehicle is sold, the disposition of the license plates depends on state law and varies by state. In some states, license plates are transferred with the vehicle to its new owner. In other states, the license plates remain with the seller, who may, for a fee, transfer the license plates and any unused portion of the current registration to a new vehicle. Some states issue a new plate whenever the car is sold.\n\nThere are different schemes for reissuing license plates, a process known as \"replating\". In some jurisdictions, plates are issued on a permanent basis and are not replaced unless the owner requests a new plate or a remake of the current plate. Other jurisdictions re-plate on a rolling basis, replacing a particular motorist's plate when it reaches a certain age. Still other jurisdictions may recall a particular series of plates for reissuance at regular or irregular intervals. This is particularly common in jurisdictions in which only one license plate series or design is valid at any given time. Optional-issue plates may or may not follow the same rules for replacement as standard-issue plates, depending on the jurisdiction. New plates may also be required when the existing plates are so physically degraded as to be illegible.\n\nIn North Carolina in 2006, the legislature voted to require over 500,000 older plates to be recalled and replaced when a new design was introduced in 2007.\n\nFor passenger vehicle registrations, U.S. states require vehicles to display either one or two license plates (e.g., at the rear of the vehicle only or on the front and rear). In states that require two plates, limited exceptions may exist that allow for only a single plate to be displayed, such as for registration of commercial vehicles, government owned vehicles, dealer owned vehicles, or historic vehicles. In states like Missouri and California, two-plate jurisdictions, certain truck registrations actually require a single plate to be displayed, on the \"front\" of the vehicle only, leaving the rear with no license plate, while in California vehicles with occupational plates (dealers, dismantlers, etc.) only require one plate on the rear of a vehicle that would otherwise require two plates.\n\nSome common exceptions include trailers, which are issued only one plate, even in states that otherwise issue two plates to all passenger vehicles, while certain other non-passenger types, such as apportioned, may be issued in pairs even in states that otherwise issue only rear plates to passenger vehicles. Pennsylvania, for example, requires a front plate for semi-trailer trucks. Some vanity and specialty plates in Arizona and Kansas are issued in pairs, but only the rear plate is required on the vehicle; the front plate is free and fully optional.\n\nIn January 2012, the Texas legislature inadvertently removed the penalty for driving without a front license plate. As a result, the law required front and rear license plates on passenger vehicles, but stated no penalty for non compliance. Realizing the mistake, the legislature eventually reinstated the $200 fine in September 2013.\n\nMassachusetts is a unique case for license plate mounting. Before the introduction of the current \"Spirit of America\" base starting in 1986 for commercial vehicles, as well as vanity plates in 1988 for all other vehicles, the state issued only a single green-on-white plate to be mounted on the rear bumper. With the current-issue base, two plates are issued and are to be mounted on both the front and rear bumpers. Since all license plates issued since 1978 are currently valid, most passenger vehicles registered in Massachusetts display two plates, but those with the older green-on-white plates display only one.\n\nIn Nevada, all motor vehicles, with the exception of motorcycles and trailers, are issued two license plates. According to state law, most standard passenger vehicles issued two plates are required to display them on both the front and rear bumpers of the vehicle. Display of the front license plate, however, is optional for vehicles that either were not designed to have a front plate, or the manufacturer did not provide a plate bracket or other means for front display of a license plate. As a result, the law to display both the front and rear plates is rarely enforced, and it is not uncommon for owners of vehicles with Nevada license plates to remove the manufacturer-supplied front license plate brackets from their vehicles and display only the rear plate. In 2015, Wyoming passed a law, similar to Nevada, that does not require a front license plate on vehicles that either are not specifically designed to have a front plate, or the manufacturer did not provide a plate bracket or other means for front display of a license plate. Nebraska passed an identical law in 2016. In 2017, Montana also passed a similar law, exempting such passenger vehicles from displaying a front plate but requiring motorists to first obtain approval from the Montana Highway Patrol.\n\nSouth Dakota will issue passenger vehicles a single rear plate for a $25 fee, but only if the vehicle will be driven less than every year.\n\nIn 2016, Iowa attempted to pass a law that exempts \"vintage\" vehicles and two-seat, low-profile sports cars, like Corvettes, from the front license plate requirement. Originally, the bill was meant to repeal the front license plate requirement for all vehicles, but was amended as a compromise. The bill was later withdrawn. \n\nIn April 2019 Ohio passed a law that will require only rear license plates starting in July 2020, marking the first time since World War II that Ohio has not had front plates.\n\nWhen a person buys a vehicle from a dealer, the dealer is typically authorized to issue a temporary registration to allow the buyer to drive the vehicle until the government agency in charge of vehicle registration processes the registration forms.\n\nSimilarly, when a person buys a vehicle outside his or her state or province of residence, he or she can usually obtain a \"transit registration\" from the authorities of the state or province where the purchase took place. This transit registration will allow the new owner to drive the vehicle and to properly register and obtain license plates for the vehicle from his or her state or province of residence.\n\nThe physical indicia of such temporary or transit registrations can take a variety of forms, such as:\n\nIn the United States, there are numerous types of license plates that are issued to special passenger, non-passenger, and non-private vehicles. Depending on the jurisdiction, such types may include:\n\nIn each of the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, motorists are given the option of extra-cost \"vanity plates\" (also known as \"personalized\" or \"prestige\" plates), which are license plates with a custom serial (sequence of letters and/or numbers). Generally, vanity plates may not contain profane or obscene messages, although standards as to what constitutes an unacceptable message vary widely among issuing jurisdictions. Namely, the state of Maine has no censorship of vanity plates at all, provided they do not promote hate or violence. In California, motorists may order symbols—a heart, hand, plus sign, or star—on one type of specialty plate. Other states, such as New Hampshire and North Carolina, also permit the use of certain punctuation symbols. The state of Virginia offers more than 200 unique designs for license plates. A tenth of all U.S. vanity plates are in Virginia (which has 1.6 million vanity plate registrations), giving it the highest concentration of vanity plates issued by a state.\n\nCertain classes of vanity plates may require proof of authorization, such as a person obtaining an amateur radio plate with their call sign must show their amateur radio license. Persons obtaining disabled veteran or Medal of Honor or Purple Heart medal recipients must show proof of their disability and military service or their award of the specific medal, respectively.\n\nVanity plates sometimes cause unexpected difficulties for their owners. In 1979, a Los Angeles resident received 2,500 parking citations from throughout the state because the DMV's computers matched his plate, \"NO PLATE\", with citations for cars without license plates. Other such cases have been reported for plates that say \"MISSING\", \"NOTAG\", \"VOID\", \"NONE\" and \"XXXXXXX\".\n\nRestrictions in the messages allowed on vanity plates have led to some major court cases. In 2001, Paula Perry, an administrator from Vermont, sued the DMV when her plates, SHTHPNS, were recalled. She alleged they had violated the First Amendment by the recall. “People should be able to have freedom of speech. There’s nothing wrong with this plate. It was something I really believed in”, she told reporter Zara Stone. Her case made its way to the federal appeals court. “It’s nothing more than a reflection of life’s challenges!” she told the federal court, arguing they were limiting her free speech and that similar vanity plates had been issued. They ruled against her. The relevant difference between ‘shit’ and ‘pooper,’ for instance, is not the so-called ‘cuteness’ of the word ‘pooper,’ but the fact that ‘shit’ is a profanity,” the court said in its opinion. They admitted that her plates were private speech, but classed them as private speech in a “nonpublic forum,” meaning the state could set reasonable, viewpoint-neutral boundaries.\n\nIn another case from New Hampshire, the state attempted to recall the plate \"PB4WEGO\", but the owner of the plates successfully appealed.\n\nDelaware's three-digit plates can bring $50,000 and two-digit plates can bring upwards of $400,000. These estimates have sometimes been exceeded: in 2008, plate number 6 brought $675,000 at auction, and in 2018, plate number 20 fetched $410,000 at auction. Bids have come from around the world, even though only drivers with Delaware licenses and residency can legally own the plates. \n\nIn Rhode Island, license plates with low serial numbers have been distributed by politicians and have became known a status symbols. The Rhode Island Governor's office instituted an official lottery for so-called \"preferred plates\" in 1995. \n\nLow-digit, all-numeric plates are also available in Massachusetts, Illinois, and Washington, D.C.. In these places, low-digit places are seen as status symbols. In Illinois, as in Rhode Island, low-digit plates can also be distributed by politicians.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, vehicle owners may also pay extra for \"specialty plates\". With these, the plate serial is chosen by the licensing agency—as with regular plates—but the owners select a plate design that is different from the normal license plate. For example, an alumnus or student of a university or college might purchase a plate with the school's logo, or an outdoorsman might decide to pay extra for a plate depicting a nature scene. A portion of the extra cost of these license plates often ends up as a donation for a related school or non-profit organization.\n\nSome jurisdictions allow for some or all of their specialty plates to also be vanity plates, usually for an additional fee on top of the cost of the plate.\n\nStates may also provide commemorative plates as a standard issue, for example for a state's 100th or 125th anniversary.\n\nNormally such specialty plates can be purchased without proof of any particular status or affiliation, exceptions being plates which indicate membership or abilities of use in an emergency (e.g., firefighter, police, EMT, amateur radio operator). Also, some states require that university or college plates be ordered through alumni associations. Other specialty plates include those for motorists with specific accomplishments or backgrounds; for example, a veteran who was a prisoner of war or a Purple Heart recipient may obtain a POW or Purple Heart specialty plate, respectively, after presenting documentation of his or her status to the registrar. In many jurisdictions, there is no charge (or at least no extra charge) for such a plate, in recognition of the veteran's service.\n\nBecause specialty plates are government issued, they are required under First Amendment issues to be issued as a type to any group or organization that qualifies under the same terms as any other group to be issued a type of plate. The State of Maryland was going to revoke permission for use of the Confederate flag from a certain plate by the Sons of Confederate Veterans, but a court ruled that the only way the state could do that was to revoke permission on all specialty plates.\nAll U.S. states offer specialized license plates for licensed amateur radio operators, in many cases at no extra charge or at a discount compared to standard vanity plates. In some states statutes regarding amateur radio plates were enacted decades prior to vanity plate programs. Among the stated reasons in various state statutes for providing special amateur radio plates are to recognize amateur radio operators for their service, and to enhance visibility of amateur radio operators in an emergency. The owner's radio call sign is used instead of a standard-issue serial. Texas allows radio amateurs to have their call sign on the license plates of multiple vehicles that they own, in effect allowing more than one vehicle to share the same license plate number. As Amateur Radio call signs are standardized under the FCC and internationally under the ITU, it is highly plausible such registrations would not just be unique in the issuing state, but rather the entire country and internationally (a possible example of a de facto national license plate).\n\nOne example of a specialty license plate was a plate issued in 1987 by the state of Florida to commemorate the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. Proceeds benefit the Astronauts Memorial Foundation, and funded the construction and maintenance of the Space Mirror Memorial at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex in Merritt Island, Florida. The current version of the plate, and the second revision since its inception, introduced in 2004, commemorates both \"Challenger\" and \"Columbia\". It remained the most popular of all of Florida's specialty plates until it was overtaken by a plate to support the critically endangered Florida panther. In 2006, it was outsold by a plate for the University of Florida. Florida currently offers 122 specialty plates, more than any other state, while other states offer only a few.\n\nThere also exist standard-issue specialty plates. For instance, a number of states issued plates recognizing the U.S. Bicentennial in 1976. Several states have also issued plates commemorating milestones in their own state, such as when, in 1998, Alaska celebrated the Centennial of the Klondike Gold Rush with new license plates showing prospectors on the trail to the Yukon. Tennessee commemorated its 1996 bicentennial celebration by issuing standard plates labeled \"BicenTENNial\" in the place of the state's name; these plates remained standard issue until 2001, five years after the celebration had ended. States often issue plates with their motto or slogan, such as North Carolina's \"First in Flight\" and Ohio's \"Birthplace of Aviation\". These are arguably also general commemoratives. By law, all plates issued in Alabama must contain the words \"Heart of Dixie\" inside a small heart symbol. Over the years, due to sensitivities over the word \"Dixie\", the symbol (which currently resides in white letters inside a red heart) has been shrunken to the minimum size. In protest, proponents of the \"Heart of Dixie\" slogan often buy third-party decals with the slogan in much larger text, placing them over the current \"Stars Fell On\" slogan at the top of the plates.\n\nNew Jersey offers an optional \"animal friendly\" license plate. The second generation of this plate was first issued in 2001 and features characters from the comic strip \"Mutts\" by Patrick McDonnell. A portion of the revenue from the plates goes to the New Jersey State Department of Health's Animal Population Control Program. Some states where stock car racing is popular issue special NASCAR-themed plates; a NASCAR fan can purchase a plate with the name and car number of his or her favorite driver, along with the state-issued alphanumeric sequence. Here, a portion of the extra cost goes to NASCAR as compensation for licensing its trademarks. States offering NASCAR plates featuring designs for different drivers are Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and West Virginia; Florida issues one NASCAR-themed plate.\n\nIn Indiana, a pilot program allows large fleet vehicle operators to customize an Indiana license plate specific to their organization. The United Parcel Service is the first such fleet operator to take advantage of this offering. This kind of specialty plate can only be purchased by the owner of the fleet and is not considered a general issue plate.\n\nBecause of the ubiquitousness of license plates, special plates - or even regular ones - can raise controversy. The state of Colorado, in recognition of the Columbine High School massacre, released a license plate with the picture of the eponymous state flower, the \"Columbine\", with the words \"Choose Life\" in a crayon-line scrawl. Some people complained that they felt the \"Choose Life\" saying was intended to be an anti-abortion message. Sometimes even ordinary plates can spark controversy. For instance, George Maynard did not like the state motto on his New Hampshire license plate, \"Live free or die\" and chose to cover it with tape. He was prosecuted and convicted for defacing a license plate. The United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Wooley v. Maynard\", 430 U.S. 705 (1977), that since one is compelled to have a license plate on one's vehicle, they are permitted not to have to show a message from the state to which they have a moral objection, and overturned his conviction.\n\nIn New Jersey, people convicted of drunk driving can be banned from using vanity plates. In Ohio, convicted drunk drivers are mandated to drive with “Party Plates”, special red-on-yellow license plates in exchange for limited driving privileges such as work. In Georgia and Minnesota, drunk drivers may be ordered to display a plate with a special numbering system indicating restricted driving privileges. These are referred to as \"Whiskey Plates\" in Minnesota.\n\nNine U.S. states have issued commemorative or affinity license plates for the Sons of Confederate Veterans (SCV) as a result of a national campaign for approval of plates commemorating the Confederate States of America. Starting in the late 1990s, the SCV took various states to court and each time won the right to issue plates and include their Confederate Battle Flag based logo on the basis it was a free speech issue however the 2015 US Supreme Court \"Walker v. Texas Division, Sons of Confederate Veterans\" allowed states to remove the Confederate flag from plates finding that the plates were speech by the state. The use of the Confederate Battle Flag and other Confederate symbols on the plates has stirred controversy but Jay Barringer, commander of the Maryland Division of Sons of Confederate Veterans countered \"We're trying to divest ourselves of the negative associations\" with the Confederate flag. In some states revenues are shared with the SCV organization.\n\n\nVehicles owned by a branch of the U.S. military may have a license plate issued by that branch of the military, although some utility vehicles will have no license plate at all, only an identification number applied directly to the body. The United States Postal Service adopts the same practice, especially for its delivery trucks. Vehicles owned by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) will have plates issued by the GSA in standard format. U.S. Government plates starting with \"P\" are USPS vehicles.\n\nIn the United States, all states issue some special sort of license plate for vehicles which are owned by state and local governments, and the federal government issues plates for vehicles it owns, except for many belonging to the United States Postal Service, many of which use no plates. For the most part, the plates are similar to the regular passenger plates, except with a separate numbering sequence and/or with a message such as \"government\", \"official\", \"state owned\", \"municipal\", or \"exempt\" (from registration fees) replacing the slogan.\n\nMany states issue license plates to members of certain professions who require some sort of special privileges, such as parking or going behind police lines. Examples include plates for members of the press, doctors, nurses, EMTs, paramedics, volunteer firemen, judges, medical examiners, and elected officials.\nSome states use a distinctive color scheme to differentiate the plates from the regular issue. For example, in Virginia, state government license plates use the format \"12-345S\" and have a light blue background, while local government license plates use the format \"123-456L\" and have a tan background. The standard issue has a white background and a different numbering scheme. In Vermont, municipal government plates have a red background instead of the usual green background; State Police plates are green with yellow lettering instead of white, matching the color scheme of VSP patrol vehicles.\n\nIn Florida, government vehicles have a black-on-yellow scheme.\n\nOld California government plates have the letter \"E\" inside of either an octagon or a diamond, which are no longer issued, but still valid. Old government vehicles will either have a diamond or octagon before 6 random digits while newer government vehicles say ¨CA EXEMPT\" at the top of the license plate in red instead of the regular ¨California¨ in red cursive and will have 7 random digits, beginning with the number \"1.\"\n\nIn Colorado, government vehicles affix a \"GVT\" code vertically before the plate number.\n\nGovernmental vehicles in North Carolina are issued permanent black-on-yellow (state-owned) or black-on-orange/aluminum (all other governmental) license plates, however vehicles belonging to the State Highway Patrol are sometimes registered with normal passenger car plates or with special vanity plates (with stamped years instead of stickers) similar to normal plates, with the prefix SHP before a unique number. Government vehicles with black-on-orange/aluminum are the police (including sheriff and undercover police vehicles), school buses, public transportation buses, postal services, and county vehicles.\n\nPennsylvania issues a white on blue (blue on white on earlier plates, some still in use) plate for state-owned vehicles (PA prefix/suffix which carry the OFFICIAL USE legend), municipal (MG prefix or suffix) and vehicles that are owned by Penn State, which carry the STATE UNIVERSITY legend. State-owned and Penn State-owned vehicles are also issued front plates, as are press photographers, however, the press photographer plates are issued on the standard base and carry a PP prefix inside a large keystone.\n\nGovernment vehicles in Georgia are issued a plate in the standard design but a numbering series prefixed by \"GV\" and a decal on the left side of the plate indicating what type of government the plate is issued to (authority, (school) board, city, county, or state). Also, Georgia State Patrol vehicles have special-issue plates they are required to display on both the front and rear of the vehicle – most other vehicles in Georgia only have rear plates – that have an image of the GSP's patch and the trooper's badge number.\n\nMost Washington State Patrol vehicles use the same format as passenger cars, with the exception that the letters are all \"WSP\". For example: 123 WSP. The format \"1234 SP\" may also be seen on WSP vehicles but not as common. In this format only the numbers change, with the SP (State Patrol) designation remaining constant.\n\nThe District of Columbia issues special license plates to vehicles owned by the DC government and the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority. While ambulances and other support vehicles of the District of Columbia Fire Department have special red and white plates, fire engines are not issued license plates. Vehicles belonging to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority display standard DC license plates appropriate to the class of vehicle, with special validation stickers. The transit authority police cars are issued ordinary District of Columbia passenger license plates, but the authority replaces them with self-issued number plates indicating the vehicle is with the transit police.\n\nIn Honolulu, Hawaii, the license plates on TheBus matches the fleet number of the bus they are assigned to, using a BUS-123 format. Similarly, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority in Boston, Massachusetts, places license plates on their buses featuring the agency's logo (a \"T\" inside a circle) followed by the bus number.\n\nOhio's government-owned vehicles use red on white plates with the legend \"City\", \"County\", and \"Government\" with a special format of ABC123, and they use the legend \"State Vehicle\" with the format 12 3456. Just like in New York, Police vehicles are not issued license plates.\n\nMichigan uses a unique \"123456\" format for municipal vehicles (including municipal transit buses, public school buses owned and operated by the school district, and police vehicles), \"123456\" for \"in-transit repair\" vehicles, \"12345\" for dealer vehicles, \"123456\" for vehicles owned by manufacturers of cars, \"123456\" for transporter vehicles and \"123456\" for vehicles owned by non-profit agencies, such as church buses, buses of private schools, and chapters of the American Red Cross. Michigan State Police plates have the State Police shield on the left side, followed by a four-digit fleet number. The first two digits of this fleet number indicate the State Police post number where the vehicle is assigned. County sheriff plates follow the 12*345 format (the asterisk representing a six-pointed star), but feature a black background and white letters; the left two digits represent the number of the county in alphabetical order. Vehicles owned by the State of Michigan can also have a plate using the format of \"MSG 1234\" (where MSG stands for Michigan State Government) or a plate with the format of \"X12345\" with the caption \"STATE GOVT\" under.\n\nIn New York State, local police vehicles are not issued license plates. In some cases, such as New York City, the fleet number of the vehicle is put on a flat license plate using heat transferred letters. In Yonkers, there is a special plate that appears similar to the specialized optional plates with the Yonkers Police logo and the fleet number. Other communities in the state have a license plate that looks like the regular issue vanity plate, but with the word \"POLICE\" on it. New York formerly indicated rental cars with the sequence beginning with \"Z\", but that apparently encouraged targeting by car thieves.\n\nMany states issue special plates to automobile dealers, auto repair shops, farms, and construction contractors, which are not tied to any particular vehicle. These users typically have many more vehicles on the premises than on the public streets, and it would not be practical to register and insure each individual vehicle. So, they hold a number of \"floating\" registrations for however many vehicles they plan to use on the public streets simultaneously. States typically have rules about who is eligible and how the plates may be used, and may impose record keeping and audit requirements.\n\nDiplomatic license plates are issued by the United States Department of State to accredited diplomats. This is an exception to the general rule in the U.S. that license plates are issued by states, and not the federal government. However, prior to the 1980s, diplomatic plates were issued by states, with New York issuing the most, followed by the District of Columbia.\n\nUntil 2007, plates issued to cars based in the District of Columbia followed the pattern of a letter identifying the status of the owner, followed by the two-letter country code, followed by a four-digit number (S LL NNNN). For member countries of the Organization of American States (OAS), a subset of that numbering pattern is allotted to vehicles based at those countries' missions to the OAS. Plates issued to cars based at the United Nations in New York City are reversed, with the four-digit number first, followed by the two-letter country code, followed by the status code (NNNN LL S). This is because representatives of certain countries are limited to travel to certain radii from their base, and the system allows the city of assignment to be identified easily.\n\nThe status codes used until 2007 were \"C\" for foreign consul; \"D\" for diplomat; \"S\" for non-diplomatic staff; and \"A\" for a UN employee. The status code indicates the type of diplomatic, consular, or other immunity enjoyed by the vehicle's registrant.\n\nThe country codes are unique to each particular country, but do not correlate to ISO Country Codes or other standards format. For example, in the old system used until 2007, France is \"DJ\" not \"F\" and Australia is \"XZ\" not \"AUS\". This is to prevent the general public from targeting diplomats from particular countries.\n\nCertain U.S. states issue honorary consul plates to U.S. citizens who have been appointed to that office and perform consular functions on a part-time basis.\n\nFor a list of serial formats of diplomatic plates, see the article about United States license plate designs and serial formats.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014309", "title": "Office of Gas and Electricity Markets", "text": "Office of Gas and Electricity Markets\n\nThe Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), supporting the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (GEMA), is the government regulator for the electricity and downstream natural gas markets in Great Britain. It was formed by the merger of the Office of Electricity Regulation (OFFER) and Office of Gas Supply (Ofgas).\n\nThe authority's powers and duties are largely provided for in statute (such as the Gas Act 1986, the Electricity Act 1989, the Utilities Act 2000, the Competition Act 1998, the Enterprise Act 2002 and the Energy Act 2004, the Energy Act 2008 and the Energy Act 2010) as well as arising from directly effective European Union legislation. Duties and functions concerning gas are set out in the Gas Act and those relating to electricity are set out in the Electricity Act.\n\nIts primary duty is to protect the interests of consumers, where possible by promoting competition.\n\nThe Authority‘s main objective is to protect existing and future consumers' interests in relation to gas conveyed through pipes and electricity conveyed by distribution or transmission systems. Consumers' interests are their interests taken as a whole, including their interests in the reduction of greenhouse gases and in the security of the supply of gas and electricity to them. Since 2010 the Authority has imposed nearly £100 million in fines and redress levies against energy suppliers, including a £12 million redress levy on E.ON in May 2014, and a £1 million redress levy on British Gas in July 2014.\n\nThe Gas and Electricity Markets Authority is governed by the Chairman Martin Cave, executive members as well as non-executive members.\n\nJonathan Brearley was appointed Chief Executive of Ofgem from February 2020.\n\nOfgem is divided into Ofgem (Smarter Grids & Governance, Markets, Sustainable Development and Group Finance Director) and Ofgem E-Serve containing Group Functions: Environmental Programmes, Operations/HR, Information Management and Technology, Finance and Risk Management, and Commercial: Offshore, Legal, Smart Metering Delivery, New Schemes Development.\n\nThe liberalisation and privatisation of the energy markets in the United Kingdom began with the Margaret Thatcher Government in the 1980s (often called the Thatcher-Lawson agenda, due to the key role of Nigel Lawson in the Thatcher government cabinet). Aspects of the Ofgem model have been adopted by EU legislation.\n\nThe privatisation of the gas and electricity supply industries was enacted by Gas Act 1986 and the Electricity Act 1989. Section 1 of the respective Acts created the roles of Director General of Gas Supply and the Office of Gas Supply (Ofgas), and the Director General of Electricity Supply and the Office of Electricity Regulation (OFFER). These were economic regulators independent of government, but accountable to Parliament. This arrangement separated their regulatory decisions from political control and which aimed to provide greater long term regulatory certainty and to encourage market entry and investment. The duties of the regulators were prescribed in Section 4 of Gas Act 1986 and Section 3 of the Electricity Act 1989.\n\nStarting in the 1990s, the supply of electricity and gas to end consumers in the UK has been unbundled from the rest of the industry. At the time of privatisation, British Gas and one regional public electricity supplier (PES) held a monopoly on supplying all domestic gas and electricity consumers respectively in Great Britain. Between 1996 and 1999, domestic energy consumers were gradually able to choose their supplier, and finally in May 1998, the domestic gas market was fully opened to competition, closely followed by the domestic electricity market in May 1999.\n\nBefore there was competition on domestic markets, the regulators set price controls fixing maximum price that the monopoly suppliers could charge domestic customers. These price controls remained in place when markets started to get liberalised, and were then gradually removed between 2000 and 2002. Ofgem’s decision to remove price controls was based on the assessment that competition was developing well at that time and that the Competition Act 1998, being effective since March 2000, would deter companies from the abuse of market power, and provide Ofgem with sufficient power to tackle any abuse. Moreover, consumer surveys showed good awareness of the ability to switch, high and rising switching rates away from the former monopoly supplies, and substantial and continuing falls in their market shares.\n\nIn 2000, the Social Action Strategy review group was established and the Competition Act came into force. In 2003 the Wholesale Gas Probe was published. Two years after the removal of the last price controls, in April 2004, Ofgem published a major review of the state of competition in the domestic energy supply markets, concluding that supply competition had delivered substantial benefits for all consumers and that the markets were competitive, though not yet mature. In 2005 there was the EU Energy Sector Enquiry, as well as the Supply Licence Review. The Energy Supply Ombudsman was then established in 2006 and in 2008 the Energy Supply Probe was published.\n\nAgainst the background of unprecedented increases in world fuel prices leading to record increases in wholesale and retail gas and electricity prices so that a typical household's energy bills more than doubled since early 2004 Ofgem undertook the Energy Supply Probe. The numbers of consumers in debt to their energy suppliers, average debt levels and disconnection rates were all rising. These energy price rises came at a time when household budgets were under pressure from the rising cost of food, petrol, mortgages and other essentials. Vulnerable consumers and those in fuel poverty were particularly affected. The Energy Supply Probe published the findings on the operation of the UK retail energy markets and set out a package of measures to tackle the issues raised.\n\nIn June 2014 Ofgem announced a Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) investigation into the trading practices and competitiveness of the country's major energy companies: Centrica, SSE plc, RWE npower, E.ON, Scottish Power and EDF Energy. The investigation, which took two years, followed a referral by Ofgem to the competition regulator. \"There is near-unanimous support for a referral and the CMA investigation offers an important opportunity to clear the air. This will help rebuild consumer trust and confidence in the energy market as well as provide the certainty investors have called for,\" Ofgem CEO Dermot Nolan in announcing the investigation. In August 2016 Ofgem said that it would implement the CMA's recommendation that suppliers should be required to provide the details of customers who have been on expensive tariffs for three years or more to rival suppliers. Ofgem also said that it would impose an interim price cap on customers using pre-payment meters.\n\nIn September 2018, the Guardian published a report claiming that two Ofgem experts had been independently threatened with criminal sanctions if they publicly revealed information. Ofgem allegedly invoked section 105 of the Utilities Act 2000, designed to protect national security, relating to concerns about energy meters and renewable heat incentive projects.\n\nUnder the Alternative Dispute Resolution for Consumer Disputes Regulations 2015, if an energy company fails to resolve a complaint through their own customer service efforts they will be required to advise the consumer of an approved ADR body.\n\nOfgem is the Competent Authority responsible for approving ADR entities in the energy sector.  Ofgem has only ever approved one ADR entity; Ombudsman Services.\n\nDirectors General of Ofgas\n\n\nDirector General of OFFER\n\n\nChair and Chief Executive of Ofgem\n\n\nChair of Ofgem\n\n\nChief Executive Officer of Ofgem\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014325", "title": "Pauline Boty", "text": "Pauline Boty\n\nPauline Boty (6 March 1938 – 1 July 1966) was a founder of the British Pop art movement and the only female painter in the British wing of the movement. Boty's paintings and collages often demonstrated a joy in self-assured femininity and female sexuality, and expressed overt or implicit criticism of the \"man's world\" in which she lived. Her rebellious art, combined with her free-spirited lifestyle, has made Boty a herald of 1970s feminism.\n\nPauline Veronica Boty was born in suburban south London in 1938 into a middle-class, Catholic family. The youngest of four children, she had three older brothers and a stern father who made her keenly aware of her position as a girl. In 1954 she won a scholarship to the Wimbledon School of Art, which she attended despite her father's disapproval. Boty's mother, on the other hand, was supportive, having herself been a frustrated artist and denied parental permission to attend the Slade School of Fine Art. Boty earned an Intermediate diploma in lithography (1956) and a National Diploma in Design in stained glass (1958). Her schoolmates called her \"The Wimbledon Bardot\" on account of her resemblance to the French film star Brigitte Bardot. Encouraged by her tutor Charles Carey to explore collage techniques, Boty's painting became more experimental. Her work showed an interest in popular culture early on. In 1957 one of her pieces was shown at the \"Young Contemporaries\" exhibition alongside work by Robyn Denny, Richard Smith and Bridget Riley.\n\nShe studied at the School of Stained Glass at the Royal College of Art (1958–61). She had wanted to attend the School of Painting, but was dissuaded from applying as admission rates for women were much lower in that department. Despite the institutionalised sexism at her college, Boty was one of the stronger students in her class, and in 1960 one of her stained glass works was included in the travelling exhibition \"Modern Stained Glass\" organised by the Arts Council. Boty continued to paint on her own in her student flat in west London and in 1959 she had three more works selected for the Young Contemporaries exhibition. During this time she also became friends with other emerging Pop artists, such as David Hockney, Derek Boshier, Peter Phillips and Peter Blake.\n\nWhile at the Royal College of Art, Boty engaged in a number of extracurricular activities. She sang, danced, and acted in risqué college reviews, published her poetry in an alternative student magazine, and was a knowledgeable presence at the film society where she developed her interest especially in European new wave cinema. She was also an active participant in Anti-Ugly Action, a group of RCA students involved in the stained glass, and later architecture, courses who protested against new British architecture that they considered offensive and of poor quality.\n\nBoty was at her most productive two years after graduating from college . She developed a signature Pop style and iconography. Her first group show, \"Blake, Boty, Porter, Reeve\" was held in November 1961 at A.I.A. gallery in London and was hailed as one of the first British Pop art shows. She exhibited twenty collages, including \"Is it a bird, is it a plane?\" and \"a rose is a rose is a rose\", which demonstrated her interest in drawing from both high and low popular culture sources in her art (the first title references the Superman comic, the second quotes the American expatriate poet Gertrude Stein).\n\nThe following spring Boty, Peter Blake, Derek Boshier and Peter Phillips were featured in Ken Russell's BBC Monitor documentary film \"Pop Goes the Easel\", which was aired on 22 March 1962. Although the documentary placed Boty at the centre of the nascent British Pop art movement, unlike her male peers she did not get an opportunity to speak directly and intelligently about her work during the film.\n\nBoty's appearance in \"Pop Goes the Easel\" marked the beginning of her brief acting career. She landed roles in an \"Armchair Theatre\" play for ITV (\"North City Traffic Straight Ahead\", 1962) and an episode of the BBC series \"Maigret\" (\"Peter the Lett\", 1963). She also appeared on stage in Frank Hilton's comedy \"Day of the Prince\" at the Royal Court, and in Riccardo Aragno's (from the novel by Anthony Powell) \"Afternoon Men\" at the New Arts Theatre. (Boty, a regular on the club scene in London, was also a dancer on \"Ready Steady Go!\"). Although acting was lucrative, it was a distraction from painting, which remained her main priority. Yet the men in her life encouraged her to pursue acting, as it was a more conventional career choice for women in the early 1960s. The popular press picked up on her glamorous actress persona, often undermining her legitimacy as an artist by referring to her physical appearance. \"Scene\" ran a front-page article in November 1962 that included the following remarks: \"Actresses often have tiny brains. Painters often have large beards. Imagine a brainy actress who is also a painter and also a blonde, and you have PAULINE BOTY.\"\n\nHer unique position as Britain's only female Pop artist gave Boty the chance to redress sexism in her life as well as her art. Her early paintings were sensual and erotic, celebrating female sexuality from a woman's point of view. Her canvases were set against vivid, colourful backgrounds and often included close-ups of red flowers, presumably symbolic of the female sex. She painted her male idols—Elvis, French actor Jean-Paul Belmondo, British writer Derek Marlowe—as sex symbols, just as she did actresses Monica Vitti and Marilyn Monroe. Like Andy Warhol, she recycled publicity and press photographs of celebrities in her art. Her 1963 portrait of her friend Celia Birtwell, \"Celia and Her Heroes\", shows the textile designer surrounded by a Peter Blake painting, a David Hockney portrait and an image of Elvis Presley. She exhibited in several more group shows before staging her first solo exhibition at Grabowski Gallery in the autumn of 1963. The show was a critical success. Boty continued to take on additional acting jobs. She was a presenter on the radio programme \"Public Ear\" in 1963–64, and in the following year she was typecast yet again in the role of 'the seductive Maria' in a BBC serial.\n\nIn June 1963 she married the literary agent Clive Goodwin (1932–1978) after a ten-day romance. Her marriage disappointed others such as Peter Blake and her married lover, the television director Philip Saville, whom she had met towards the end of her student days and had worked for. (Their affair is said to have obtained the material for a screenplay by Frederic Raphael; the movie \"Darling\".) (1966). Boty and Goodwin's Cromwell Road flat became a central hang-out for many artists, musicians, and writers, including Bob Dylan (whom Boty brought to England), David Hockney, Peter Blake, Michael White, Kenneth Tynan, Troy Kennedy Martin, John McGrath, Dennis Potter and Roger McGough. Goodwin, to be later a member of the founding editorial team of radical journal \"Black Dwarf\", is said to have encouraged Boty to include political content in her paintings.\n\nHer paintings did become more overtly critical over time. \"Countdown to Violence\" depicts a number of harrowing current events, including the Birmingham riot of 1963, the Assassination of John F. Kennedy and the Vietnam War. \"Cuba Si\" (1963) references the Cuban revolution. The collage painting \"It's a Man's World I\" (1964) juxtaposes images of patriarchal icons The Beatles, Albert Einstein, Lenin, Muhammad Ali, Marcel Proust and other men. In \"It's a Man's World II\" (1965–66) she redisplayed female nudes from fine art and soft-core pornographic sources to signify newly liberated \"female eroticism\". Her last known painting, \"BUM\", was commissioned by Kenneth Tynan for \"Oh, Calcutta!\" and was completed in 1966.\n\nIn June 1965 Boty became pregnant. During a prenatal exam, a tumour was discovered and she was diagnosed with cancer (malignant Thymoma). She refused to have an abortion and also refused to receive chemotherapy treatment that might have harmed the foetus. Instead she smoked marijuana to ease the pain of her terminal condition. She continued to entertain her friends and even sketched The Rolling Stones during her illness. Her daughter, Katy (later Boty) Goodwin, was born on 12 February 1966. Pauline Boty died at the Royal Marsden Hospital on 1 July that year. She was 28 years old. Her daughter, Boty Goodwin, died of an overdose on 12 November 1995 aged 29.\n\nAfter her death Pauline Boty's paintings were stored away in a barn on her brother's farm and she was largely forgotten for nearly 30 years. Her work was rediscovered in the 1990s, renewing interest in her contribution to Pop art, and gaining her inclusion in several group exhibitions and a major solo retrospective. The current location of several of her most sought after paintings is unknown.\n\nIn December 2013, Adrian Hamilton wrote in \"The Independent on Sunday\", \"Ignored for decades after her death – it was nearly 30 years before her first picture was shown – a proper retrospective has had to wait until this year with a show which originated in Wolverhampton and has now opened in the Pallant Gallery in Chichester. Looking at her pictures today, it is simply incredible that it has taken so long. [...] It's not a big exhibition. Given the paucity of her surviving work it could not be otherwise. But it is one which leaves you eager for more, more of the pictures she did paint and the ones she didn't live long enough for.\"\n\nBoty's life and work also form a major theme in Ali Smith's 2016 novel, \"Autumn\".\n\nIn November 2019, the New York Times featured Boty in their Overlooked (obituary feature), Pauline Boty, Rebellious Pop Artist.\n\nA major retrospective exhibition of her work opened at Wolverhampton Art Gallery on 1 June 2013, and subsequently toured to Pallant House Gallery in Chichester, West Sussex from 30 November 2013 – 9 February 2014.\n\nFilm\n\nTV\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014332", "title": "UKM-2000", "text": "UKM-2000\n\nThe Zakłady Mechaniczne \"Tarnów\" UKM-2000 is a 7.62×51mm NATO general-purpose machine gun designed in Tarnów, Poland.\n\nOn March 12, 1999 Poland joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO). A problem arose with modifying the weapons of the Polish Army to use the standard NATO ammunition. A decision was made to develop a new general-purpose machine gun. The construction was based on the design of the successful PKM machine gun that was previously produced under licence in Poland.\n\nTo use the common NATO ammunition, the feeding method of the machine gun had to be fundamentally modified. The metallic disintegrating link specifically designed for ammunition belt-fed firearms and rimless 7.62×51mm NATO rounds used by NATO is a push-through design. The UKM machine gun extracts 7.62×51mm NATO rounds from open-M13 links by pushing them forward out of the link directly into the chamber for firing.\nThe non-disintegrating closed-link metallic belt type used in the PKM machine gun is a pull-out design, which extracts the rimmed 7.62×54mmR rounds by pulling them rearward out of the link. In the second stage the rimmed rounds are pushed forward into the chamber for firing. The 7.62×54mmR machine gun feed pawl mechanism is radically different than that of 7.62×51mm NATO chambered machine guns based on the MG 42 machine gun feeding method, using a small, simple pivoting arm pushed out to the right side by the bolt carrier, rather than a much larger (and therefore much heavier) articulated feed cam, lever, and pawl assembly.\n\nThe UKM-2000 (\"Uniwersalny Karabin Maszynowy\", \"Universal Machinegun\") is a primary general-purpose machine gun (GPMG) on most vehicles used by Polish Forces in Afghanistan (Cougar H, MaxxPro Dash, M-ATV, Humvee) and is a coaxial machine gun in KTO Rosomak and Polish-modernized BRDM-2.\n\nThere is a proposal of modernization of the Polish UKM-2000 GPMG fed by 7.62×51mm NATO to the new UKM-2013 standard. The upgraded GPMG will be equipped with a new folding and telescopic buttstock with a cheekpiece and additional grip/pod, the integrated Picatinny rail with iron sight and 3-rail forehand attached to the gas tube, new grip, new cocking handle new safety switch selector, a new 440-mm barrel (as an option) plus some additional internal changes. The Polish Army is interested in this machine gun fed from the 100-round soft ammo bag instead of a steel box. Because of external similarity to the Russian PKM GPMG chambered to the 7.62×54mmR some elements like a buttstock, a grip or a forehand with rails will able to be used with the Kalashnikov design.\n\n\nThe L in a coaxial version denotes the ammunition is fed from the left instead of from the right.\n\nThere is also a company in the United States that builds semiautomatic UKM rifles for civilian use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014338", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Oxfordshire", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Oxfordshire\n\nThe county of Oxfordshire\nis divided into 6 Parliamentary constituencies\n— 1 Borough constituency\nand 5 County constituencies.\n\nAt the Fifth Review the Boundary Commission for England retained Oxfordshire's 6 constituencies, with minor changes to realign constituency boundaries with the boundaries of current local government wards, and to reduce the electoral disparity between constituencies, including the transfer of Oxford city centre from Oxford West and Abingdon to Oxford East. These changes were implemented at the 2010 United Kingdom general election.\nThe Boundary Commission for England submitted their final proposals in respect of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies (the 2018 review) in September 2018. Although the proposals were immediately laid before Parliament they were not brought forward by the Government for approval. Accordingly, they did not come into effect for the 2019 election which took place on 12 December 2019, and which was contested using the constituency boundaries in place since 2010.\n\nUnder the terms of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011, the Sixth Review was based on reducing the total number of MPs from 650 to 600 and a strict electoral parity requirement that the electorate of all constituencies should be within a range of 5% either side of the electoral quota.\n\nOn 24 March 2020, the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office, Chloe Smith, issued a written statement to Parliament setting out the Government's thinking with regard to parliamentary boundaries. They propose to bring forward primary legislation to remove the statutory obligation to implement the 2018 Boundary Review recommendations, as well as set the framework for future boundary reviews in time for the next review which is due to begin in early 2021 and report no later than October 2023. It is proposed that the number of constituencies now remains at the current level of 650, rather than being reduced to 600, while retaining the requirement that the electorate should be no more than +/- 5% from the electoral quota.\n\n\"Primary data source:\" House of Commons research briefing - General election results from 1918 to 2019\n\nThe number of votes cast for each political party who fielded candidates in constituencies comprising Oxforshire in the 2019 general election were as follows:\n\n1983 & 1987 - SDP-Liberal Alliance\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Included in Other\n\n1983 & 1987 - SDP-Liberal Alliance\n\nA cell marked → (with a different colour background to the preceding cell) indicates that the previous MP continued to sit under a new party name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014339", "title": "Glutaric acid", "text": "Glutaric acid\n\nGlutaric acid is the organic compound with the formula CH(COOH) . Although the related \"linear\" dicarboxylic acids adipic and succinic acids are water-soluble only to a few percent at room temperature, the water-solubility of glutaric acid is over 50% (w/w).\n\nGlutaric acid is naturally produced in the body during the metabolism of some amino acids, including lysine and tryptophan. Defects in this metabolic pathway can lead to a disorder called glutaric aciduria, where toxic byproducts build up and can cause severe encephalopathy.\n\nGlutaric acid can be prepared by the ring-opening of butyrolactone with potassium cyanide to give the mixed potassium carboxylate-nitrile that is hydrolyzed to the diacid. Alternatively hydrolysis, followed by oxidation of dihydropyran gives glutaric acid. It can also be prepared from reacting 1,3-dibromopropane with sodium or potassium cyanide to obtain the dinitrile, followed by hydrolysis.\n\n\nGlutaric acid may cause irritation to the skin and eyes. Acute hazards include the fact that this compound may be harmful by ingestion, inhalation or skin absorption.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014343", "title": "History Lessens", "text": "History Lessens\n\nHistory Lessens is the second compilation album by British folk metal band Skyclad. Its full title is \"History Lessens – An Introduction to the Artist\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2014346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014346", "title": "Go Plastic", "text": "Go Plastic\n\nGo Plastic is the fifth studio album by British electronic musician Squarepusher, released on Warp in 2001. It peaked at number 100 on the UK Albums Chart.\n\nUnlike many of his earlier albums such as \"Hard Normal Daddy\" and \"Music Is Rotted One Note\", which often prominently featured live instrumentation (particularly drums and bass guitar), the sound palette on \"Go Plastic\" is almost exclusively synthetic, with an emphasis on high-velocity breakbeats subjected to extensive manipulation and granular effects. In a contemporaneous interview, Squarepusher claimed to be \"fed up\" with real instruments, wanting everything \"brutal and digital.\"\n\nDespite this, Squarepusher claims that the album was not produced using a computer, but rather by utilizing a range of hardware including the Eventide DSP4000 and Orville digital effects processors, BOSS DR-660 and Yamaha QY700 sequencers, Yamaha TX81Z and FS1R synthesizers, and an Akai S6000 sampler.\n\nAt Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, \"Go Plastic\" received an average score of 70% based on 17 reviews, indicating generally favorable reviews.\n\nIn 2015, \"Exclaim\" placed it at number 2 on its list of \"an essential guide to Squarepusher\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2014348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014348", "title": "Gareth Batty", "text": "Gareth Batty\n\nGareth Jon Batty (born 13 October 1977) is an English cricketer who is best known as a spin-bowler. He has represented England in all formats and was the captain of Surrey County Cricket Club between 2015 and 2017. He is the younger brother of former Yorkshire and Somerset off-spinner Jeremy Batty.\n\nBatty was educated at Bingley Grammar School, a Voluntary Aided state school in Bingley, West Yorkshire.\n\nBatty began his county career with his native Yorkshire, after playing for England Under 19's, making his County Championship debut in 1997. Due to lack of opportunities he transferred to Surrey in 1998 where he played mainly one-day games. He joined Worcestershire in 2002 where he became the main spinner and came to prominence with the national team.\nBatty was involved in an unsavoury incident while deputising as captain for Surrey in a Championship match against Somerset at Taunton in 2012. Murali Kartik, a spinner who had previously played for Somerset, ran out Somerset batsman Alex Barrow who was backing-up at the non-striker's end. Batty declined several invitations by the umpires to withdraw the appeal leading to bad feeling between the teams and around the ground. In August 2013, he was suspended from the T20 finals day after a clash with Somerset batsman Peter Trego. The ECB banned him for two games after he apparently physically confronted Trego and hurled foul language after dismissing him in a quarter-final match.\n\nBatty was made permanent captain of Surrey in 2015 and later that year took a hat trick to send Surrey back into Division One of the County Championship after two years in Division Two. An even better year with the ball in Division One in 2016, combined with poor form for Moeen Ali, led to calls for his recall to the England test team after its draw against Pakistan. Nonetheless, when Batty was recalled later that year for the tour of Bangladesh, he described his call-up as \"surreal\".\nIn May 2019 aged 41 Batty took another championship hat trick, this time in Division One against Warwickshire at Edgbaston.\n\nBatty made his ODI debut against Australia. He took figures of 0-55 as Australia won by seven wickets. England lost the second match by 89 runs after Australia scored 318. Batty took figures of 1-65.\n\nHe made his Test debut in the first Test against Bangladesh. He took 1-43 in Bangladesh’s first innings before taking 1-65 in their second innings as England won by seven wickets. He played in the third ODI between the two sides, taking figures of 1-35 as England won by seven wickets.\nHe played in the first Test against Sri Lanka, taking 2-98 in their first innings as they posted 331. He took 3-55 in their second innings. He made 26 in England’s second innings to help them hang on for a draw. In the second Test, he did not take a wicket in Sri Lanka’s first innings. He finished with 1-47 in their second innings and then made an unbeaten 25 as the match finished in a draw. In the third Test, he took figures of 0-137 as Sri Lanka posted 628 in their first innings. England lost the match by an innings and 215 runs.\n\nHe was picked for the tour of the West Indies in 2003–04. Batty was the bowler Brian Lara faced when he scored his world record 400th run in the fourth Test Match in Antigua. In the first innings, he finished with figures of 2-175, as the match ended in a high scoring draw. He was picked as second spinner for the South African tour the next season. He played in the sixth ODI between the two sides, taking figures of 2-40 although England lost by four wickets. He kept his place for the final match of the series, finishing with figures of 0-22 as England won by five wickets.\n\nHe went on to play in the fourth match of the ODI series against Zimbabwe, taking figures of 0-36 as England secured a 74 run victory.\n\nThe selectors continued to show faith in him, picking him for the two Tests against Bangladesh in 2005 when Giles suffered a hip injury – in the first Test, he did not bat and did not bowl, as England won by an innings and 261 runs. He took figures of 1-44 in Bangladesh’s second innings in the next Test, as England won by an innings and 27 runs.\n\nBatty was selected in the ODI squad against India, but found his chances limited. He only played in one match, the fourth ODI of the series. Batty made two with the bat as England posted 237, a target which was chased down by India, with Batty taking figures of 0-36. This turned out to Batty’s last England appearance for nearly three years.\n\nBatty was selected for the England Lions squad to tour New Zealand in the winter of 2008, but didn’t return to the England side until the series against the West Indies. He replaced spinning all-rounder Samit Patel, who dropped out due to fitness concerns, and Swann who returned home after the Test series to undergo an operation on his elbow. He made his T20I debut against the West Indies, taking figures of 0-17 as England lost by six wickets. In the first ODI, he took figures of 1-34 as England won by one run on the D/L Method. England lost the second match by 21 runs, with Batty taking figures of 0-38. Batty did not bowl in the third match, although he did make 17 with the bat. England lost the match by eight wickets.\n\nOn 20 October 2016, Batty played in a Test match for England against Bangladesh, thus becoming the player who has missed the largest number of Tests between appearances, 142 games. Batty claimed 4 wickets in the game, finishing with figures of 1-52 in the first innings and 3-65 in the second innings, as England won the game by 22 runs.\n\nBatty played in the third Test against India, and took 0-47 in the first innings as India made 417. He took 0-18 in India’s second innings as England lost the match by eight wickets.\n"}
{"id": "2014358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014358", "title": "Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion", "text": "Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion\n\nThe Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion is a small society of evangelical churches, founded in 1783 by Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon, as a result of the Evangelical Revival. For many years it was strongly associated with the Calvinist Methodist movement of George Whitefield.\n\nThe Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion was founded in 1783 by Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon, as a result of the Evangelical Revival. It seceded from the Church of England, founded its own training establishment – Trevecca College – and built up a network of chapels across England in the late 18th century.\n\nIn 1785 John Marrant (1755–1791), an African American from New York and the South who settled in London after the American Revolutionary War, became ordained as a minister with the Connexion. He was supported in travel to Nova Scotia as a missionary to minister to the Black Loyalists who had been resettled there by the Crown. Many of the members of the congregation which he organized in Birchtown, Nova Scotia later chose to emigrate and resettle in Sierra Leone, the new British colony in West Africa. What was called a Province of Freedom was founded in 1792. Additional Connexion churches were founded in Sierra Leone (see below).\n\nThe Connexion had earlier efforts at congregation building in Canada. In the 1850s, the entrepreneur Thomas Molson built a church for the Connexion group near his brewery in Montreal. It was poorly attended as the city's population was predominately Catholic. The building was adapted for use as a military barracks. \n\nThe Connexion gave strong support to the Calvinistic Methodist movement in Wales in the 18th and early 19th centuries, including the foundation of a theological college at Trefeca in 1760.\n\nToday the Connexion has 22 congregations in England and \"more than 30\" in Sierra Leone. A UK-registered charity provides financial help with ministers' wages and training and for Connexion schools and teaching salaries in the latter country. \n\nOf the UK churches, seven normally have full-time pastors: Eastbourne, Ely, Goring, Rosedale, St. Ives, Turners Hill and Ebley. Total regular attendance at all churches is approximately 1,000 adults and children.\nConnexion churches were formerly active in:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014362", "title": "Phraya Manopakorn Nititada", "text": "Phraya Manopakorn Nititada\n\nPhraya Manopakorn Nititada (; ; born Kon Hutasingha (; ); 15 July 1884 – 1 October 1948) was the first Prime Minister of Siam after the Siamese Revolution of 1932 as he was selected by the leader of the People's Party – the party that instigated the revolution. However, in the following year, Manoparkorn was ousted by a coup in 1933 due to the conflicts between members of People's Party.\n\nKon Hutasingha was born on 15 July 1884 in Bangkok to Huad and Kaew Hutasingha (Thai: นายฮวด กับนางแก้ว หุตะสิงห์), both of whom were of Chinese extraction. He received his primary education at Suankularb Wittayalai School in Bangkok. He pursued his law education at Assumption College and at the Law School of the Ministry of Justice. He then continued his studies abroad; at the Middle Temple, in London, England. After he had finished his education, he began to work for the Ministry of Justice and climbed the traditional career ladder and was eventually granted the title Phraya and received his honorary name: \"Manopakorn Nititada\". In 1918, he gained a seat in the Privy Council of King Vajiravudh (or Rama VI).\n\nFollowing the Revolution of 1932, King Prajadhipok (or Rama VII) consented to a Provisional Constitution on 27 June 1932. The first People's Assembly of Siam, composed entirely of appointed members, met for the first time on 28 June. The revolutionary Khana Ratsadon Party, not wanting to appear as if it had instigated the revolution for self-aggrandizement, chose Phraya Manopakorn as President of the Committee. He was considered a largely neutral and clean figure, but at the same time respected enough to take the position.\n\nAs a result, the Assembly with the advice of Pridi Panomyong, one of the leaders of the Khana Ratsadon offered Manopakorn the post of \"President of the People's Committee\", an early version of the post of Prime Minister.\n\nThe first mission of Phraya Manopakorn's Cabinet was to draft a permanent constitution. King Prajadhipok made an observation that the term \"President of the People's Committee\" sounded like a communist or republican post. After a debate, the office was eventually changed to \"prime minister\". The first constitution of Siam was promulgated under Phraya Manopakorn's watch on 10 December 1932, now celebrated as the Thai Constitution Day.\n\nSoon after, Phraya Manopakorn became the head of the first constitutional government of Siam. The Manopakorn cabinet, or People's Committee, composed of members, half from the People's Party and half from senior civil servants and military officers, was appointed under the guidance of the party. Phraya Manopakorn in essence became the Khana Ratsadon's puppet, and the country a single-party state.\n\nIn 1933, Pridi Panomyong, by then a Minister of State, presented his Draft Economic Plan or Yellow Cover Dossier to King Prajadhipok. The dossier was an economic plan, which advocated socialist solutions to the country's many financial and economic problems. Prajadhipok even branded the dossier \"communist\" and attacked Pridi publicly about it. When Pridi's dossier was rejected, his status fell and caused a major disruption among the members of People's Party and the People's Committee itself.\n\nPhraya Mano rallied those who opposed the socialist plan of Pridi including Phraya Songsuradet and dissolved his own cabinet to oust Pridi, who had great support within the People's Party. To regain some stability and silence domestic critics, Phraya Manopakorn had some articles in the constitution suspended. Manopakorn barred the People's Assembly from any further meetings and the judiciary was shut down. Pridi was forced to flee to France. It was said that Manopakorn \"led the coup with his pen\", this event is known in Thailand as the \"April 1933 Coup\" (or the \"Silent Coup\") (Thai: รัฐประหารในประเทศไทย เมษายน พ.ศ. 2476). Phraya Manopakorn then approved the Anti-Communist Act, which empowered him to arrest those suspected of having communist sentiments: the entire Central Committee of the Communist Party of Siam was arrested and imprisoned.\n\nAfter the Yellow Dossier Incident, the degree of political freedom was greatly reduced by Phraya Manopakorn's policies. He censored many leftist activities including shutting down newspapers and publications. However the People's Party, which gave him the premiership, would eventually be his downfall. On 16 June, Phraya Pahol Polpayuhasena, the country's most powerful military leader and member of the People's Party, together with three other senior officers retired from the People's Committee, for \"health reasons\".\n\nThe 1933 Siamese coup d'état happened on 20 June, led by Phraya Pahol and other military leaders. Phraya Manopakorn was immediately removed as prime minister. Phraya Phahol appointed himself the country's second prime minister and took over the government. King Pradhipok duly accepted his appointment. Manopakorn was then exiled to Penang, British Malaya, and lived there until his death in 1948, aged 64.\n\nPhraya Manopakorn was Siam's first prime minister and the first to be ousted by a coup. He would not be the last civilian prime minister to be ousted by a military coup. His legacy is mixed: on the one hand he took over the reins of government at a difficult time (Wall Street Crash of 1929), but on the other he exceeded his powers and was not able to counter the powers of the Khana Ratsadon which became increasingly dictatorial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014369", "title": "Joseph Kabui", "text": "Joseph Kabui\n\nJoseph Canisius Kabui (1954 – 7 June 2008) was a secessionist leader and the first President of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, off the coast of Papua New Guinea, from 2005 to 2008. He was also the leader of the Bougainville People's Congress.\n\nKabui was a commander in the Bougainville Revolutionary Army during the war in Bougainville in the 1990s. In June 2005, after the island gained autonomy within Papua New Guinea, he was elected as President of Bougainville by a large majority, winning 38,000 out of 69,385 votes.\n\nWhile in office, he granted a Canadian company, Invincible Resources, access rights to 70% of Bougainville's mineral resources, and he was widely criticized for this decision. This was announced in 2008 with no prior discussion in Parliament, and shortly before Kabui's death it was expected that a motion of no-confidence would be presented against him. In an interview shortly before his death, he said that his dream was \"to see Bougainville [become] a Kuwait of the Pacific\".\n\nKabui went to Brisbane for medical treatment prior to his sudden death on 7 June 2008 at a hospital in Buka. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called Kabui a \"skilled mediator and peacemaker who had a genuine interest in the future of his people\", and according to Australian Foreign Minister Stephen Smith, Kabui played a \"key role in restoring Bougainville to peace following the bitter conflict on the island\". A state funeral was held for Kabui at the St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church, Boroko in Port Moresby on 10 June. His body was returned to Buka on 11 June, and a funeral mass was held for him in Buka on 12 June. His body was planned to be taken to Arawa, Panguna, and finally the village of Padorima in Central Bougainville. The Bougainville government declared a public holiday to mourn Kabui.\n\nKabui was believed to have died of a heart attack. In an interview with the \"Port-Courier\", a newspaper in Papua New Guinea, that he gave 12 hours before his death, Kabui said that he had stopped taking his heart medicine four months beforehand and was taking a water tonic instead because the medicine was too expensive. He dismissed suggestions of seeking help, saying that \"I am not a man that would ask for things that concern me\", and he also said that he had missed a medical check-up because he was too busy with work. His next check-up was scheduled for later in June, but he noted that the necessary trip to Australia was expensive as well.\n\nVice-President John Tabinaman became Acting President following Kabui's death. The existing method for filling a vacancy in the presidency is to hold a new popular election, and Tabinaman described this as likely, while also noting the possibility of a constitutional amendment that would instead allow Parliament to elect one of its members as President. Planning for a new popular election subsequently began.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014374", "title": "Vibe Australia", "text": "Vibe Australia\n\nVibe Australia is an Aboriginal media, communications and events management agency founded by Gavin Jones in 1993. Located in Darlinghurst, Sydney, New South Wales, they work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people throughout Australia.\n\nVibe Australia was founded in 1993 by Gavin Jones.\n\nIn June 2014, Vibe Australia funding was cut under coalition budget measures designed to reallocate funding to indigenous education programs including Deadly Awards funding phased back to $1 million and no funding provided for future years. On 12 July 2014, Gavin Jones died at age 47, however it was not clear whether his death could be attributed in any way to the budget cuts.\n\nOn 14 July 2014, Vibe Australia announced that all Vibe projects including the Deadly Awards concluded on 30 June 2014.\n\nA weekly radio program syndicated to over 250 Aboriginal community stations.\n\nA national magazine focusing on health, sport, music and lifestyle.\n\nA magazine for Indigenous people in secure rehabilitation care and at risk. Hosted by Indigenous broadcaster, artistic director and author, Rhoda Roberts.\n\nA children's television show focusing on health, dance and lifestyle. Broadcast by NITV.\n\nThe show was filmed in Brisbane with hosts Naomi Wenitong and Shannon Williams.\n\nWith the studios in Brisbane getting ready to shut down, Series 4 is now filmed in Sydney with new hosts Ghenoa Gela and Wakara Gondarra replacing Naomi Wenitong and Shannon Williams. With the move from Brisbane also comes a move from Post Op as the broadcast provider. Series 4 premiered on March 2014.\n\nSince 1995, the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Music, Sport, Entertainment and Community awards held at the Sydney Opera House and broadcast by SBS.\n\nA national music and sporting event to promote health, well being, identity and sportsmanship. Hosted by former Harlem Globetrotter 'Smiling' Dwayne Cross and former Sydney Kings coach Claude 'Starsky' Williams.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014377", "title": "Aarhus Municipality", "text": "Aarhus Municipality\n\nAarhus Municipality (), previously known as Århus Municipality () until 2011, is a municipality in Central Denmark Region, on the east coast of the Jutland peninsula in central Denmark.\n\nThe municipality covers an area of , and has a population of 349,983 as of 2020. The main town and the site of its municipal council is the city of Aarhus. Neighbouring municipalities are Syddjurs to the north, Favrskov to the northwest, Skanderborg to the southwest, and Odder to the south.\n\nAarhus Municipality was not merged with other municipalities in the nationwide \"Kommunalreformen\" (\"The Municipal Reform\" of 2007) due to its already relatively large size and population.\n\nThe municipality is part of Business Region Aarhus and of the East Jutland metropolitan area, which had a total population of 1.378 million in 2016.\n\nAarhus City Council (\"Aarhus Byråd\") is also the municipal government. The city council consists of 31 members elected for four-year terms. Administratively the municipality is divided into six minor agencies which together constitute the magistrate led by a mayor and five aldermen as administrative directors. It is the only Danish city with a magistrate structure. The six departments of the city are the \"Mayor's Department\", \"Social Affairs and Employment\", \"Technical Services and Environment\", \"Health and Care\", \"Culture and Citizens Services\" and \"Children and Young People\" which handle all the day-to-day operations of the city.\n\nThe current Mayor of Aarhus municipality is Jacob Bundsgaard of the Social Democrats, who took over after Nicolai Wammen in August 2011. Wammen wanted to focus on the upcoming election for Parliament.\n\nPolitically Aarhus leans left and the largest political party has historically been the Social Democratic Party which has also held the mayor's office for all terms with the notable exception of the 2001–2005 term when Louise Gade of Venstre became both the first female and non-Social Democratic mayor. The gender composition of the city council has risen steadily in favour of women through the 20th century and currently 9 of 31 members are women.\n\nThe first publicly elected mayor of Aarhus was appointed in 1919. In the 1970 Danish Municipal Reform the current Aarhus municipality was created by merging 20 municipalities. Aarhus (from 1948 to 2011 spelled Århus) was the seat of Århus County (spelled Århus all the years it existed) until the 2007 Danish municipal reform, which substituted the Danish counties with five regions and made the former Århus County a part of Central Denmark Region (\"Region Midtjylland\"), seated in Viborg.\n\nAarhus Municipality has 45 electoral wards and polling stations in four electoral districts for the folketing. The diocese of Aarhus has four deaneries composed of 60 parishes within Aarhus municipality. Aarhus municipality contains 21 postal districts and some parts of another 9. The urban area of Aarhus and the immediate suburbs are divided into the districts Aarhus C, Aarhus N, Aarhus V, Viby J, Højbjerg and Brabrand.\n\nAarhus is segmented into districts on different levels often containing several distinct neighbourhoods within them. The historical centre, known as \"Indre By\" (lit. English, \"Inner City\"), includes the neighbourhoods \"Centralværkstedet\", the Latin Quarter and the areas around the Central Station and Aarhus Concert Hall. The inner city beltway Ring 1 contains the larger district Midtbyen (lit. Town Centre), roughly equivalent to postal district Aarhus C, and is composed of the neighbourhoods Indre By, Vesterbro, Frederiksbjerg, Aarhus Ø, Marselisborg and Nørre Stenbro.\n\nNorth of the inner beltway lies the district Aarhus N, containing the neighbourhoods Trøjborg, Risskov, Vejlby, Skejby, Christiansbjerg and Vorrevangen and to the west lies Langenæs, Åbyhøj and Aarhus V, comprising the neighbourhoods Hasle, Frydenlund, Herredsvang and Møllevangen, while the district of Højbjerg lies to the south. Districts and suburbs further out are Brabrand, Egå, Gellerup, Hasselager, Holme, Kolt, Rosenhøj, Skødstrup, Skæring, Skåde, Slet, Stavtrup, Tilst and Tranbjerg.\n\nStatistics Denmark defines towns or cities as areas with more than 200 residents in a continuous settlement with no more than 200 meters between residential structures. 1 January 2019 there were 19 such areas in Aarhus Municipality, the largest being the city of Aarhus with a population of 277,086, while some 50,000 people lived in urban areas elsewhere in the municipality. The city of Aarhus is the second largest urban area in Denmark, the principal port on the east coast of Jutland, and the seat of Denmark's second-largest bishopric. In 2013 Beder and Malling was officially counted as a single urban area for the first time. Towns in the municipality are generally considered satellites of Aarhus.\n\n\n\n\n\"Population figures from Statistics Denmark, 1. January, 2019.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014381", "title": "Epsilon Scorpii", "text": "Epsilon Scorpii\n\nEpsilon Scorpii (ε Scorpii, abbreviated Eps Sco, ε Sco), formally named Larawag , is a star in the southern zodiac constellation of Scorpius. It has an apparent visual magnitude of +2.3, making it the fifth-brightest member of the constellation. Parallax measurements made during the Hipparcos mission provide an estimated distance to this star of around from the Sun.\n\nEpsilon Scorpii has a stellar classification of K1 III, which indicates it has exhausted the supply of hydrogen at its core and evolved into a giant star. The interferometry-measured angular diameter of this star, after correcting for limb darkening, is , which, at its estimated distance, equates to a physical radius of nearly 13 times the radius of the Sun. Presently it is generating energy through the nuclear fusion of helium at its core, which, considering the star's composition, places it along an evolutionary branch termed the red clump. The star's outer atmosphere has an effective temperature of 4,560 K, giving it the orange hue of a cool K-type star.\n\nε Scorpii is classified as a suspected variable star, although a study of Hipparcos photometry showed a variation of no more than 0.01–0.02 magnitudes. It is an X-ray source with a luminosity of .\n\n\"ε Scorpii\" (Latinised to \"Epsilon Scorpii\") is the star's Bayer designation.\n\nThe star bore the traditional name \"Larawag\" in the culture of the Wardaman people of the Northern territory of Australia, meaning \"clear sighting\". In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Larawag\" for Epsilon Scorpii on 19 November 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.\n\nPatrick Moore introduced the name \"Wei\" as Chinese name for this star. However, this seems to be a misreading, as Chinese (, English \"Tail\") refers to an asterism (i.e. Chinese constellation) consisting of Epsilon Scorpii, Mu¹ Scorpii, Zeta¹ Scorpii and Zeta² Scorpii, Eta Scorpii, Theta Scorpii, Iota² Scorpii and Iota¹ Scorpii, Kappa Scorpii, Lambda Scorpii and Upsilon Scorpii. Consequently, the name for Epsilon Scorpii itself is (), which means \"the Second Star of Tail\".\n\nEpsilon Scorpii appears on the flag of Brazil, symbolising the state of Ceará.\n\n\\end{align}</math></ref>\n"}
{"id": "2014386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014386", "title": "I Would Die 4 U", "text": "I Would Die 4 U\n\n\"I Would Die 4 U\" is a song by Prince and The Revolution, and the fourth single in the US from their 1984 album, \"Purple Rain\". The up-tempo dance song was a top 10 hit — the final one from the album — in the US, reaching number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100.\n\nThe song's lyrics evoke Jesus Christ's message to his followers: \"U — I would die 4 U, darling if U want me 2;\" as well as, \"if you're evil I'll forgive you\", \"all I really need to know is that U believe,\" and, \"I'm your messiah and you're the reason why.\"\n\n\"I Would Die 4 U\" is often played in sequence with \"Baby I'm a Star\", the track following it, on \"Purple Rain\". As of April 30, 2016, it has sold 561,772 copies in the United States.\n\nFollowing Prince's death, the song re-charted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at number 39 on the chart dated the week of May 14, 2016.\n\nThe B-side, \"Another Lonely Christmas\", is a melancholy account of a man mourning his lover, who had died from pneumonia on a previous Christmas Day. Prince recorded \"Another Lonely Christmas\" in February 1984. Although during that period of his life Prince was socially very solitary, he insisted that \"Another Lonely Christmas\" was a fictional story. The song has been compared to the song \"Sometimes It Snows in April,\" from the 1986 album \"Parade\". He only performed \"Another Lonely Christmas\" live one time, ironically on Boxing Day, December 26, 1984, at the St. Paul Civic Center in Minnesota.\n\nThe extended version of \"I Would Die 4 U\" is actually a rehearsal jam on the song with The Revolution and musicians from Sheila E.'s band, Eddie M (on sax) and Miko Weaver (guitar), along with Sheila E. herself recorded some time before the Purple Rain Tour. The jam features some overdubbing and fades at the end; a longer version, nearly 31 minutes long, was never released officially, but has been bootlegged. The extended mix was also used as the B-side of the 1989 \"Erotic City\" single (the artwork of which features the same image of Prince that was used for this single's cover).\n\nThe B-side of the UK 12\" single release includes \"Another Lonely Christmas\" as well as the \"1999\" track \"Free\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014389", "title": "Gjern", "text": "Gjern\n\nGjern is a town in central Denmark with a population of 1,473 (1 January 2019), located in Silkeborg municipality in Region Midtjylland in Jutland in Denmark.\n\nThe town is the site of \"Jysk Automobilmuseum\", a large museum of automobiles. Gjern has also a ski resort called \"Dayz Søhøjlandet Alpint Skicenter\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2014393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014393", "title": "James Glynn", "text": "James Glynn\n\nJames Glynn (1800–1871) was a U.S. Navy officer who in 1848 distinguished himself by being the first American to negotiate successfully with the Japanese during the \"Closed Country\" period.\n\nJames Glynn entered the United States Navy on March 4, 1815. He became a lieutenant in 1825, a commander in 1841, and served on the California coast during the Mexican–American War. He was put in command of the sloop-of-war USS \"Preble\" (16 guns) and sent to China.\nIn Canton, he learned from the Dutch consul about the imprisonment at Nagasaki of 15 American sailors from the whaleship Lagoda, who had been shipwrecked on the northern Japanese island of Yeso on June 7, 1848. Although the coast of Japan was poorly known, and the American Commander James Biddle, with the ships USS \"Columbus\" and USS \"Vincennes\" had been recently repelled by the Japanese in the bay of Edo (Tokyo), Glynn was ordered by David Geisinger to leave for Nagasaki, where he arrived on April 17, 1849.\n\nThe sailing orders to Captain Glynn recommended both caution and firmness in his enterprise:\n\nThe Japanese tried to block the entrance to Glynn's ship, but he forced his way through a row of boats and anchored in the middle of the bay of Nagasaki. Despite Japanese menaces, he insistently demanded the release of the prisoners, and threatened an intervention of the United States. With some help from the Dutch in the negotiations, the prisoners were finally delivered to him on April 26.\n\nThe sailors had suffered throughout their internment, and after several attempts to escape were put in cages where several died of exposure. Another had hanged himself, and was left hanging in his cage for two days. Ranald MacDonald was also among the party of the rescued, although he had traveled to Japan of his own will and taught English to several Japanese during his internment in Nagasaki, becoming the first American to teach English in Japan.\n\nThe \"Preble\" returned to Hong Kong and the prisoners finally returned to the United States on December 31, 1849, where the story of their harsh internment made a sensation.\n\nFollowing his voyage, Glynn made a proposition to the United States government to open relations with Japan through diplomacy, and, if necessary, by a show of strength. His recommendation paved the way for the expedition of Commodore Matthew Perry in 1853 and 1854.\n\nGlynn was made a captain in 1855.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014394", "title": "Colombo Stock Exchange", "text": "Colombo Stock Exchange\n\nThe Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) (; ) is the main stock exchange in Sri Lanka. It is one of the exchanges in South Asia, providing an electronic trading platform.\nThe headquarters of the CSE have been located at the World Trade Center (Colombo) Towers in Colombo since 1995 and it also has branches across the country in Kandy, Jaffna, Negombo, Matara, Kurunegala, Anuradhapura and Ratnapura . The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) has 296 companies representing 20 business sectors as at 3 August 2015, with a Market Capitalization of Rs. 3115.52 Bn.\n\nShare trading in Sri Lanka was initiated in 1896 under \"Share Brokers Association (SBA).\" In 1904 SBA was renamed as \"Colombo Brokers' Association\". They started auctioning shares in an open land. Later a competitor evolved, Stock Brokers Association and in 1985 Colombo Brockers & Stock Brokers merged and formed Colombo Securities Exchange.\n\nThe establishment of a formal stock exchange took place in 1985 with the incorporation of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), which took over the Stock Market from the Colombo Share Brokers Association. It currently has a membership of 15 institutions, all of which are licensed to operate as stockbrokers.\n\nIn 1990, the business was renamed as Colombo Stock Exchange. CSE introduced Central Depository System and clearing was automated by that. In 1995 CSE headquarters was opened at WTC, Colombo.\n\nMilanka Price Index was introduce in 1999 and several branches were opened within the country. The regional branches include Kandy, Jaffna, Anuradhapura, Kurunegala, Matara, Ratnapura and Ambalantota. https://www.cse.lk/corporate\n\nThe Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) has 291 companies representing 20 business sectors as at 30 June 2019, with a Market Capitalization of Rs. 2,523.38 Bn.\n\nThere are currently two indices in the Colombo Stock Exchange;\n(Milanka Price Index - MPI was abolished after 30/12/2012)\n\nOn 24 September 2015, Colombo Stock Exchange declared its entry in to the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative and its intentions to promote corporate, Social and Governance (ESG) issues, with the support of the local network of the United Nations Global Compact.\n\nThe exchange works only in weekdays except national holidays in sri lanka. The market trading starts at 9.30am and ends in 2.30pm.\n\nThe CSE operates 2 main systems:\n(After implementing ATS version-7, The Debt Securities Trading System (DEX) was abolished since ATS-7 provides a platform for both Debt & Equity)\n\nThe automation of the Exchange commenced in 1991 with the installation of a central depository and an electronic clearing and settlement system for share transactions. The trading activity was automated with the installation of the Automated Trading System (ATS) in 1997.\n\nThe CSE is currently in the process of introducing a debt securities trading system for trading of fixed income securities.\n\nAs a modern exchange, the CSE now offers an \"order-driven trading platform\" for securities trading - including shares, corporate debt securities and government debt securities.\n\n\nThe CSE was selected as a member of the World Federation of Exchanges in October 1998 and also was the first Exchange in the South Asian Region to obtain membership. The CSE is the 52nd Exchange to have been elected to membership of the Federation.\n\n\nThe CSE became a founder member of the SAFE in January 2000, and is currently the Chairman of the Association. SAFE consists of 17 Exchanges from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bhutan. Its primary objectives are to encourage cooperation among its members in order to promote the development of their individual securities markets, to develop an integrated regional stock trading system, and to offer listing and trading opportunities for securities issued in the region.\n\n\nThe CSE joined Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative in September 2015.\n\nCompanies listed on the CSE have seen a large increase in foreign investment following the winning of 30 year old civil war by the Sri Lankan Government.\nForeign investment in the stock market is freely permitted except in the case of a few companies where there are certain restrictions imposed. Investment in shares in Sri Lanka and repatriation of proceeds take place through Share Investment External Rupee Accounts (SIERA) opened with licensed commercial banks. Income from investments such as interest, dividends and profit realized from such investments are not subject to Exchange Control Regulations by the Sri Lankan Government.\n\nAfter witnessing mediocre performance throughout the 1990s mainly due to the Sri Lankan Civil War, the ceasefire agreement signed in 2001 saw unprecedented growth in the both indices of the CSE. The All Share Price Index, which was hovering around the 500 mark in August 2001, has surpassed the 2000 mark after that.\n\nThis led CSE to be consistently dubbed as one of the best performing markets in the world. As of 2005 the CSE had recorded a consistent annual growth of over 30% in the All Share Price Index (ASPI) for the previous three years. It surpassed that in 2006, with the ASPI growing by 41.6%, and the MPI growing by 51.4% during the calendar year. CSE recorded the highest point in history on 26 February 2007. Milanka Price Index (MPI) reached 4,214.8 points on that day.\n\nBuoyed by improved investor confidence due to positive political developments and strong corporate results the CSE continued to achieve strong growth in 2007, as the ASPI surged passed the 3,000 mark for the first time in its history on February 13, reaching a record high for the seventh consecutive day. The CSE has also recorded an average daily turnover of Rs. 776.8 million for 2007.\n\nAfter the end of the Sri Lankan Civil War on 18 May 2009, CSE indexes increased rapidly creating new records. Market capitalization at the Colombo Stock Exchange reached record high on 6 October 2009 as it reached the Rs. 1 trillion mark for the first time in Sri Lanka’s history. All Share Price Index (ASPI) broke the record for its previous high by marking 3549.27 points on 11 January 2010. CSE was the best performing stock exchange in the world in 2009 as it jumped 125.2 percent during that year.\n\n\nEffective from 18 June2018 the stocks in the S&P Sri Lanka 20 in alphabetical order are as follows.\n\n(COLOMBO, June 14, 2018) \n\nColombo Stock Exchange has transferred nine companies to their Watch List with effect from today due to non-submission of interim financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2018.\n\nThe Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) made a statement that investment flows from the Scandinavian region to Sri Lankan stocks have made a noteworthy improvement in recent years, where inward investments have grown by 39 percent per annum (CAGR) since 2013. According to a CSE statement, Scandinavian countries have collectively invested Rs.8.2 billion in local equities year-to-date, which amounted to 23 percent of the total foreign purchases during the period.\n\nThe National Stock Exchange (NSE) and the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) signed an agreement to explore opportunities to work together and foster a strategic relationship. The agreement is intended for cooperation on the exchange of information and expertise and also paves the way for the NSE to play a consultative role in a number of strategic initiatives implemented by the CSE, including in new product development and exchange operations.\n\nThe Colombo Stock Exchange launched a guide for listed Sri Lankan companies to help them address environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in their capital market communications.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014396", "title": "Poimandres", "text": "Poimandres\n\nPoimandres (; also known as \"Poemandres\", \"Poemander\" or \"Pimander\") is the first tractate in the \"Corpus Hermeticum\". \n\nOriginally written in Greek, the title was formerly understood to mean \"Man-Shepherd\" from the words ποιμήν and ἀνήρ, but recent studies on its etymology allege that it is actually derived from the Egyptian phrase Peime-nte-rê meaning \"Knowledge of Re\" or \"Understanding of Re\". \n\nIt is also a sort of deity, or attribute of God as \"nous\" or \"mind\" as expressed in the following translations \n\nJohn Everard translation:\n\nG. R. S. Mead translation: \n\nSalaman, Van Oyen and Wharton translation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014398", "title": "Imadec Executive Education", "text": "Imadec Executive Education\n\nThe Imadec Executive Education GmbH is a business training provider in Vienna, Austria. The company briefly gained accreditation as a for-profit private university in 2001, albeit under dubious circumstances. The accreditation was rescinded in 2006 as a result of compliance issues and persistent diploma mill allegations. Imadec was forced into bankruptcy proceedings by debtors in 2010 but was permitted to restructure under court supervision. The company continues to operate and is currently offering negotiation and management seminars.\n\nImadec was founded in 1991 as the International Management Development Consulting GmbH.\n\nFounder and director was Christian Joksch, an Austrian insurance manager and sometime lecturer.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1996, the company operated as a consulting business.\n\nIn 1996, Imadec secured a partnership with the California State University, Hayward (CSUH). Acting as an overseas business program subsidiary of the university and supervised by university personnel on location in Vienna, Imadec reinvented itself as a for-profit business school and began offering an Executive MBA program.\nThe program received accreditation from the FIBAA. Also starting in 1996 the International Gary S. Becker Prize, a prize for schlolarly excellence donated and granted by Gary Becker together with a committee of international economists and business executives, was awarded by Imadec.\n\nThe partnership collapsed in August 2002. According to Jay Tontz, Dean of the CSUH Department of Business and Economics, the university decided to end the relationship because the venture had failed to turn any profit, even though the university's five other overseas MBA programs were making healthy amounts of money. The contract stipulated profit sharing as opposed to the more conventional revenue sharing; Imadec claimed it was barely breaking even but refused to either cut costs or agree to a revenue sharing arrangement. An additional problem, according to CSUH faculty, was \"Imadec's failure to make timely payments\" regarding salaries and expenses the company owed. According to Joksch, Imadec was canceling the contract because Kurt Leube, the partnership's academic director, had been misrepresenting his academic credentials. Leube, Joksch alleged, had been fraudulently claiming to hold a PhD in Economics that he did not in fact possess. Former Imadec faculty described Joksch's accusations as \"ridiculous\". Joksch had been well aware of Leube's lack of a doctorate; he had hired Leube on the strength of Leube's enthusiastic adherence to the Austrian School and his apprenticeship under Friedrich Hayek.\n\nIn May 1999, Joksch ran for the European Parliament on a Freedom Party ticket. Although he did not win a seat, the political connections he established paid off when the Freedom Party gained government responsibility and cabinet positions following the October 1999 Austrian legislative election. As a part of its general program of deregulation and liberalization, the new cabinet paved the way for the establishment of private universities in Austria. Joksch had been lobbying for legislation allowing private universities for years and appears to have played a major role in convincing the cabinet to sponsor the relevant statute. In fact, one of his employees was involved in drafting the statute. When the Accreditation Council established by the new act proved hesitant to accredit Imadec, Joksch's political allies were able and willing to bring considerable pressure to bear.\n\nImadec was accredited effective January 2001.\n\nThe new university mocked its older siblings for what it saw as their antiquated teaching methods and their fatuous insistence on maintaining research libraries. Imadec enthusiastically embraced, however, the traditional material trappings of academia. The school took up residence in the ersatz Ivy League ambience of Schloss Laudon, a baroque water castle in the outskirts of Vienna. Web sites, brochures, and commercials featured Christian Joksch and others wearing richly adorned academic robes and flamboyant medallion chains, a conspicuous departure from the comparatively sober comportment of most of Austria's other institutions of higher learning. Almost immediately, Imadec also began to refer to itself as an \"elite\" institution.\n\nWith the heightened profile came heightened scrutiny, which Imadec did not weather well. Very soon, the institution was dogged by accusations of low standards and academic irregularities going back years. A number of politicians, political operatives, and socialites were managing to earn degrees without spending any significant amount of time in either classrooms or libraries. Notable cases include:\n\n\nImadec became a subject of concern for the Science Advisory Committee. The general impression in the committee, two members went on record stating, was that Imadec was essentially simply selling its degrees and only barely bothered to pretend otherwise. When Imadec's accreditation came up for review in 2005, the national Accreditation Council refused renewal, citing numerous issues in unusually forceful language. The accreditation expired in early 2006.\nThe school petitioned for a renewal of its accreditation in August 2006 but was rejected again. The council once more cited issues with quality assurance, academic staff structure, and financial backing.\n\nAt the same time, Imadec received permission to advertise its educational programs as \"university-level curricula\" (German: \"Lehrgänge universitären Characters\") and to award symbolic degrees to students successfully completing them.\nThe permission appears to be have been a personal favor to Joksch from Elisabeth Gehrer, the outgoing minister of education at the time.\n\nUnder the unique and somewhat experimental statutory framework of the time, Imadec could legally claim that its degrees were \"academic\" degrees.\nIn fact, Imadec could legally advertise its degrees as \"master's\" degrees even though they were distinct from actual master's degrees in several respects.\nImadec made full use of the legal loopholes at its disposal and continued to award \"master's\" degrees for another five years. Imadec even tried to continue using the word \"university\" as part of its registered company name.\nPetitioned by the Accreditation Council, the Vienna Commercial Court ordered the company name struck from the rolls in 2007. Ignoring the order, Joksch continued to refer to his company as a \"university\" for several more years, apparently with impunity.\n\nAustria's actual universities quickly discovered that the deluge of substandard \"master's\" degrees pouring out of institutions such as Imadec threatened the country's credibility in the market. \nBy 2007, consumer protection agencies were declaring themselves concerned.\nBy 2011, there were 75 separate \"university-level\" training providers in Austria, and universities were heavily lobbying the legislature to quell the flood.\nIt had become obvious that Austria's private tertiary education sector had acquired a questionable reputation.\nEncumbered by the sectors's poor prestige, private universities and \"university-level\" training providers were experiencing financial difficulties.\nImadec was repeatedly cited as one of the reasons.\n\nParliament ended the experiment, effective 2012.\n\nAn important part of Imadec's marketing efforts was its generosity in awarding honorary degrees and other distinctions to politicians, prominent bankers, and celebrities.\n\nNotable known recipients include:\n\nAll of these honors were void and their conferments illegal. Institutions that could not award regular doctorates could not award honorary doctorates either,\nand private universities could not award any honors at all. In 2005, Joksch was charged before the Administrative Court, convicted, and fined. Imadec honorary distinctions, the verdict confirmed, were worthless. Joksch ignored the verdict and continued to hand out honorary degrees, most notably to Vicente Fox. The former president of Mexico holds an honorary doctorate of law from Imadec, awarded in 2011.\n\nOn June 18, 2010, bankruptcy proceedings were initiated against Imadec by one of its creditors before the Vienna Commercial Court. On August 26, 2010, the court accepted a restructuring plan that required Imadec to fully satisfy all creditors within two years' time.\n\n, Imadec is offering seminars in \"advanced negotiations\"\nand \"C-suite management\".\n\nIn its sales brochures, Imadec still describes itself as an \"academic institution\" and refers to its instructors as \"university professors\" in a way that suggests, although does not claim outright, that the title is due to their being employed by Imadec. Imadec's two current instructors are in fact teachers at legitimate universities; their classes at Imadec are side jobs. Imadec \"diplomas\", described as \"internationally recognized\" in Imadec brochures, can be obtained for EUR 12,800 plus ten to sixteen days' worth of attendance.\n\nNow operating out of a mid-market office building in the working class district of Margareten, the company continues to refer to its owners as \"President and Fellows\" and to its staff as \"faculty\", and continues to emphasize extravagant academic vestments in its marking materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014399", "title": "Galten, Denmark", "text": "Galten, Denmark\n\nGalten is a former railway town in central Denmark, at the Aarhus-Hammel-Thorsø railroad which was closed in 1956. The town is located in Skanderborg Municipality, Region Midtjylland, Jutland – about  – west of Aarhus and is now more or less a satellite town of Aarhus. Today, Galten has almost fused with the neighbouring eastern town of Skovby into an urban area with a population of 8,647 (1 January 2019).\n\nTo the west of the town of Galten there are beautiful landscapes. The scenery between Galten and the nearby lakeside town of Ry is characterised by the gently rolling hilly landscape that is so characteristic of eastern Jutland.\n\nGalten is home to the STARCO Europe A/S, a global group for specialty tire and wheel engineering and manufacturing, and furniture maker Skovby Møbelfabrik.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014401", "title": "Kappa Scorpii", "text": "Kappa Scorpii\n\nKappa Scorpii, Latinized from κ Scorpii, is a binary star system in the southern constellation of Scorpius. With an apparent visual magnitude of 2.4, this star system is readily visible to the naked eye. Parallax measurements place it at an estimated distance of roughly from the Earth.\n\nThis is a spectroscopic binary, which is a type of binary star system in which the two stars are so close together that they have not been individually resolved with a telescope. The pair orbit each other with a period of about 196 days and an eccentricity of nearly 0.5. The combined spectrum of this pair matches a star with a stellar classification of B1.5 III. The 'III' luminosity class indicates the presence of a giant star that has exhausted the supply of hydrogen at its core and is in a late evolutionary stage.\n\nThe primary component of the pair, κ Sco A, is a variable star of Beta Cephei type. It is undergoing radial pulsations with a dominant frequency of 4.99922 cycles per day, or 4.8 hours per cycle. There are overlapping secondary pulsation frequencies of about 4.85 and 5.69 cycles per day. This star has about 17 times the mass of the Sun and is nearly 7 times the Sun's radius. The effective temperature of the outer envelope is 23,400 K, giving it a blue-white hue. It is rotating rapidly, with an estimated period of only 1.9 days and an axis of rotation that is inclined by about 40° to the line of sight from the Earth.\n\nThe secondary component, κ Sco B, is smaller than the primary, but still much larger than the Sun. It has about 12 times the mass of the Sun and nearly six times the Sun's radius. The effective temperature of 18,800 K is also higher than the Sun's, which is at 5,778 K.\n\nκ Scorpii has been called Girtab , which is the Sumerian word for 'scorpion'. The name has survived through the Babylonian star catalogues, and was originally applied to an asterism comprising this star, Lambda Scorpii, Upsilon Scorpii, and Iota Scorpii.\n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Tail\", refers to an asterism consisting κ Scorpii, μ Scorpii, ε Scorpii, ζ Scorpii and ζ Scorpii, η Scorpii, θ Scorpii, ι Scorpii and ι Scorpii, λ Scorpii and υ Scorpii. Consequently, the Chinese name for κ Scorpii itself is (), \"the Seventh Star of Tail\".\n\nκ Scorpii appears on the flag of Brazil, symbolising the state of Paraíba.\n"}
{"id": "2014402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014402", "title": "Lead time", "text": "Lead time\n\nA lead time is the latency between the initiation and completion of a process. For example, the lead time between the placement of an order and delivery of new cars by a given manufacturer might be between 2 weeks and 6 months, depending on various particularities. One business dictionary defines \"manufacturing lead time\" as the total time required to manufacture an item, including order preparation time, queue time, setup time, run time, move time, inspection time, and put-away time. For make-to-order products, it is the time between release of an order and the production and shipment that fulfill that order. For make-to-stock products, it is the time taken from the release of an order to production and receipt into finished goods inventory.\n\nA conventional definition of lead time in a supply chain management context is the time from the moment the customer places an order (the moment the supplier learns of the requirement) to the moment it is ready for delivery. In the absence of finished goods or intermediate (work in progress) inventory, it is the time it takes to actually manufacture the order without any inventory other than raw materials. The Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply identifies \"total lead time\" as a combination of \"internal lead time\" (the time required for the buying organisation's internal processes to progress from identification of a need to the issue of a purchase order) and \"external lead time\" (the time required for the supplying organisation's processes, including any development required, manufacture, despatch and delivery).\n\nIn the manufacturing environment, lead time has the same definition as that of Supply Chain Management, but it includes the time required to ship the parts from the supplier. Shipping time is included because the manufacturing company needs to know when the parts will be available for material requirements planning purposes. It is also possible to include within lead time the time it takes for a company to process and have the part ready for manufacturing once it has been received. The time it takes a company to unload a product from a truck, inspect it, and move it into storage (\"put-away time\") is not trivial. With tight manufacturing constraints or when a company is using Just In Time manufacturing, it is important for supply chain to know how long their own internal processes take.\n\nLead time consists of:\n\nExample\n\nCompany A needs a part that can be manufactured in two days once Company B has received an order. It takes three days for company A to receive the part once shipped, and one additional day before the part is ready to go into manufacturing.\n\nIn more detail\n\nLead Time terminology has been defined in greater detail. The Supply Chain from customer order received to the moment the order is delivered is divided into five lead times.\n\nExample \n\nA restaurant opens up and a customer walks in. A waiter guides him to a table, gives him the menu and asks what he would like to order. The customer selects a dish and the waiter writes it in his notepad. At that moment the customer has made an order which the restaurant has accepted – Order Lead Time and Order Handling Time have begun. Now the waiter marks the order in the cash register, rips the paper from the notepad, takes it into the kitchen and puts into the order queue. The order has been handled and is waiting in the factory (kitchen) for manufacturing. As there are no other customers, the waiter decides to stand outside the kitchen, by the door, waiting for the dish to be prepared and begins calculating Manufacturing Lead Time.\n\nMeanwhile, the chef finishes what he was doing, takes the order from the queue, starts his clock as a mark for the start of Production Lead Time and begins cooking. The chef chops the vegetables, fries the meat and boils the pasta. When the dish is ready, the chef rings a bell and stops his clock. At the same time the waiter stops calculating Manufacturing Lead Time and rushes through the kitchen door to get the food while it is hot.\n\nWhen he picks it up, begins counting of Delivery Lead Time that ends when the dish is served to the customer, who can now happily say that the Order Lead Time was shorter than he had expected.\n\nWhen talking about Order Lead Time (OLT) it is important to differentiate the definitions that may exist around this concept. Although they look similar there are differences between them that help the industry to model the order behavior of their customers. The four definitions are : \n\nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the date the customer wants the material in his facilities (wish date) and the date when they provided its order to the supplier. \nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the date the customer agree to receive the material in their facilities (Quote date) and the date when the order is provided to the supplier.\nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the day the provider deliver the material (Delivery date) and the date when they enter the order in the system. \nThe OLT will be determined by the difference between the date the confirmed date by the provider to deliver the material in the customer facilities (Confirmed date) and the date when they provide the order to the supplier.\n\nThe Average OLT based on Volume (OLT) is the addition of all the multiplications between the volume of product we deliver (quantity) and the OLT divided by the total quantity delivered in the period of time we are studying for that specific facility.\nformula_1 \nBy doing this the company will be able to find a relation of volume weighted between the quantities of material required for an order and the time requested to accomplish it. The volume metric could be applied to the 4 types of OLT. \nThe figure obtained from this calculation will be the average time (e.g. in days) between order placing and the requested delivery date of a specific customer under consideration of the average quantities ordered during that particular time.\n\nThe correct analysis of OLT will give the company:\n\nIn project management lead time is the time it takes to complete a task or a set of interdependent tasks. The lead of the entire project would be the overall duration of the critical path for the project.\n\nLead time is also the saved time by starting an activity before its predecessor is completed.\n\nAccording to the PMBOK (4th edition) by PMI, lead is a dependency between two activities. An example would be scheduling the start of a 2-week activity dependent with the finish of the successor activity with a lead of 2 weeks so they will finish at the same time.\n\nLead time in publishing describes the amount of time that a journalist has between receiving a writing assignment and submitting the completed piece. Depending on the publication, lead times can be anything from a couple of hours to many months/years.\n\nLead time (when referring to a disease) is the length of time between detection of a disease through screening and the moment in time where it would have normally presented with symptoms and led to a diagnosis. An example of this is seen with breast cancer population screening, where women who are asymptomatic have a positive test result with mammography, whereas the underlying disease would have taken many more years to manifest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2014405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014405", "title": "East Cape to Cape Egmont Traverse", "text": "East Cape to Cape Egmont Traverse\n\nThis \"East Cape to Cape Egmont Traverse\" is not so much a trail, more a Kiwi pilgrimage to our early pioneers and landscape.\n\nTwo authors/walkers have completed this traverse and written books:\n\nAt age 86 A.H. Reed didn't take the difficult Raukumara Range Forest Park route, but followed the east coast beaches south, visiting coastal communities, before heading west inland. A great Kiwi feat none-the-less.\n\nStarting in the late 1970s the then Department of Survey and Land Information embarked on a project to link Cape Egmont to East Cape by a walkway. \n\nAt least one section of the ‘Cape Egmont to East Cape’ walkway was completed and still remains in use:\n\n"}
{"id": "2014412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014412", "title": "Officium (ancient Rome)", "text": "Officium (ancient Rome)\n\nOfficium (plural \"officia\") is a Latin word with various meanings in ancient Rome, including \"service\", \"(sense of) duty\", \"courtesy\", \"ceremony\" and the like. It also translates the Greek \"kathekon\" and was used in later Latin to render more modern offices.\n\nHowever, this article is mainly concerned with the meaning of \"an office\" (the modern word \"office\" derives from it) or \"bureau\" in the sense of a dignitary's staff of administrative and other collaborators, each of whom was called an \"officialis\" (hence the modern official).\n\nThe \"Notitia Dignitatum\" gives us uniquely detailed information, stemming from the very imperial chanceries, on the composition of the \"officia\" of many of the leading court, provincial, military and certain other officials of the two Roman empires c. AD 400. While the details vary somewhat according to rank, from West (Rome) to East (Byzantium) and/or in particular cases, in general the leading staff would be about as follows (the English descriptions and other modern \"equivalents\" are approximate):\n\n\nBelow those \"dignities\", there were often a few hundred minor officials, often slaves or freedmen, doing the clerical drudgery, not deemed worthy of any more detailed mention. They are only referred to collectively, by various terms in the plural, such as \"cohortalini\" (apparently the diminutive of \"cohortalis\", the very term suggesting significant number; see \"cohors amicorum\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014413", "title": "Anaplerotic reactions", "text": "Anaplerotic reactions\n\nAnaplerotic reactions (from the Greek ἀνά= 'up' and πληρόω= 'to fill') are chemical reactions that form intermediates of a metabolic pathway. Examples of such are found in the citric acid cycle (TCA cycle). In normal function of this cycle for respiration, concentrations of TCA intermediates remain constant; however, many biosynthetic reactions also use these molecules as a substrate. Anaplerosis is the act of replenishing TCA cycle intermediates that have been extracted for biosynthesis (in what are called anaplerotic reactions).\n\nThe TCA cycle is a hub of metabolism, with central importance in both energy production and biosynthesis. Therefore, it is crucial for the cell to regulate concentrations of TCA cycle metabolites in the mitochondria. Anaplerotic flux must balance cataplerotic flux in order to retain homeostasis of cellular metabolism.\n\nThere are 5 major reactions classed as anaplerotic, and it is estimated that the production of oxaloacetate from pyruvate has the most physiologic importance.\n\nThe malate is created by PEP carboxylase and malate dehydrogenase in the cytosol. Malate, in the mitochondrial matrix, can be used to make pyruvate (catalyzed by malic enzyme) or oxaloacetic acid, both of which can enter the citric acid cycle.\n\nGlutamine can also be used to produce oxaloacetate during anaplerotic reactions in various cell types through \"glutaminolysis\", which is also seen in many c-Myc transformed cells.\n\nPyruvate carboxylase deficiency is an inherited metabolic disorder where anaplerosis is greatly reduced. Other anaplerotic substrates such as the odd-carbon-containing triglyceride triheptanoin can be used to treat this disorder.\n"}
{"id": "2014417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014417", "title": "Clear-air turbulence", "text": "Clear-air turbulence\n\nClear-air turbulence (CAT) is the turbulent movement of air masses in the absence of any visual clues, such as clouds, and is caused when bodies of air moving at widely different speeds meet.\n\nThe atmospheric region most susceptible to CAT is the high troposphere at altitudes of around as it meets the tropopause. Here CAT is most frequently encountered in the regions of jet streams. At lower altitudes it may also occur near mountain ranges. Thin cirrus clouds can also indicate high probability of CAT.\n\nCAT can be hazardous to the comfort, and occasionally the safety, of air travelers.\n\nCAT in the jet stream is expected to become stronger and more frequent because of climate change, with transatlantic wintertime CAT increasing by 59% (light), 94% (moderate), and 149% (severe) by the time of CO2 doubling.\n\nClear-air turbulence is usually impossible to detect with the naked eye and very difficult to detect with a conventional radar, with the result that it is difficult for aircraft pilots to detect and avoid it. However, it can be remotely detected with instruments that can measure turbulence with optical techniques, such as scintillometers, Doppler LIDARs, or N-slit interferometers.\n\nAlthough the altitudes near the tropopause are usually cloudless, thin cirrus cloud can form where there are abrupt changes of air velocity, for example associated with jet streams. Lines of cirrus perpendicular to the jet stream indicate possible CAT, especially if the ends of the cirrus are dispersed, in which case the direction of dispersal can indicate if the CAT is stronger at the left or at the right of the jet stream.\n\nDetecting and predicting CAT is difficult. At typical heights where it occurs, the intensity and location cannot be determined precisely. However, because this turbulence affects long range aircraft that fly near the tropopause, CAT has been intensely studied. Several factors affect the likelihood of CAT. Often more than one factor is present. 64% of the non-light turbulences (not only CAT) are observed less than away from the core of a jet stream.\n\nA jet stream alone will rarely be the cause of CAT, although there is horizontal wind shear at its edges and within it, caused by the different relative air speeds of the stream and the surrounding air.\n\nRossby waves caused by this jet stream shear and the Coriolis force cause it to meander.\n\nA temperature gradient is the change of temperature over a distance in some given direction. Where the temperature of a gas changes, so does its density and where the density changes CAT can appear.\n\nFrom the ground upwards through the troposphere temperature decreases with height; from the tropopause upwards through the stratosphere temperature increases with height. Such variations are examples of temperature gradients.\n\nA horizontal temperature gradient may occur, and hence air density variations, where air velocity changes. An example: the speed of the jet stream is not constant along its length; additionally air temperature and hence density will vary between the air within the jet stream and the air outside.\n\nWind shear is a difference in relative speed between two adjacent air masses. An excessive wind shear produces vortices, and when the wind shear is of sufficient degree, the air will tend to move chaotically. As is explained elsewhere in this article, temperature decreases and wind velocity increase with height in the troposphere, and the reverse is true within the stratosphere. These differences cause changes in air density, and hence viscosity. The viscosity of the air thus presents both inertias and accelerations which cannot be determined in advance.\n\nVertical wind shear above the jet stream (i.e., in the stratosphere) is sharper when it is moving upwards, because wind speed decreases with height in the stratosphere. This is the reason CAT can be generated above the tropopause, despite the stratosphere otherwise being a region which is vertically stable. On the other hand, vertical wind shear moving downwards within the stratosphere is more moderate (i.e., because downwards wind shear within the stratosphere is effectively moving against the manner in which wind speed changes within the stratosphere) and CAT is never produced in the stratosphere. Similar considerations apply to the troposphere but in reverse.\n\nWhen strong wind deviates, the change of wind direction implies a change in the wind speed. A stream of wind can change its direction by differences of pressure. CAT appears more frequently when the wind is surrounding a low pressure region, especially with sharp troughs that change the wind direction more than 100°. Extreme CAT has been reported without any other factor than this.\n\nMountain waves are formed when four requirements are met. When these factors coincide with jet streams, CAT can occur:\n\nThe tropopause is a layer which separates two very different types of air. Beneath it, the air gets colder and the wind gets faster with height. Above it, the air warms and wind velocity decreases with height. These changes in temperature and velocity can produce fluctuation in the altitude of the tropopause, called gravity waves.\n\nIn the context of air flight, CAT is sometimes colloquially referred to as \"air pockets\".\n\nStandard airplane radars cannot detect CAT, as CAT is not associated with clouds that show unpredictable movement of the air. Airlines and pilots should be aware of factors that cause or indicate CAT to reduce the probability of meeting turbulence.\n\nAircraft in level flight rely on a constant air density to retain stability. Where air density is significantly different, for instance because of temperature gradient, especially at the tropopause, CAT can occur.\n\nWhere an aircraft changes its position horizontally from within the jet stream to outside the jet stream, or vice versa, a horizontal temperature gradient may be experienced. Because jet streams meander, such a change of position need not be the result of a change of course by the aircraft.\n\nBecause the altitude of the tropopause is not constant, an airplane that flies at a constant altitude would traverse it and encounter any associated CAT.\n\nOn May 1, 2017, Boeing 777 flight SU270 from Moscow to Thailand got into clear air turbulence. The aircraft suddenly dropped and 27 passengers who were not buckled up sustained serious injuries. The pilots were able to stabilize the plane and continue the flight. All passengers who needed medical attention were taken to Bangkok hospital upon arrival.\n\nOn March 5, 1966, BOAC Flight 911 from Tokyo to Hong Kong, a Boeing 707, broke up in CAT, with loss of all hands (124) on board. The sequence of failure started with the vertical stabilizer getting ripped off.\n\nWhen a pilot experiences CAT, a number of rules should be applied: \n\nBecause aircraft move so quickly, they can experience sudden unexpected accelerations or 'bumps' from turbulence, including CAT - as the aircraft rapidly cross invisible bodies of air which are moving vertically at many different speeds. Although the vast majority of cases of turbulence are harmless, in rare cases cabin crew and passengers on aircraft have been injured when tossed around inside an aircraft cabin during extreme turbulence (and in a small number of cases, killed, as on United Airlines Flight 826 on December 28, 1997). BOAC Flight 911 broke up in flight in 1966 after experiencing severe lee-wave turbulence just downwind of Mount Fuji, Japan.\n\nWake turbulence is another type of clear-air turbulence, but in this case the causes are quite different from those set out above. In the case of wake turbulence, the rotating vortex-pair created by the wings of a large aircraft as it travels lingers for a significant amount of time after the passage of the aircraft, sometimes more than a minute. When this occurs, the lingering turbulence caused by the wake of the wing tips can deflect or even flip a smaller aircraft on the ground or in the air awaiting landing. This phenomenon can also lead to accidents with large aircraft as well. Delta Air Lines Flight 9570 crashed at the Greater Southwest International Airport in 1972 while landing behind a DC-10. This accident led to new rules for minimum following separation time from \"heavy\" aircraft. American Airlines Flight 587 crashed shortly after takeoff from John F. Kennedy International Airport in 2001 due to pilot overreaction to wake turbulence from a Boeing 747. Many aircraft are now made with wingtip devices to improve both the lift-to-drag ratio and fuel economy - such devices may also marginally reduce the strength of the wingtip vortices. However, such changes are not operationally significant (i.e. do not change the distances or times at which it is safe to follow other aircraft).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014418", "title": "Gravity model", "text": "Gravity model\n\nGravity models are used in various social sciences to predict and describe certain behaviors that mimic gravitational interaction as described in Isaac Newton's law of gravity. Generally, the social science models contain some elements of mass and distance, which lends them to the metaphor of physical gravity. A gravity model provides an estimate of the volume of flows of, for example, goods, services, or people between two or more locations. This could be the movement of people between cities\n\nA gravity model cannot accurately predict flows, but is instead a measure against which actual observed values can be compared, highlighting where those flows are unexpectedly high or low. \n\nSocial science gravity models:\n"}
{"id": "2014422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014422", "title": "Kenny MacLean", "text": "Kenny MacLean\n\nKenneth Irving MacLean (January 9, 1956 – November 24, 2008) was a Scottish-Canadian musician, best known as a member of the multi-platinum selling band Platinum Blonde.\n\nMacLean was born in Glasgow on January 9, 1956.\n\nA former hairdresser, he was a member of the group The Hairdressers, and then was a founding member of The Suspects in 1979. He then joined The Deserters in 1981, and released two albums, \"The Deserters\" and \"Siberian Nightlife\".\n\nDrummer Chris Steffler, who had worked with MacLean in Toronto bands The Next and The Suspects, recruited MacLean to join Platinum Blonde. MacLean was bassist and keyboardist, and songwriter for some songs, on their 1985 album \"Alien Shores\". He was also part of the band for \"Contact\" in 1987, and for their 1990 album \"Yeah Yeah Yeah\", when the band was renamed The Blondes. MacLean then released two solo albums in the 1990s, without the backing of major-label financing. In 1990, his solo debut \"Don't Look Back\" was released on a new label, Justin, and it won him a SOCAN Award for songwriting, as well as a Juno Award nomination for Most Promising Male Vocalist in 1991.\n\nIn 2006, MacLean spent time in Saint John, New Brunswick, working as a teacher at the city's new Atlantica School of Music and Film. MacLean created the music company hMh Music, and was its artistic director. An academy officially opened in Toronto on September 2, 2008, and featured programs such as audio engineering and DJ arts.\n\nMacLean had a big influence in getting Platinum Blonde back together after a 20-year absence, but he wouldn't live to see it come to fruition. MacLean had commented to Platinum Blonde's lead singer Mark Holmes \"hundreds of times\" that Platinum Blonde should re-unite. Holmes once quoted MacLean as saying, \"Let’s get back together. Music doesn't have any rock stars anymore.\" In November 2008, Holmes took up MacLean's long-standing offer to make a guest appearance at one of his shows at the Mod Club in Toronto, a club founded by Holmes, and they performed a collection of Platinum Blonde hits.\n\nMacLean died of a heart related problem on November 24, 2008, after performing at the Mod Club the night before. His body was found by his sister, and recording artist Brock Burford. His third solo CD, \"Completely\", was released at a concert three days before his death.\n\n\n"}
