{"id": "1944630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944630", "title": "KPWR", "text": "KPWR\n\nKPWR (105.9 FM, Power 106) is a commercial radio station in Los Angeles, California, broadcasting to the Greater Los Angeles area on an analog signal and in HD Radio. KPWR airs a Urban Contemporary format. It is owned and operated by the Meruelo Group, which acquired KPWR from Emmis Communications for $82.75 million in May 2017, officially taking ownership on August 1, 2017, pairing it with KDAY, KDEY-FM, and KWHY-TV.\n\nKPWR's studios are based in the Los Angeles suburb of Burbank, and the transmitter is at Mount Wilson, shared with KCAL-TV and KRTH.\n\n105.9 FM signed on as easy listening KFI-FM on July 15, 1946, later becoming KBMS in 1958 before adopting the KWST call letters and \"\"L.A.'s K-West 106 FM\"\" moniker in 1969. During its years as KBMS and KWST, its format had been beautiful music prior to its flip to a rock format on January 1, 1975. K-West emulated the then-popular sound of KMET and KLOS. By 1981, though, the ratings had slipped and KWST had changed to a Top 40 format, and let all of their disc jockeys go. KWST eventually evolved into KMGG, or \"\"L.A.'s Magic 106 FM\"\" in summer 1982, and played upbeat Adult Contemporary music.\n\nIn May 1984, Century Broadcasting sold KMGG and St. Louis' KSHE to the Indianapolis-based Emmis Communications.\n\nNot too long after Emmis bought the station, it immediately saw a niche to counter Top 40s KIIS and KKHR and urbans KDAY, KJLH, and KACE (the latter three all signal challenged). At 6 p.m. on January 11, 1986, KMGG dropped its adult contemporary format, and became the first ever Crossover format radio outlet with the new callsign KPWR and theier new moniker \"\"Power 106, The Fresh New Music Mix!\"\" The first song on the newly christened \"Power 106\" was \"Say I'm Your Number One\" by Princess. Jay Thomas was hired as the host of \"The Power 106 Morning Zoo\". Power 106's first slogans in 1986 were \"\"Turn On The Fresh New Music Mix!\"\" and \"\"I've Made The Power Switch!\"\". These were then followed in 1987 with \"\"Pure Energy...Dance Now!!!\"\", in 1991 by \"\"L.A.'s Hottest Music!\"\", in 1997 as \"\"L.A.'s Party Station!\"\", in 2005 with \"\"Where Hip-Hop Lives!\"\", and most recently, \"\"L.A.'s #1 for Hip-Hop!\"\" in 2017.\n\nAt the time of KPWR's launch, it broadcast what it announced as \"\"72,000 Watts Of Music Power...Less Talk!\"\" (mentioned in on-air station identifications by Chuck Riley and Deborah Rath), a reference to its then-actual ERP of 72 kW (whose signal coverage can be heard in San Diego, Kern and Santa Barbara Counties), before their reduction to 25 kW in 1993.\n\nKPWR picked up additional competition in May 2005 when KXOL-FM dropped its Spanish adult contemporary format for a Hispanic Rhythmic, or hurban, format known as \"Latino 96.3\". The format is a crossover mix of Hispanic hip hop, reggaeton, dancehall, and R&B/hip hop targeting a bilingual audience. However, the abrupt switch violated a transmitter lease agreement that KXOL's parent company, Spanish Broadcasting System (SBS), had with Emmis; the agreement required formal notification to Emmis of any change in format and expressly prohibited KXOL from programming to directly compete with KPWR. SBS switched formats anyway, and Emmis filed a lawsuit to force SBS to either drop the format switch or find a new transmitter. SBS announced that KXOL would move to another transmitter site a month later, and both parties settled the dispute sometime after. KXOL would eventually exit the format on May 16, 2014 to return to Spanish AC as \"Mega 96.3\" after nine years and moderate to underperformed ratings.\n\nShortly after the debut of Latino 96.3, KPWR replaced the majority of their non-Latino DJs with personalities of Latino descent who often pepper their broadcasts with Spanish words, in an effort to regain some of the audience lost to Latino 96.3. Today, Krystal Bee (Latino), DJ E Man (Filipino), and Todd the Hater (Armenian) of #TheCruzShow all represent the multi-cultural population of Los Angeles.\n\nOn August 17, 2006, KPWR's Country music sister station KZLA flipped directions to Adult Rhythmic Contemporary as \"Movin' 93.9.\" Most of the songs played on Movin' 93.9 consisted of Rhythmic Pop and Dance hits from the 1980s and 1990s to the present day, along with classic Disco and Freestyle tracks thrown in for balance. However, after almost a year in the format, KMVN shifted directions to Rhythmic Oldies. With the unique combination of both KPWR and KZLA, the move gave Emmis and Los Angeles its first Rhythmic duopoly, as well as the second duopoly in California with this arrangement, the other being Clear Channel Communications siblings KMEL and KYLD in San Francisco. That arrangement ended on April 15, 2009, when KMVN flipped to a Spanish format under a LMA with Grupo Radio Centro of Mexico City. In May 2019, Meruelo bought KXOS from GRC, reuniting the station with KPWR after 10 years.\n\nIn June 2012, KPWR expanded its reach when it was added to both Clear Channel Communications' iHeartRadio and Tune-In's streaming platforms.\n\nOn November 3, 2015, KPWR DJs Eric D-lux and Justin Credible were called out by singer/actress Ariana Grande after she felt uncomfortable over asking questions that she claimed were sexist, telling the DJs, \"You need a little brushing up on equality.\"\n\nAfter 32 years of ownership, Emmis announced on May 9, 2017 that it sold KPWR to The Meruelo Group for $82.75 million. The announcement comes after Emmis, who exits the nation's second-largest radio market, made a deal in April with its lenders to seek $80 million worth of divestments by January 2018 to amend its credit agreement. On August 1, 2017, Meruelo took ownership of KPWR, pairing it with Classic Hip-Hop KDAY and Riverside/San Bernardino-targeted Urban contemporary KDEY-FM, both of whom will relocate to KPWR's Burbank studios; KPWR will retain its Rhythmic format, air staff, and management. The station continues to report to Mediabase and BDS as Rhythmic contemporary, though the station has begun to lean more urban to take on KRRL. Since the sale, it has recovered in terms of ratings and audiences.\n\nIn its first seven years, KPWR's music selection focused on a mix of dance, house, freestyle, hip-hop, and urban pop, while avoiding hard rock. This mix of music became known as crossover (later called Rhythmic Top 40), due to the way in which dance and urban music were presented to an audience that liked pop, and vice versa. This would become a major issue in the music trades after the station ascended to the top spot in the Los Angeles Arbitron ratings, where both \"Billboard\" and \"Radio & Records\" had debated as to what reporting panel it would place KPWR (as well as other stations that were using the same formula), which in turn resulted in \"Billboard\" launching a Crossover Chart and \"Radio & Records\" creating a CHR P1A subcategory in 1987. By 1992, KPWR began to focus on a mix of hip hop and R&B music, given that it gained competition from the former urban outlet KKBT and that the original KDAY signed off around that time. It even embraced house in addition, although the station would no longer focused on the genre by 1997. By January 2005, the station had woven in non-R&B/hip-hop artists such as Natalie, Baby Bash, NB Ridaz and Gwen Stefani to the mix, resulting in a return to Rhythmic Top 40.\n\nApproximately 60% of KPWR's listenership is Hispanic. and contributes to both Mediabase and BDS Rhythmic reporting panels. In addition to playing Hip-Hop and Rhythmic Pop, KPWR continued to embrace dance music tracks onto its playlist, and even incorporated it into their daily and weekend mix shows, including the program \"Power Tools\", produced by Gerry Meraz and hosted by Richard Vission. \"Power Tools\" is the station's longest-running program, debuting in 1992.\n\nHowever, by early 2016, KPWR has drastically reduced the amount of Rhythmic Pop and EDM tracks in its playlist to focus primarily on Hip Hop and R&B again. This was due to competition received from Urban rival \"Real 92.3\", which reignited the market's hip-hop radio war from the 1990s when the station was in competition with \"92.3 The Beat.\" Up until 2017, KPWR had also slightly increased the number of throwbacks/recurrents in its playlist, but has since refocused towards current product due to KDAY's Classic Hip-Hop direction, and to reduce overlap between the two stations. Also, as of July 2019, KPWR is the official sister station to KLLI (FM) (\"Cali 93.9\"), with both stations airing a Rhythmic contemporary format. The sale reunited KPWR with the 93.9 frequency under common ownership for the first time since 2012.\n\nIn the earlier months of Power 106's launch, Tommy Jaxson and Deborah Rath were the original morning jocks and hosts of \"The Power 106 Morning Zoo\". That changed when actor, comedian, and radio veteran Jay Thomas took the helm of the show, giving the program its highest-rated numbers during his tenure. Thomas left in 1992 when The Baka Boyz took over the morning slot. During fall 1997, KPWR hired a former security guard named Big Boy to replace the duo. \"Big Boy's Neighborhood\" featured Big Boy with Rikki Martinez, Krystal Bee and Louie G. serving as co-hosts/sidekicks, serving up an eclectic mix of music, pop culture, celebrity interviews, and comedy segments. The program served as a launching pad for both co-host/sidekicks Tattoo, who left the station in 2010, and Luscious Liz known as Liz Hernandez, who departed on August 22, 2011 to pursue a television career with E! News.\n\nThe program became a nationally syndicated morning show on August 20, 2007, after Big Boy signed a multi-year deal with ABC Radio Networks (later Citadel Media, now Westwood One) to syndicate the show, along with his weekend countdown show, which was formerly called \"Big Boy's Hip Hop Spot\". In the fall of 2008, the show began to air on KPWR's sister station WQHT but would drop the show in July 2009 due to low ratings. In 2010, after Citadel announced that they would no longer syndicate the program, Dial Global picked up the show.\n\nOn February 3, 2015, Big Boy, whose contract was to expire on February 28th of that year, exited KPWR after negotiations between the two parties broke down, leading KPWR owner Emmis Communications to file a lawsuit (and injunction) to keep him off the air and from taking a $3.5 million offer from iHeartMedia, who three days earlier registered a domain and social media accounts for Rhythmic AC rival KHHT, who immediately flipped back to R&B/Hip-Hop as \"Real 92.3\" on February 6, 2015. This move brought the R&B/Hip-Hop format back to that frequency for the first time since iHeartMedia's predecessor Clear Channel sold \"The Beat\" R&B/Hip-Hop format and intellectual property to Radio One (who then moved it to the 100.3 signal) in 2000 (The Beat would later flip to Urban AC in 2006). Since then, J. Cruz has taken over the morning slot as the new host.\n\nOn April 15, 2019, J. Cruz, co-host DJ Lechero and Jeff ‘The Sports Dude’ Garcia exited KPWR, with J. Cruz joining KRRL as its new afternoon host. Cece Valencia took over the interim \"LA’s Hip Hop Morning Show\" until a permanent host was found. June 17th saw the launch of the station's new permanent morning show, now lead by actor Nick Cannon as \"Nick Cannon Mornings\", with Melissa Rios, Teddy Mora and DJ Carisma joining him as contributors and co-hosts.\n\nKPWR launched a Spanish-language HD2 subcarrier channel called \"Power Dos\" in August 2006. A press release from Emmis describes the new channel as a “bilingual and musically extended version” of KPWR. Power Dos left the air in 2008 due to a lack of interest.\n\nOn August 29, 2008, Emmis announced a programming partnership with WorldBand Media, using KPWR's HD3 signal to produce programming for the South Asian communities in three major cities including Los Angeles. The said content began in mid-October 2008, and by the Summer of 2009 moved to HD2, replacing Power Dos.\n\nIn September 2011, Power 106 was named Large Market CHR Radio station of the year and awarded the Marconi at the National Association of Broadcasters convention in Chicago, Illinois, and was nominated in 2012 for Major Market Station of the Year by the NAB.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944635", "title": "Matthew 3:1", "text": "Matthew 3:1\n\nMatthew 3:1 is the first verse of the third chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This verse takes up the narrative some thirty years after beginning the description of Jesus' ministry. This verse introduces the figure of John the Baptist.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 3:1.\n\nUnlike the infancy narrative, this verse begins a section that is closely paralleled in Mark 1 and Luke 3. According to the theory of Markan Priority, both Matthew and Luke are rewritten versions of Mark. Keener notes that the hypothetical Q source also likely begins with John, explaining the overlap between Matthew and Luke in the non Markan-material, and why there is so little overlap in the nativity story.\n\nThe phrase \"in those days\" marks a substantial shift of time frame from the previous verse. Matthew nowhere indicates how long this break is, but Luke places it as some thirty years. Biblical commentator David Hill notes that \"in those days\" is frequently used as an indication that important events are taking place. To him the phrase thus more accurately means \"in those crucial days\". Other scholars, such as R. T. France and John Nolland, take a different view. They see the word \"those\" as a direct reference to and thus treat the phrase as meaning \"in those days that he lived in Nazareth\".\n\nThis verse introduces the character of John the Baptist. Guthrie notes that John likely does not need much of an introduction to Matthew's largely Jewish readers, as he was a well-known figure at the time. Matthew gives none of his early history, unlike Luke. John is a much less important character in Matthew than in the other gospels, appearing only in a supporting role to Jesus. While Matthew and Luke refer to John the Baptist, Mark refers to him by the slightly different title \"John the Baptizer.\" The word baptist is also somewhat controversial. To Anabaptists the correct translation is \"John the Immerser\".\n\nThe wilderness of Judea mentioned in this verse is generally taken to refer to the region of Judea sloping down from the highlands to the Dead Sea. This was an arid area not well suited to habitation. The term is occasionally translated as desert, but there was enough moisture to allow for pastoralism, so some consider this translation incorrect. According to Pliny this region was home to the Essenes it was also home to Qumran where the Dead Sea Scrolls were found. Many feel that John the Baptist was influenced by these groups. The phrase \"in Judea\" does not exist in the comparable verse in Mark, and is an addition by the author of Matthew. Matthew previously used the same qualifier for Bethlehem in and . While John may have been in Judea in this period, it is clear he was on the other side of Jordan River at a later date when he was captured and executed by Herod Antipas who ruled Galilee and Perea. It could also be that Matthew is vague, and referring to the immediate east side of the Jordan as also being Judea.\n\nThe wilderness had other connotations to the early readers of Matthew. Guthrie notes that at this time the wilderness was considered much closer to God in contrast with the corruption of the cities. An exile to the wilderness also links to Exodus, and later prophets such as Hosea predicted that the Israelites would one day be forced back to the wilderness. It was thus widely accepted that new prophets and religious leaders would come out of the wilderness. Other scholars disagree and see the wilderness as desolate and forbidding. In the wilderness will be introduced as the location where Jesus encounters the devil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944643", "title": "Duma (2005 film)", "text": "Duma (2005 film)\n\nDuma is a 2005 American family drama adventure film about a young South African boy's friendship with an orphaned cheetah, based on \"How It Was with Dooms\" by Carol Cawthra Hopcraft and Xan Hopcraft. It was directed by Carroll Ballard and stars Alexander Michaletos, Eamonn Walker, Campbell Scott and Hope Davis.\n\nThe film was theatrically released on April 22, 2005 by Warner Bros. Pictures, Gaylord Films and C.O.R.E.. The film received positive reviews from critics, but fared poorly commercially, earning $994,790 on a $12 million budget. The film won the Family Feature Film at the Genesis Awards in 2006.\n\nSet in the country of South Africa, the story begins with a cheetah cub being orphaned after his mother was killed by lions. The cub is found on the side of the road by a young boy named Xan (Alexander Michaeletos) and his father Peter (Campbell Scott). Initially reluctant to take in a wild animal, Peter agrees to let Xan take care of the cub. They name him “Duma”, the Swahili name for “cheetah”. Over the years, Duma becomes a part of the family, being closely raised by Xan. As he nears adulthood, Peter and Xan decide to teach Duma how to run by having him chase alongside Peter's motorcycle, which can barely keep up with him. But with Duma almost fully grown, to Xan's dismay, his father tells him that it is time to take his friend to his real home before he grows too old to survive in his native habitat. His father says to Xan, “Duma has to live the life he was born to—or he’ll never be fully alive.”\n\nXan reluctantly agrees, but their plans must be put on hold when his father suddenly falls ill and dies and Xan and his mother (Hope Davis) must move to Johannesburg. Duma comes with them, which wreaks havoc on their life in the city. Xan's aunt is terrified of Duma, who likes to sneak up and surprise her, and when Duma escapes and pays a disastrous visit to Xan's school, the two of them must flee the city to keep Duma from being put into captivity. Not knowing where to go, Xan gets an idea—he'll carry out the plan his dad had outlined, taking Duma home in the neighbouring country of Botswana, over the scorching Makgadikgadi Salt Pans, through the Okavango Delta and into the Erongo Mountains.\n\nXan begins to drive to his destination in his father's old motorcycle, with Duma in the sidecar. After running out of fuel and water in the grasslands, they find some shade underneath a crashed airplane. There, they are confronted by Ripkuna (Eamonn Walker), a mysterious drifter on a journey of his own. While Xan isn't at all that sure he can trust Rip, he agrees to go with him. Xan manages to turn the immobile motorcycle into a desert sailboat out of a parachute from the plane wreck, and Xan, Rip and Duma are on their way again, until they encounter the untraversable scrub brush of the Kalahari Desert and must abandon the motorcycle. While trying to find shelter, Rip is trapped in an abandoned diamond mine by a cave in, and Xan decides to leave him, as he suspects that he has been leading him to town instead of the jungle to sell Duma and collect a reward for finding him. However, when Duma is caught in a trap and Xan is knocked unconscious by a boar, Rip rescues both of them, having escaped the mine through a ventilation shaft.\n\nSoon, they reach the Okavango Delta, where Xan is attacked by the deadly wildlife and the churning rapids of the Thamalakane River, but it's too late for him to turn back now. Xan, Rip and Duma press through the Okavango, and finally the Erongo Mountains, on the border of Botswana and Namibia are in sight. However, once they get there, Xan is suddenly set upon by a swarm of tsetse flies. To protect him from their lethal bite, Rip huddles over Xan and is bitten by hundreds of flies. He soon develops sleeping sickness, and Xan takes him to a nearby village where he can be cared for; it is soon revealed that those taking care of him are actually his own family. Later that night, outside the village, Duma is out on his own and starts calling out into the mountains. Duma finds another cheetah calling to him, and they bond rather quickly. It is never explained whether this is another male cheetah, or is in fact one of Duma's siblings. Xan hears this activity, and realizes that this is where he and Duma must part. Xan says goodbye to Duma, and Duma comes to Xan and says a final goodbye, and goes back to play with his new friend. Then Xan goes back to the village to Rip. Before the credits, it shows Xan being reunited with his mother and the film ends.\n\n\nOn August 5, 2002, it was announced that Carroll Ballard was hired and set to direct \"Duma\" based on \"How It Was with Dooms\" by Carol Cawthra Hopcraft and Xan Hopcraft. Karen Janszen and Mark St. Germain wrote the script for the film. Stacy Cohen, E.K. Gaylord II, Kristin Harms, Hunt Lowry and John Wells produced the film with the budget of $12 million for release in 2005. On September 7, 2003, it was announced that Alexander Michaletos, Eamonn Walker, Campbell Scott and Hope Davis joined the film. On January 2, 2004, it was announced that John Debney would compose the music for the film. The final score was co-composed by John Debney and George Acogny.\n\nFilming of the film was completed in Botswana and South Africa. On 11 January, Warner Bros. Pictures, Gaylord Films and C.O.R.E. acquired distribution rights to the film. The film was shot mostly in South Africa, though some of the film is set in neighbouring Botswana. One of the five cheetahs that stars in the film resided in Kragga Kamma Game Park in Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, South Africa until its death in November 2011. There were five adult cheetahs: Anthony, Azaro, Nikita, Sasha, and Savannah, along with one Cheetah cub: Sheba. Duma is played by six different cheetahs. All orphaned or poached cheetahs themselves, they were hand-raised in different parts of Africa.\n\nGeorge Acogny and John Debney scored the music for the film. The film's soundtrack also contains “Rhaliweni (Railway)” performed by Sun Glen, “Share It With Me” written and performed by Ayub Ogada and Ishmael Pamphille, “A Cup of Coffee, a Sandwich and You” written by Joseph Meyer, Billy Rose and Al Dubin, “Breakfast” written by Carl Stalling, “Kaboyi, Kaboyi (Woodpecker)” performed by Nana, “Just Having a Party” performed by the Fabulous Fantoms, “Umlolozelo A Lullaby” performed by Neo Muyanga and Brother Clement Sithole, “When You're Falling” performed by Afro Celt Sound System (as The Afro Celt Sound System) with Peter Gabriel and “Into the Light” performed by the World Beaters and Ayub Ogada.\n\nDuma (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) is the film's soundtrack album and film score made by Various artists, George Acogny and John Debney and it was released on November 8, 2005 by Varèse Sarabande. None of the first 9 songs below are on the Varese Sarabande release.\n\n\n\"Duma\" had tested badly and Warner Bros. planned to not release this film in the United States theatrically, but Scott Foundas wrote a rave review for the film in \"Variety\" and it led Warner Bros to reconsider. Warner Bros. finally gave \"Duma\" a limited theatrical release in the US.\n\n\"Duma\" went on receiving very positive reviews from critics; the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 93% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 61 reviews; Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 82 out of 100, based on 21 reviews.\n\nThe film made $870,067 at the North American box office and $124,723 in other territories, making its worldwide box office total $994,790, making it a failure at the box office.\n\n\"Duma\" was released on DVD on May 16, 2006 by Warner Bros. Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944644", "title": "Arnulf Øverland", "text": "Arnulf Øverland\n\nOle Peter Arnulf Øverland (27 April 1889 – 25 March 1968) was a Norwegian poet and artist. He is principally known for his poetry which served to inspire the Norwegian resistance movement during the German occupation of Norway during World War II.\nØverland was born in Kristiansund and raised in Bergen. His parents were Peter Anton Øverland (1852–1906) and Hanna Hage (1854–1939).\nThe early death of his father, left the family economically stressed. He was able to attend Bergen Cathedral School and in 1904 Kristiania Cathedral School. He graduated in 1907 and for a time studied philology at University of Kristiania.\n\nØverland published his first collection of poems (1911). Øverland became a communist sympathizer from the early 1920s and became a member of Mot Dag. He also served as chairman of the Norwegian Students' Society 1923–28. He changed his stand in 1937, partly as an expression of dissent against the ongoing Moscow Trials. He was an avid opponent of Nazism and in 1936 he wrote the poem \"Du må ikke sove\" which was printed in the journal \"Samtiden\". It ends with . (\"I thought:: Something is imminent . Our era is over – Europe’s on fire!\"). Probably the most famous line of the poem is (\"You mustn't endure so well the injustice that doesn't affect you yourself!\")\n\nDuring the German occupation of Norway from 1940 in World War II, he wrote to inspire the Norwegian resistance movement. He wrote a series of poems which were clandestinely distributed, leading to the arrest of both him and his future wife Margrete Aamot Øverland in 1941. Arnulf Øverland was held first in the prison camp of Grini before being transferred to Sachsenhausen concentration camp in Germany. He spent a four-year imprisonment until the liberation of Norway in 1945. His poems were later collected in \"Vi overlever alt\" and published in 1945.\n\nØverland played an important role in the Norwegian language struggle in the post-war era. He became a noted supporter for the conservative written form of Norwegian called \"Riksmål\", he was president of \"Riksmålsforbundet\" (an organization in support of Riksmål) from 1947 to 1956. In addition, Øverland adhered to the traditionalist style of writing, criticising modernist poetry on several occasions. His speech \"Tungetale fra parnasset\", published in \"Arbeiderbladet\" in 1954, initiated the so-called \"Glossolalia debate\".\n\nIn 1918 he had married singer Hildur Arntzen (1888-1957). Their marriage was dissolved in 1939. In 1940, he married Bartholine Eufemia Leganger (1903-1995). They separated shortly after, and were officially divorced in 1945. Øverland was married to journalist Margrete Aamot Øverland (1913-1978) during June 1945.\nIn 1946, the Norwegian Parliament arranged for Arnulf and Margrete Aamot Øverland to reside at the Grotten. He lived there until his death in 1968 and she lived there for another ten years until her death in 1978.\nArnulf Øverland was buried at Vår Frelsers Gravlund in Oslo. Joseph Grimeland designed the bust of Arnulf Øverland (bronze, 1970)\nat his grave site.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944669", "title": "John Traicos", "text": "John Traicos\n\nAthanasios John Traicos (born 17 May 1947) is a former cricketer who represented South Africa and Zimbabwe at international level. He was primarily an off spin bowler, and is one of a small number of cricketers to have played at the highest level for more than one country.\n\nTraicos was born in Zagazig, Egypt in 1947 where his father Tryphon worked in the family business. He is of Greek descent, his father having been born in Lemnos, Greece and his maternal grandmother in Kalymnos. In September 1948 the family moved to what was then Fort Victoria in Southern Rhodesia. As a child he was known as \"Naso\", a contraction of his name \"Athanasios\", but when he started university he adopted the name \"John\".\n\nIn 1997, Traicos and his family moved to Australia as a result of political instability in Zimbabwe and settled in Perth. His elder daughter Chloe is an actress, film director and screenwriter and his younger daughter Catherine is a singer-songwriter.\n\nTraicos grew up in Rhodesia and played for that country, which at the time was regarded as a \"province\" within the South African domestic cricket setup. While a student at the University of Natal he benefited from being coached by Trevor Goddard making his first-class debut on 24 June 1967 when he represented South African Universities against Cambridge University, taking 5–54 in the first innings. He represented the South African Universities team on two more occasions before making his Rhodesia debut on 27 January 1968.\n\nHe made his Test match debut for South Africa against Australia at Durban in February 1970 while still a student, having been selected at the request of the South African captain Ali Bacher. He took four catches and three wickets in his debut Test. However, after his three appearances in this series, South Africa were banned from international cricket because of apartheid.\n\nTraicos continued to play for Rhodesia, and after the country was renamed in 1980 represented Zimbabwe in the 1982, 1986 and 1990 ICC Trophy tournaments. He also played for Zimbabwe in the 1983 Cricket World Cup, and was an important part of the side which inflicted a shock defeat on Australia. He captained the side for Zimbabwe's six matches at the 1987 World Cup, and also played at the 1992 World Cup.\n\nZimbabwe were raised to Test status in 1992, and Traicos was selected for the country's inaugural Test match, at Harare Sports Club against India. This appearance came a record 22 years and 222 days after his previous Test appearance, and he repaid the selectors' decision with his best Test bowling figures of 5/86. He played three more Tests for Zimbabwe, and his final appearance came at the age of 45 years and 304 days, making him the oldest Test player since Miran Bux 38 years earlier, and the twelfth oldest of all time. He would have been even further up the list had he been available for selection for the following year's tour of Pakistan, but Traicos' business commitments prevented this.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944674", "title": "John Brockman (literary agent)", "text": "John Brockman (literary agent)\n\nJohn Brockman (born February 16, 1941) is a literary agent and author specializing in scientific literature. He founded the Edge Foundation, an organization aimed to bring together people working at the edge of a broad range of scientific and technical fields. \n\nBrockman was born to immigrants of Polish-Jewish descent in a poor Irish Catholic enclave of Boston, Massachusetts. Referencing C.P. Snow's \"two cultures\", he introduced the \"third culture\" consisting of \"those scientists and other thinkers in the empirical world who, through their work and expository writing, are taking the place of the traditional intellectual in rendering visible the deeper meanings of our lives, redefining who and what we are.\" \n\nHe led a scientific salon for 20 years, asking a question to a host of renowned scientists every year and publishing their answers in book form, which he decided to symbolically close down in 2018.\n\nHe is an editor of Edge.org.\n\nIn 2019 it was suggested that Brockman was the “intellectual enabler” of Jeffrey Epstein, the financier who died awaiting trial on charges of sex trafficking girls, who kept Brockman’s Edge Foundation on a retainer fee.\n\nBrockman's famous literary dinners—held during the TED Conference—allowed Epstein to mingle with scientists, startup icons and other tech billionaires.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944675", "title": "Educational technology", "text": "Educational technology\n\nEducational technology (commonly abbreviated as Edutech, EduTech, or EdTech) is the combined use of computer hardware, software, and educational theory and practice to facilitate learning. Educational technology creates, uses, and manages technological processes and educational resources to help improve user academic performance. The field has been described as a persisting initiative that seeks to bring learners, teacher, and technical means together in an effective way.\n\nIn addition to experiential knowledge drawn from educational practice, educational technology is based on theoretical knowledge that emerges from various disciplines such as communication, education, psychology, sociology, artificial intelligence, and computer science, among others. It encompasses several domains including learning theory, computer-based training, online learning, and m-learning, where mobile technologies are used. \n\nThe Association for Educational Communications and Technology (AECT) defined educational technology as \"the study and ethical practice of facilitating learning and improving performance by creating, using and managing appropriate technological processes and resources\". It denoted instructional technology as \"the theory and practice of design, development, utilization, management, and evaluation of processes and resources for learning\". As such, educational technology refers to all valid and reliable applied education sciences, such as equipment, as well as processes and procedures that are derived from scientific research, and in a given context may refer to theoretical, algorithmic or heuristic processes: it does not necessarily imply physical technology. Educational technology is the process of integrating technology into education in a positive manner that promotes a more diverse learning environment and a way for students to learn how to use technology as well as their common assignments.\n\nAccordingly, there are several discrete aspects to describing the intellectual and technical development of educational technology:\n\n\nEducational technology is an inclusive term for both the material tools and the theoretical foundations for supporting learning and teaching. Educational technology is not restricted to high technology but is anything that enhances classroom learning in the utilization of blended, face to face, or online learning.\n\nAn educational technologist is someone who is trained in the field of educational technology. Educational technologists try to analyze, design, develop, implement, and evaluate process and tools to enhance learning. While the term \"educational technologist\" is used primarily in the United States, \"learning technologist\" is synonymous and used in the UK as well as Canada.\n\nModern electronic educational technology is an important part of society today. Educational technology encompasses e-learning, instructional technology, information and communication technology (ICT) in education, EdTech, learning technology, multimedia learning, technology-enhanced learning (TEL), computer-based instruction (CBI), computer managed instruction, computer-based training (CBT), computer-assisted instruction or computer-aided instruction (CAI), internet-based training (IBT), flexible learning, web-based training (WBT), online education, digital educational collaboration, distributed learning, computer-mediated communication, cyber-learning, and multi-modal instruction, virtual education, personal learning environments, networked learning, virtual learning environments (VLE) (which are also called learning platforms), m-learning, ubiquitous learning and digital education.\n\nEach of these numerous terms has had its advocates, who point up potential distinctive features. However, many terms and concepts in educational technology have been defined nebulously; for example, Fiedler's review of the literature found a complete lack agreement of the components of a personal learning environment. Moreover, Moore saw these terminologies as emphasizing particular features such as digitization approaches, components or delivery methods rather than being fundamentally dissimilar in concept or principle. For example, m-learning \"emphasizes\" mobility, which allows for altered timing, location, accessibility and context of learning; nevertheless, its purpose and conceptual \"principles\" are those of educational technology.\n\nIn practice, as technology has advanced, the particular \"narrowly defined\" terminological aspect that was initially emphasized by name has blended into the general field of educational technology. Initially, \"virtual learning\" as narrowly defined in a semantic sense implied entering an environmental simulation within a virtual world, for example in treating posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In practice, a \"virtual education course\" refers to any instructional course in which all, or at least a significant portion, is delivered by the Internet. \"Virtual\" is used in that broader way to describe a course that is not taught in a classroom face-to-face but through a substitute mode that can conceptually be associated \"virtually\" with classroom teaching, which means that people do not have to go to the physical classroom to learn. Accordingly, virtual education refers to a form of distance learning in which course content is delivered by various methods such as course management applications, multimedia resources, and videoconferencing. Virtual education and simulated learning opportunities, such as games or dissections, offer opportunities for students to connect classroom content to authentic situations.\n\nEducational content, pervasively embedded in objects, is all around the learner, who may not even be conscious of the learning process.<ref name=\"Teaching English as a Second/Foreign Language in a Ubiquitous Learning Environment: A Guide for ESL/EFL Instructors\"></ref> The combination of adaptive learning, using an individualized interface and materials, which accommodate to an individual, who thus receives personally differentiated instruction, with ubiquitous access to digital resources and learning opportunities in a range of places and at various times, has been termed smart learning. Smart learning is a component of the smart city concept.\n\nHelping people and children learn in ways that are easier, faster, more accurate, or less expensive can be traced back to the emergence of very early tools, such as paintings on cave walls. Various types of abacus have been used. Writing slates and blackboards have been used for at least a millennium. From their introduction, books and pamphlets have held a prominent role in education. From the early twentieth century, duplicating machines such as the mimeograph and Gestetner stencil devices were used to produce short copy runs (typically 10–50 copies) for classroom or home use. The use of media for instructional purposes is generally traced back to the first decade of the 20th century with the introduction of educational films (1900s) and Sidney Pressey's mechanical teaching machines (1920s). The first all multiple choice, large-scale assessment was the Army Alpha, used to assess the intelligence and, more specifically, the aptitudes of World War I military recruits. Further large-scale use of technologies was employed in training soldiers during and after WWII using films and other mediated materials, such as overhead projectors. The concept of hypertext is traced to the description of memex by Vannevar Bush in 1945.\nSlide projectors were widely used during the 1950s in educational institutional settings. Cuisenaire rods were devised in the 1920s and saw widespread use from the late 1950s.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Stanford University psychology professors, Patrick Suppes and Richard C. Atkinson, experimented with using computers to teach arithmetic and spelling via Teletypes to elementary school students in the Palo Alto Unified School District in California. Stanford's Education Program for Gifted Youth is descended from those early experiments.\n\nOnline education originated from the University of Illinois in 1960. Although the internet would not be created for another nine years, students were able to access class information with linked computer terminals. The first online course was offered in 1986 by the Electronic University Network for DOS and Commodore 64 computers. Computer Assisted Learning eventually offered the first online courses with real interaction. In 2002, MIT began providing online classes free of charge. , approximately 5.5 million students were taking at least one class online. Currently, one out of three college students takes at least one online course while in college. At DeVry University, out of all students that are earning a bachelor's degree, 80% earn two-thirds of their requirements online. Also, in 2014, 2.85 million students out of 5.8 million students that took courses online, took all of their courses online. From this information, it can be concluded that the number of students taking classes online is on the steady increase.\nIn 1971, Ivan Illich published a hugely influential book called, Deschooling Society, in which he envisioned \"learning webs\" as a model for people to network the learning they needed. The 1970s and 1980s saw notable contributions in computer-based learning by Murray Turoff and Starr Roxanne Hiltz at the New Jersey Institute of Technology as well as developments at the University of Guelph in Canada. In the UK, the Council for Educational Technology supported the use of educational technology, in particular administering the government's National Development Programme in Computer Aided Learning (1973–77) and the Microelectronics Education Programme (1980–86).\n\nBy the mid-1980s, accessing course content became possible at many college libraries. In computer-based training (CBT) or computer-based learning (CBL), the learning interaction was between the student and computer drills or micro-world simulations.\n\nDigitized communication and networking in education started in the mid-1980s. Educational institutions began to take advantage of the new medium by offering distance learning courses using computer networking for information. Early e-learning systems, based on computer-based learning/training often replicated autocratic teaching styles whereby the role of the e-learning system was assumed to be for transferring knowledge, as opposed to systems developed later based on computer supported collaborative learning (CSCL), which encouraged the shared development of knowledge.\n\nVideoconferencing was an important forerunner to the educational technologies known today. This work was especially popular with museum education. Even in recent years, videoconferencing has risen in popularity to reach over 20,000 students across the United States and Canada in 2008–2009. Disadvantages of this form of educational technology are readily apparent: image and sound quality is often grainy or pixelated; videoconferencing requires setting up a type of mini-television studio within the museum for broadcast, space becomes an issue, and specialised equipment is required for both the provider and the participant.\n\nThe Open University in Britain and the University of British Columbia (where Web CT, now incorporated into Blackboard Inc., was first developed) began a revolution of using the Internet to deliver learning, making heavy use of web-based training, online distance learning and online discussion between students. Practitioners such as Harasim (1995) put heavy emphasis on the use of learning networks.\n\nWith the advent of World Wide Web in the 1990s, teachers embarked on the method using emerging technologies to employ multi-object oriented sites, which are text-based online virtual reality systems, to create course websites along with simple sets of instructions for its students.\n\nBy 1994, the first online high school had been founded. In 1997, Graziadei described criteria for evaluating products and developing technology-based courses that include being portable, replicable, scalable, affordable, and having a high probability of long-term cost-effectiveness.\n\nImproved Internet functionality enabled new schemes of communication with multimedia or webcams. The National Center for Education Statistics estimate the number of K-12 students enrolled in online distance learning programs increased by 65 percent from 2002 to 2005, with greater flexibility, ease of communication between teacher and student, and quick lecture and assignment feedback.\n\nAccording to a 2008 study conducted by the U.S Department of Education, during the 2006–2007 academic year about 66% of postsecondary public and private schools participating in student financial aid programs offered some distance learning courses; records show 77% of enrollment in for-credit courses with an online component. In 2008, the Council of Europe passed a statement endorsing e-learning's potential to drive equality and education improvements across the EU.\n\nComputer-mediated communication (CMC) is between learners and instructors, mediated by the computer. In contrast, CBT/CBL usually means individualized (self-study) learning, while CMC involves educator/tutor facilitation and requires scenarization of flexible learning activities. In addition, modern ICT provides education with tools for sustaining learning communities and associated knowledge management tasks.\n\nStudents growing up in this digital age have extensive exposure to a variety of media. Major high-tech companies have funded schools to provide them the ability to teach their students through technology.\n\n2015 was the first year that private nonprofit organizations enrolled more online students than for-profits, although public universities still enrolled the highest number of online students. In the fall of 2015, more than 6 million students enrolled in at least one online course.\n\nIn 2020 due to Coronavirus outbreak many schools are closed and more and more students are enrolling in online courses to enforce distant learning. Organizations such as Unesco have listed educational technology solutions to help schools facilitate distance education..\n\nVarious pedagogical perspectives or learning theories may be considered in designing and interacting with educational technology. E-learning theory examines these approaches. These theoretical perspectives are grouped into three main theoretical schools or philosophical frameworks: behaviorism, cognitivism and constructivism.\n\nThis theoretical framework was developed in the early 20th century based on animal learning experiments by Ivan Pavlov, Edward Thorndike, Edward C. Tolman, Clark L. Hull, and B.F. Skinner. Many psychologists used these results to develop theories of human learning, but modern educators generally see behaviorism as one aspect of a holistic synthesis. Teaching in behaviorism has been linked to training, emphasizing the animal learning experiments. Since behaviorism consists of the view of teaching people how to do something with rewards and punishments, it is related to training people.\n\nB.F. Skinner wrote extensively on improvements of teaching based on his functional analysis of verbal behavior and wrote \"The Technology of Teaching\", an attempt to dispel the myths underlying contemporary education as well as promote his system he called programmed instruction. Ogden Lindsley developed a learning system, named Celeration, that was based on behavior analysis but that substantially differed from Keller's and Skinner's models.\n\nCognitive science underwent significant change in the 1960s and 1970s to the point that some described the period as a \"cognitive revolution\" particularly in reaction to behaviorism. While retaining the empirical framework of behaviorism, cognitive psychology theories look beyond behavior to explain brain-based learning by considering how human memory works to promote learning. It refers to learning as \"all processes by which the sensory input is transformed, reduced, elaborated, stored, recovered, and used\" by the human mind. The Atkinson-Shiffrin memory model and Baddeley's working memory model were established as theoretical frameworks. Computer Science and Information Technology have had a major influence on Cognitive Science theory. The Cognitive concepts of working memory (formerly known as short-term memory) and long-term memory have been facilitated by research and technology from the field of Computer Science. Another major influence on the field of Cognitive Science is Noam Chomsky. Today researchers are concentrating on topics like cognitive load, information processing, and media psychology. These theoretical perspectives influence instructional design.\n\nThere are two separate schools of cognitivism, and these are the cognitivist and social cognitivist. The former focuses on the understanding of the thinking or cognitive processes of an individual while the latter includes social processes as influences in learning besides cognition. These two schools, however, share the view that learning is more than a behavioral change but as a mental process used by the learner.\n\nEducational psychologists distinguish between several types of constructivism: individual (or psychological) constructivism, such as Piaget's theory of cognitive development, and social constructivism. This form of constructivism has a primary focus on how learners construct their own meaning from new information, as they interact with reality and with other learners who bring different perspectives. Constructivist learning environments require students to use their prior knowledge and experiences to formulate new, related, and/or adaptive concepts in learning (Termos, 2012). Under this framework the role of the teacher becomes that of a facilitator, providing guidance so that learners can construct their own knowledge. Constructivist educators must make sure that the prior learning experiences are appropriate and related to the concepts being taught. Jonassen (1997) suggests \"well-structured\" learning environments are useful for novice learners and that \"ill-structured\" environments are only useful for more advanced learners. Educators utilizing a constructivist perspective may emphasize an active learning environment that may incorporate learner centered problem-based learning, project-based learning, and inquiry-based learning, ideally involving real-world scenarios, in which students are actively engaged in critical thinking activities. An illustrative discussion and example can be found in the 1980s deployment of constructivist cognitive learning in computer literacy, which involved programming as an instrument of learning. \"LOGO\", a programming language, embodied an attempt to integrate Piagetan ideas with computers and technology. Initially there were broad, hopeful claims, including \"perhaps the most controversial claim\" that it would \"improve general problem-solving skills\" across disciplines. However, \"LOGO\" programming skills did not consistently yield cognitive benefits. It was \"not as concrete\" as advocates claimed, it privileged \"one form of reasoning over all others,\" and it was difficult to apply the thinking activity to non-\"LOGO\"-based activities. By the late 1980s, \"LOGO\" and other similar programming languages had lost their novelty and dominance and were gradually de-emphasized amid criticisms.\n\nThe extent to which e-learning assists or replaces other learning and teaching approaches is variable, ranging on a continuum from none to fully online distance learning. A variety of descriptive terms have been employed (somewhat inconsistently) to categorize the extent to which technology is used. For example, \"hybrid learning\" or \"blended learning\" may refer to classroom aids and laptops, or may refer to approaches in which traditional classroom time is reduced but not eliminated, and is replaced with some online learning. \"Distributed learning\" may describe either the e-learning component of a hybrid approach, or fully online distance learning environments.\n\nE-learning may either be synchronous or asynchronous. Synchronous learning occurs in real-time, with all participants interacting at the same time, while asynchronous learning is self-paced and allows participants to engage in the exchange of ideas or information without the dependency of other participants′ involvement at the same time.\n\nSynchronous learning refers to the exchange of ideas and information with one or more participants during the same period. Examples are face-to-face discussion, online real-time live teacher instruction and feedback, Skype conversations, and chat rooms or virtual classrooms where everyone is online and working collaboratively at the same time. Since students are working collaboratively, synchronized learning helps students become more open-minded because they have to actively listen and learn from their peers. Synchronized learning fosters online awareness and improves many students' writing skills.\n\nAsynchronous learning may use technologies such as learning management systems, email, blogs, wikis, and discussion boards, as well as web-supported textbooks, hypertext documents, audio video courses, and social networking using web 2.0. At the professional educational level, training may include virtual operating rooms. Asynchronous learning is beneficial for students who have health problems or who have child care responsibilities. They have the opportunity to complete their work in a low-stress environment and within a more flexible time frame. In \"asynchronous\" online courses, students are allowed the freedom to complete work at their own pace. Being a non-traditional student, they can manage their daily life and school with and still have the social aspect. Asynchronous collaborations allow the student to reach out for help when needed and provides helpful guidance, depending on how long it takes them to complete the assignment. Many tools used for these courses are but not limited to: videos, class discussions, and group projects. Through online courses, students can earn their diplomas faster, or repeat failed courses without being in a class with younger students. Students have access to an incredible variety of enrichment courses in online learning, and still participate in college courses, internships, sports, or work and still graduate with their class.\n\nComputer-based training (CBT) refers to self-paced learning activities delivered on a computer or handheld device such as a tablet or smartphone. CBT initially delivered content via CD-ROM, and typically presented content linearly, much like reading an online book or manual. For this reason, CBT is often used to teach static processes, such as using software or completing mathematical equations. Computer-based training is conceptually similar to web-based training (WBT), which is delivered via Internet using a web browser.\n\nAssessing learning in a CBT is often by assessments that can be easily scored by a computer such as multiple-choice questions, drag-and-drop, radio button, simulation or other interactive means. Assessments are easily scored and recorded via online software, providing immediate end-user feedback and completion status. Users are often able to print completion records in the form of certificates.\n\nCBTs provide learning stimulus beyond traditional learning methodology from textbook, manual, or classroom-based instruction. CBTs can be a good alternative to printed learning materials since rich media, including videos or animations, can be embedded to enhance the learning.\n\nHelp, CBTs pose some learning challenges. Typically, the creation of effective CBTs requires enormous resources. The software for developing CBTs is often more complex than a subject matter expert or teacher is able to use. The lack of human interaction can limit both the type of content that can be presented and the type of assessment that can be performed and may need supplementation with online discussion or other interactive elements.\n\nComputer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) uses instructional methods designed to encourage or require students to work together on learning tasks, allowing social learning. CSCL is similar in concept to the terminology, \"e-learning 2.0\" and \"networked collaborative learning\" (NCL). With Web 2.0 advances, sharing information between multiple people in a network has become much easier and use has increased. One of the main reasons for its usage states that it is \"a breeding ground for creative and engaging educational endeavors.\" Learning takes place through conversations about content and grounded interaction about problems and actions. This collaborative learning differs from instruction in which the instructor is the principal source of knowledge and skills. The neologism \"e-learning 1.0\" refers to direct instruction used in early computer-based learning and training systems (CBL). In contrast to that linear delivery of content, often directly from the instructor's material, CSCL uses social software such as blogs, social media, wikis, podcasts, cloud-based document portals, and discussion groups and virtual worlds. This phenomenon has been referred to as Long Tail Learning. Advocates of social learning claim that one of the best ways to learn something is to teach it to others. Social networks have been used to foster online learning communities around subjects as diverse as test preparation and language education. mobile-assisted language learning (MALL) is the use of handheld computers or cell phones to assist in language learning.\n\nCollaborative apps allow students and teachers to interact while studying. Apps are designed after games, which provide a fun way to revise. When the experience is enjoyable, the students become more engaged. Games also usually come with a sense of progression, which can help keep students motivated and consistent while trying to improve.\n\nClassroom 2.0 refers to online multi-user virtual environments (MUVEs) that connect schools across geographical frontiers. Known as \"eTwinning\", computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) allows learners in one school to communicate with learners in another that they would not get to know otherwise, enhancing educational outcomes and cultural integration.\n\nFurther, many researchers distinguish between collaborative and cooperative approaches to group learning. For example, Roschelle and Teasley (1995) argue that \"cooperation is accomplished by the division of labour among participants, as an activity where each person is responsible for a portion of the problem solving\", in contrast with collaboration that involves the \"mutual engagement of participants in a coordinated effort to solve the problem together.\"\n\nThis is an instructional strategy in which computer-assisted teaching is integrated with classroom instruction. Students are given basic essential instruction, such as lectures, before class instead of during class. Instructional content is delivered outside of the classroom, often online. The out-of-class delivery includes streaming video, reading materials, online chats, and other resources. This frees up classroom time for teachers to more actively engage with learners.\n\nEducational media and tools can be used for:\n\nNumerous types of physical technology are currently used: digital cameras, video cameras, interactive whiteboard tools, document cameras, electronic media, and LCD projectors. Combinations of these techniques include blogs, collaborative software, ePortfolios, and virtual classrooms.\n\nThe current design of this type of applications includes the evaluation through tools of cognitive analysis that allow to identify which elements optimize the use of these platforms. \nVideo technology has included VHS tapes and DVDs, as well as on-demand and synchronous methods with digital video via server or web-based options such as streamed video and webcams. Telecommuting can connect with speakers and other experts. Interactive digital video games are being used at K-12 and higher education institutions.\n\nRadio offers a synchronous educational vehicle, while streaming audio over the internet with webcasts and podcasts can be asynchronous. Classroom microphones, often wireless, can enable learners and educators to interact more clearly.\n\nScreencasting allows users to share their screens directly from their browser and make the video available online so that other viewers can stream the video directly. The presenter thus has the ability to show their ideas and flow of thoughts rather than simply explain them as simple text content. In combination with audio and video, the educator can mimic the one-on-one experience of the classroom. Learners have the ability to pause and rewind, to review at their own pace, something a classroom cannot always offer.\n\nWebcams and webcasting have enabled creation of virtual classrooms and virtual learning environment. Webcams are also being used to counter plagiarism and other forms of academic dishonesty that might occur in an e-learning environment.\n\nCollaborative learning is a group-based learning approach in which learners are mutually engaged in a coordinated fashion to achieve a learning goal or complete a learning task. With recent developments in smartphone technology, the processing powers and storage capabilities of modern mobiles allow for advanced development and use of apps. Many app developers and education experts have been exploring smartphone and tablet apps as a medium for collaborative learning.\n\nComputers and tablets enable learners and educators to access websites as well as applications. Many mobile devices support m-learning.\n\nMobile devices such as clickers and smartphones can be used for interactive audience response feedback. Mobile learning can provide performance support for checking the time, setting reminders, retrieving worksheets, and instruction manuals.\n\nSuch devices as iPads are used for helping disabled (visually impaired or with multiple disabilities) children in communication development as well as in improving physiological activity, according to the iStimulation Practice Report.\n\nComputers in the classroom have been shown to increase rates of engagement and interest when computers and smart devices are utilized educationally in classrooms.\n\nGroup webpages, blogs, wikis, and Twitter allow learners and educators to post thoughts, ideas, and comments on a website in an interactive learning environment. Social networking sites are virtual communities for people interested in a particular subject to communicate by voice, chat, instant message, video conference, or blogs. The National School Boards Association found that 96% of students with online access have used social networking technologies, and more than 50% talk online about schoolwork. Social networking encourages collaboration and engagement and can be a motivational tool for self-efficacy amongst students.\n\nThere are three types of whiteboards. The initial whiteboards, analogous to blackboards, date from the late 1950s. The term whiteboard is also used metaphorically to refer to virtual whiteboards in which computer software applications simulate whiteboards by allowing writing or drawing. This is a common feature of groupware for virtual meetings, collaboration, and instant messaging. Interactive whiteboards allow learners and instructors to write on the touch screen. The screen markup can be on either a blank whiteboard or any computer screen content. Depending on permission settings, this visual learning can be interactive and participatory, including writing and manipulating images on the interactive whiteboard.\n\nA virtual learning environment (VLE), also known as a learning platform, simulates a virtual classroom or meetings by simultaneously mixing several communication technologies. Web conferencing software enables students and instructors to communicate with each other via webcam, microphone, and real-time chatting in a group setting. Participants can raise hands, answer polls or take tests. Students are able to whiteboard and screencast when given rights by the instructor, who sets permission levels for text notes, microphone rights and mouse control.\n\nA virtual classroom provides an opportunity for students to receive direct instruction from a qualified teacher in an interactive environment. Learners can have direct and immediate access to their instructor for instant feedback and direction. The virtual classroom provides a structured schedule of classes, which can be helpful for students who may find the freedom of asynchronous learning to be overwhelming. In addition, the virtual classroom provides a social learning environment that replicates the traditional \"brick and mortar\" classroom. Most virtual classroom applications provide a recording feature. Each class is recorded and stored on a server, which allows for instant playback of any class over the course of the school year. This can be extremely useful for students to retrieve missed material or review concepts for an upcoming exam. Parents and auditors have the conceptual ability to monitor any classroom to ensure that they are satisfied with the education the learner is receiving.\n\nIn higher education especially, a virtual learning environment (VLE) is sometimes combined with a management information system (MIS) to create a managed learning environment, in which all aspects of a course are handled through a consistent user interface throughout the institution. Physical universities and newer online-only colleges offer select academic degrees and certificate programs via the Internet. Some programs require students to attend some campus classes or orientations, but many are delivered completely online. Several universities offer online student support services, such as online advising and registration, e-counseling, online textbook purchases, student governments and student newspapers.\n\nAugmented reality (AR) provides students and teachers with the opportunity to create layers of digital information, including both virtual world and real world elements, to interact with in real time.\n\nAR technology plays an important role in the future of the classroom where human / AI co-orchestration takes place seamlessly. Students would switch between individual and collaborative learning dynamically, based on their own learning pace, while teachers, with the help of AR, monitor the classroom and provide necessary interventions in cases where computer systems are not yet designed to handle. In this vision, the technology's role is to enhance, rather than replace, human teachers' capabilities.\n\nA learning management system (LMS) is software used for delivering, tracking and managing training and education. It tracks data about attendance, time on task, and student progress. Educators can post announcements, grade assignments, check on course activity, and participate in class discussions. Students can submit their work, read and respond to discussion questions, and take quizzes. An LMS may allow teachers, administrators, students, and permitted additional parties (such as parents, if appropriate) to track various metrics. LMSs range from systems for managing training/educational records to software for distributing courses over the Internet and offering features for online collaboration. The creation and maintenance of comprehensive learning content require substantial initial and ongoing investments of human labor. Effective translation into other languages and cultural contexts requires even more investment by knowledgeable personnel.\n\nInternet-based learning management systems include Canvas, Blackboard Inc. and Moodle. These types of LMS allow educators to run a learning system partially or fully online, asynchronously or synchronously. Learning Management Systems also offer a non-linear presentation of content and curricular goals, giving students the choice of pace and order of information learned. Blackboard can be used for K-12 education, Higher Education, Business, and Government collaboration. Moodle is a free-to-download Open Source Course Management System that provides blended learning opportunities as well as platforms for distance learning courses. Eliademy is a free cloud-based Course Management System that provides blended learning opportunities as well as platforms for distance learning courses.\n\nA learning content management system (LCMS) is software for author content (courses, reusable content objects). An LCMS may be solely dedicated to producing and publishing content that is hosted on an LMS, or it can host the content itself. The Aviation Industry Computer-Based Training Committee (AICC) specification provides support for content that is hosted separately from the LMS.\n\nA recent trend in LCMSs is to address this issue through crowdsourcing (cf.SlideWiki).\n\nComputer-aided assessment (e-assessment) ranges from automated multiple-choice tests to more sophisticated systems. With some systems, feedback can be geared towards a student's specific mistakes, or the computer can navigate the student through a series of questions adapting to what the student appears to have learned or not learned. Formative assessment sifts out the incorrect answers, and these questions are then explained by the teacher. The learner then practices with slight variations of the sifted out questions. The process is completed by summative assessment using a new set of questions that only cover the topics previously taught.\n\nA training management system or training resource management system is a software designed to optimize instructor-led training management. Similar to an enterprise resource planning (ERP), it is a back office tool which aims at streamlining every aspect of the training process: planning (training plan and budget forecasting), logistics (scheduling and resource management), financials (cost tracking, profitability), reporting, and sales for-profit training providers. A training management system can be used to schedule instructors, venues and equipment through graphical agendas, optimize resource utilization, create a training plan and track remaining budgets, generate reports and share data between different teams.\n\nWhile training management systems focus on managing instructor-led training, they can complete an LMS. In this situation, an LMS will manage e-learning delivery and assessment, while a training management system will manage ILT and back-office budget planning, logistics and reporting.\n\nContent and design architecture issues include pedagogy and learning object re-use. One approach looks at five aspects:\n\nPedagogical elements are defined as structures or units of educational material. They are the educational content that is to be delivered. These units are independent of format, meaning that although the unit may be delivered in various ways, the pedagogical structures themselves are not the textbook, web page, video conference, Podcast, lesson, assignment, multiple-choice question, quiz, discussion group or a case study, all of which are possible methods of delivery.\n\nMuch effort has been put into the technical reuse of electronically based teaching materials and, in particular, creating or re-using learning objects. These are self-contained units that are properly tagged with keywords, or other metadata, and often stored in an XML file format. Creating a course requires putting together a sequence of learning objects. There are both proprietary and open, non-commercial and commercial, peer-reviewed repositories of learning objects such as the Merlot repository. Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) is a collection of standards and specifications that applies to certain web-based e-learning. Other specifications, such as Schools Interoperability Framework, allow for the transporting of learning objects, or for categorizing metadata (LOM).\n\nAs artificial intelligence (AI) becomes more prominent in this age of big data, it has also been widely adopted in K-12 classrooms. One prominent class of AI-enhanced educational technology is intelligent tutoring systems (ITSs), designed to provide immediate and personalized feedbacks to students. The incentive to develop ITS comes from educational studies showing that individual tutoring is much more effective than group teaching, in addition to the need for promoting learning on a larger scale. Over the years, a combination of cognitive science theories and data-driven techniques have greatly enhanced the capabilities of ITS, allowing it to model a wide range of students' characteristics, such as knowledge, affect, off-task behavior and wheel spinning. There is ample evidence that ITSs are highly effective in helping students learn.\n\nRecent works have also focused on developing AI-enhanced learning tools that supports human teachers in coordinating classroom activities. The teacher can support students in a way that AI cannot, but is unable to process the large amount of real-time data analytics provided by the computer system. On the other hand, AI can share the workload and recommend the best course of actions (e.g., by pointing out which students require the most help), but can only operate in the pre-specified domain and cannot handle tasks such as providing emotional support or remedial lessons to students in need. However, existing systems were designed under the assumption that students progress at the same pace. Understanding how to support teachers in a realistic, highly differentiated, self-paced classroom, remains an open research problem.\n\nVarious forms of electronic media can be a feature of preschool life. Although parents report a positive experience, the impact of such use has not been systematically assessed.\n\nThe age when a given child might start using a particular technology such as a cellphone or computer might depend on matching a technological resource to the recipient's developmental capabilities, such as the age-anticipated stages labeled by Swiss psychologist, Jean Piaget. Parameters, such as age-appropriateness, coherence with sought-after values, and concurrent entertainment and educational aspects, have been suggested for choosing media.\n\nAt the preschool level, technology can be introduced in several ways. At the most basic is the use of computers, tablets, and audio and video resources in classrooms. Additionally, there are many resources available for parents and educators to introduce technology to young children or to use technology to augment lessons and enhance learning. Some options that are age-appropriate are video- or audio- recording of their creations, introducing them to the use of the internet through browsing age-appropriate websites, providing assistive technology to allow differently-abled children to participate with the rest of their peers, educational apps, electronic books, and educational videos. There are many free and paid educational website and apps that are directly targeting the educational needs of preschool children. These include Starfall, ABC mouse, PBS Kids Video, Teachme, and Montessori crosswords. Educational technology in the form of electronic books [109] offer preschool children the option to store and retrieve several books on one device, thus bringing together the traditional action of reading along with the use of educational technology. Educational technology is also thought to improve hand-eye coordination, language skills, visual attention and motivation to complete educational tasks, and allows children to experience things they otherwise wouldn't. There are several keys to making the most educational use out of introducing technology at the preschool level: technology must be used appropriately, should allow access to learning opportunities, should include the interaction of parents and other adults with the preschool children, and should be developmentally appropriate. Allowing access to learning opportunities especially for allowing disabled children to have access to learning opportunities, giving bilingual children the opportunity to communicate and learn in more than one language, bringing in more information about STEM subjects, and bringing in images of diversity that may be lacking in the child's immediate environment.\n\nE-learning is utilized by public K–12 schools in the United States as well as private schools. Some e-learning environments take place in a traditional classroom; others allow students to attend classes from home or other locations. There are several states that are utilizing virtual school platforms for e-learning across the country that continue to increase. Virtual school enables students to log into synchronous learning or asynchronous learning courses anywhere there is an internet connection.\n\nE-learning is increasingly being utilized by students who may not want to go to traditional brick and mortar schools due to severe allergies or other medical issues, fear of school violence and school bullying and students whose parents would like to homeschool but do not feel qualified. Online schools create a haven for students to receive a quality education while almost completely avoiding these common problems. Online charter schools also often are not limited by location, income level or class size in the way brick and mortar charter schools are.\n\nE-learning also has been rising as a supplement to the traditional classroom. Students with special talents or interests outside of the available curricula use e-learning to advance their skills or exceed grade restrictions. Some online institutions connect students with instructors via web conference technology to form a digital classroom.\n\nNational private schools are also available online. These provide the benefits of e-learning to students in states where charter online schools are not available. They also may allow students greater flexibility and exemption from state testing. Some of these schools are available at the high school level and offer college prep courses to students.\n\nVirtual education in K-12 schooling often refers to virtual schools, and in higher education to virtual universities. Virtual schools are \"cybercharter schools\" with innovative administrative models and course delivery technology.\n\nEducation technology also seems to be an interesting method of engaging gifted youths that are under-stimulated in their current educational program. This can be achieved with after-school programs or even technologically-integrated curricula, for example: Virtual reality integrated courses (VRIC) can be developed for any course in order to give them such stimulation. 3D printing integrated courses (3dPIC) can also give youths the stimulation they need in their educational journey. Université de Montréal's Projet SEUR in collaboration with Collège Mont-Royal and La Variable are heavily developing this field.\n\nOnline college course enrolment has seen a 29% increase in enrolment with nearly one third of all college students, or an estimated 6.7 million students are currently enrolled in online classes. In 2009, 44 percent of post-secondary students in the USA were taking some or all of their courses online, which was projected to rise to 81 percent by 2014.\n\nAlthough a large proportion of for-profit higher education institutions now offer online classes, only about half of private, non-profit schools do so. Private institutions may become more involved with on-line presentations as the costs decrease. Properly trained staff must also be hired to work with students online. These staff members need to understand the content area, and also be highly trained in the use of the computer and Internet. Online education is rapidly increasing, and online doctoral programs have even developed at leading research universities.\n\nAlthough massive open online courses (MOOCs) may have limitations that preclude them from fully replacing college education, such programs have significantly expanded. MIT, Stanford and Princeton University offer classes to a global audience, but not for college credit. University-level programs, like edX founded by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, offer wide range of disciplines at no charge, while others permit students to audit a course at no charge but require a small fee for accreditation. MOOCs have not had a significant impact on higher education and declined after the initial expansion, but are expected to remain in some form. Lately, MOOCs are used by smaller universities to profile themselves with highly specialized courses for special-interest audiences, as for example in a course on technological privacy compliance.\n\nMOOCs have been observed to lose the majority of their initial course participants. In a study performed by Cornell and Stanford universities, student-drop-out rates from MOOCs have been attributed to student anonymity, the solitude of the learning experience and to the lack of interaction with peers and with teachers. Effective student engagement measures that reduce drop-outs are forum interactions and virtual teacher or teaching assistant presence - measures which induce staff cost that grows with the number of participating students.\n\nE-learning is being used by companies to deliver mandatory compliance training and updates for regulatory compliance, soft skills and IT skills training, continuing professional development (CPD) and other valuable workplace skills. Companies with spread out distribution chains use e-learning for delivering information about the latest product developments. Most of corporate e-learning is asynchronous and delivered and managed via learning management systems. The big challenge in corporate e-learning is to engage the staff, especially on compliance topics for which periodic staff training is mandated by the law or regulations.\n\nThere is an important need for recent, reliable, and high-quality health information to be made available to the public as well as in summarized form for public health providers. Providers have indicated the need for automatic notification of the latest research, a single searchable portal of information, and access to grey literature. The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Library is funded by the U.S. Maternal and Child Health Bureau to screen the latest research and develop automatic notifications to providers through the MCH Alert. Another application in public health is the development of mHealth (use of mobile telecommunication and multimedia into global public health). MHealth has been used to promote prenatal and newborn services, with positive outcomes. In addition, \"Health systems have implemented mHealth programs to facilitate emergency medical responses, point-of-care support, health promotion and data collection.\"\nIn low and middle-income countries, mHealth is most frequently used as one-way text messages or phone reminders to promote treatment adherence and gather data.\n\nEffective technology use deploys multiple evidence-based strategies concurrently (e.g. adaptive content, frequent testing, immediate feedback, etc.), as do effective teachers. Using computers or other forms of technology can give students practice on core content and skills while the teacher can work with others, conduct assessments, or perform other tasks. Through the use of educational technology, education is able to be individualized for each student allowing for better differentiation and allowing students to work for mastery at their own pace.\n\nModern educational technology can improve access to education, including full degree programs. It enables better integration for non-full-time students, particularly in continuing education, and improved interactions between students and instructors. Learning material can be used for long-distance learning and are accessible to a wider audience. Course materials are easy to access. In 2010, 70.3% of American family households had access to the internet. In 2013, according to Canadian Radio Television and Telecommunications Commission Canada, 79% of homes have access to the internet. Students can access and engage with numerous online resources at home. Using online resources can help students spend more time on specific aspects of what they may be learning in school, but at home. Schools like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have made certain course materials free online. Although some aspects of a classroom setting are missed by using these resources, they are helpful tools to add additional support to the educational system. The necessity to pay for transport to the educational facility is removed.\n\nStudents appreciate the convenience of e-learning, but report greater engagement in face-to-face learning environments. Colleges and universities are working towards combating this issue by utilizing WEB 2.0 technologies as well as incorporating more mentorships between students and faculty members.\n\nAccording to James Kulik, who studies the effectiveness of computers used for instruction, students usually learn more in less time when receiving computer-based instruction, and they like classes more and develop more positive attitudes toward computers in computer-based classes. Students can independently solve problems. There are no intrinsic age-based restrictions on difficulty level, i.e. students can go at their own pace. Students editing their written work on word processors improve the quality of their writing. According to some studies, the students are better at critiquing and editing written work that is exchanged over a computer network with students they know. Studies completed in \"computer intensive\" settings found increases in student-centric, cooperative and higher-order learning, writing skills, problem solving, and using technology. In addition, attitudes toward technology as a learning tool by parents, students and teachers are also improved.\n\nEmployers' acceptance of online education has risen over time. More than 50% of human resource managers SHRM surveyed for an August 2010 report said that if two candidates with the same level of experience were applying for a job, it would not have any kind of effect whether the candidate's obtained degree was acquired through an online or a traditional school. Seventy-nine percent said they had employed a candidate with an online degree in the past 12 months. However, 66% said candidates who get degrees online were not seen as positively as a job applicant with traditional degrees.\n\nThe use of educational apps generally has a positive effect on learning. Pre- and post-tests have revealed that the use of educational apps on mobile devices reduces the achievement gap between struggling and average students. Some educational apps improve group work by allowing students to receive feedback on answers and promoting collaboration in solving problems. The benefits of app-assisted learning have been exhibited in all age groups. Kindergarten students that use iPads show much higher rates of literacy than non-users. Medical students at University of California Irvine that utilized iPad academically have been reported to score 23% higher on national exams than previous classes that did not.\n\nGlobally, factors like change management, technology obsolescence and vendor- developer partnership are major restraints that are hindering the growth of Educational technology market.\n\nIn US, state and the federal government increased funding, as well as private venture capital has been flowing into education sector. However, , none were looking at technology return on investment (ROI) to connect expenditures on technology with improved student outcomes.\n\nNew technologies are frequently accompanied by unrealistic hype and promise regarding their transformative power to change education for the better or in allowing better educational opportunities to reach the masses. Examples include silent film, broadcast radio, and television, none of which have maintained much of a foothold in the daily practices of mainstream, formal education. Technology, in and of itself, does not necessarily result in fundamental improvements to educational practice. The focus needs to be on the learner's interaction with technology—not the technology itself. It needs to be recognized as \"ecological\" rather than \"additive\" or \"subtractive\". In this ecological change, one significant change will create total change.\n\nAccording to Branford et al., \"technology does not guarantee effective learning,\" and inappropriate use of technology can even hinder it. A University of Washington study of infant vocabulary shows that it is slipping due to educational baby DVDs. Published in the \"Journal of Pediatrics\", a 2007 University of Washington study on the vocabulary of babies surveyed over 1,000 parents in Washington and Minnesota. The study found that for every one hour that babies 8–16 months of age watched DVDs and Videos, they knew 6-8 fewer of 90 common baby words than the babies that did not watch them. Andrew Meltzoff, a surveyor in this study, states that the result makes sense, that if the baby's \"alert time\" is spent in front of DVDs and TV, instead of with people speaking, the babies are not going to get the same linguistic experience. Dr. Dimitri Chistakis, another surveyor reported that the evidence is mounting that baby DVDs are of no value and may be harmful.\n\nAdaptive instructional materials tailor questions to each student's ability and calculate their scores, but this encourages students to work individually rather than socially or collaboratively (Kruse, 2013). Social relationships are important, but high-tech environments may compromise the balance of trust, care and respect between teacher and student.\n\nMassively open online courses (MOOCs), although quite popular in discussions of technology and education in developed countries (more so in the US), are not a major concern in most developing or low-income countries. One of the stated goals of MOOCs is to provide less fortunate populations (i.e., in developing countries) an opportunity to experience courses with US-style content and structure. However, research shows only 3% of the registrants are from low-income countries and although many courses have thousands of registered students only 5-10% of them complete the course. MOOCs also implies that certain curriculum and teaching methods are superior, and this could eventually wash over (or possibly washing out) local educational institutions, cultural norms and educational traditions.\n\nWith the Internet and social media, using educational apps makes the students highly susceptible to distraction and sidetracking. Even though proper use has shown to increase student performances, being distracted would be detrimental. Another disadvantage is an increased potential for cheating. Smartphones can be very easy to hide and use inconspicuously, especially if their use is normalized in the classroom. These disadvantages can be managed with strict rules and regulations on mobile phone use.\n\nElectronic devices such as cellphones and computers facilitate rapid access to a stream of sources, each of which may receive cursory attention. Michel Rich, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and executive director of the center on Media and Child Health in Boston, said of the digital generation, \"Their brains are rewarded not for staying on task, but for jumping to the next thing. The worry is we're raising a generation of kids in front of screens whose brains are going to be wired differently.\" Students have always faced distractions; computers and cellphones are a particular challenge because the stream of data can interfere with focusing and learning. Although these technologies affect adults too, young people may be more influenced by it as their developing brains can easily become habituated to switching tasks and become unaccustomed to sustaining attention. Too much information, coming too rapidly, can overwhelm thinking.\n\nTechnology is \"rapidly and profoundly altering our brains.\" High exposure levels stimulate brain cell alteration and release neurotransmitters, which causes the strengthening of some neural pathways and weakening of others. This leads to heightened stress levels on the brain that, at first, boost energy levels, but, over time, actually augment memory, impair cognition, lead to depression, alter the neural circuitry of the hippocampus, amygdala and prefrontal cortex. These are the brain regions that control mood and thought. If unchecked, the underlying structure of the brain could be altered. Over-stimulation due to technology may begin too young. When children are exposed before the age of seven, important developmental tasks may be delayed, and bad learning habits might develop, which \"deprives children of the exploration and play that they need to develop.\" Media psychology is an emerging specialty field that embraces electronic devices and the sensory behaviors occurring from the use of educational technology in learning.\n\nAccording to Lai, \"the learning environment is a complex system where the interplay and interactions of many things impact the outcome of learning.\" When technology is brought into an educational setting, the pedagogical setting changes in that technology-driven teaching can change the entire meaning of an activity without adequate research validation. If technology monopolizes an activity, students can begin to develop the sense that \"life would scarcely be thinkable without technology.\"\n\nLeo Marx considered the word \"technology\" itself as problematic, susceptible to reification and \"phantom objectivity\", which conceals its fundamental nature as something that is only valuable insofar as it benefits the human condition. Technology ultimately comes down to affecting the relations between people, but this notion is obfuscated when technology is treated as an abstract notion devoid of good and evil. Langdon Winner makes a similar point by arguing that the underdevelopment of the philosophy of technology leaves us with an overly simplistic reduction in our discourse to the supposedly dichotomous notions of the \"making\" versus the \"uses\" of new technologies and that a narrow focus on \"use\" leads us to believe that all technologies are neutral in moral standing. These critiques would have us ask not, \"How do we maximize the role or advancement of technology in education?\", but, rather, \"What are the social and human consequences of adopting any particular technology?\"\n\nWinner viewed technology as a \"form of life\" that not only aids human activity, but that also represents a powerful force in reshaping that activity and its meaning. For example, the use of robots in the industrial workplace may increase productivity, but they also radically change the process of production itself, thereby redefining what is meant by \"work\" in such a setting. In education, standardized testing has arguably redefined the notions of learning and assessment. We rarely explicitly reflect on how strange a notion it is that a number between, say, 0 and 100 could accurately reflect a person's knowledge about the world. According to Winner, the recurring patterns in everyday life tend to become an unconscious process that we learn to take for granted. Winner writes,\n\nBy far, the greatest latitude of choice exists the very first time a particular instrument, system, or technique is introduced. Because choices tend to become strongly fixed in material equipment, economic investment, and social habit, the original flexibility vanishes for all practical purposes once the initial commitments are made. In that sense, technological innovations are similar to legislative acts or political foundings that establish a framework for public order that will endure over many generations. (p. 29) \n\nWhen adopting new technologies, there may be one best chance to \"get it right.\" Seymour Papert (p. 32) points out a good example of a (bad) choice that has become strongly fixed in social habit and material equipment: our \"choice\" to use the QWERTY keyboard. The QWERTY arrangement of letters on the keyboard was originally chosen, not because it was the most efficient for typing, but because early typewriters were prone to jam when adjacent keys were struck in quick succession. Now that typing has become a digital process, this is no longer an issue, but the QWERTY arrangement lives on as a social habit, one that is very difficult to change.\n\nNeil Postman endorsed the notion that technology impacts human cultures, including the culture of classrooms, and that this is a consideration even more important than considering the efficiency of a new technology as a tool for teaching. Regarding the computer's impact on education, Postman writes (p. 19):\n\nWhat we need to consider about the computer has nothing to do with its efficiency as a teaching tool. We need to know in what ways it is altering our conception of learning, and how in conjunction with television, it undermines the old idea of school.There is an assumption that technology is inherently interesting so it must be helpful in education; based on research by Daniel Willingham, that is not always the case. He argues that it does not necessarily matter what the technological medium is, but whether or not the content is engaging and utilizes the medium in a beneficial way.\n\nThe concept of the digital divide is a gap between those who have access to digital technologies and those who do not. Access may be associated with age, gender, socio-economic status, education, income, ethnicity, and geography.\n\nAccording to a report by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, large amounts of personal data on children are collected by electronic devices that are distributed in schools in the United States. Often, far more information than necessary is collected, uploaded and stored indefinitely. Aside name and date of birth, this information can include the child's browsing history, search terms, location data, contact lists, as well as behavioral information. Parents are not informed or, if informed, have little choice. According to the report, this constant surveillance resulting from educational technology can \"warp children's privacy expectations, lead them to self-censor, and limit their creativity\". In a 2018 public service announcement, the FBI warned that widespread collection of student information by educational technologies, including web browsing history, academic progress, medical information, and biometrics, created the potential for privacy and safety threats if such data was compromised or exploited.\n\nSince technology is not the end goal of education, but rather a means by which it can be accomplished, educators must have a good grasp of the technology and its advantages and disadvantages. Teacher training aims for effective integration of classroom technology.\n\nThe evolving nature of technology may unsettle teachers, who may experience themselves as perpetual novices. Finding quality materials to support classroom objectives is often difficult. Random professional development days are inadequate.\n\nAccording to Jenkins, \"Rather than dealing with each technology in isolation, we would do better to take an ecological approach, thinking about the interrelationship among different communication technologies, the cultural communities that grow up around them, and the activities they support.\" Jenkins also suggested that the traditional school curriculum guided teachers to train students to be autonomous problem solvers. However, today's workers are increasingly asked to work in teams, drawing on different sets of expertise, and collaborating to solve problems. Learning styles and the methods of collecting information have evolved, and \"students often feel locked out of the worlds described in their textbooks through the depersonalized and abstract prose used to describe them\". These twenty-first century skills can be attained through the incorporation and engagement with technology. Changes in instruction and use of technology can also promote a higher level of learning among students with different types of intelligence.\n\nThere are two distinct issues of assessment: the assessment \"of\" educational technology and assessment \"with\" technology.\n\nAssessments \"of\" educational technology have included the \"Follow Through\" project.\n\nEducational assessment \"with\" technology may be either formative assessment or summative assessment. Instructors use both types of assessments to understand student progress and learning in the classroom. Technology has helped teachers create better assessments to help understand where students who are having trouble with the material are having issues.\n\nFormative assessment is more difficult, as the perfect form is ongoing and allows the students to show their learning in different ways depending on their learning styles. Technology has helped some teachers make their formative assessments better, particularly through the use of classroom response systems (CRS). A CRS is a tool in which the students each have a handheld device that partners up with the teacher's computer. The instructor then asks multiple choice or true or false questions and the students answer on their device. Depending on the software used, the answers may then be shown on a graph so students and teacher can see the percentage of students who gave each answer and the teacher can focus on what went wrong.\n\nSummative assessments are more common in classrooms and are usually set up to be more easily graded, as they take the form of tests or projects with specific grading schemes. One huge benefit to tech-based testing is the option to give students immediate feedback on their answers. When students get these responses, they are able to know how they are doing in the class which can help push them to improve or give them confidence that they are doing well. Technology also allows for different kinds of summative assessment, such as digital presentations, videos, or anything else the teacher/students may come up with, which allows different learners to show what they learned more effectively. Teachers can also use technology to post graded assessments online for students to have a better idea of what a good project is.\n\nElectronic assessment uses information technology. It encompasses several potential applications, which may be teacher or student-oriented, including educational assessment throughout the continuum of learning, such as computerized classification testing, computerized adaptive testing, student testing, and grading an exam. E-Marking is an examiner led activity closely related to other e-assessment activities such as e-testing, or e-learning which are student-led. E-marking allows markers to mark a scanned script or online response on a computer screen rather than on paper.\n\nThere are no restrictions on the types of tests that can use e-marking, with e-marking applications designed to accommodate multiple choice, written, and even video submissions for performance examinations. E-marking software is used by individual educational institutions and can also be rolled out to the participating schools of awarding exam organisations. e-marking has been used to mark many well known high stakes examinations, which in the United Kingdom include A levels and GCSE exams, and in the US includes the SAT test for college admissions. Ofqual reports that e-marking is the main type of marking used for general qualifications in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2014, the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) announced that most of the National 5 question papers would be e-marked.\n\nIn June 2015, the Odisha state government in India announced that it planned to use e-marking for all Plus II papers from 2016.\n\nThe importance of self-assessment through tools made available on Educational Technology platforms has been growing. Self-assessment in education technology relies on students analyzing their strengths, weaknesses and areas where improvement is possible to set realistic goals in learning, improve their educational performances and track their progress. One of the unique tools for self-assessment made possible by education technology is Analytics. Analytics is data gathered on the student's activities on the learning platform, drawn into meaningful patterns that lead to a valid conclusion, usually through the medium of data visualization such as graphs. Learning analytics is the field that focuses on analyzing and reporting data about student's activities in order to facilitate learning.\n\nThe five key sectors of the e-learning industry are consulting, content, technologies, services and support. Worldwide, e-learning was estimated in 2000 to be over $48 billion according to conservative estimates. Commercial growth has been brisk. In 2014, the worldwide commercial market activity was estimated at $6 billion venture capital over the past five years, with self-paced learning generating $35.6 billion in 2011. North American e-learning generated $23.3 billion in revenue in 2013, with a 9% growth rate in cloud-based authoring tools and learning platforms.\n\nEducational technologists and psychologists apply basic educational and psychological research into an evidence-based applied science (or a technology) of learning or instruction. In research, these professions typically require a graduate degree (Master's, Doctorate, Ph.D., or D.Phil.) in a field related to educational psychology, educational media, experimental psychology, cognitive psychology or, more purely, in the fields of educational, instructional or human performance technology or instructional design. In industry, educational technology is utilized to train students and employees by a wide range of learning and communication practitioners, including instructional designers, technical trainers, technical communication and professional communication specialists, technical writers, and of course primary school and college teachers of all levels. The transformation of educational technology from a cottage industry to a profession is discussed by Shurville et al.\n"}
{"id": "1944678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944678", "title": "Chalupa", "text": "Chalupa\n\nA chalupa () is a specialty dish of south-central Mexico, including the states of Hidalgo, Puebla, Guerrero, and Oaxaca. Chalupas are made by pressing a thin layer of masa dough around the outside of a small mold, in the process creating a concave container resembling the boat of the same name, and then deep frying the result to produce crisp, shallow corn cups. These are filled with various ingredients such as shredded chicken, pork, chopped onion, chipotle pepper, red salsa, and/or green salsa. They can in many cases resemble tostadas since both are made of a fried or baked masa-based dough.\n\nTraditional chalupas, as found in Cholula, Puebla, are small, thick, boat-shaped fried masa topped only with salsa, cheese and shredded lettuce. Other regions in Mexico add variations, which can include chorizo, pork, shredded chicken, or re-fried beans, in addition to the classic cheese, salsa, and lettuce toppings. In other instances, the fried masa shape is round, resembling a tostada, with traditional chalupa toppings.\n\nThe widespread popularity of chalupas across Mexico has also influenced Mexican-style restaurant fare in the neighboring United States. Among notable examples in that country is the Taco Bell version, which unlike its Mexican version, is a thick, fried tortilla shell filled with either chicken or ground beef, sour cream, cheese, tomatoes, and shredded lettuce.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944691", "title": "Misalliance", "text": "Misalliance\n\nMisalliance is a play written in 1909–1910 by George Bernard Shaw. The play takes place entirely on a single Saturday afternoon in the conservatory of a large country house in Hindhead, Surrey in Edwardian era England.\n\nIt is a continuation of some of the ideas on marriage that he expressed in 1908 in his play, \"Getting Married\". It was also a continuation of some of his other ideas on Socialism, physical fitness, the Life Force, and \"The New Woman\": i.e. women intent on escaping Victorian standards of helplessness, passivity, stuffy propriety, and non-involvement in politics or general affairs.\n\nShaw subtitled his play \"A Debate in One Sitting\", and in the program of its first presentation in 1910 inserting this program note: \"The debate takes place at the house of John Tarleton of Hindhead, Surrey, on 31 May 1909. As the debate is a long one, the curtain will be lowered twice. The audience is requested to excuse these interruptions, which are made solely for its convenience.\"\n\nThe Irish playwright Lennox Robinson assisted Shaw when he was directing the original London production of the play.\n\n\n\"Misalliance\" is an ironic examination of the mating instincts of a varied group of people gathered at a wealthy man's country home on a summer weekend. Most of the romantic interest centers on the host's daughter, Hypatia Tarleton, a typical Shaw heroine who exemplifies his lifelong theory that in courtship, women are the relentless pursuers and men the apprehensively pursued.\n\nHypatia is the daughter of newly-wealthy John Tarleton who made his fortune in the unglamorous but lucrative underwear business. She is fed up with the stuffy conventions that surround her and with the hyperactive talk of the men in her life. Hypatia is engaged to Bentley Summerhays, an intellectually bright but physically and emotionally underdeveloped aristocrat.\n\nHypatia is restless with her engagement as the play starts, even as it is revealed she has also had a proposal of engagement from her betrothed's father, Lord Summerhays. She has no desire to be a nurse to the elderly and is in no hurry to be made a widow. She longs for some adventure to drop out of the sky, and it does ... an aircraft crashes through the roof of the conservatory to close the end of the first act.\n\nAt the beginning of Act II, it is revealed that the aircraft brings two unexpected guests. The pilot, Joey Percival, is a handsome young man who immediately arouses Hypatia's hunting instinct. The passenger, Lina Szczepanowska, is a female dare-devil of a circus acrobat whose vitality and directness inflame all the other men at the house-party.\n\nAn additional uninvited guest arrives in the form of Gunner. He is a cashier who is very unhappy with his lot in life. He blames the wealthy class in particular for the plight of the ordinary worker, and he blames John Tarleton in particular for a romantic dalliance that he once had with Gunner's mother. Gunner arrives with intent to kill Tarleton but hides inside a piece of furniture. From this position, he becomes wise to Hypatia's pursuit of Percival. His character comes to introduce the themes of socialism to the play, as well as serving to question the conventional views on marriage and social order.\n\nAll together there are eight marriage proposals offered for consideration in the course of one summer afternoon. The question of whether any one of these combinations of marriage might be an auspicious alliance, or a misalliance, prompts one of the prospective husbands to utter the famous Shavian speculation: \nPart of Shaw's premise is in the irony that men spend so much energy courting a woman who will be obedient and subservient to them, when what they really desire is a strong woman who will be their equal. Shaw's idea of such an \"ideal woman\", one present throughout his works, is embodied in this case by the character of Lina Szczepanowska. She is a death-defying Polish acrobat who accompanies Percival on his flight and subsequently becomes the object of affection for Summerhays, Tarleton, Bentley and Johnny. The affirmation of her role as Shaw's archetypical ideal woman is her speech (the longest by far in the work) in which she rejects Johnny's offer of marriage in favor of retaining her independence...financially, intellectually and physically. She takes Bentley, who finds a shaky new courage, up into the air with her at the conclusion of the play.\n\nThe L.A. Theatre Works released an audio adaptation in 2004 () with Roger Rees as Lord Summerhays, Eric Stoltz as Johnny Tarleton, Victoria Tennant as Mrs. Tarleton, W. Morgan Sheppard as Mr. Tarleton, Joy Gregory as Hypatia, Tom Beyer as Bentley Summerhays, Tegan West as Joey Percival, Douglas Weston as Gunner/Julius Baker and Serena Scott Thomas as Lina Szczepanowska.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944694", "title": "Spider-Man: India", "text": "Spider-Man: India\n\nSpider-Man: India is a comic book originally published in India by Gotham Entertainment Group in 2004, retelling the story of Marvel Comics' Spider-Man in an Indian setting. It ran for four issues, which were later also published in the United States in 2005 and collected into a trade paperback (). The series was created by Sharad Devarajan, Suresh Seetharaman, and Jeevan J. Kang with Marvel Comics. The Indian version was conceptualized by Indian director Satyajit Ray, who had once met Stan Lee in New York to discuss creating an Indian version of the superhero. However, this was not done during Ray's lifetime.\n\nPavitr Prabhakar, a simple Indian boy from a remote village, moves to Mumbai with his Aunt Maya and Uncle Bhim to study after getting half a scholarship. His parents died some years ago. Other students at his new school tease him and hit him for his studious nature and village background. He knows his Uncle Bhim is struggling to support him and his aunt Maya, and pay his school fees. Only Meera Jain, a popular girl from his school, befriends him. Meanwhile, a local crime lord named Nalin Oberoi uses an amulet to perform an ancient ritual in which he is possessed by a demon committed to opening a gate for other demons to invade Earth. While being chased by bullies, Pavitr Prabhakar encounters an ancient yogi who grants him the powers of a spider, in order to fight the evil that threatens the world. While discovering his powers, Pavitr Prabhakar refuses to help a woman being attacked by several men. He leaves the place, but comes back when he hears his uncle cry out, and discovers that he has been slain. He learns that Bhim was stabbed when he tried to help the woman. Pavitr Prabhakar understands that with great power comes great responsibility, and swears to use his powers for the good of others.\n\nNalin Oberoi briefly becomes human again and transforms a mild-mannered doctor into a demon with four magical tentacles (the Indian version of Doctor Octopus), and sends him to kill Spider-Man, as instructed by the demon voices. Doc Ock fails, and Spider-Man makes his public debut as a hero. He is, however, labeled a threat by the newspapers.\n\nOberoi kidnaps Pavitr Prabhakar's aunt, taking her to a refinery outside Mumbai. There he betrays Doctor Octopus, blasting him into the ocean with a ray. Spider-Man arrives and fights Oberoi, who has also kidnapped Meera. He drops both Maya and Meera from the top of the refinery. Spider-Man dives for his aunt, but fails to rescue Meera, who is saved by Doctor Octopus. Pavitr reveals his identity to Meera and asks her to take his aunt to safety.\n\nOberoi gets rid of Doctor Octopus for good and touches Spider-Man with the amulet. A Venom-like creature emerges from the amulet and tries to lure Spider-Man to the dark side. Pavitr remembers his uncle's saying about responsibility and rejects the evil. By doing so, the link between the demons and Oberoi is shattered, and he becomes human again. Spider-Man throws the amulet into the ocean, and Oberoi is sent to a mental institution.\n\nPeace is restored to Mumbai eventually. Pavitr Prabhakar begins a romance with Meera, and is shown celebrating the festival Diwali with his aunt. The story ends with a quote from the Bhagavad Gita, showing the Venom-Demon still alive.\n\nSpider-Man's alter ego in the comic is named Pavitra Prabhakar, a phonetic distortion of Peter Parker. There are a number of other parallels with the original comic book characters:\n\n\nDuring the \"Spider-Verse\" storyline which featured Spider-Men from various alternate realities, Pavitra Prabhakar was seen fighting a mysterious new villain named Karn, whom he mistook for a demon. The Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in Peter Parker's body) managed to save him and recruited him into his army of Spiders. In the second volume of \"Spider-Verse\" set during the \"Secret Wars\" event, Pavitr Prabhakar found himself in the domain of the Battleworld called Arachnia, where he teamed up with Spider-Gwen, Spider-Ham, Spider-Man Noir, Spider-UK and Anya Corazon, though none of them remembered their previous encounter during the original \"Spider-Verse\".\n\nFollowing the conclusion of \"Secret Wars\" the team of six Spiders that formed during the event will rename itself and feature in a new ongoing series called \"Web Warriors\", a name that was coined by Peter Parker from the \"Ultimate Spider-Man\" TV series during the original \"Spider-Verse\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944696", "title": "Martin Laurendeau", "text": "Martin Laurendeau\n\nMartin Laurendeau (; born July 10, 1964) is a former touring professional tennis player, the present coach and (non-playing) captain of the Canada Davis Cup team\n\nA 6'3 right-hander, Laurendeau starred in collegiate tennis at Pepperdine University where he played between 1984 and 1987. He finished his career with the second most career singles wins in school history with 80 and the third best singles winning percentage (.816).\n\nDuring his pro career which stretched from 1986 to 1993, Laurendeau had a career ATP tour singles win-loss record of 36 and 60. His best results were a round of 16 appearance in the 1988 U.S. Open and a third round appearance at 1991 Wimbledon, both in singles. His best ranking was World No. 90 which he achieved in October 1988. His tour doubles record stands at 15 and 33.\n\nLaurendeau has been a tennis coach since 1994. He became Davis Cup captain upon the resignation of Grant Connell in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944701", "title": "75mm gun M2–M6", "text": "75mm gun M2–M6\n\nThe US 75 mm gun was the standard American gun mounted to a mobile platform during World War II. They were primarily mounted on tanks but were also mounted on the B-25 Mitchell medium bomber aircraft. There were four variants used during the war: M2, M3, M5, and M6.\n\nThey were considered the standard American tank guns. The M2 and M3 were used on the Lee tank, the M3 was used on the Sherman tank, and the M6 was used on the Chaffee light tank. The M3 was also used on a prototype medium tank.\n\nThe M5 variant was fitted on the US B-25 Mitchell medium bomber aircraft.\n\nThe 75 mm tank gun has its origins in the famous French Canon de 75 modèle 1897 field gun of World War I fame, which was also adopted by the United States and used well into World War II as the 75 mm M1897 field gun. The tank and field guns fired the same range of 75x350R ammunition. The primary round was the 6.76 kg (14.9 lb) M48 high explosive round, which travelled at 625 m/s (2,050 ft/s) and contained 1.5 pounds (680 g) of TNT filling (2845 kilojoules of explosive energy) and a choice of two fuzes, the super quick (SQ) and the delay (PD), which had delays of 0.05 and 0.15 seconds respectively. SQ was the standard setting, with PD used against structures, gun positions or lightly protected vehicles. The field gun origins of the ordnance and ammunition ensured that the M2/3/6 series HE round was highly effective for its caliber. The M48 was available in two versions, standard and supercharge, which had an increased propellent charge for greater muzzle velocity ( vs. ) and range (2,300 yards greater).\n\nOther rounds fired by the 75 mm tank guns included the T30 canister shot for use against troops in the open at short range. This, which was essentially a giant shotgun shell full of large numbers of steel balls, was used primarily in the Pacific. There was also the M89 base-ejecting hexachloroethane (HC) smoke round and the M64 white phosphorus (WP or \"Willy Pete\") round, which proved highly effective in the \"bocage\" fighting around Normandy. Finally, there were two different armor-piercing rounds.\n\nThe first armor-piercing round was the M72 AP-T, a plain uncapped armor-piercing round whose performance dropped off as range increased due to poor aerodynamics. The M72 was replaced by the 6.63 kg (14.62 lb) M61 armor-piercing capped ballistic capped high explosive with tracer (APCBC-HE-T) shell. The blunt armor-piercing cap, made of a softer metal, helped to prevent shell shatter at higher velocities and against sloped and face-hardened armor. The aerodynamic ballistic cap acted as a windscreen and improved ballistic performance, maintained velocity, and hence increased penetration at longer ranges. Once the projectile had penetrated the target, a small explosive charge contained in a cavity at the base of the shell would detonate, shattering the shell and increasing damage inside the enemy vehicle. The tracer helped in the aiming of a second shot. In practice, the majority of M61 rounds were shipped without the explosive filler.\n\nThe M61A1 used an improved method of attaching the ballistic cap to the shell. The M61 had a muzzle velocity of 617 m/s (2024.28 ft/s) and was credited with the ability to penetrate of rolled homogeneous armor plate at 0° from vertical at 500 yards range, which was a quite acceptable performance by the standards of 1942. This ammunition type proved lethal to the Panzer III and IV (up to Ausf. F2), as these tanks were protected by a maximum of 50 mm of face-hardened armor with little slope, which the 75 mm M3 with M61 was capable of penetrating from at least 1,500 m. However, in March 1942, the Germans introduced the Ausf. G verson of the Panzer IV, which was armed with the 48-caliber long KwK 40 gun, and had frontal hull armour increased to 80 mm - however, its turret and gun mantlet retained their 50 mm thickness. This was somewhat compensated by the M4 Sherman's improved armor over the earlier M3 Lee making up for the 75mm M3's diminishing battlefield dominance; Wa Pruef 1 estimated that the M4's glacis was impenetrable to the KwK 40 when standing at a 30-degree side angle, while the 75 mm M3 could penetrate the Ausf G's hull from 100 m in the same situation.\n\nBritish tanks in the early years of World War II relied on high-velocity, smaller-calibre anti-tank guns, such as the 40 mm calibre Ordnance QF 2 pounder and 57 mm calibre Ordnance QF 6 pounder, for their primary armament. As tank guns, these had the great disadvantage of either not having a truly effective HE round or not having an HE round at all. After experiencing the effectiveness of the American 75 mm tank guns in the infantry support role, the British opted to adopt the American caliber and ammunition by the expedient of boring-out the 6 pounder tank gun to make the Ordnance QF 75 mm. By 1944, this had become the standard British tank gun, equipping the Cromwell tank and Churchill tank for the campaigns in northwest Europe.\n\nT6\n\nExperimental anti-aircraft gun based on the M1897 field gun. The barrel was shortened from 36 to 31 calibers, and the Nordenfelt screw breech replaced with the sliding block breech.\n\nT7 / M2\n\nAdaptation of the T6 for tank gun role. Used on the early M3 Lee.\n\nT8 / M3\n\nLonger derivative of the M2. Equipped American and British vehicles such as the M4 Sherman, the later models of the M3 Lee and the Churchill III/IV (scavenged from General Sherman tanks in the North African theatre). The US Army also experimented with mounting the M3 on various wheeled carriages for use as anti-tank gun, but the program was cancelled due to a lack of requirement.\n\n\nM4\n\nThe 75 mm aircraft gun M4 is a modification of the M3 gun found in medium tanks. It differs from the M3 gun, only in having a seat for the spline machined in the tube. It was mounted on the M6 mount.\n\nT13E1 / M5\n\nA lightweight version of the M3 with a lighter thin-walled barrel and a different recoil mechanism that was used in the Douglas A-26 Invader and the B-25H Mitchell bomber. It uses the same ammunition and has the same ballistics as the M3.\n\nM6\n\nA version derived from the T13E1 for the M24 Chaffee.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944703", "title": "Les vêpres siciliennes", "text": "Les vêpres siciliennes\n\nLes vêpres siciliennes (\"The Sicilian Vespers\") is a grand opera in five acts by the Italian romantic composer Giuseppe Verdi set to a French libretto by Eugène Scribe and Charles Duveyrier from their work \"Le duc d'Albe\", which was written in 1838. \"Les vêpres\" followed immediately after Verdi's three great mid-career masterpieces, \"Rigoletto\", \"Il trovatore\" and \"La traviata\" of 1850 to 1853 and was first performed at the Paris Opéra on 13 June 1855.\n\nToday the opera is performed both in the original French and (rather more frequently) in its post-1861 Italian version as I vespri siciliani. The story is based on a historical event, the Sicilian Vespers of 1282, using material drawn from the medieval Sicilian tract \"Lu rebellamentu di Sichilia\".\n\nAfter Verdi's first grand opera for the Paris Opéra—that being his adaptation of \"I Lombardi\" in 1847 given under the title of \"Jérusalem\" - the composer had wanted to write a completely new grand opera for the company, the appeal being the same as that which influenced all Italian composers of the day: the challenges of a form different from that of their homeland and the ability to appeal to an audience which welcomed novelty.\n\nVerdi began discussions with the Opéra but negotiations were stalled by the 1848 revolutions and the composer broke them off for a period of time. It was not until February 1852 (while \"Il trovatore\" was still being prepared) that he returned to Paris and entered into a contract to write an opera, the libretto to be prepared by Scribe, who was given a deadline for a \"treatment\" to be delivered on 30 June 1853 with rehearsals to begin in mid-1854 and the opera staged in November/December of that year. Verdi was guaranteed the choice of suitable artists as well as forty performances in the ten months following the premiere.\n\nIn July 1852, Verdi had written to Scribe outlining his hopes:\n\nWhen Scribe missed his July 1853 deadline, Verdi went to Paris to negotiate directly and it was then that the librettist proposed a solution, using a revised version of the libretto for \"Le duc d'Albe\", one which had been written about 20 years before at the height of the French grand opera tradition and which had previously been offered to Halévy (who refused it) and to Donizetti (who partly set it to music in 1839 under the original title). Verdi raised many objections, many of these being outlined in a letter from Scribe to Duveyrier of December 1853. They included a change of location, of characters' names, certain specific situations (there being no beer halls in Sicily, for example), plus a demand for a \"standard\" fifth act to make it equivalent to Meyerbeer's \"Les Huguenots\" or \"Le Prophète\".\n\nHowever, this \"meant that Verdi was writing his first (original) opéra at a point at which the genre was in a state of flux\". Musicologist Julian Budden adds: \"In opting for the grandest possible scale, Verdi was running against the current of fashion\" (which he notes had significantly shifted in the months and years following the 1848 uprising, so that the country was now firmly in the epoch of Napoleon III, meaning \"that the social foundation on which [grand opera] rested was now withdrawn\").\n\nVerdi spent 1854 forcing Scribe to make revisions while writing the music, \"complaining about the sheer length demanded by audiences at the Opéra\". Overall, it was a frustrating time for the composer, especially in dealing with Scribe's 5th act. The librettist was unresponsive to Verdi's pleas for revisions, until finally, he was forced in late 1854 (with no premiere in sight and the mysterious disappearance from rehearsals of Sophie Cruvelli, who sang Hélène) to write to the Opera's director, Louis Crosnier: \"To avoid the catastrophe that menaces us ... I see but one means and I do not hesitate to propose it: dissolution of the contract\".\nHowever, Verdi persevered and was present at the June 1855 premiere, by then having spent close to two years in Paris working on the opera.\n\n19th century\n\nThe first performance at the Paris Opéra on 13 June 1855 was received to great acclaim. \"La Presse\" noted: \"Verdi's music has conformed to the procedure invented by French genius without losing anything of its Italian ardour.\nHector Berlioz wrote: \"In \"Les vêpres\" the penetrating intensity of the melodic expressiveness, the sumptuous, wise variety of the instrumentation, the vastness and poetic sonority of the concerted pieces, the hot colour that shines throughout ... communicate to this opera an imprint of grandeur, a species of sovereign majesty more distinguishable than in this composer's earlier products.\n\nBudden notes that \"the critics found much to admire in the new opera. ... Adolphe Adam declared that \"Les vêpres\" had converted him to Verdi's music\", but Verdi himself, in a letter of late June, notes that three Italian writers were the most critical\".\n\nHowever, its success was not long-lasting. Because the original version never entered the established repertory, performances \"limped along\" until Verdi attempted to aid its revival at the Paris Opéra on 6 July 1863 by revising some of the roles for selected singers. However, after a few performances, the opera disappeared and was replaced by the French version of \"Il trovatore\", \"Le trouvère\". Except for this one revival in Paris in 1863, \"it vanished from the Parisian stage altogether\" \n\n20th century and beyond\n\nAfter a long period of relative neglect, the opera in its original French version has begun to appear onstage more regularly in the 21st century. A production was mounted at the Bastille Opera in 2003 and a 2010 production by the Netherlands Opera. In May 2011 French versions were presented at the Grand Théâtre de Genève and at the Teatro San Carlo in Naples and, in February 2013, the ABAO company in Bilbao presented the opera.\n\nOther presentations have included stagings by Frankfurt Opera in 2013 and Bavarian State Opera in 2018.\n\nThe Royal Opera House Covent Garden's staging of the full version for the first time in its history (minus the ballet) in October/November 2013 drew a variety of critical responses.\n\nAn Italian libretto was quickly prepared under Verdi's supervision by the poet Ettore Caimi. The composer was aware that in Italy at that time, it would have been impossible to place the story in Sicily, as he notes to his publisher Giulio Ricordi in April 1855: \"I shall ... (change) the subject so as to render it acceptable for Italian theatres\". Based on Scribe's suggestions for changing the location - \"I suggested that the Duke of Alba should just pack his bags once more and move to Lisbon\" - it became Portugal in 1640 while under Spanish control. Therefore, the title was changed to Giovanna de Guzman. Overall, Verdi was not happy with the translation, which Budden regards as \"one of the worst ever perpetrated. However, some improvements were made when the opera reverted to its translated Italian title after 1861.\n\nAfter 1861, in the post-unification era, the opera reverted to its translated Italian title, I vespri siciliani and it is sometimes performed under that title and in that version today.\n\nPrior to the events of the opera, Procida, a leading Sicilian patriot, was wounded by French troops during their invasion of Sicily, and was forced into exile. Montfort, leader of the French troops, raped a Sicilian woman who later gave birth to a son, Henri. Montfort became governor of Sicily, while the Sicilian woman brought up her son to hate him, without revealing to Henri that Montfort was his father.\n\n\"Palermo's main square\"\n\nThibault, Robert and other French soldiers have gathered in front of the Governor's palace. As they offer a toast to their homeland, they are observed by the local Sicilians, unhappy with the occupation.\n\nHélène, who is being held hostage by the French governor, Montfort, enters dressed in mourning for her brother, Duke Frédéric of Austria, who had been executed by the French exactly a year before and whose death remains unavenged. Somewhat drunk, Robert, a French soldier of low rank, demands that she sing and she agrees. Her song about the prayers of seamen (\"Viens à nous, Dieu tutélaire\" – \"Pray, O mighty God, calm with thy smile both sky and sea\") and God's reply of \"let dangers be scorned\" ends with a rallying-cry (\"Courage!… du courage!\") to the Sicilians to rebel against the occupiers. When the governor enters, the crowd calms down. Henri, just released from prison, assures Hélène how deeply he despises the governor. Overhearing this, Montfort orders Hélène to leave and then, alone with Henri, offers him a powerful position with his men as long as he stays away from Hélène. He refuses, and immediately follows Hélène into the palace.\n\n\"Beside the sea\"\n\nProcida lands on the shore from a small fishing boat. It is clear that he is returning from exile and he expresses his joy at returning to his native land and city (\"Et toi, Palerme\" – \"O thou Palermo, adored land…\"). He is surrounded by Mainfroid and other companions and he quickly orders his men to bring Hélène and Henri to him (\"Dans l'ombre et le silence\" – \"In darkness and in silence\"). The three make plans for an uprising during the impending festivities leading to the marriages of a group of young people. After Procida leaves, Hélène asks Henri what reward he seeks. Swearing that he will avenge her brother's death, he asks for nothing but her love.\n\nBéthune arrives with an invitation from Montfort to attend a ball. Henri refuses and is arrested and dragged off. Led by Robert, a group of French soldiers arrive and Procida returns and sees that it is too late to save Henri, since the young people have come into the square and have begun to dance. As the dance becomes more lively, Robert signals to his men, who seize many of the young women, dragging them off in spite of the protests of the young Sicilian men. The dejected young men witness a passing boat filled with French nobles and Sicilian women, all bound for the ball. Procida and others determine to gain entrance to the ball and seek their revenge.\n\n\"Scene 1: Montfort's palace\"\n\nMontfort reads a paper from the woman whom he abducted, which reveals that Henri is his son (\"Si, m'abboriva ed a ragion!\" – \"Yes, she despised me, and rightly!\"). Béthune tells him that Henri has been brought by force, but Montfort exalts in the fact that his son is close by (\"Au sein de la puissance\" – \"Given over to riches, surrounded by honors, an immense, horrid void…\"). The two men confront one another and Henri is somewhat puzzled by the way he is being treated. Finally, Montfort reveals the letter written by Henri's mother. Taken aback but still defiant, Henri insults his father who reacts in anger as the younger man rushes out: \"Fatal word!, Mortal insult! The joy has vanished ...\". \n\"Scene 2: A ball at Montfort's palace\"\n\nWhen Montfort enters, he gives the signal for the ballet to begin. In the crowd, but disguised, are Hélène, Henri, and Procida. Henri is surprised when the two reveal themselves and they declare that their purpose is to save the young man. However, he is disturbed to hear that they intend to kill Montfort and when the father approaches the son, there is a hint of warning given. As approaching assassins close in, Henri leaps in front of his father just as Hélène approaches. The Sicilians are horrified to see that Henri is being spared as the ensemble contemplates the situation. Hélène, Procida, Daniéli and the Sicilians curse Henri as they are dragged away, while he wants to follow, but is restrained by Montfort.\n\n\"A prison\"\n\nHenri arrives at the prison gate and, on Montfort's orders, waits to be admitted. He contemplates the situation that his friends are in (\"O jour de peine\" – Day of weeping, of fierce sorrow!\"). Hélène is brought out and confronts him. Finally, he admits that Montfort is his father and she begins to be willing to sympathise (\"Henri! Ah, parli a un core…\" – \"Henri! Ah, you speak to a heart already prepared to forgive\") Not seeing Henri, Procida approaches Hélène and reveals a letter telling him of awaiting freedom. But Montfort arrives and orders a priest and the execution of the prisoners while Procida is amazed to discover the truth of Henri's situation. Henri begs for mercy for his friends and Montfort confronts him with one thing: \"Dimmi sol, di’ “Mio padre”\" – \"Say to me only, say “My father” ...\". Henri says nothing as the executioner appears and the couple are led away, followed by Henri. Montfort steps in to prevent him from joining them. As Hélène is led towards the executioner, Montfort steps in and announces a pardon for the Sicilians. Furthermore, he agrees to the marriage of Hélène and Henri and announces to the crowd: \"I find a son again!\". There is general rejoicing.\n\n\"The gardens of Montfort's palace\"\n\nAs knights and maidens gather, Hélène gives thanks to all (\"Merci, jeunes amies\" – \"Thank you, beloved friends\"). Henri arrives, exclaiming his joy (\"La brise souffle au loin\" – \"The breeze hovers about…\"). He leaves to find his father, but Procida arrives, announcing a plan to outwit his enemies with their massacre to take place at the foot of the altar after the vows have been said. She is torn, the more so following Henri's return, between her love and her duty (\"Sorte fatal! Oh, fier cimento!\" – \"Fatal destiny! Oh, fierce conflict!\"). Finally, she can go no further and she tells Henri that they cannot be married. Both men are furious with her for her seeming betrayal. Then Montfort arrives, takes the couple's hands, joins them together, and pronounces them married as the bells begin to ring. This is the signal for the Sicilians to rush in and hurl themselves upon Montfort and the French.\n\nIn summing the effect of the libretto as \"a competent framework for an opera of effects, of spectacle and theatrical surprise, and Verdi ended by accepting it as such\", musicologist Julian Budden then notes two of its aspects which appear distinctive and which are visible in the music. Firstly, \"he used it as a basis for a new, more ample, more rhythmically complex style of melody. Here the model of Meyerbeer was important ... Secondly, he seized the opportunity of solving a problem which had eluded him in a somewhat similar work, \"La battaglia di Legnano\"; namely that of reconciling the private and public emotions of the main characters. ... .the problem being overcome by means of a more varied musical language.\"\n\nMusicologist Roger Parker, writing in \"Grove\" in 1992, offers a somewhat different point of view in explaining that the sheer length and scale of this opera (as well as others in the grand opera tradition) find themselves being rarely staged by modern opera houses (since 1992 this situation has changed, see performance history section above). Parker states \"with very few exceptions, its main lyrical numbers lack the melodic immediacy of the trio of Italian operas (\"Rigoletto\", \"Il trovatore\" and \" La traviata\") that immediately preceded it.\" However, he does go on to say that \"Les Vêpres\" \"marks a decisive turn away from the language of the middle-period Italian operas and the emergence of many stylistic features we associate with the later Verdi.\"\n\nGiven the frustrations which Verdi encountered in the two-year-long preparation of the opera and the several expressions of these frustrations in letters to Giuseppina Strepponi (with whom he was having a relationship which began about 1847), writer Irving Kolodin in his essay for the RCA recording, hits on a solution which Strepponi herself had provided:\nKolodin comments: \"It was, of course, the principle by which Verdi's later career was guided when he had the land and the position he craved and the security that went with them and a wise wife.\"\n\nNotes\n\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "1944711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944711", "title": "Indel", "text": "Indel\n\nIndel is a molecular biology term for an insertion or deletion of bases in the genome of an organism. It is classified among small genetic variations, measuring from 1 to 10 000 base pairs in length, including insertion and deletion events that may be separated by many years, and may not be related to each other in any way.\nA microindel is defined as an indel that results in a net change of 1 to 50 nucleotides.\n\nIn coding regions of the genome, unless the length of an indel is a multiple of 3, it will produce a frameshift mutation. For example, a common microindel which results in a frameshift causes Bloom syndrome in the Jewish or Japanese population. Indels can be contrasted with a point mutation. An indel inserts and deletes nucleotides from a sequence, while a point mutation is a form of substitution that \"replaces\" one of the nucleotides without changing the overall number in the DNA. Indels can also be contrasted with Tandem Base Mutations (TBM), which may result from fundamentally different mechanisms. A TBM is defined as a substitution at adjacent nucleotides (primarily substitutions at two adjacent nucleotides, but substitutions at three adjacent nucleotides have been observed).\n\nIndels, being either insertions, or deletions, can be used as genetic markers in natural populations, especially in phylogenetic studies. It has been shown that genomic regions with multiple indels can also be used for species-identification procedures.\n\nAn indel change of a single base pair in the coding part of an mRNA results in a frameshift during mRNA translation that could lead to an inappropriate (premature) stop codon in a different frame. Indels that are not multiples of 3 are particularly uncommon in coding regions but relatively common in non-coding regions. There are approximately 192-280 frameshifting indels in each person. Indels are likely to represent between 16% and 25% of all sequence polymorphisms in humans. In fact, in most known genomes, including humans, indel frequency tends to be markedly lower than that of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), except near highly repetitive regions, including homopolymers and microsatellites.\n\nThe term \"indel\" has been co-opted in recent years by genome scientists for use in the sense described above. This is a change from its original use and meaning, which arose from systematics. In systematics, researchers could find differences between sequences, such as from two different species. But it was impossible to infer if one species lost the sequence or the other species gained it. For example, species \"A\" has a run of 4 G nucleotides at a locus and species \"B\" has 5 G's at the same locus. If the mode of selection is unknown, one can not tell if species A lost one G (a \"deletion\" event\") or species B gained one G (an \"insertion\" event). When one cannot infer the phylogenetic direction of the sequence change, the sequence change event is referred to as an \"indel\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1944713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944713", "title": "List of people from Preston", "text": "List of people from Preston\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944729", "title": "Shark Boy", "text": "Shark Boy\n\nDean Matthew Roll (born January 28, 1975) is an American professional wrestler, best known for his appearances in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name Shark Boy. Prior to his appearances in TNA, Roll competed on the independent scene from the mid-1990s onwards before being signed by World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1999. Following his release from WCW six months later in 2000, Roll returned to the independent scenes, mainly competing for the World Wrestling All-Stars (WWA) promotion. He would leave WWA in 2002 to join TNA, where he became a member of the TNA X Division. He would make sporadic appearances in TNA from 2009 onwards.\n\nRoll began training under Les Thatcher in October 1995 at the age of twenty. He debuted on May 3, 1997 in Thatcher's Heartland Wrestling Association, wrestling as the masked El Piranha. An HWA mainstay, Roll also occasionally portrayed the character of Dean Baldwin, the purported fifth, lesser known Baldwin brother.\n\nLater that year, Roll debuted in the Independent Wrestling Association, where he developed the cartoonish character Shark Boy, partly inspired by the 1995 song \"\"I Come From the Water\"\" by the Toadies. In 1999, Roll trademarked the name \"Shark Boy\". In 1998, Shark Boy received a flurry of media attention. He was featured on ABC in an episode of \"20/20\" featuring professional wrestling, on the Discovery Channel as part of the annual Shark Week and on a documentary produced by MTV entitled \"True Life: I'm a Professional Wrestler\".\n\nOn May 19, 1999, Shark Boy wrestled at the second annual Brian Pillman Memorial Show, defeating Matt Stryker, Tarek the Great and Chip Fairway in a tournament and receiving a trophy. Following the match, numerous World Championship Wrestling and World Wrestling Federation wrestlers, including Al Snow, Mankind and D'Lo Brown, entered the ring and lifted Shark Boy onto their shoulders. Shark Boy also wrestled at the 1998, 2000 and 2001 Brian Pillman Memorial Shows.\n\nOn March 11, 2003, Shark Boy wrestled at dark match for the World Wrestling Entertainment where he lost to Chris Kanyon.\n\nAs a result of the exposure gained by his appearances on television and at the Brian Pillman Memorial Shows, coupled with his \"cult\" following, Shark Boy was signed to a contract by World Championship Wrestling in 1999. He made several appearances on \"WCW Saturday Night\" and \"WCW Thunder\" on TBS before being released six months later in early 2000.\n\nIn February 2002 Shark Boy competed for the WWA at their Revolution PPV in Las Vegas. He fought in the opening contest, a 6-Man Cruiserweight survival match. Also in the match were A.J. Styles, Christopher Daniels, Low Ki, Tony Mamaluke, and Nova. He was eliminated first in the match, which was won by Nova.\n\nIn November 2002, Shark Boy toured Europe with the World Wrestling All-Stars promotion. At the \"Retribution\" pay-per-view on December 6, 2002, Shark Boy defeated Frankie Kazarian. During this same time from 2002 till its closing, Shark Boy joined and toured with XPW where he had memorable bouts with Kaos, Tracy Smothers, Juventud Guerrera, and Jerry Lynn.\n\nOn March 7, 2004, Shark Boy opened a professional wrestling school named \"The Shark Tank\" in Ohio. His most notable trainees are Dustin Thomas, Tom Bellman, Darrell Hazel, Jerrod West, Todd Mullins, Ed Gonzales, Donny Redd, Chris Ledbetter, Jake Omen, Tony X and Cannonball Sami (Sami Callihan)\n\nOn July 31, 2002, Shark Boy made his Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) debut in a dark match losing to Jimmy Rave.\n\nOn the August 14, 2002 weekly TNA pay-per-view, Shark Boy showed up on Disco Inferno's talk segment \"Jive Talkin\"' without his mask playing the character \"Dean Baldwin\", a fictional brother of the famous Baldwin actors.\n\nIn 2003, he had a team with New Jack that involved getting New Jack to play board games such as Chutes and Ladders with Shark Boy. When New Jack left, Mad Mikey started teaming with Shark Boy before his untimely death in November 2003 and in 2004, he teamed with D-Ray 3000 which was his most successful tag team run. In 2008, he returned to TNA after a brief hiatus from a kayfabe coma suffered from multiple ambushes, and tweaked his Shark Boy gimmick into that of a Stone Cold Steve Austin tribute, even going as far as to drink \"Clam Juice\" (a reference to Austin's infamous beer drinking) in the ring after his matches. Upon his gimmick change, he would occasionally team up with Curry Man to form a comedic tag team that was a moderate success. After this gimmick change he started to talk, something he had not been heard to do before.\n\nShark Boy took part in TNA's TerrorDome match on May 10, but it was won by Kaz. Because of that TerrorDome match, Shark Boy was injured; he returned backstage on the July 17 episode of \"Impact!\" with Curry Man and Super Eric as part of a Justice League knock off, called The Prince Justice Brotherhood (a reference to Abyss' former name Prince Justice), where he got whipped by Beer Money, Inc. during a backstage segment. He appeared again with the Brotherhood on the July 24 episode of \"Impact!\". Roll returned on the February 5 edition of \"Impact!\", only to lose to the debuting Brutus Magnus in a squash match. He returned at the August 18 tapings of \"Impact!\", only to lose against Sheik Abdul Bashir in a match broadcast on the TNA website. He was again featured on a web match after the August 31 tapings of \"Impact!\", in another losing effort to Consequences Creed. This was his last match with the company for some time, and on October 13, 2010, Shark Boy's profile was removed from TNA's website while he spent some time working as a referee and road agent for the company.\n\nOn December 5, 2010, Shark Boy made his return at Final Resolution, forcing Cookie into a shark cage during Robbie E's and Jay Lethal's match for the TNA X Division Championship. After the match, he gave Cookie a \"Chummer\". He changed his theme back to the theme he used before the Austin gimmick began. He made his return to the ring on the December 24 edition of \"Xplosion\", in a losing effort against Robbie E. On March 3, 2011, Shark Boy announced on his website that he had requested and was granted his release from TNA.\n\nOn July 10, 2011, Shark Boy made an appearance at Destination X teaming with Eric Young defeating Generation Me. Shark Boy made his return to TNA on the May 23, 2013 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". He wrestled against Robbie E in a losing effort on the following episode of \"TNA Xplosion\" after his TV appearance. On March 17, 2013, Shark Boy appeared on TNA 10 Reunion where he was in a 10-man Gauntlet match, which was won by Matt Morgan, that aired on August 2, 2013. On March 19, 2013, Shark Boy next appeared on Hardcore Justice 2 where he won a nine-man Hardcore Gauntlet Battle Royal, which aired on July 5, 2013. He then made another appearance on November 21 at TNA Turning Point, facing Ethan Carter III in a losing effort. On October 2, 2014, Shark Boy made yet another appearance facing off against Manik and losing, then lost again on the October 15, 2014 show against Tyrus. He made an appearance in the October 29 taping during a backstage segment where he was signing autographs, getting a pep talk from road agent Pat Kenney to get back to being \"the real shark\" referring to when he was in his prime. Shark Boy said he would do it. On the July 9, 2015 episode of Impact, he returned as a competitor in Ethan Carter III's 3 vs 1 Gauntlet Match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship in a losing effort.\n\nIn August 2013, Shark Boy challenged Billy Mattern for the NWA Supreme United States Championship. Billy Mattern was disqualified due to interference by Mortimer Blankenship giving the win to Shark Boy, but Mattern would retain the championship.\n\nShark Boy started wrestling a lot less starting in 2014, where he only wrestled a half dozen matches. This would be followed with even less in 2015 and only one match in 2016. The following two years saw him competing in less than a dozen matches total. He didn't wrestle from November 2018, until April 2019 when he was involved in a six way scramble match at Joey Ryan's Penis Party WrestleCon event during WrestleMania 35 weekend.\n\nOn June 8, 2005, Roll filed a lawsuit against Miramax Films, claiming that the Miramax release \"\"The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D\"\" infringed upon his trademark and demanding any \"money, profits and advantages wrongfully gained\". In November 2005, it emerged that Miramax had attempted to have the case dismissed, in addition to requesting that the court nullify Roll's trademark on the basis that \"Plaintiff is a male whose services are rendered only when he is wearing a costume depicting 'shark-like' attributes.\" In April 2007, the suit was settled for an undisclosed amount.\n\nShark Boy has appeared in two video games, those being \"\" and \"TNA IMPACT!\"\n\nHe was featured in MTV's \"True Life: I am a Pro Wrestler\", talking about his experiences on the independent circuit. Fox News Personality Bill O'Reilly featured him in his segment \"Fin-heads and Patriots\".\n\nOn Friday, February 22, 2008 he was inducted into the XWF (later Legends Pro Wrestling) Hall of Fame.\n\nRoll lost most of his possessions in a house fire in February 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944732", "title": "Jeff Randall", "text": "Jeff Randall\n\nJeff Randall may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1944739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944739", "title": "Charoen Pokphand", "text": "Charoen Pokphand\n\nThe Charoen Pokphand Group (CP) (; ) is a Thai conglomerate based in Bangkok. It is Thailand's largest private company and one of the world's largest conglomerates. The company describes itself as having eight business lines covering 13 business groups. the group has investments in 21 countries.\n\nIt owns controlling stakes in Charoen Pokphand Foods (CPF), the world's largest producer of feed, shrimp, and a global top three producer of poultry, pork, among other agricultural produces. It also operates Southeast Asia's largest retail business by revenue, with over 10,000 Seven Eleven stores and a leading cash and carry business through Siam Makro. In the telecommunications sector, CP Group subsidiary, True Group, is one of the largest telecom firms in Southeast Asia with over 25 million mobile customers.\n\nWith some 200 business subsidiaries in mainland China, CP Group is known in China as \"Zhèng Dà\" (正大). When China opened up its economy in 1978, the CP Group was the very first foreign investor in the country and became the first foreign company registered in the special economic zone of Shenzhen, Guangdong. The company is the single largest investor in Mainland China today commanding over fifth of China's entire feed meal market. The corporate registration number was \"0001.\" Through its extensive investments, CP Group has been credited with changing the country's dietary habits and leading China's green revolution.\n\nThe CP Group traces its beginnings to a small seed shop named Chia Tai established in 1921 by Chinese brothers, Chia Exchor and Chia Seow Nooy. The shop was originally headquartered in Shantou, a seaport in China's southeastern Guangdong Province, which developed a network of seed outlets in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Taipei, Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore. Charoen Pokphand traces its beginnings back to 1921, when the Chinese immigrant brothers Chia Ek Chor (谢易初) and Chia Siew Whooy (谢少飞) started a seed store named Chia Tai Chueng in Bangkok's Chinatown during the reign of King Rama VI. They imported seeds and vegetables from China and exported pigs and eggs to Hong Kong. The two brothers, who were virtually penniless, managed to scrape together enough capital to start their tiny seed shop. For the first few years of the businesses existence, the two brothers experimented to find their own market niche. By the 1950s, the shop began to specialize in exporting animal feed, particularly for chickens but the business struggled until the 1970s when the Bangkok Bank asked it to assume control of a bankrupt chicken farm. The shop later specialized in purchasing grown chickens for distribution to grocers and restaurants with vertically integrated strategy of feed-milling operations with chicken breeding. In 1969, the company had an annual turnover of US$1–2 million.\n\nWhen the Thai economy was liberalized in the 1970s, the CP Group entered various business negotiations with several major Thai banks, the Thai government, and foreign firms. The CP Group would supply Thai farmers with chicks and feed and teach breeders how to raise chickens while the farmers would sell the grown chickens back to the CP Group which processed the chickens and sold them to high volume grocery stores, restaurants, and fast food franchises across Thailand. The CP Group expanded internationally exporting their contract farming formula across Southeast Asia and around the world to Mexico, Taiwan, Portugal, Mainland China, Indonesia, Turkey, and the United States. By the 1980s, with Thailand becoming a full blown capitalist economy, the CP Group entered the aquaculture business, turning their formula to raising and marketing shrimp.\n\nThe company increased its scope from selling vegetable seeds under the trademark of \"Rua Bin\" ('Aeroplane') to production of animal feed under Ek Chor's two elder sons, Jaran Chiaravanont and Montri Jiaravanont. The company further integrated its business to include livestock farming, marketing, and distribution, under Dhanin Chearavanont. By the 1970s, the company had a virtual monopoly on the supply of chicken and eggs in Thailand. The company was known for vertical integration, expanding into several business lines, adding breeding farms, slaughterhouses, processed foods production, and, later, its own chain of restaurants. CP had also gone international, launching feed mill operations in Indonesia in 1972, exporting chickens to Japan in 1973, then moving into Singapore in 1976.\n\nIn the 1980s, as mainland China opened up to foreign direct investment, the firm became the preferred partner for international brands such as Honda, Walmart, and Tesco. CP's family ties with the mainland enabled it to become the first foreign company to establish itself in the newly created Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, where the company set up its Chia Tai Co. () subsidiary. In 1987, the company acquired the rights to the 7-Eleven convenience store chain and the KFC fast food restaurant chain. The company would also expand into Shanghai by manufacturing motorcycles under license from Honda and brewing beer with a license from Heineken. In 1989, CP entered the petrochemical business with Solvay of Belgium to launch Vinythai Co., a manufacturer of polyvinylchloride. In 1990, the CP Group acquired a stake in TelecomAsia, a joint venture with US telecommunications firm NYNEX to build and operate two million telephone lines in Bangkok worth some US$3 billion. The CP Group also acquired interests in satellite launch, cable television, and mobile telephone services.\n\nBy the early-1990s, CP presided over some 200 subsidiaries in China. CP's investment in poultry production on the mainland was credited with changing the country's dietary habits, as per capita consumption more than doubled by the end of the decade. Starting in 1993, many subsidiaries went public. TA, Charoen Pokphand Feedmill, Siam Makro, and Vinythai were listed publicly on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET); its Hong Kong subsidiary, CP Pokphand, on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange; a Shanghai-based animal feed and poultry group on the Shanghai exchange; a real estate development arm, Hong Kong Fortune, on the Hong Kong Exchange; and Ek Chor China Motorcycle on the New York Stock Exchange. Having been listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange since 1981, CP Lotus, a retail arm of CP Group in China, opened its first store in Shanghai in 1997.\n\nAfter the Asian financial crisis in 1997, CP consolidated into three business lines under its main brands: foods (CP Foods), retail (7-Eleven), and telecommunications (True). By the early-2000s, the CP Group claimed US$9 billion in business assets. The company sold its stakes in the Tesco Lotus venture with Tesco in 2003 due to its crisis policy in order to focus on 7-Eleven, in which, unlike Tesco, CP owns a majority, as its flagship retail arm.\n\nIn 2013, Charoen Pokphand has got clearance to buy HSBC's stake of Chinese Ping An Insurance. On 10 May 2013, in spite of a lack of loan from the China Development Bank, HSBC said \"it was selling the 15.6 percent stake at HK$59 a share\" to Charoen Pokphand Group.\n\nIn 2014, CP announced a tie-up with the Japanese general trading company Itochu under which CP acquired 4.9 percent of Itochu's listed stock for about US$1 billion, and Itochu in turn acquired a 25 percent stake in a Hong Kong-listed CP group company, CP Pokphand Co., for about US$854 million. This transaction made CP the third-largest shareholder in Itochu, and was marketed as an alliance between the two conglomerates with a focus on developing international food trading opportunities. In 2015, CP and Itochu announced that they would jointly take a US$10.4 billion stake in China's CITIC Limited, forming a trilateral alliance with Itochu and CP each holding 10 percent of CITIC's stock, one of the largest foreign investments in a Chinese state-owned company.\n\nOn 9 March 2020, CP Group submitted the winning bid to purchase Thai retailer, Tesco Lotus, for about US$10.6 billion. The purchase needs the approval of the Office of Trade Competition Commission (OTCC) as it could constitute a monopoly, given that CP already owns 7-Eleven convenience stores and the Makro cash-and-carry business.\n\nKnown as Charoen Pokphand Foods Plc., (CPF). It was established in 1978 with operations in animal feed production, livestock breeding, further processing and trade. Currently, CPF invests overseas in nine countries, has subsidiaries in 17 countries and exports to over 40 countries. Furthermore, CPF is today the leading producer of feed and one of the largest producers of poultry in the world. Charoen Pokphand Foods is listed in the Stock Exchange of Thailand under the code: CPF.\n\nCP Foods has a revenue of approximately US$14 billion (2012), with a market capitalization of over US$8 billion (2012)\n\nCP ALL Public Company Limited is the flagship company of the Charoen Pokphand Group's marketing and distribution business. It is the Thai licensee of 7-Eleven since 1989 and operates 9,542 convenience stores under that trademark in Thailand. This is the third largest number of stores after the United States and Japan.\n\nCP All completed FY 2016 with approximately US$15 billion in revenue, and currently has a market capitalization of over US$13 billion (2017).\n\nCP All Plc. is the sole operator of 7-Eleven convenience stores in Thailand. The CP Group acquired the rights to distribute the convenience store in 1987. The first 7-Eleven outlet was opened in 1989 on Patpong Road in Bangkok. , the company had a total of 11,700 stores nationwide employing 170,000 workers. Of the total, 4,245 stores are in Bangkok and vicinity (44 percent) and 5,297 stores are in provincial areas (56 percent). There are 4,205 corporate-owned stores (44 percent), 4,645 franchise stores (49 percent), and 692 sub-area license stores (seven percent). An average of 11.7 million customers visit 7-Eleven stores each day. In 2016, the company expanded another 710 new stores both as stand-alone stores and stores at PTT gas stations. At the end of 2014, the company had 8,210 stand-alone stores (86 percent) and 1,332 stores in PTT gas stations (14 percent). The company has plans to open approximately 700 new stores annually, with the goal of 10,000 stores in 2017.\n\nThe Telecommunications Business Group was established during the late 1980s. Known as True Corporation Plc, True offers a ‘convergence’ of voice, video and data services across its integrated communications platform. Based in Bangkok, True currently services more than 23 million subscribers to its various services, which includes Thailand's third-largest mobile operator (True Move), the country's largest broadband and dial-up internet provider, largest fixed-line phone operator in Bangkok Metropolitan Area, electronic cash and payment services, personal communication telephone, data services, VoIP services, online portals, online games and is the only nationwide cable-TV provider (True Visions). True Corporation is listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand under the code: TRUE\n\nTrue Corporation generated approximately US$3.1 billion in revenue in 2012, it has a market capitalization of about US$4.3 billion (2013). It is spinning off its infrastructure operations into a new telecommunications fund set to IPO at about US$1.8 billion, putting the group's total value at about US$5 billion.\n\nFounded in 2014 as a spin-off of True Corporation, Ascend Group handles the e-commerce, online retail, logistics and fulfillment component of CP Group. It marked its $150-million expansion by launching their affiliates in the Philippines and Indonesia, Vietnam, and also hard to reach economies like Myanmar and Cambodia. Ventures are classified under major subsidiaries: Ascend Commerce, Ascend Money and Ascend Capital, along with smaller independent ventures like TrueIDC and Egg Digital.\n\nTrue GIF is a US$2 billion fund set up to manage True's extensive telecommunication assets including Thailand's largest fibre optic network and largest 3G & 4G cell networks. It became Thailand's second largest IPO ever in late 2013. True Corp is True GIF's largest shareholder.\n\nCP Lotus Corporation is a retail operation in China.\n\nListed in Hong Kong, CPP is one of the world's largest producers of feed and one of China's leading agricultural companies with factories nationwide.\n\nA Thai-based chain selling frozen foods and finished products, now with over 700 branches.\n\nOne of China's leading motorcycle producers Dayang Motors, recently signed a joint venture to begin production of cars in Thailand. Its motorcycles are exported to Southeast Asia, Europe, and Africa.\n\nCP moved into Shanghai, manufacturing motorcycles with a license from Japanese automaking giant Honda and brewing beer with a license from Dutch beer brewer, Heineken.\n\nIn 1989, CP entered the petrochemical business through a join venture with Solvay, one of Belgium's largest chemical firms.\n\nIn 1994, CP signed a joint venture agreement with American retail giant, Wal-Mart to establish super-retail stores throughout Asia.\n\nHeld through CP All, Siam Makro is Thailand's largest cash and carry store. CP All purchased Siam Makro for US$6.6 billion in 2013.\n\nCP Land manages several Bangkok properties including CP Tower 1 & 2. It is listed through CP Land Infrastructure Fund and has a market capitalization of over US$300 million.\n\nCP B&F is the Beverages arm of CP and was established in 2016 in Bangkok, Thailand. It operates Cafes, QSR, Logistics Brands namely Arabitia Cafe, Jungle Cafe, Farmee, Daily Runner and also is into Export - Import Business. The company now operates in 5 countries - China, Thailand, India, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar and has 5 subsidiaries - CP B&F India Pvt Ltd, CP B&F (Thailand) Co. Ltd, CP B&F (Cambodia) Co., Ltd.\n\nAfter a several-month-long investigation, the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" claimed that Charoen Pokphand (CP) Foods purchases fishmeal, which it then feeds to its farmed prawns, from suppliers that own, operate or buy from fishing boats manned with slaves. The Guardian claimed that after the slaves are bought for roughly US$250, the working conditions on those boats include forced labour with 20-hour work days, forced drug use, starvation and executions.\n\nIn January 2017, the United States District Court, Northern District of California ruled on multiple grounds in favour of CP Foods in relation to litigation brought against them and others, which claimed damages related to the alleged presence of human rights abuses in the supply chain for Thai shrimp. The Court's order - dismissal with prejudice - bars the plaintiffs from bringing such claims again.\n\nCP Foods produces and sells farmed shrimp. It does not own or operate any fishing vessels. The company has worked to improve the traceability of the fishmeal element of its supply chain since 2012, and broadened this effort to encompass a full traceability system for its farmed shrimp supply chain in 2014. As part of that process, CP Foods has reduced the number of suppliers who provide fishmeal for the production of shrimp feed.\n\nCP Foods has undertaken a full independent, third-party audit of its shrimp feed supply chain (all the way back to the individual fishing boats catching fish for fishmeal production), conducted by a leading international supply chain audit company. Approved by-product fishmeal in shrimp feed is certified \"IFFO RS CoC\", the highest international benchmark for sustainable fishmeal.\n\nCP Foods is a founding member of the Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Task Force (SSSC), established in July 2014, which has convened food producers, international retailers, and NGOs to map out a holistic improvement and audit plan for the Thai shrimp industry, and to identify and agree the steps and timetable to increase the sustainability and transparency of the supply chain. The key aim of CP Foods and the SSSC is to ensure that abuse of workers and damage to the maritime ecosystem in the Gulf of Thailand and Andaman Sea is a thing of the past, and to restore trust in the industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944749", "title": "Mike Pratt (actor)", "text": "Mike Pratt (actor)\n\nMichael John Pratt (7 June 1931 – 10 July 1976) was an English actor, musician, songwriter and screenwriter, known for his work on British television in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nEarly in his career, Mike Pratt worked in advertising, while also taking some part-time acting roles. He quit his office job in the mid-1950s. With three friends (including Lionel Bart), he then drove around Europe in an old-style London taxi.\n\nUpon returning to England, he earned a living as a jazz and skiffle musician in London clubs. An accomplished guitarist and pianist, in the 1950s, he jammed with the Vipers Skiffle Group at the 2 I's club in London with his friend Tommy Steele. Pratt can be seen jamming skiffle on a 1950s Pathé News clip with other musicians of the era including members of the Shadows. A successful songwriter, Mike collaborated with Bart and Steele on many of Steele's early hits in the late 1950s and early '60s. To enable Steele to start to film his life story, co-writers Steele, Bart and Pratt, wrote twelve songs in seven days. A Steele-Pratt collaboration, \"A Handful of Songs\", originally a hit for Tommy Steele in 1957, became the theme tune to a long-running Granada Television children's programme of the same name in the late 1970s. They also contributed to the writing of the song \"Rock with the Caveman\". Bart and Pratt received the 1957 Ivor Novello award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically for \"Little White Bull\". He won a further Ivor Novello award for \"Handful of Songs\". In 1961, he wrote the music and lyrics for \"The Big Client\", a play which was produced at the Bristol Old Vic from 28 November 1961.\n\nPratt appeared in numerous plays between 1965 and 1967. From 25 May 1966, he appeared at the Aldwych Theatre in \"Tango\", a play by Slawomir Mrozek, alongside Patience Collier, Peter Jeffrey, Ursula Mohan and Dudley Sutton, under director Trevor Nunn.\n\nHe is best known for his role as Jeff Randall in the late 1960s ITC detective series \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased)\" alongside Kenneth Cope and Annette Andre. Pratt also wrote episode two of the series, titled \"A Disturbing Case\".\n\nHe also appeared in TV series such as \"No Hiding Place\", \"The Saint\", \"Gideon's Way\", \"Z-Cars\", \"Danger Man\", \"Out of the Unknown\", \"Redcap\", \"The Baron\", \"Man in a Suitcase\", \"The Champions\", \"Callan\", \"UFO\" (episode \"The Psychobombs\"), \"The Expert\", \"Hadleigh\", \"Jason King\", \"Arthur of the Britons\", \"\", \"Crown Court\", \"Father Brown\", \"Oil Strike North\" and \"The Adventures of Black Beauty\", in which he had a semi-regular role. His last television role was in the BBC drama series \"The Brothers\" as airline pilot Don Stacy.\n\nHis film career included roles in \"This Is My Street\" (1964), \"The Party's Over\" (1965), Roman Polanski's \"Repulsion\" (1965), \"Robbery\" (1967), \"A Dandy in Aspic\" (1968), \"The Fixer\" (1968), \"Goodbye Gemini\" (1970), \"Sitting Target\" (1972), \"Assassin\" (1973), the horror anthology \"The Vault of Horror\" (1973), and \"Swallows and Amazons\" (1974).\n\nHe joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1966, appearing on stage throughout the rest of the 1960s and the early 1970s.\n\nMike Pratt died from lung cancer in July 1976. In August of that year, a show was staged at the Aldwych Theatre in London in his memory. The cast included Glenda Jackson, Kenneth Haigh and John Le Mesurier. Of his co-star in \"Randall & Hopkirk (Deceased)\", Kenneth Cope said:\n\"Michael was a great loss, both to the industry and as a friend.\"\n\nHis son is Guy Pratt, a session bass guitarist who also played with Pink Floyd in their later live performances and as part of David Gilmour's live band since 2006.\n"}
{"id": "1944758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944758", "title": "Interstellar probe", "text": "Interstellar probe\n\nAn interstellar probe is a space probe that has left—or is expected to leave—the Solar System and enter interstellar space, which is typically defined as the region beyond the heliopause. It also refers to probes capable of reaching other star systems.\n\nThere are five interstellar probes, all launched by the American space agency NASA: \"Voyager 1\", \"Voyager 2\", \"Pioneer 10\", \"Pioneer 11\" and \"New Horizons\". As of 2019, \"Voyager 1\" and \"Voyager 2\" are the only probes to have actually reached interstellar space. The other three are on interstellar trajectories.\n\nThe termination shock is the point in the heliosphere where the solar wind slows down to subsonic speed. Even though the termination shock happens as close as 80–100 AU, the maximum extent of the region in which the Sun's gravitational field is dominant (the Hill sphere) is thought to be at around . This point is close to the nearest known star system, Alpha Centauri, located 4.36 light years away. Although the probes will be under the influence of the Sun for a long time, their velocities far exceed the Sun's escape velocity, so they will eventually leave forever.\n\nInterstellar space is defined as that which lies beyond a magnetic region that extends about 122 AU from the sun, as detected by \"Voyager 1,\" and the equivalent region of influence surrounding other stars. Voyager 1 entered interstellar space in 2012.\n\n\"Interstellar Probe\" is also the name of a proposed NASA space probe intended to travel out 200 AU in 15 years, studied in 1999.\n\nInterstellar Probe Explorer (ISP) is also the name of a new NASA robotic, one-way mission into the local interstellar medium over 50 years currently being studied by the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory. Building on the experience of the Voyager and New Horizons spacecraft, it will fly the first dedicated instruments designed to explore the environment of the nearby Milky Way. Traveling beyond the Sun's sphere of influence, it would be NASA's first dedicated mission to venture into the space between our star and other potentially habitable planetary systems. \n\nIn April 2016, scientists announced Breakthrough Starshot, a Breakthrough Initiatives program, to develop a proof-of-concept fleet of small centimeter-sized light sail spacecraft, named \"StarChip\", capable of making the journey to Alpha Centauri, the nearest extrasolar star system, at speeds of 20% and 15% of the speed of light, taking between 20 and 30 years to reach the star system, respectively, and about 4 years to notify Earth of a successful arrival.\n\nPlanetary scientist G. Laughlin noted that with current technology a probe sent to Alpha Centauri would take 40,000 years to arrive, but expressed hope for new technology to be developed to make the trip within a human lifetime. On that timescale the stars move notably. As an example, in 40,000 years Ross 248 will be closer to Earth than Alpha Centauri.\n\nOne technology that has been proposed to achieve higher speeds is an E-sail. By harnessing solar wind, it might be possible to achieve 20-30 AU per year without even using propellant.\n\n\"Voyager 1\" is a space probe launched by NASA on September 5, 1977. At a distance of about as of , it is the farthest manmade object from Earth.\n\nIt was later estimated that \"Voyager 1\" crossed the termination shock on December 15, 2004 at a distance of 94 AU from the Sun.\n\nAt the end of 2011, \"Voyager 1\" entered and discovered a stagnation region where charged particles streaming from the Sun slow and turn inward, and the Solar System's magnetic field is doubled in strength as interstellar space appears to be applying pressure. Energetic particles originating in the Solar System declined by nearly half, while the detection of high-energy electrons from outside increases 100-fold. The inner edge of the stagnation region is located approximately 113 astronomical units (AU) from the Sun.\n\nIn 2013 it was thought \"Voyager 1\" crossed the heliopause and entered interstellar space on August 25, 2012 at distance of 121 AU from the Sun, making it the first known human-manufactured object to do so.\n\n, the probe was moving with a relative velocity to the Sun of about 16.95 km/s (3.58 AU/year).\n\nIf it does not hit anything, \"Voyager 1\" could reach the Oort cloud in about 300 years\n\n\"Voyager 2\" crossed the heliopause and entered interstellar space on November 5, 2018. It had previously passed the termination shock into the heliosheath on October 30, 2007. As of \"Voyager 2\" is at a distance of from Earth. The probe was moving at a velocity of 3.25 AU/year (15.428 km/s) relative to the Sun on its way to interstellar space in 2013.\n\nIt's moving at a velocity of relative to the Sun as of December 2014. \"Voyager 2\" is expected to provide the first direct measurements of the density and temperature of the interstellar plasma.\n\n\"New Horizons\" was launched directly into a hyperbolic escape trajectory, getting a gravitational assist from Jupiter en route. By March 7, 2008, \"New Horizons\" was 9.37 AU from the Sun and traveling outward at 3.9 AU per year. It will, however, slow to an escape velocity of only 2.5 AU per year as it moves away from the Sun, so it will never catch up to either Voyager. As of early 2011, it was traveling at 3.356 AU/year (15.91 km/s) relative to the Sun. On July 14, 2015, it completed a flyby of Pluto at a distance of about 33 AU from the Sun. \"New Horizons\" next encountered 486958 Arrokoth on January 1, 2019, at about 43.4 AU from the Sun.\n\nThe Heliosphere's termination shock was crossed by \"Voyager 1\" at 94 astronomical units (AU) and \"Voyager 2\" at 84 AU according to the IBEX mission.\n\nIf \"New Horizons\" can reach the distance of , it will be traveling at about , around slower than \"Voyager 1\" at that distance.\n\nThe last successful reception of telemetry from \"Pioneer 10\" was on April 27, 2002, when it was at a distance of 80.22 AU, traveling at about 2.54 AU/year (12 km/s).\n\nRoutine mission operations for \"Pioneer 11\" were stopped September 30, 1995, when it was 6.5 billion km (approx 43.4 AU) from Earth, traveling at about 2.4 AU/year (11.4 km/s).\n\nNew Horizons' third stage, a STAR-48 booster, is on a similar escape trajectory out of the Solar System as \"New Horizons\", but will pass millions of kilometers from Pluto. It crossed Pluto's orbit in October 2015.\n\nThe third stage rocket boosters for \"Pioneer 10\", and for \"Voyager 1\" and \"2\" are also on escape trajectories out of the Solar System.\n\nIn the early 2000s many new, relatively large planetary bodies were found beyond Pluto, and with orbits extending hundreds of AU out past the heliosheath (90–1000 AU). The NASA probe \"New Horizons\" may explore this area now that it has performed its Pluto flyby in 2015 (Pluto's orbit ranges from about 29–49 AU). Some of these large objects past Pluto include 136199 , 136108 , 136472 , and 90377 Sedna. Sedna comes as close as 76 AU, but travels out as far as 961 AU at aphelion, and minor planet goes out past 1060 AU at aphelion. Bodies like these affect how the Solar System is understood, and traverse an area previously only in the domain of interstellar missions or precursor probes. After the discoveries, the area is also in the domain of interplanetary probes; some of the discovered bodies may become targets for exploration missions, an example of which is preliminary work on a probe to Haumea and its moons (at 35–51 AU). Probe mass, power source, and propulsion systems are key technology areas for this type of mission. In addition, a probe beyond 550 AU could use the Sun itself as a gravitational lens to observe targets outside the Solar System, such as planetary systems around other nearby stars, although many challenges to this mission have been noted.\n\nMissions that reach the interstellar medium or leave the heliosphere.\n\nA NASA funded study, led by the Applied Physics Laboratory, on possible options for an interstellar probe. The nominal concept would launch on a SLS in the 2030s. It would perform a powered Jupiter flyby or a very close perihelion and propulsive maneuver, and reach a distance of 1000-2000 AU within fifty years. Possibilities for planetary, astrophysical and exoplanet science along the way are also being investigated. \n\nA technology reference study published in 2006 with the ESA proposed an interstellar probe focused on leaving the heliosphere. The goal would be 200 AU in 25 years, with traditional launch but acceleration by a solar sail. The roughly 200–300 kg probe would carry a suite of several instruments including a Plasma Analyzer, Plasma radio wave experiment, Magnetometer, Neutral and charged atom detector, Dust analyzer, and a UV-photometer. Electrical power would come from an RTG.\n\nNASA proposal to send a 35 kg science payload out to at least 200 AU. It would achieve a top speed of 7.8 AU per year using a combination of a heavy lift rocket, Jupiter gravitational assistance, and an ion engine powered by standard radioisotope thermal generators. The probe suggested a launch in 2014 (to take advantage of Jupiter gravitational assist), to reach 200 AU around 2044.\n\nStudies suggesting various technologies including Am-241-based RTG, optical communication (as opposed to radio), and low-power semi-autonomous electronics. Trajectory uses a Jupiter and Sun gravity assist to achieve 20 AU/year, allowing 1000 AU within 50 years, and a mission extension up to 20,000 AU and 1000 years. Needed technology included advanced propulsion and solar shield for perihelion burn around the Sun. Solar thermal (STP), nuclear fission thermal (NTP), and nuclear fission pulse, as well as various RTG isotopes were examined. The studies also included recommendations for a solar probe (see also Parker Solar Probe), nuclear thermal technology, solar sail probe, 20 AU/year probe, and a long-term vision of a 200 AU/year probe to the star Epsilon Eridani.\n\nThe \"next step\" interstellar probe in this study suggested a 5 megawatt fission reactor utilizing 16 metric tonnes of H propellant. Targeting a launch in the mid-21st century, it would accelerate to 200 AU/year over 4200 AU and reach the star Epsilon Eridani after 3400 years of travel in the year 5500 AD. However, this was a second-generation vision for a probe and the study acknowledged that even 20 AU/year might not be possible with then current (2002) technology. For comparison, the fastest probe at the time of the study was \"Voyager 1\" at about 3.6 AU/year (17 km/s), relative to the Sun.\n\n\"Interstellar Probe\" was a proposed solar sail propulsion spacecraft planned by NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. It was planned to reach as far as 200 AU within 10 years at a speed of 14 AU/year (about 70 km/s, and function up to 400+ AU. A critical technology for the mission is a large 1 g/m solar sail.\n\"TAU mission\" (Thousand Astronomical Units) was a proposed nuclear electric rocket craft that used a 1 MW fission reactor and an ion drive with a burn time of about 10 years to reach a speed of 106 km/s (about 20 AU/year) to achieve a distance of 1000 AU in 50 years. The primary goal of the mission was to improve parallax measurements of the distances to stars inside and outside our galaxy, with secondary goals being the study of the heliopause, measurements of conditions in the interstellar medium, and (via communications with Earth) tests of general relativity.\n\nProject Orion was a proposed nuclear pulse propulsion craft that would have used fission or fusion bombs to apply motive force. The design was studied during the 1950s and 1960s in the United States of America, with one variant of the craft capable of interstellar travel.\n\nInterstellar communication via a probe, as opposed to sending an electromagnetic signal.\n\nEugene Sanger proposed a spacecraft powered by antimatter in the 1950s. Thrust was intended to come from reflected gamma-rays produced by electron-positron annihilation.\n\nProposed by 1964 and examined in an October 1973 issue of \"Analog\", the \"Enzmann Starship\" proposed using a 12,000 ton ball of frozen deuterium to power thermonuclear powered pulse propulsion. About twice as long as the Empire State Building and assembled in-orbit, the spacecraft was part of a larger project preceded by large interstellar probes and telescopic observation of target star systems.\n\nProject Daedalus was a proposed nuclear pulse propulsion craft that used inertial confinement fusion of small pellets within a magnetic field nozzle to provide motive force. The design was studied during the 1970s by the British Interplanetary Society, and was meant to flyby Barnard's Star in under a century from launch. Plans included mining Helium-3 from Jupiter and a pre-launch mass of over 50 thousand metric tonnes from orbit.\n\nProject Longshot was a proposed nuclear pulse propulsion craft that used inertial confinement fusion of small pellets within a magnetic field nozzle to provide motive force, in a manner similar to that of Project Daedalus. The design was studied during the 1990s by NASA and the US Naval Academy. The craft was designed to reach and study Alpha Centauri.\n\n\"Starwisp\" is a hypothetical unmanned interstellar probe design proposed by Robert L. Forward. It is propelled by a microwave sail, similar to a solar sail in concept, but powered by microwaves from an artificial source.\n\"Medusa\" was a novel spacecraft design, proposed by Johndale C. Solem, using a large lightweight sail (spinnaker) driven by pressure pulses from a series of nuclear explosions. The design, published by the British Interplanetary Society, was studied during the 1990s as a means of interplanetary travel.\n\n\"Starseed launcher\" was concept for launching microgram interstellar probes at up to 1/3 light speed.\n\n\"AIMStar\" was a proposed antimatter catalyzed nuclear pulse propulsion craft that would use clouds of antiprotons to initiate fission and fusion within fuel pellets. A magnetic nozzle derived motive force from the resulting explosions. The design was studied during the 1990s by Penn State University. The craft was designed to reach a distance of 10,000 AU from the Sun in 50 years.\nProject Icarus is a theoretical study for an interstellar probe and is being run under the guidance of the Tau Zero Foundation (TZF) and the British Interplanetary Society (BIS), and was motivated by Project Daedalus, a similar study that was conducted between 1973 and 1978 by the BIS. The project is planned to take five years and began on September 30, 2009.\n\nThe Initiative for Interstellar Studies (i4is) has initiated a project working on small interstellar spacecraft, propelled by a laser sail in 2014 under the name of Project Dragonfly. Four student teams worked on concepts for such a mission in 2014 and 2015 in the context of a design competition.\n\nGeoffrey A. Landis proposed for interstellar travel future-technology project interstellar probe with supplying the energy from an external source (laser of base station) and ion thruster.\n\nOther probes of interest to suggested interstellar missions.\n\n\nSome technologies that have been discussed in relation to making an interstellar probe.\n\nA traditional gravity assist can be compared to throwing a tennis ball at a train (it rebounds not just with incoming velocity, but is accelerated by the train), it uses the gravity of a planet and its relative motion around the Sun compared to the spacecraft. For example, Voyager 2 increased its velocity by performing gravity assists at Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus.\n\nHerman Oberth conceived of type gravity assist in 1929.\n\nAn example of RTG used on a probe leaving the Solar system is the Voyagers. Typically these have used Plutonium but an RTG using Am was proposed for an interstellar type mission in 2002. This could support mission extensions up to 1000 years on the interstellar probe, because the power output would be more stable in the long-term than plutonium. Other isotopes for RTG were also examined in the study, looking at traits such as watt/gram, half-life, and decay products. An interstellar probe proposal from 1999 suggested using three advanced radioisotope power sources. An RTG using Am was also studied as RTG fuel by the ESA\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944763", "title": "Battle of Ayacucho", "text": "Battle of Ayacucho\n\nThe Battle of Ayacucho (, ) was a decisive military encounter during the Peruvian War of Independence. It was the battle that secured the independence of Peru and ensured independence for the rest of South America. In Peru it is considered the end of the Spanish American wars of independence, although the campaign of the victor Antonio José de Sucre, continued through 1825 in Upper Peru and the siege of the fortresses Chiloé and Callao finally ended in 1826.\n\nAs of late 1824, Royalists still had control of most of the south of Peru as well as of Real Felipe Fort in the port of Callao. On 9 December 1824, the Battle of Ayacucho (Battle of La Quinua) took place at Pampa de Ayacucho (or Quinua), a few kilometers away from Ayacucho, near the town of Quinua between Royalist and Independentist forces. Independentist forces were led by Simón Bolívar's lieutenant Sucre. Viceroy José de la Serna was wounded, and after the battle second commander-in-chief José de Canterac signed the final capitulation of the Royalist army.\n\nThe modern Peruvian Army celebrates the anniversary of this battle.\n\nIn 1820 Spain began what would shortly become a political disaster. An expedition of 20,000 soldiers waiting to be sent to Río de la Plata to help the royalists of America revolted under the encouragement of General Rafael Riego. In the subsequent weeks the revolt spread and King Ferdinand VII was forced to restore the liberal Spanish Constitution of 1812, which he had suppressed six years earlier. This event ended Spain's ability to send reinforcements to America, which in turn eventually forced the royalist armies of the viceroyalties of Peru and New Spain (today's Mexico), which had contained the Spanish American revolution so far, to deal with the patriot forces on their own. The royalists in each viceroyalty, however, took different paths.\n\nIn New Spain, royalists, after defeating the insurgents, proclaimed a negotiated separation from Liberal Spain through the Plan of Iguala, which they negotiated with the remaining patriots, and the Treaty of Córdoba, which they negotiated with the new head of government, Juan O'Donojú. In Peru Viceroy Joaquín de la Pezuela was discredited after a royalist expedition to Chile under Mariano Osorio was defeated and advances in Peru were made by José de San Martín. The viceroy was overthrown on 29 January 1821, in Asnapukyu \"(Aznapuquio)\", in a coup by General José de la Serna, who proclaimed his adhesion to the restored Spanish Constitution.\n\nThe independentists started the new year with a promising victory. At Cerro de Pasco they defeated a Peruvian royalist army commanded by Viceroy La Serna. However, the royalists had received solid military training. Their first victory came against the independentist army commanded by Domingo Tristán and Agustín Gamarra in campaigns in the Ica Region. A year later, San Martin had withdrawn from the scene after the Interview of Guayaquil and royalist forces had smashed Rudecindo Alvarado's Liberating Expedition in campaigns in Torata and Moquegua. The year 1823 ended with the La Serna destroying another patriot army commanded by Andrés de Santa Cruz and Agustín Gamarra in yet another open campaign in Puno, which started with the Battle of Zepita and the resulted in the occupation of La Paz on 8 August. After scattering Santa Cruz's isolated troops. La Serna recaptured Arequipa after beating Antonio José de Sucre's Gran Colombian force on 10 October. Sucre decided to evacuate the Gran Colombian troops, setting sail on 10 October 1823, saving himself and his troops, although losing the best of his cavalry. Viceroy La Serna ended the campaign after reaching Oruro in Upper Peru.\n\nOn the political front, the last remnants of optimism among patriots faded away with accusations of treason against Peruvian presidents José de la Riva Agüero and José Bernardo de Tagle. Riva Agüero deported deputies of the Peruvian Congress and organized another congress in Trujillo. After being found guilty of high treason by the Peruvian Congress he was banished to Chile. This act, in turn, was considered by Simón Bolívar to be treasonous. Tagle, who had earlier ordered all armies under his command to support Bolívar against the royalist enemy, was now pursued by Bolívar, who was looking to capture and execute him. Tagle took shelter with the royalists in the fortress of Callao, which was under siege.\n\nNevertheless, by the end of 1823, the situation had started to become critical for those who defended the king's cause. In spite of the impressive military triumphs, Bolívar's request for reinforcements from Colombia made him a threat to the royalist army. Both sides prepared for the confrontation they knew was coming:\nHistorian Rufino Blanco Fombona says that \"By 1824 Bernardino Rivadavia had made a pact with Spanish, obstructing the Ayacucho Campaign\": on 4 July 1823 Buenos Aires made a truce with Spanish commissionaires (Preliminary Peace Convention (1823)) that forced it to send negotiators to other South American governments so that it could take effect. It was stipulated that hostilities would cease 60 days after its ratification and would subsist over a year and half; meanwhile, a definitive peace and friendship would be negotiated. This was the reason for which they had a meeting in Salta Juan Gregorio de Las Heras city with brigadier Baldomero Espartero, obtaining no agreement. Among other measures taken by the viceroy for containing the imminent rebellion, on 10 January 1824 Casimiro Olañeta was ordered:\n\nRivadavia believed that the project would establish peace and stop the republicans' efforts to gain authority over Upper Peru, refusing assistance and withdrawing advanced posts, in detriment of the cause of Peru.\n\nThe Irish military historian Daniel Florencio O'Leary was of the opinion that with the truce \"Buenos Aires has implicitly withdrawn from the struggle\", and that \"the Buenos Aires Government's pacts with the Spanish, were to the detriment of the American cause\".\n\nOn 1 January 1824 Bolívar fell terribly ill in Pativilca. At that time, Félix Álzaga, plenipotentiary minister of Provincias Unidas del Río de la Plata arrived to Lima, requested Peru to adhere to the truce, which was rejected by the Peruvian Congress. Nevertheless, since 4 February 1824 various quarters of Callao mutinied, leading to the whole Argentine infantry of the \"Expedición Libertadora\", together with some Chilean, Peruvians and Colombians (nearly two thousand men) going over to the royalists, raising the Spanish flag and handing over the fortresses of Callao. The mounted grenadier regiment of the Andes also revolted in Lurin on 14 February: two squadrons went over to the Callao to join the mutiny, but when they noticed that they had joined the royalists, a hundred of them, with their regiment commanders, went to Lima to join the independentists. The unit was then reorganized by General Mariano Necochea. In the midst of these events, the minister of Colombia, Joaquín Mosquera \"fearing the ruin of our army\" asked Bolivar \"and what do you plan to do now?\". Bolívar, in a decided manner, answered: \"Triumph!\".\n\nThe events at El Callao extended the war until 1826, and had the immediate result that Lima was occupied by Canterac. It is said that had there been military action against Bolívar on 26 May, it \"would have given the final blow to independence in this part of America\".\n\nSurprisingly, at the start of year 1824, the entire royalist army of Upper Peru (today's Bolivia) revolted, led by Pedro Antonio Olañeta a royalist, against the liberal Viceroy of Peru, after receiving news that the Constitutional Government had fallen in Spain. The Spanish monarch Ferdinand VII and his absolutists followers had recovered control of the government, supported by 132,000 French soldiers from the Holy Alliance army, which would occupy Spain until 1830. Rafael del Riego was hanged on 7 November 1823, and the other leaders of the liberal movement were executed, outlawed, or exiled from Spain. On 1 October 1823 the monarch decreed the abolition of everything approved during the last three years of constitutional government, which included annulling the appointment of La Serna as viceroy of Peru. The scope of the purge of the constitutionalists of Peru seemed absolute.\n\nOlañeta then ordered an attack of the Upper Peruvian royalists on the constitutionalists in the Peruvian viceroyalty. La Serna changed his plans of going down to the coast to fight Bolívar and sent Jerónimo Valdés with a force of 5,000 veterans to cross the River Desaguadero, which took place on 22 January 1824, in order to drive them to Potosí against his former subordinate \"because there are indications of a meditated treason, joining the dissidents of Buenos Aires\". \"Memorias para la historia de las armas españolas en el Perú\" (\"Memories for the history of the Spanish armies in Peru\") by peninsular official Andrés García Camba (1846) detailed the radical change that the events in Upper Peru produced in the viceroy's defensive plans. After a long campaign in the battles of Tarabuquillo, Sala, Cotagaita, and finally La Lava on 17 August 1824 both royalists forces of Viceroyalty Peru (liberals) and of the provinces of Upper Peru (absolutists) were decimated.\n\nBolivar, having news of Olañeta's actions, took advantage of the dismantling of the royalist defensive system so that he \"moved the whole month of May to Jauja\", and faced José de Canterac, who was isolated in Junín on 6 August 1824. Unrelenting prosecution of the war started, with the consequent desertion of 2700 royalists, who immediately went over to the independentists lines. Finally, on 7 October 1824, having his troops right in front of the doors of Cusco, Bolívar gave general Sucre the command of the new battlefront, which followed the course of the Apurímac River, and he withdraw to Lima in order to negotiate more loans to keep the war going in Peru, and to receive a Colombian division of 4000 men given up by Páez which would arrive after Ayacucho.\n\nThe defeat of Canterac's expeditionary forced La Serna to bring Jerónimo Valdés from Potosí, who came on a forced march with his troops. The royalist generals debated their plans. In spite of the signs of support from within the besieged Cusco, the viceroy rejected a direct assault because of his army's lack of training, having been enlarged by the massive return of peasants a few weeks earlier. On the contrary, he intended to cut Sucre's rearguard through march and countermarch maneuvers, which is what led to the encounter in Ayacucho, along the Andean range. Thereby, the royalists planned a quick strike which they made on 3 December in the Battle of Corpahuaico or Matará, where they caused the liberator army more than 500 casualties and the loss of a large part of its ammunition and artillery, to their own losses of only 30 men. However, Sucre and his adjutant managed to keep the troops organized and prevented the viceroy from exploiting this local success. Although having suffered important losses of men and materiel, Sucre preserved the United Army in an ordered retreat, and always situated it in secure positions of difficult access, like Quinoa field.\n\nIn his memoirs, \"In the Service of the Republic of Peru\", general Guillermo Miller, offers the point of view of the independentists. Besides Bolívar's and Sucre's talents, the United Army drew on an important body of experienced soldiers: the Rifles battalion of the army of Colombia was composed of European troops, which were mostly British volunteers. This unit was substantially damaged in Corpahuaico. Among its ranks, there were also veterans from the Peninsular War, the American War of Independence), and from the Spanish American Wars; there were individuals such as the Anglo-German Major Carlos Sowersby, a veteran of the Battle of Borodino against Napoleón Bonaparte in Russia in 1812. A number of British and Irish volunteer officers fought along with Bolívar's forces in Ayacucho, the most notable of them being general William Miller. Nevertheless, the bulk of the foreign troops, who had taken part of most of the campaign, remained at the rear in the reserve during the battle.\n\nThe royalists had consumed their resources in a war of movement without achieving a decisive victory against the liberator army. Because of the extremely harsh conditions of a campaign in the Andean range, both armies felt the effects of disease and desertion. The royalist commanders had positioned themselves in the heights of Kunturkunka. This was a good defensive position but one which they couldn't hold for long given that they had food supplies for less than five days, which would mean the dispersion of the army and certain defeat upon the pending arrival of Colombian reinforcements. The army was compelled to make a desperate decision: the Battle of Ayacucho was about to begin.\n\nThere is a debate regarding the numbers of troops fighting on both sides, but it must be recognised that both armies started with similar forces (8500 independents \"vs.\" 9310 royalists), but these were diminished during the next weeks until the day of the battle itself, at which point there were perhaps 5780 independentists \"vs.\" 6906 royalists.\n\nUnited Liberation Army\n\n\nBefore the battle's beginning, general Sucre addressed his troops assembled in the field:\n\nMarshal Sucre does not mention in this part the Mounted Grenadiers of Río de la Plata. General Miller in his \"Memoirs of General Miller: in the service of the republic of Peru\" offers the full composition of the armies under Sucre:\nMiller's assertion that the Junín Hussars were in his division contradicts what Sucre says in the part.\n\nRoyalist Army of Perú\n\nThe plan, devised by Canterac, envisaged that the Vanguard division would flank the enemy force, crossing river Pampas in order to secure the units to the left of Sucre. Meanwhile, the rest of the royalist army would descend frontally from Condorcunca hill, abandoning its defensive position on the high ground and charging against the main body of the enemy, which they expected to be disorganized. The battalions 'Gerona' and 'Ferdinand VII' would serve as reserves, disposed in a second line to be sent in wherever they were required.\n\nSucre immediately realized the risky nature of the royalists' maneuver, which became clear as the royalists found themselves moving onto an exposed slope, unable to protect their movements. José María Córdova's Division, supported by Miller's Cavalry, strafed the disorganized bulk of royalist troops that were incapable of forming into battle-lines and descended in waves from the mountains. As the attack started Independentist general Córdova uttered his famous words \"\"Division, armas a discreción, de frente, paso de vencedores\"\" (\"Division, arms at ease; at the pace of victors, forward!\"). Colonel Joaquín Rubín de Celis, who commanded the first royalist regiment, had to protect the artillery, which was pulled by its mules. He moved forward carelessly into the plain, where his unit was exposed and badly mauled. He himself was killed during the attack of Córdova's division, whose effective fire on the royalist formations pushed back the scattered fighters of Villalobos’ Second Division.\n\nSeeing the misfortune suffered by his left flank, royalist general Monet, without waiting for his cavalry to form in the plain, crossed the ravine and led his First division against Córdova, managing to form two of his battalions into battle order but, suddenly attacked by the independents' division, he was surrounded before the rest of his troops could also form into battle order; during these events Monet was wounded and three of his commanders killed; the scattered divisions of the royalists dragged with them the masses of militia. The royalist cavalry under Valentín Ferraz y Barrau charged upon the enemy squadrons that pursued Monet's broken left but the confusion and the crossfire from the infantry, caused heavy casualties to Ferraz's horsemen, whose survivors were forced to hastily leave the battlefield.\n\nAt the other end of the line, the Independentist Second Division of José de La Mar plus the Third Division of Jacinto Lara stopped together the assault made by the veterans of Valdés’ vanguard who had launched themselves to take an isolated building occupied by some independentist companies. Although defeated at first, the independentists were soon reinforced and went back to the attack, eventually helped by the victorious Córdova's division.\n\nSeeing the confusion in the royalist lines, Viceroy La Serna and the other commanders tried to regain control of the battle and reorganize the scattered and fleeing men. General Canterac himself led the reserve division over the plain; however, the 'Gerona' battalions were not the same veterans who fought in the battles of Torata and Moquegua. During Olañeta's rebellion these divisions had lost almost all their veterans and even their former commander Cayetano Ameller; this troop, composed of raw recruits, quickly scattered before meeting the enemy. The 'Ferdinand VII' battalion followed, after a feeble resistance. By one o'clock the viceroy had been wounded and made prisoner along with a great number of his officers. Even though Valdés’ division was still fighting to the right of his front, the battle was a victory for independentists. Independentist casualties according to Sucre were 370 killed and 609 wounded, the royalists lost about 1800 dead and 700 wounded.\n\nWith the remnants of his division, Valdés managed to retreat to the hill held by his rearguard, where he joined 200 cavalrymen that had gathered around general Canterac and some dispersed soldiers from royalist divisions (whose fleeing demoralized men even shot and killed their own officers trying to regroup them). The now heavily reduced force had no hope of defeating the independentist army. With the main body of the royal army destroyed and the viceroy himself in the hands of his enemies, the royalist leaders surrendered.\n\nWith Viceroy de la Serna seriously injured, agreement between the two sides was negotiated by royalist commander Canterac and general Sucre. Canterac wrote:\n\nThe principal terms of the agreement were:\n\nIn Lima, Bolívar summoned the Panama Congress, on 7 December, for the union of the new independent countries. The project was only ratified by Gran Colombia. Four years later, due to personal ambitions of many of its generals and the absence of a united vision that foresaw South America as a single nation, Gran Colombia would end up splitting into the countries that exist today in South America, frustrating Bolívar's aspiration to realise his dream of union.\n\nSpanish historian Juan Carlos Losada calls the surrender of the royalists the \"Ayacucho betrayal\" in his book \"Batallas Decisivas de la Historia de España\" (Decisive Battles in the History of Spain) (Ed. Aguilar, 2004). He states that the result of the battle had already been agreed between opposing commanders, arguing that Juan Antonio Monet was responsible for the agreement: \"the main characters kept a deep pact of silence and, therefore, we can only speculate, although with little risk of being wrong\" (Page 254). He argues that a capitulation without battle would have been undoubtedly judged as treason, but defeat allowed the losing commanders to retain their honour.\n\nThe theory assumes that liberal-minded commanders in the royalist army preferred an independentist victory to the triumph of absolutist authoritarian Spain. In the conspiracy-minded atmosphere of the time, several commanders were accused of belonging to the Freemasons, as were independentist leaders, and certainly did not sympathise with king Ferdinand VII's ideas, considering him a tyrannical absolutist monarch. Spanish commander Andrés García Camba says in his memoirs that returning Spanish officers, latter known as \"ayacuchos\", were unjustly accused of betrayal upon their arrival to Spain, being told by one general, in an accusatory manner, \"sirs, in this case we suffered a Masonic defeat\"; the veterans replied - \"it was lost, my general, in the way battles are lost\".\n\nAfter the victory at Ayacucho, following strict orders from Bolívar, general Sucre entered Upper Peru (today's Bolivia) territory on 25 February 1825. Besides having orders of installing an immediately independent administration, his role was limited to giving an appearance of legality to the process that Upper Peruvians themselves had started already. Royalist general Pedro Antonio Olañeta stayed in Potosí, where he received by January the \"Union\" Infantry Battalion coming from Puno under the command of colonel José María Valdez. Olañeta then summoned a War Council, which agreed to continue the resistance in the name of Ferdinand VII. Next, Olañeta distributed his troops between Cotagaita fortress with the \"Chichas\" Battalion. in charge of colonel Medinacelli, while Valdez was sent to Chuquisaca with the \"Union\" Infantry Battalion and loyalist militias, and Olañeta himself marched toward Vitichi, with 60,000 pieces of gold from the Coin House in Potosí. But for the Spanish military personnel in Upper Peru, it was too little too late, as since 1821 all out guerilla warfare had raged in this part of the continent.\n\nHowever, in Cochabamba the First Battalion of the Infantry Regiment \"Ferdinand VII\", led by colonel José Martínez, rebelled and side with the independence movement, only to be followed later by the Second Battalion \"Ferdinand VII\" Infantry Regiment in Vallegrande, resulting in the forced resignation of Brigadier Francisco Aguilera on 12 February. Royalist colonel José Manuel Mercado occupied Santa Cruz de la Sierra on 14 February, as Chayanta stayed in the hands of lieutenant colonel Pedro Arraya, with the cavalry squadrons \"Santa Victoria\" (Holy Victory) and \"Dragones Americanos\" (American Dragoons), and in Chuquisaca the cavalry squadron \"Dragones de la Frontera\"(Frontier Dragoons) under colonel Francisco López claimed victory for the independence forces on 22 February. At this point, the majority of royalist troops of Upper Peru refused to continue fighting against the powerful army of Sucre. Colonel Medinacelli with 300 soldiers also revolted against Olañeta, and on 2 April 1825 they faced each other in the Battle of Tumusla, which ended with the death of Olañeta. A few days later, on 7 April, general José María Valdez surrendered in Chequelte to general Urdininea, putting an end to the war in Upper Peru and signalling victory to the local independence movement which had been active since 1811.\n\nAfter the Constituent Assembly in Chuquisaca was reconvened by Marshal Sucre, on 8 July 1825, and then later concluded, it was determined the complete independence of Upper Peru under the republican form. Finally, the Assembly president José Mariano Serrano, together with a commission, wrote down the \"Independence Act of the Upper Peruvian Departments\" which carries the date of 6 August 1825, in honor of the Battle of Junín won by Bolivar. Independence was declared by 7 representatives from Charcas, 14 from Potosí, 12 from La Paz, 13 from Cochabamba and 2 from Santa Cruz. The Declaration of Independence, written by the president of the Congress, Serrano, states in its expositive part:\n\nThrough a decree it was determined that the new state in Upper Peru would carry the name of República Bolívar, in honor of the liberator, who was designated as \"Father of the Republic and Supreme Chief of State\". Bolívar thanked them for these honors, but declined the presidency of the Republic, a duty he gave instead to the victor of Ayacucho, Grand Marshal Antonio José de Sucre, who would later be sworn in the same day as the first President of Bolivia. After some time, the subject of the name of the young nation arose again, and a Potosian deputy named Manuel Martín Cruz offered a solution, suggesting that in the same manner which from Romulus comes Rome, from Bolívar ought to come the new nation of Bolivia.\n\nBy the time Bolívar got the news, he felt flattered by the young nation, but until then he hadn't accepted willingly Upper Peru's because he was worried about its future, due to Bolivia's location in the very center of South America; this, according to Bolivar, would create a nation that would face many future wars, which curiously did happen. Bolivar wished that Bolivia would become part of another nation, preferably Peru (given the fact that it had been part of Viceroyalty del Perú for centuries), or Argentina (since during the last decades of colonial domain it had been part of Viceroyalty del Río de la Plata), but what deeply convinced him otherwise was the attitude of the people. On 18 August, upon his arrival to La Paz, there was a manifestation of popular rejoicing. The same scene repeated when the Liberator arrived to Oruro, then to Potosí and finally to Chuquisaca. Such a fervent demonstration by the people touched Bolívar, who called the new nation his \"Predilect Daughter\", and was called by the peoples of the new republic their \"Favorite Son\".\n\nIn 1825, Bolívar had published \"Su resumen sucinto de la vida del general Sucre\", the only work of its kind by Bolívar. In it, he spared no praise of the crowning achievement of his faithful lieutenant:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944766", "title": "Carroll Ballard", "text": "Carroll Ballard\n\nCarroll Ballard (born October 14, 1937) is an American film director. He has directed six feature films, including \"The Black Stallion\" (1979), \"Never Cry Wolf\" (1983), and \"Fly Away Home\" (1996).\n\nAfter serving in the United States Army, Ballard attended film school at UCLA, where one of his classmates was Francis Ford Coppola.\n\nHis early credits include the documentaries \"Beyond This Winter's Wheat\" (1965) and \"Harvest\" (1967), which he made for the U.S. Information Agency. The latter was nominated for an Academy Award. He directed a short subject called \"The Perils of Priscilla\" (1969), which was filmed from the point of view of a cat who escapes from home. \"Rodeo\" (1970) provided an intimate look at the 1968 National Finals Rodeo in Oklahoma City. He shot the title sequence of Coppola's 1968 musical \"Finian’s Rainbow\" and was second unit director on \"Star Wars\" (1977), for which he handled many of the outdoor desert scenes.\n\nBallard finally got the chance to make a feature film when Coppola offered him the job of directing \"The Black Stallion\" (1979), an adaptation of the children's book by Walter Farley. The film was nominated for two Academy Awards, including Best Supporting Actor (Mickey Rooney). In 2002 the Library of Congress added it to the National Film Registry.\n\nHe then directed \"Never Cry Wolf\" (1983), based on Farley Mowat's autobiographical book of the same name, which detailed Mowat's experiences with Arctic wolves.\n\nIn the 1990s, he made two films: \"Wind\" (1992) and \"Fly Away Home\" (1996).\n\nHis most recent film is \"Duma\" (2005), about a South African boy's friendship with an orphaned cheetah.\n\nFilm critic Kenneth Turan once wrote: \"[Ballard] knows how to be both caring and restrained, minimizing a movie's saccharine content while maximizing the sense of wonder.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1944773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944773", "title": "Kaoma", "text": "Kaoma\n\nKaoma was a French-Brazilian recording act made up of former members of the band Touré Kunda: Chyco Dru (bassist), Jacky Arconte (guitarist), Jean-Claude Bonaventure (producer and keyboardist), Michel Abihssira (drums and percussion), Fania (vocals), and Loalwa Braz (lead singer), Chico & Roberta (dancers). Chyco Dru is from Martinique, Jacky Arconte from Guadeloupe, and Loalwa Braz from Brazil. They gained international success for their 1988 hit single, \"Lambada\".\n\nIn 1989, they had a major chart-topping hit with their dance music single \"Lambada,\" a direct cover of Brazilian singer-songwriter Márcia Ferreira's 1986 dance hit \"Chorando se foi,\" which itself was a legally authorized Portuguese-translated rendition of the original 1981 slow ballad, \"Llorando se fue\" by the Bolivian group Los Kjarkas. Given Kaoma's clear act of plagiarism and release of their single without Los Kjarkas' permission, Los Kjarkas successfully sued. \"Dançando Lambada\" and \"Mélodie d'amour\" were the next two singles and were also hit singles, although they failed to earn the same success as \"Lambada\". \"Lambada\" peaked at number 46 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It reached number 4 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\nThe same year, the band released its first album \"Worldbeat\" which achieved worldwide success, becoming, along with Beto Barbosa, one of the legends of Brazilian lambada. At the 1990 Lo Nuestro Awards, Kaoma won two awards for Pop Group of the Year and New Pop Artist of the Year.\n\nIn 1991, Kaoma released the album \"Tribal-Pursuit\" which provided the singles \"Danca Tago-Mago\" and \"Moço do dende\".\n\nOn January 19, 2017, Braz was found dead in her car. Police arrested three suspects for the murder; several motives were suspected, like a botched robbery or a revenge killing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944783", "title": "1912 Brisbane general strike", "text": "1912 Brisbane general strike\n\nThe 1912 Brisbane General Strike in Queensland, Australia, began when members of the Australian Tramway and Motor Omnibus Employees' Association were dismissed when they wore union badges to work on 18 January 1912. They then marched to Brisbane Trades Hall where a meeting was held, with a mass protest meeting of 10,000 people held that night in Market Square (also known as Albert Square, now King George Square).\n\nThe Brisbane tramways were owned by the General Electric Company of the United Kingdom. Despite this they were managed by Joseph Stillman Badger, an American, who refused to negotiate with the Queensland peak union body, then known as the Australian Labour Federation. After this rebuff a meeting of delegates from forty-three Brisbane based Trade Unions formed the Combined Unions Committee and appointed a General Strike Committee. The trade unionists of Brisbane went out on a general strike on 30 January 1912, not just for the right to wear a badge but for the basic right to join a union.\n\nWithin a few days the Strike Committee became an alternative government. No work could be done in Brisbane without a special permit from the Strike Committee. The committee organised 500 vigilance officers to keep order among strikers and set up its own Ambulance Brigade. Government departments and private employers needed the Strike Committee's permission to carry out any work. The Strike Committee issued strike coupons that were honoured by various firms. Red ribbons were generally worn as a mark of solidarity, not only by people but also on pet dogs and horses pulling carts. Daily processions and public rallies were held to keep strikers occupied.\n\nOn the second day of the strike over 25,000 workers marched from the Brisbane Trades Hall to Fortitude Valley and back with over 50,000 supporters watching from the sidelines. The procession was described as being led by Labor parliamentarians, with the procession being eight abreast and two miles (3 km) long, with a contingent of 600 women. The strike spread throughout Queensland with many regional centres organising processions through their towns. The strike committee regularly issued an official Strike Bulletin to counter the expected anti-union bias in mainstream newspapers.\n\nIt was only when the strike spread to the railways that the Queensland government became concerned about the situation. At this juncture it banned processions, swore in special constables and issued bayonets to its police force. Commonwealth military officers and spare-time troops volunteered as special constables, and many of the specials wore their commonwealth uniforms into action.\n\nAn application by the strike committee for a permit for a march on 2 February 1912 was refused by Police Commissioner William Geoffrey Cahill – the day came to be called Black Friday for the savagery of the police baton charges on crowds of unionists and supporters.\n\nDespite the refusal of a permit, a crowd estimated at 15,000 turned up in Market Square. Police and Specials attacked crowds in Albert Street under the direction of Cahill, who shouted, \"Give it to them, lads! Into them.\" Meanwhile, Emma Miller, a pioneer trade unionist and suffragist, led a group of women and girls to parliament house and, while returning along Queen Street, were batoned and arrested by a large contingent of foot and mounted police. Emma Miller, a frail woman in her 70s barely weighing 35 kilograms, stood her ground, pulled out her hat pin and stabbed the rump of the Police Commissioner's horse. The horse reared and threw off the Police Commissioner, giving him an injury resulting in a limp for the rest of his life. There is some debate that Miller's hatpin stabbed Cahill in the leg.\n\nThe riding down and batoning of peaceful people, many of them being elderly and women and children on the footpath, was widely condemned, not only in union papers such as the \"Worker\", but also in the more conservative papers such as \"Truth\". It was initially called \"Baton Friday\", but later came to be popularly known as \"Black Friday\".\n\nConservative Queensland Premier Digby Denham, viewed the strike committee as an opposing alternate administration and said there were \"not going to be two governments\" and opposed all further permits for processions. When he attempted to enlist support of the Federal Government in the use of the military, he was rebuffed by the Labor Prime Minister, Andrew Fisher, member for the Queensland seat of Gympie. Fisher had also received a request for military support from the Combined strike committee, but declined this offer preferring to send a monetary donation in support of the strike.\n\nJustice H.B. Higgins in the Federal Arbitration Court ruled that the precipitating event was a lockout rather than a strike, and that the regulation refusing tramwaymen the right to wear their union badges on duty was both unauthorised and unreasonable. Higgins could not intervene in restoration of jobs.\n\nWhen the Employers Federation agreed on 6 March 1912 that there would be no victimisation of strikers the strike officially ended.\n\nThe savagery of the baton charges by the Queensland Police Service and specials on \"Black Friday\" created a bitterness and hatred of the police which would last for several decades. The strike reinforced solidarity and collective identity of the Australian labour movement in Queensland. The Denham government immediately won an ensuing election on a \"Law and Order\" platform and passed the \"Industrial Peace Act of 1912\" ushering in compulsory arbitration specifically to deter strikes in essential services.\n\nEmployees of the tramway company who had struck were sacked. The tramway company refused to ever re-hire these workers. When the tram system was acquired by the Queensland Government in 1922 the sacked workers were reinstated. Badges on uniforms – the cause of the strike – were forbidden even when the tram system (and later bus system) was under government and later Brisbane City Council control and were to remain forbidden until 1980.\n\nIn the aftermath of the strike three years later there was an electoral swing to Labor all over Queensland, and the second Queensland Labor Government was elected in 1915, led by T. J. Ryan.\n\nThe play, \"Faces in the street : a story of Brisbane during the general strike of 1912\" : a play in two acts written by Errol O'Neill was performed for the first time in 1983 by La Boite Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944787", "title": "Scott D'Amore", "text": "Scott D'Amore\n\nScott Francis D'Amore (born August 8, 1974) is a Canadian professional wrestler, manager, promoter, booker and entrepreneur. He currently is the Co-Executive Vice President of Impact Wrestling, where he also worked from 2003 to 2010 as an on-screen manager. D'Amore owns and books Border City Wrestling in Windsor, Ontario.\n\nD'Amore began training with Doug Chevalier in 1991 at the age of sixteen. He debuted on June 14, 1992, defeating Otis Apollo in Amherstburg, Ontario. In 1993 he underwent further training under \"Irish\" Mickey Doyle, Denny Kass and Al Snow. He went on to work for World Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation as an enhancement talent from June 1993 to early 1996. While working for WCW, he frequently trained at the WCW Power Plant.\n\nD'Amore worked for a range of independent promotions.\nIn 1995 D'Amore toured Germany with the World Cup of Wrestling. In 1996 he toured Japan with Wrestle Association R and England with the English Wrestling Federation. Later that year he formed a tag team with Dave Clark as \"Scott Hunter\" known as \"Gross Misconduct\", with the duo depicting ice hockey players. In 1996 he briefly traded his hockey stick for a golf club and became \"Chip Birdy\", a golfer.\n\nD'Amore began working as a booker and producer for promotions throughout Canada.\n\nD'Amore founded Border City Wrestling in 1993 along with Doug Chevalier and Chuck Fader. He began booking in 1994 when Chevalier left the area, and took over the promotion of the company when Fader resigned in 2000, leaving D'Amore as the sole owner.\n\nIn February 2000, D'Amore formed a stable known as The Syndicate when he allied himself with Rhino to defeat D'Lo Brown. The Syndicate eventually expanded to include \"Arrogant\" Otis Apollo, Johnny Swinger, Fantasy and Don Callis.\n\nBCW ceased operations for several months in late 2000, before coming back in 2001. The first show of 2001 was held on March 7, and featured former Extreme Championship Wrestling talent including Tommy Dreamer, Johnny Swinger, Mikey Whipwreck, Sabu, Don \"Cyrus\" Callis and Nova (D'Amore had a tryout match with ECW in 1998, and befriended many ECW employees). All the aforementioned held titles in BCW.\n\nIn addition to promoting and wrestling, D'Amore operates the Can-Am Wrestling School and trained dozens of wrestlers. He later turned face and began a heated feud with one of his students, A-1, in January 2005 after A-1 interrupted a Hall of Fame ceremony.\n\nAfter being mostly inactive from 2005 to 2007, D'Amore started running events again regularly under the Border City Wrestling banner in 2008. During that time BCW was still in operation, with less of a presence from D'Amore.\n\nBCW took a hiatus in 2010-2011 but returned with small shows in 2012. D'Amore then turned heel again by betraying one of his students of the CAN-AM Wrestling School and BCW Champion, Phil Atlas. At this time, \"The Syndicate\" re-emerged with a new group featuring Jon Bolen, Tyson Dux, Moose, and eventually Kongo Kong.\n\nBCW still runs shows in Windsor and Michigan and is partnered with Impact Wrestling. D'Amore very occasionally wrestles for the promotion, but is often seen in a managers role for \"The Syndicate\".\n\nD'Amore began working with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, TNA as a road agent in 2003, and brought in Chris Sabin, one of his former pupils. In 2004, D'Amore took an onscreen role as the coach of Team Canada. The propensity of the TNA character of \"Coach D'Amore\" to interfere on Team Canada's behalf led to commentator Mike Tenay often referring to him as a \"big fat load\" and \"Canadian bacon\". D'Amore led Team Canada to numerous victories, feuding with Jerry Lynn, Dusty Rhodes and Dustin Rhodes. He also began working backstage as a creative team member and trainer, operating the TNA Academy along with Terry Taylor.\n\nOn December 12, 2004, D'Amore organised a benefit show for Sabu, who was incapacitated with a serious back injury. \"A Night of Appreciation for Sabu\" was held in Belleville, Michigan and featured wrestlers from TNA, BCW and ECW.\n\nIn May 2005, D'Amore was appointed head of the TNA booking team. As a result of his increased offscreen workload, D'Amore opted to reduce his onscreen appearances. To explain his absence, D'Amore was attacked by Lance Hoyt at the Slammiversary PPV. Hoyt choke-slammed D'Amore and then hit him with a moonsault. D'Amore was taken on a stretcher as Team Canada spent weeks afterward talking about him being in the hospital. He came back as an on-screen force, however, when he used his BCW promotion in a plot to get Jeff Jarrett back the NWA World Heavyweight Championship. After that, he and Team Canada became fixtures in the Planet Jarrett stable.\n\nOn November 13 at Genesis 2005, D'Amore tried to get the premiering Christian Cage, a longtime friend, to join Team Canada, and gave him a T-shirt to signify membership. At the end of the night, when Team Canada came out to help Jeff Jarrett beat down Team 3D, Christian came down. Under his Captain Charisma jacket, he was wearing the Team Canada shirt. After hugging D'Amore, however, he gave him the Unprettier and helped Team 3D put Jarrett through a table, doublecrossing his former friend.\n\nAn all-or-nothing 8-man tag team match happened on the July 13 edition with them going against Rhino, Team 3D, and Jay Lethal, with a stipulation that the disbanding order would be null and void if Team Canada won; Jay Lethal pinned A-1, ending Team Canada's run as a group in TNA. Afterwards at Victory Road, D'Amore would say goodbye to the team once and for all, saying his farewells to all 4 members while blaming Young saying it was his fault they are disbanded. D'Amore has not been seen on \"Impact!\" until two years later on June 19, 2008, billed simply as a TNA Road Agent discussing Gail Kim. D'Amore then appeared on the July 17 episode of \"Impact!\", only to get whipped by James Storm and Robert Roode. In July 2008 D'Amore's contract with TNA expired and he left to work in Border City Wrestling. However, in August 2009 D'Amore was hired back to TNA as the primary road agent for the Knockouts division. D'Amore left TNA on February 3, 2010, just as it was announced that BCW would be merging with BSE Pro to form Maximum Pro Wrestling.\n\nIn 2014, D'Amore became the Vice President of International Relations with Jeff Jarrett's new Global Force Wrestling (GFW) promotion. On August 10, D'Amore and Jarrett made an appearance for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), taking part in a ceremony, where Jarrett signed a working agreement between GFW and NJPW.\n\nFollowing the purchase of Impact Wrestling, Anthem Sports & Entertainment appointed Jeff Jarrett to run the promotion, Jeff brought back many former members of the TNA backstage personal, this included Dutch Mantel, Bruce Prichard and Scott D'Amore. Jarrett appointed D'Amore with the position he had been working in Global Force Wrestling: Vice President of International Relations. However Jeff Jarrett was fired from Impact Wrestling for gross misconduct. D'Amore then took on the role as Head of Creative with Impact. On December 5, D'Amore and Don Callis were announced as Impact Wrestling's new executive vice presidents.\n\nSome notable wrestlers trained by D'Amore at \"Can-Am Wrestling School\" in Windsor, Ontario:\nD'Amore holds a degree in Communication studies from the University of Windsor where he played on the football team as a nose-guard and snapper. He has owned various bars and restaurants in Windsor and is currently an owner of the \"Shots & Slices\" restaurant and interactive golf simulator facility in Tecumseh, Ontario. Also, his family owned D'Amore Construction in Windsor, Ontario for over 30 years. After his father's passing, the company was sold but still operates under the name. Scott started his own property investment company, \"The D'Amore Group\" in 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944790", "title": "Angus Douglas-Hamilton, 15th Duke of Hamilton", "text": "Angus Douglas-Hamilton, 15th Duke of Hamilton\n\nAngus Alan Douglas Douglas-Hamilton, 15th Duke of Hamilton and 12th Duke of Brandon (13 September 1938 – 5 June 2010), styled Earl of Angus until 1940 and Marquess of Douglas and Clydesdale between 1940 and 1973, was the premier peer of Scotland.\n\nThe son of the 14th Duke of Hamilton and Lady Elizabeth Percy, daughter of the 8th Duke of Northumberland, he was educated at Eton College and Balliol College, Oxford (as was his father before him). One of his younger brothers is the Scottish Conservative and Unionist politician James Douglas-Hamilton, Baron Selkirk of Douglas.\n\nHe followed his father's interest in flying, becoming a flight lieutenant with the Royal Air Force until he was invalided out in 1967. He gained a commercial pilot's licence the same year and was a test pilot for Scottish Aviation Ltd, a company with which his father had been associated. He was a member of the Air Squadron.\n\nHe was a member of the Queen's Bodyguard for Scotland, an honorary member of the Royal Scottish Pipers Society and Patron of the British Airways Pipe Band. He was a Knight of St John. He was Hereditary Keeper of the Palace of Holyroodhouse.\n\nBy right of his subsidiary title of Lord Abernethy, he was hereditary bearer of the Crown of Scotland to the Parliament of Scotland. The Duke of Hamilton fulfilled that duty by carrying the Crown in front of Her Majesty The Queen at the opening ceremony of the Scottish Parliament.\n\nHe was a campaigner for animal welfare, together with his third wife Kay.\n\nThe 15th Duke married three times:\n\nHe married firstly Sarah Jane Scott, daughter of Major Sir Walter Scott, 4th Bt, of Beauclerc, on 23 June 1972 (divorced 1987). They had four children and have nineteen grand children:\n\n\nHe married secondly Jillian Robertson in 1988 (divorced 1995). No issue. She was previously married to Martin Page and Edward A. S. Hulton and died in 2018.\n\nHe married thirdly Kay Carmichael, now the Dowager Duchess of Hamilton, in 1998. No issue. A qualified nurse, she serves as Chairperson of Scottish Staffordshire Bull Terrier Rescue and as a patron of OneKind and Alzheimer Scotland.\n\nThe 15th Duke died on 5 June 2010 at the age of 71. He was succeeded in the dukedom and his other titles and privileges by his elder son, Alexander Douglas-Hamilton, 16th Duke of Hamilton.\n"}
{"id": "1944792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944792", "title": "LMS locomotive numbering and classification", "text": "LMS locomotive numbering and classification\n\nA number of different numbering and classification schemes were used for the locomotives owned by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) and its constituent companies; this page explains the principal systems that were used. \n\nThe following abbreviations for the constituent companies are used on this page:\n\n\nCaledonian Railway (CR), Furness Railway (FR), Glasgow and South Western Railway (GSWR), Highland Railway (HR), Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR), London and North Western Railway (LNWR), Maryport and Carlisle Railway (MCR), Midland Railway (MR), North London Railway (NLR) and North Staffordshire Railway (NSR)\n\n\nCleator and Workington Junction Railway (C&WJR), Glasgow and Paisley Joint Railway (G&PJR), Knott End Railway (KER), Stratford-Upon-Avon & Midland Junction Railway (S&MJR), and Wirral Railway (WR)\n\n\nSomerset and Dorset Joint Railway (S&DJR) - absorbed October 1936\n\nFor information about individual classes and locomotives, see: Locomotives of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway\n\nThe LNWR inherited its numbering system from one of its constituents, the Grand Junction Railway. In short, locomotives were numbered in a series commencing at 1. No gaps were allowed in the series, so a new locomotive would either be numbered at the end of the series or would reuse the number of an older locomotive. \n\nOlder locomotives would then be either withdrawn or renumbered into the 'duplicate list' series used for those no longer in capital stock but which not yet completely life expired. These engines were numbered in various series over time: initially they took an 'A' suffix to the original number, then from 1862 they were renumbered above 1100, from 1870 above 1800, and from 1886 in the 3xxx series.\n\nThe GJR and LNWR also named their passenger tender locomotives (indeed all locomotives were named until 1858), and often the same name and number combinations would be applied to new locomotives as they replaced older ones. The removal of names attached to freight engines after 1863 allowed them to be re-applied to the increasing stock of passenger engines, including those running on the former London and Birmingham Railway area of the LNWR, where locomotives had not been named.\n\nThe MR undertook a wholesale renumbering of its locomotive stock in 1907 based on usage, wheel arrangement, power classification (see classification section below), and age, with locomotives of the same class numbered together. The least powerful and oldest classes took the lowest numbers and locomotives were renumbered in order of age.\n\nWhen the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway (LTSR) was absorbed by the MR in 1912, its locomotives were renumbered into this scheme. It had only two tender engines, both 0-6-0 types, and these became 2898 and 2899. The rest were tank locomotives of varying wheel arrangements, which required the adoption of new number ranges at the end of the tank engine series. In all, the number ranges used by the MR were as follows:\n\nNote: While the majority of ex-MR locomotives were left unrenumbered by the LMS at Grouping in 1923, the ex-LTSR locomotives were subject to several renumberings to clear space for new stock, which changed the number ranges set out above.\n\nShortly after the LMS was formed in 1923, it developed a new numbering scheme for all the locomotives that it had inherited. The scheme dealt with two key problems faced by the new company:\n\nThese advantages more than overcame the disadvantage of the effort involved in renumbering almost every locomotive and giving them a number that usually bore no relation to its pre-Grouping identity, except for the Midland Railway locomotives that had been renumbered along similar lines in 1907 and mostly retained their numbers.\n\nThe system comprised four groups of numbers into which locomotives from a set of railways were numbered:\nWithin each group, locomotives were numbered in blocks which ran (low to high numbers) as set out below. Within each block, the least powerful locomotives took the lowest numbers.\n\nWhen the Somerset and Dorset Joint Railway locomotives were absorbed in 1930, they were mostly allocated numbers in the Midland Railway series (appropriate, since the SDJR had been jointly owned by the Midland Railway and many MR designs had been used on the SDJR), though some took numbers in the former LNWR series.\n\nNew-build LMS locomotives were not allocated any particular numbers, but were fitted into the most appropriate division. The unallocated 13xxx series of numbers were also used for new build LMS types.\n\nIn 1932, as older locomotives had been withdrawn and new standard LMS designs were becoming more common, it was decided that modifications should be made to the numbering system. In short, all LMS-built locomotives were to have numbers in the 1-9999 series, with pre-Grouping locomotives being renumbered out of that series as required to accommodate them.\n\nThe introduction of this scheme involved renumbering both new and old locomotives to put them in the appropriate sequences. During the remainder of the 1930s, numbers were cleared for new locomotives by simply adding 20000 to the numbers of old locomotives.\n\nDiesel shunters, which started to appear from the early 1930s onwards, were numbered in the same series as steam locomotives. Originally a series commencing at 7400 was planned, but it was soon evident that this would not provide sufficient space and it was replaced by a series commencing at 7050. The prototype mainline diesel locomotives, the first of which was introduced at the end of 1947 just prior to Nationalisation were given the 'significant numbers' 10000 and 10001.\n\nNew engines built by British Railways to ex-LMS designs after Nationalisation in 1948 continued to use this numbering system, albeit with 40000 added to the numbers to avoid number conflicts with other absorbed engines (see BR locomotive and multiple unit numbering and classification). There were some minor amendments made by BR, however:\n\n\nThe Midland Railway introduced a system of locomotive classification based on the power output represented by a locomotive's tractive effort at 50 mph (passenger locomotives) or 25 mph (goods locomotives). This is the continuous tractive effort and is much lower than the starting tractive effort which is the figure usually quoted in technical publications.\n\nThis system was adopted by the LMS and also, from 1948 the nationalised British Railways. The classification was made up of a number (representing the power output - 0 being low power and 9 high power) and a letter (representing the type of work the locomotive was intended for), e.g. 4F. Over the years there were some modifications to the system, but the basics remained the same. \n\nThe principal downside with this method of classification was that it did not distinguish between particular classes of locomotive, so many very different types would have been classified '4F' for instance.\n\nThe tables below provide definitions for the numbers and letters used:\n\nA single number without a suffix letter was originally used by the LMS on locomotives that were not of Midland Railway origin until 1928. Thereafter, it was used to indicate a mixed traffic locomotive. Where a mixed traffic locomotive fell into different power ranges, dual classification was used, e.g. 5P4F. In the 1950s the suffixes 'FA' and 'FB' were used to distinguish between freight locos at the lower and higher ends of the power range.\n"}
{"id": "1944796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944796", "title": "Lists of microcomputers", "text": "Lists of microcomputers\n\nFor an overview of microcomputers of different kinds, see the following lists of microcomputers:\n\n"}
{"id": "1944805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944805", "title": "Danny Cooksey", "text": "Danny Cooksey\n\nDaniel Ray Allen Cooksey Jr. (born November 2, 1975) is an American actor, voice actor, and singer. He is best known for his roles in television shows, such as \"Diff'rent Strokes\" during the final three seasons, \"The Cavanaughs\", and \"Salute Your Shorts\", and for providing the voice of Montana Max in \"Tiny Toon Adventures\".\n\nCooksey was born in Moore, Oklahoma, the son of Melody Ann (née Wagoner) and Daniel Ray Allen Cooksey, Sr.\n\nIn 1979, Cooksey and his mother moved to Los Angeles with the intention of pursuing a career in country music. When an agent saw Cooksey's performance, he invited the young actor to audition for \"Diff'rent Strokes\"; he was cast as Sam McKinney, a part he played for the last three seasons. He also played Kevin Cavanaugh in \"The Cavanaughs\", Bobby Budnick in \"Salute Your Shorts\", John Connor's friend Tim in \"\", the title character in \"The Further Adventures of SuperTed\", Montana Max in \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", Milo Kamalani on \"Pepper Ann\", Jack Spicer in \"Xiaolin Showdown\", and the title character in \"Dave the Barbarian\". He also lent his voice to the Kids' WB animated series \"Static Shock\" as Francis Stone/Hotstreak.\n\nCooksey was the lead singer in the band Bad4Good; they released one CD, \"Refugee\", for Interscope Records in 1992. He was also a band member of Lucy's Milk in 1996 and Arbuckle in 2004. In between Bad4Good and Lucy's Milk, Cooksey attempted to form another super group called Sheriff, which consisted of Cooksey, his friends and former \"Salute Your Shorts\" castmates Blake Sennett and Michael Bower and his former bandmate in Bad4Good Zach Young. The Sheriff project was scrapped when they could not land a record deal. In 2013, Cooksey worked with LA Country and Western band Shelter Dogs, providing guitar and vocals. He still makes sporadic appearances with Shelter Dogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944807", "title": "FitzRoy Somerset, 4th Baron Raglan", "text": "FitzRoy Somerset, 4th Baron Raglan\n\nFitzroy Richard Somerset, 4th Baron Raglan (10 June 1885 – 14 September 1964) was a British soldier, author, and amateur anthropologist. His books include \"The Hero, A Study in Tradition, Myth and Drama\" and \"Monmouthshire Houses\", with Cyril Fox.\n\nFitzRoy Richard Somerset, heir to the peerage title Baron Raglan, was born on 10 June 1885 to George Fitzroy Henry Somerset, 3rd Baron Raglan and his wife Lady Ethel Jemima Ponsonby. He was educated at Eton and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, and received a commission as Second lieutenant in the Militia regiment the Royal Monmouthshire Royal Engineers on 10 June 1902. In 1905 he entered the British Army and was commissioned in the Grenadier Guards. His military career included working as an aide-de-camp to the governor of Hong Kong, service in the Egyptian army from 1913 to 1919, district commissioner in Sudan and as a political officer in Palestine and Transjordan. In recognition of his services in Egypt he was made an Officer of the Order of the Nile. He retired from the Army in 1922 as a major.\n\nWith the death of his father in 1921, he assumed the title 4th Baron Raglan and, after retiring from the army, returned to his ancestral home, Cefntilla Court near Usk in Monmouthshire. He was very active in local affairs. He was a Justice of the Peace for the county as early as 1909 and served for twenty-one years (1928–49) as a member of the former Monmouthshire county council. He took a great interest in the Boy Scout movement and was county commissioner for Monmouthshire for 27 years (1927–54). He served as Lord Lieutenant of Monmouthshire from 1942 until 1964.\n\nDuring his life he studied and wrote on topics in areas such as anthropology, political science, and architecture. His interest in the antiquities of Monmouthshire led him to write, with Sir Cyril Fox, three volumes on the county's medieval and later domestic architecture, \"Monmouthshire Houses\". In 1933 he became president of Section H (Anthropology) of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, and from 1945 to 1947 he served as president of the Folklore Society. He was chairman of the art and archaeology committee of the National Museum of Wales (1949–51) and president of the National Museum of Wales from 1957 to 1962. He was also president of the Royal Anthropological Institute from 1955 to 1957.\n\nOn 9 April 1923 Raglan married Julia Hamilton (7 January 1901 – 17 April 1971), daughter of Lt.-Col. Robert Hamilton-Udny, 11th Lord Belhaven and Stenton by his marriage to Kathleen Gonville Bromhead. The Lord and Lady Raglan had five children, the first of whom died a few days after birth. Julia, Lady Raglan also contributed to the study of folklore. In an article in the journal \"Folklore\" in 1939, she coined the term \"Green Man\" to describe the foliate heads found in English churches. Her theory on their origin is still debated.\n\nLord Raglan was also the source of various controversies over the course of his life. In 1938 he declared his wish to give up his job at the Ministry of Information on the grounds that he was not doing enough work to justify his salary. In 1958 he agitated Welsh nationalist feelings by declaring Welsh a ‘moribund’ language. Demands were made for his resignation from the National Museum of Wales, but he stood fast. (The motto of the Raglan barony is \"Mutare vel timere sperno\": ‘I scorn to change or to fear’).\n\nLord Raglan died on 14 September 1964.\n\nLord Raglan was not only an active member of many societies and interested in administrative duties in national institutions but also published a number of books and papers on archaeology and anthropology. His first book, \"Jocasta's Crime – An Anthropological Study\", a study of incest and incest taboos, was published in 1933. He followed with \"The Science of Peace\", a work on the origin, development, and prevention of war.\nLord Raglan's work, \"The Hero, a Study in Tradition, Myth and Drama\" was published in 1936. The book's central thesis is that hero figures of mythology had their origin in ritual drama, not historical fact. In the book's most influential chapter, he outlined 22 common traits of god-heroes which he called the \"mythic hero archetype\". Raglan then encapsulates the lives of several heroes and awards points (marks) for thematic elements for a possible score of 22. He dissects Oedipus, Theseus, Romulus, Heracles, Perseus, Jason, Bellerophon, Pelops, Asclepios, Dionysos, Apollo, Zeus, Joseph, Moses, Elijah, Watu Gunung, Nyikang, Sigurd or Siegfried, Llew Llawgyffes, Arthur, and Robin Hood. Oedipus earns the highest score with 21 marks. The pattern has been applied to other heroes including Beowulf and Harry Potter.\n\nSignificantly, Raglan excludes Jesus from the study, even though Jesus matched a number of the identified traits. Raglan later claimed to have omitted Jesus to avoid conflict with his publisher.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944808", "title": "Slates (EP)", "text": "Slates (EP)\n\nSlates is an EP by the Fall, released on 27 April 1981 by Rough Trade Records. It was one of singer Mark E. Smith's favourite Fall releases, and he claimed it was aimed at \"people who didn't buy records\".\n\n\"Slates\" was released on 27 April 1981. Containing six tracks and pressed onto 10\" vinyl, it was eligible for neither the single nor album charts, being too long for the former and too short for the latter. It was, however, included in the UK Independent Singles chart, where it reached No. 3 \n\nThe six tracks include \"Fit and Working Again\", in which Smith comments on the working class work-ethic, and compares his state of mind to that of boxer Alan Minter after taking LSD, and \"Leave the Capitol\", which was seen as summing up Smith's negative view of London. The vinyl has etched on it \"Keep shtum. Plagiarism infects the land\".\n\n\"Slates\" made its first appearance on CD in 1992 on the Dojo label, where it was coupled with live album \"A Part of America Therein, 1981\", at the time these being two of the hardest Fall releases to find. This combined album was reissued in 1998 by Essential and in 2002 by Castle Communications. It was also reissued by Castle on CD with bonus tracks comprising the band's March 1981 Peel session, both tracks from the \"Lie Dream of a Casino Soul\" single, and a studio outtake, \"Medical Acceptance Gate\". \"Slates\" was reissued on its original 10-inch vinyl format in 2016 on the Superior Viaduct label.\n\nAlthough it was a six-song EP, \"Slates\" still ranked number 13 among the \"Albums of the Year\" for 1981 by \"NME\". AllMusic gave it four stars, with David Jeffries writing \"Not a bad taster if you're new and want some post-punk, pre-pop Fall – and 90 percent of this is prime material.\" \"Trouser Press\" commented on the improvement in production compared to \"Grotesque (After the Gramme)\", calling it \"A solid record of greater potential appeal than just to cultists.\"\n\nIn 1992, \"The Wire (magazine)\" included the EP in its list of the \"100 most important records ever made\" with a blurb by Mark Sinker. Situated between the \"callow punk-bandwagon promise and bad haircuts\" of their early career and the \"classic and even generically classic work\" that would follow, Sinker wrote that \"Slates\" captures the Fall at the moment when \"Mark E. Smith's unfooled bile seems perfectly dialectically visionary, wearily energised, utterly untimely: his un-musicality a higher music. 'Naive' anti-design sleeve design, rhythms that jerk along like speedheads addicted to paranoia side-effect; a guitar-sound jabbing barbs into your skin, razor-edge squeals into your head—Man With Chip's voice yabbers scarily on through a thick fog of textured noise.\"\n\nDave Simpson, in his book \"The Fallen\", describes \"Slates\": \"Even more than \"Grotesque\", \"Slates\" manages to skirt the boundaries of demented Northern rockabilly, experimental rock, and \"avant garde\", but despite that manages to be insanely poppy.\"\n\n\"Slates\" appeared at number 8 in the 2018 \"Billboard\" list \"The 10 Best Albums by The Fall: Critic's Picks\", with Geeta Dayal picking out \"Leave the Capitol\" as \"one of Smith's most rocking and unforgettable songs...a tune that you could hear reverberating through rock and roll for decades to come\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944811", "title": "Augustus Akinloye", "text": "Augustus Akinloye\n\nChief Augustus Meredith Adisa Akinloye (August 19, 1916 – September 18, 2007), popularly known as A.M.A, was a Nigerian lawyer, politician and the Seriki of Ibadanland, thus making him a Yoruba tribal aristocrat.\n\nAkinloye read law at the London School of Economics between 1946 and 1948. Upon his return to Nigeria, he briefly worked as a lawyer before venturing into politics.\n\nAkinloye was instrumental to the formation of the first ever political party in Ibadan called Ibadan Peoples Party (IPP) which he served as its president, with Adegoke Adelabu as his deputy. His IPP party later merged with the Action Group, led by Chief Obafemi Awolowo, to form the first government in the Western Region of Nigeria, in which Akinloye was appointed the Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources. During the second half of the 1950s he was elected Chairman of Ibadan City Council.\n\nDuring the Western Region crisis in the early 1960s, he left the Action Group for Chief Samuel Ladoke Akintola's newly formed Nigerian National Democratic Party and served in the cabinet led by the then Prime Minister, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa. (The government was overthrown in a military coup on 15 January 1966.)\n\nAkinloye was the Chairman of the then-largest political party in Africa, the National Party of Nigeria, which ruled the country between 1979 and 1983 while Shehu Shagari was President. Akinloye went into exile in 1983 after his party was overthrown by the military government headed by General Muhammadu Buhari and returned to Nigeria after ten years when the interim government led by Chief Ernest Shonekan was in place.\n\nThe Oloye Akinloye was married and had multiple children. He died at age 91 in his home town on September 18, 2007 after a brief illness.\n"}
{"id": "1944820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944820", "title": "Ettercap (software)", "text": "Ettercap (software)\n\nEttercap is a free and open source network security tool for man-in-the-middle attacks on LAN. It can be used for computer network protocol analysis and security auditing. It runs on various Unix-like operating systems including Linux, Mac OS X, BSD and Solaris, and on Microsoft Windows. It is capable of intercepting traffic on a network segment, capturing passwords, and conducting active eavesdropping against a number of common protocols. Its original developers later founded Hacking Team.\n\nEttercap works by putting the network interface into promiscuous mode and by ARP poisoning the target machines. Thereby it can act as a 'man in the middle' and unleash various attacks on the victims. Ettercap has plugin support so that the features can be extended by adding new plugins.\n\nEttercap supports active and passive dissection of many protocols (including ciphered ones) and provides many features for network and host analysis. Ettercap offers four modes of operation:\n\n\nIn addition, the software also offers the following features:\n\n\nEttercap also has the ability to actively or passively find other poisoners on the LAN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944821", "title": "A Quick Fix of Melancholy", "text": "A Quick Fix of Melancholy\n\nA Quick Fix of Melancholy is the fourth EP by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced in the Winter of 2002, the EP was issued on 26 August 2003 via Jester Records. A precursor to the album, \"Blood Inside\", \"A Quick Fix of Melancholy\" showcases the band's ability to seamlessly combine ambient and electronic music with orchestral elements.\n\nThe text from “Vowels” is by Canadian author Christian Bök, taken from \"Eunoia\" (Coach House Books, 2002) and used with permission. “Eitttlane” is a rearrangement of “Nattleite” from 1996 album \"Kveldssanger\".\n\nIn an interview with Modern Fix Kristoffer Rygg commented, “\"A Quick Fix of Melancholy\" was our way of trying to get back into writing songs—or something resembling songs—and also find out where we wanted to take things. I think after all our work with film, which is very kind of aesthetically fixed, you know. We ended up making \"Blood Inside\".”\n\nRating the EP 4/5, SputnikMusic commented, \"For those who know Ulver well, you may be familiar with the ever-present state of identity crisis that seems to prey on Kristoffer Rygg’s musical mind, but to most, this state never ceases to satisfy. It is definitely clear that \"A Quick Fix…\" is a teaser for \"Blood Inside\".\"\n\nAversionline.com rated the EP 7/10, commenting, “Opener \"Little Blue Birds\" clearly states that this EP is a lot different than the last few, what with its orchestral synths and operatic vocals.”\n\nGlobal Domination rated the EP 10/10, commenting, “There are moments of a general upbeat/pensive nature, most of this is very downhearted music, sometimes shifting towards the downright depressing. Instruments include drums, violins, cellos, chimes of some sort, trumpets, a whole bunch of other shit that at times incites a euphoric kind of dreaminess, at others just really gets you down. All together everything forms a sublime masterpiece.”\n\nJohn Chedsey, writing for Satan Stole My Teddybear, concluded, “This is so far one of the most impressive feats for Ulver, showing they are doing nothing but growing within their chosen musical pursuit. Music is indeed an extension of one's inner expressions and Ulver seems to have tapped into a musical vein that not many are aware of. The growing skill in which Ulver is putting together their music is quite impressive and this EP is making me salivate at the thought of future releases.”\n\n"}
{"id": "1944823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944823", "title": "USS Pocahontas", "text": "USS Pocahontas\n\nUSS \"Pocahontas\" may refer to one of the following United States Navy ships honoring Pocahontas, the Algonquian Indian daughter of Powhatan and wife of American colonist and Virginia tobacco grower John Rolfe:\n\n"}
{"id": "1944827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944827", "title": "Kaimingjie germ weapon attack", "text": "Kaimingjie germ weapon attack\n\nThe Kaimingjie germ weapon attack was a Japanese biological warfare bacterial germ strike against Kaimingjie, an area of the port of Ningbo in the Chinese province of Zhejiang in October 1940, during the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nThese attacks were a joint Unit 731 and Unit 1644 endeavour. Bubonic plague was the area of greatest interest to the doctors of the units mentioned above. Six different plague attacks were conducted in China during the war, between the start of aggression and the end of the war.\n\nUsing airdropped wheat, corn, scraps of cotton cloth and sand infested with plague infected fleas, an outbreak was started that resulted in a hundred deaths, infections and mild to severe bodily mutilations. The area was evacuated and a 14-foot wall was built around it to enforce a quarantine. The area was eventually burnt to the ground to eradicate the disease.\n\nA later attack in 1942 on the same area by the two units led to the development of their final delivery system: airdropped ceramic bombs. Some work was conducted during the war with the use of liquid forms of the pathogen agents but the results were unsatisfactory for the researchers.\n\nThe attacks were formed on the research of units 731 and 1644. These units researched the effects of various chemicals and pathogens that had the potential to be used as biological weapons on soldiers and civilians.The aim of the development of these biological weapons was the use of the weapons to further expand the Japanese empire across Asia.\n\nThese units were arms of the Japanese top-secret biological weapons program. The program was headed by general Shirō Ishii. General Ishii devised the plans for the kaimingjie germ weapon attack and played a major role in the Japanese biological weapons program, specifically through securing the program's funding.\n\nThe kaimingjie germ weapon attack occurred during the Second Sino Japanese war (1937–45). This was a military conflict between the Republic of China and the Empire of Japan. the war broke out as a resistance to the Japanese expansion and influence on Chinese territory.\n\nIn 1931 Japan's Kwantung army occupied Manchuria in an event known as the mukden incident. Manchuria consisted of China’s three north-eastern provinces. Before 1937 china and japan fought in localised engagements but refrained from fighting a major war. In Manchuria, Japan established the puppet state of Manchukuo, this became a colony of Japan. Japan then continued to further expanded their occupation of China. These activities created a growing resistance against Japanese expansion. The Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 1937 marked the beginning of full-scale hostilities between there republic of china and the Empire of Japan.\n\nJapan’s occupation of China was Declared illegal by the League of Nations; however, they were not able to pass sanctions to cease the occupation as Japan had withdrawn from the league in 1933. In China, the Second Sino Japanese war is known as the “war of resistance”.\n\nJapan had signed the Geneva convention, which prohibited biological and chemical warfare, however, it had not ratified the treaty and was thus not bound to the conditions of the treaty and therefore could develop a chemical and biological weapons program.\n\nJapan developed a chemical and biological weapons program, under japans top-secret weapons program, founded and led by General Shirō Ishii.\n\nIshii played a large role in pushing for the funding of the biological weapons program from the high command, general Ishii was said to have been “eccentric…flamboyant and arrogant man”. Ishii was accepted into the medical department of Kyoto Imperial university, there he illustrated his fast and quick mind, much advanced for his age. Throughout university japan instilled a solid sense of nationalism and patriotic duty unto their students. General Shirō Ishii has been described as an \"ardent ultra-nationalist\".\n\nIshii understood science and medicine as an avenue to further Japans nationalistic goals. Ishii joined the army where he was appointed as lieutenant. Along his journey Ishii created a network of ties with people of high standing in university and the military, these connections would later facilitate the founding of the biological weapons program, and subsequent research. His argument for the use of chemical weapons was that biological warfare would be a cheaper alternative to traditional forms of weaponry.\n\nthe main units of this program were units 731 and 1644, both units operated under the guise of the epidemic prevention and water purification department. This was a department of the Imperial Japanese army, and it had the public mission of preventing the spread of disease through monitoring Japans water supply.\n\nmuch of the research and experimentation took place in China and Manchukuo, although some experimentation also occurred at Imperial Navy hospitals and hospitals where wounded soldiers were being treated for their injuries. experimentation occurred at these hospitals on islands across the Pacific wherein various prisoners of war from different countries were used as subjects for the experiments, including Soviet and Chinese prisoners.\n\nThe plan for the kaimingjie germ weapon attack was devised by General Shirō Ishii within unit 731. Unit 731 was a biological and chemical weapons development unit. This unit was tasked with performing experiments into chemical agents that had the potential to be used and developed into biological weapons. The unit conducted experiments, with infectious diseases in which researchers subjugated Chinese captives and captured insurgents to cholera, syphilis, the bubonic plague. Additionally, the unit performed vivisection on their human subjects after they were infected with these various diseases. invasive surgeries were performed on humans where individual organs would be removed from live subjects and studied to understand the effects of diseases.\n\nUnit 731 also studied the effects of various toxins. Specific experiments conducted included testing poison gas on prisoners, testing bubonic plague bombs, testing frostbite and its remedies on live people. Additionally this unit studied malnutrition, tetanus, anthrax, dysentry, glanders and more.\n\nMost of these experiments were carried out in a facility called ping fan in Harbin, Manchukuo. ping fan was an important site for the study of frostbite, wherein living people’ limbs were frozen and then thawed out.\n\nThose who were conducting experiments did not employ anaesthesia and left their subjects fully awake whilst they were being operated on, as claimed by a Japanese army doctor Yasua Ken.\n\nit has also been alleged that British and American prisoners of war were subject to biological weapons experimentation at a detention camp near Mukden. Although in 1986 The British ministry of defence denied any evidence of these events.\n\nunit 731 was involved in production and delivery of poison gasses, in 1929 a factory on Okunoshima was established to produce various poisonous gasses such as; mustard gas and phosphene gas. These gasses were then transported to the city of Kokura and packaged into artillery shells to be used on Chinese combatants and civilians, it is alleged that the gasses were used on these groups over 2000 times.\n\nunit 731 bred yellow rats and fleas in order to spread pathogens. this took place mainly at ping fan. rats would be infected with the plague and flees would be raised on the blood of these infected rats.\n\nPathogen infected flees would be encased in a weapon called the \"Uji\" bomb. the \"Uji \"bomb is a ceramic bomb, it was designed to easily explode hundreds of feet above ground, and shower infected flees over Chinese cities. initially the \"Uji\" bomb was made of a steel casing but this proved inadequate as very few pathogens survived the heat generated by the initial explosion, therefore general Ishii modified the bomb to use a ceramic casing in place of the steel frame.These new \"Uji\" bombs were tested in ping fan airfields on human subjects. These particular bombs were used to infect large areas with various pathogens.\n\nThe Japanese military unit 1644 was headed by Masuda Tomosada, appointed by general Shiro Ishii. It was established in 1939 in Japanese occupied Nanking, the unit operated under the guise of the epidemic prevention and water purification department.This unit’s main function was the mass production of bacteria to be used for attacks, they also conducted experiments with various biological agents. the unit focused mainly on carrying out experiments with cholera, typhus and bubonic plague.\n\nThe unit also experimented with various poisons extracted from animals such as Taiwanese snake poisons from the cobra, hadi and amagasa snakes.\n\nThis unit was relatively small when compared to other units in the Japanese biological weapons program. This unit received large amounts of funding despite its relatively small size.\n\nThe Kaimangjie germ weapon attack consisted of; corn and cloth infested with fleas, these fleas had been infected with cholera and the bubonic plague and were airdropped over the area of Ningbo on October 27, 1940. Rats would be infected with these fleas; the fleas would then move on and find human hosts.\n\nOn October 29 the first three cases of the plague were diagnosed by local health officials in Kaimingjie. An estimated 26 deaths had occurred by November 2. measures were taken in response to the situation. Quarantines were imposed on affected areas, homes were routinely disinfected. sheets and cloths were burnt as a precautionary measure and Vaccinations were soon introduced by officials. The areas of the city Most affected by the attack were evacuated and later burnt to prevent further outbreaks and completely eradicate the disease.\n\nvictim, Jiand Chun Geng suffered flesh-eating ulcers. others suffered untreated infections that led to death.\n\nthere were also many casualties Leading up to this attack. Unit 731’s experiments saw many victims, Dr Sheldon Harris estimated that from testing of prototype weapons 250000 civilian men and women died.\n\nThere was a second Japanese attack on Kaimingjie that occurred in 1942, this germ weapon attack consisted of airdropping ceramic bombs over the city.\n\nJapan surrendered to American Allies on August 6, 1945. America planned prosecution of Japanese war criminals in both “major tribunals and minor trials” as quoted by General Douglas MacArthur. Very little was known about japans biological weapons until 1944 when breakthroughs in decoding Japanese communications had been made by American intelligence.\n\nHowever, those who led unit 731 were not put on trial, and although information had surfaced on the Japanese biological weapons program, links were not made to unit 731 this was potentially an official coverup, attributed to the perceived military value seen by the USA in the information that unit 731 held, such as the effects of biological agents on humans. As America itself had researched biological and chemical weapons, specifically through the united states army of chemical warfare.\n\nThe failure to prosecute those involved in biological warfare may also have been due to lack of due diligence through the investigative process.\n\nIt has been speculated that the USA helped with the coverup of a Factory in Okushima that produced mustard gas phosphene gas. During this coverup, thousands of tons of poison gasses were allegedly dumped into the ocean in 1946. General Shirō Ishii provided the Americans with documents revealing secrets of the Japanese warfare program. General Ishii was not prosecuted for his activities.\n\nthe Soviet Union captured some unit 731 personnel whilst they were fleeing from Manchukuo, some of these captured men stood trial in the Khabarovsk war crime trials held between 25-31 of December 1949 in the Soviet Union. During these trials, 12 Japanese medical army researchers were convicted of war crimes. within the trials Japanese Major General Kiyoshi Kawashima testified that unit 731 had dropped plague contaminated fleas on Chinese cities, that caused epidemic plague Outbreaks. However, these trials were labelled as propaganda by the united states . it has been said that the trials do not offer enough independent verification on the subject and certain crucial points\n\nMany of the leaders in japans secret biological warfare program would go on to have successful careers in America. many of the activities undertaken by the Japanese army are emitted from historical textbooks and western culture.\n\nCompared to other histories, the topic of the Japanese biological weapons program is relatively understudied. This is due to the lack of documents and writings available on the topic. Much of the information important to the topic was destroyed, lost and largely covered up. much of the information held by the united states had been kept classified until recent times.\n\nThe first notable non-governmental Inquiry into the topic was conducted by journalists Peter Williams and David Wallace, they brought to light the experimentation and attacks committed by Japanese unit 731, and the plans devised by general Shirō Ishii. They also spoke of alleged coverup of the Japanese war crimes. The works of these men brought exposure unto the subject specifically, to the western world.\n\nHistorian Sheldon Harris later furthered this work and brought even more exposure onto the subject, with in-depth rigour and evaluation of the subject. Harris collected research from people who had direct knowledge and experience with the events. Additionally. he brought to light the different units involved in the biological weapons program such as units 731, 1644, 100 and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944828", "title": "Giovanna d'Arco", "text": "Giovanna d'Arco\n\nGiovanna d'Arco (\"Joan of Arc\") is an operatic \"dramma lirico\" with a prologue and three acts by Giuseppe Verdi set to an Italian libretto by Temistocle Solera, who had prepared the libretti for \"Nabucco\" and \"I Lombardi\". It is Verdi's seventh opera.\n\nThe work partly reflects the story of Joan of Arc and appears to be loosely based on the play \"Die Jungfrau von Orleans\" by Friedrich von Schiller. Verdi wrote the music during the autumn and winter of 1844/45 and the opera had its first performance at Teatro alla Scala in Milan on 15 February 1845.\n\nThis opera is not to be confused with Rossini's cantata of the same name, which was composed in 1832 for contralto and piano, and runs approximately 15 minutes.\n\nBy the middle of the 19th century, the story of Joan of Arc had served as the basis for many operas, including those of Nicola Vaccai (1827) and Giovanni Pacini (1830), both of which were strongly reminiscent of Schiller's play. Solera was asked by Verdi's publisher, Giovanni Ricordi, for assurances that his libretto violated no copyright, noting that he had heard of a French treatment of the subject. Solera denied that Schiller's play was the source of his work and wrote that the work was \"an entirely original Italian drama […] I have not allowed myself to be imposed upon by the authority either of Schiller or Shakespeare […] \"My play is original\"\" (emphasis in original). Musicologist Julian Budden believes that \"invention was not Solera's strong suit\" and describes Solera's work as \"merely Schiller diluted\". He criticized the flow of the libretto compared to the play, writing that \"characters are reduced to a minimum\" and \"for poetry and humanity we are given theatrical sensationalism\".\n\n19th century\nThe first Giovanna was Erminia Frezzolini, who had previously appeared in Verdi's \"I Lombardi alla prima crociata\" two years earlier. She was paired with her husband, tenor Antonio Poggi, as Charles, King of France. Baritone Filippo Colini portrayed Giovanna's father Giacomo. Verdi himself thought highly of the opera but was unhappy with the way it was staged and \"with the deteriorating standards of Merelli's productions\" overall. Due to Merelli's underhand negotiations to acquire the rights to the score from Ricordi, the composer vowed never to deal with the impresario nor set foot on the stage of La Scala again. La Scala did not stage another Verdi premiere until the revised version of \"Simon Boccanegra\" 36 years later.\n\nWhile the critics were rather dismissive of the opera, it was \"ecstatically received\" by audiences. and was given a respectable 17 performances.\n\nFor the opera's first production in Rome, three months after the Milan premiere, the papal censor required that the plot be cleared of any direct religious connotations. The title was changed to \"Orietta di Lesbo\", the setting was shifted to the Greek island and the heroine, now of Genoese descent, became a leader of the Lesbians against the Turks. Performances under this title were also given in Palermo in 1848.\n\nFor the next 20 years \"Giovanna d'Arco\" had steady success in Italy, with stagings in Florence, Lucca, and Senigallia in 1845, Turin and Venice in 1846, Mantua in 1848, and Milan in 1851, 1858, and 1865. It was also presented elsewhere in Europe, Over the course of the nineteenth century, stagings declined to a very few.\n20th and 21st centuries\n\nIn 1951 Renata Tebaldi sang the title role in Naples, Milan (a studio-recorded broadcast) and Paris, in a tour that led to further revivals. The US premiere was given in March 1966, in a concert performance at Carnegie Hall, New York, with Teresa Stratas in the title role. Its first stage performance in the US was given in 1976 by Vincent La Selva at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. It received its UK premiere at the Royal Academy of Music in London on 23 May 1966.\n\nFully staged productions were mounted by the San Diego Opera in June 1980 as part of its short-lived \"Verdi Festival\", and by the Royal Opera, London in June 1996 with Vladimir Chernov as Giacomo and June Anderson as Giovanna. In September 2013, Chicago Opera Theater staged performances of the opera.\n\nLa Scala, Milan, presented the opera for the first time in 150 years in 2015 in a new production with Anna Netrebko in the title role.\nThe Berliner Operngruppe under Felix Krieger presented the opera in March 2018 at Konzerthaus Berlin.\n\n\"Scene 1: The French village of Domrémy\"\n\nCharles (the not-yet-crowned King of France) describes to his officers and the villagers his vision of the Virgin Mary commanding him to surrender to the invading English army and laying down his weapons at the foot of a giant oak tree. (Aria: \"Sotto una quercia parvemi\" – \"Beneath an oak she appeared to me\"). Later, he expresses his frustration with the limitations of being a ruler. (Aria: \"Pondo è letal, martirio\" – \"A deadly burden, a torment\").\n\n\"Scene 2: A forest\"\n\nBy a giant oak tree, Giacomo prays for the safety of his daughter Giovanna, who before she falls asleep by a nearby shrine offers prayers to be chosen to lead the French forces. (Aria: \"Sempre all'alba ed alla sera\" – \"always at dawn and in the evening\"). Suddenly, Charles arrives, prepared to lay down his arms at the base of the tree. Meanwhile, the sleeping Giovanna has visions in which angels ask her to become a soldier and lead France to victory (\"Tu sei bella\", the Demons' Waltz). She cries out that she is ready to do so. Charles overhears her and thrills at her courage. Her father Giacomo weeps, believing that his daughter has given her soul to the Devil out of her devotion to the future King.\n\n\"Scene 1: Near Reims\"\n\nCommander Talbot of the English army tries to convince his discouraged soldiers that their imminent surrender to the French is not due to forces of evil. Giacomo arrives and offers up his daughter, believing her to be under the influence of the Devil: \"Franco son io\" (\"I am French, but in my heart…\") and \"So che per via dei triboli\" (\"I know that original sin\").\n\n\"Scene 2: The French court at Reims\"\n\nPreparations are under way for Charles' coronation. Giovanna longs for her simple life back home. (Aria: \"O fatidica foresta\" – \"O prophetic forest\"). Charles confesses his love for Giovanna. She withdraws despite her feelings toward the King, because her voices have warned her against earthly love. Charles is taken to the Cathedral at Reims for his coronation.\n\n\"The Cathedral square\"\n\nThe villagers of Reims have gathered in the Cathedral square to celebrate Giovanna's victory over the English army. The French soldiers lead Charles into the Cathedral. Giacomo has decided he must repudiate his daughter who, he believes, has entered a pact with the Devil. (Aria: \"Speme al vecchio era una figlia\" – \"An old man's hope was a daughter\"). He denounces her to the villagers (Aria: \"Comparire il ciel m'ha stretto\" – \"Heaven has forced me to appear\") and they are persuaded, although the King refuses to listen. Charles pleads with Giovanna to defend herself, but she refuses.\n\n\"At the stake\"\nGiovanna has been captured by the English army and is awaiting her death at the stake. She has visions of battlefield victories and begs God to stand by her, explaining how she has shown her obedience by forsaking her worldly love for the King as the voices had commanded. Giacomo overhears her pleas and recognizes his error. He loosens his daughter's bonds and she escapes. She rushes to the battlefield to turn French defeat into victory once more.\n\nGiacomo pleads with the King, first for punishment and then for forgiveness, which Charles grants. Charles learns of the French victory on the battlefield but also of Giovanna's death. (Aria: \"Quale al più fido amico\" – \"Which of my truest friends\"). As her body is carried in, Giovanna suddenly revives. Giacomo reclaims his daughter, and the King professes his love. The angels sing of salvation and victory, as Giovanna dies and ascends into heaven.\n\n\"Giovanna d'Arco\" is scored for piccolo (briefly doubling second flute), flute, two oboes (second doubling cor anglais), two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, two trumpets, six or nine offstage trumpets, three trombones, cimbasso, timpani, snare drum, bass drum and cymbals (\"cassa\"), cymbals (\"piatti\"), triangle, bell, cannon, wind band, wind band of brass instruments only, offstage band, bass drum for band, harp, harmonium, strings.\n\nFew scholars regard the quality of the music very highly. David Kimball writes: \"For modern ears no opera illustrates more disconcertingly than \"Giovanna d'Arco\" the chasm between Verdi's best and worst music.\" He praises some of the solo and ensemble music, but finds that the choruses \"embody 19th century taste at its most abysmal\". Parker says that the musical emphasis was on Joan herself and includes some \"powerfully original ensembles\", but says that the choruses were \"probably intended as a sequel to the grand choral tableau works Verdi and Solera had previously created together.\"\n\nBaldini's assessment is mixed. He endorses Massimo Mila's view that the opera demonstrates \"that way of making a hedonistic and vacuously melodious opera which was the norm in contemporary Italian theatres.\" Baldini found merit in Giovanna's cavatina in the Prologue where she prays to be chosen to lead the forces: \"Sempre all'alba ed alla sera\" (\"always at dawn and in the evening\"). Budden also calls it a work of \"brilliant patches\", says that \"the best things in it surpass anything that Verdi had written up to that time\", and finds the soprano part to be of \"rare distinction\" and the solo numbers and many of the ensembles to be of \"high caliber\".\n\nSeveral recordings of live performances of \"Giovanna d'Arco\" have been released. The only studio recording dates from 1972 and features James Levine conducting with Montserrat Caballé, Plácido Domingo, and Sherrill Milnes. Domingo sang the tenor role of Carlo on that recording and the baritone role of Giacomo in a live performance recorded in 2013 with Anna Netrebko.\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "1944832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944832", "title": "Heinrich event", "text": "Heinrich event\n\nA Heinrich event is a natural phenomenon in which large groups of icebergs break off from glaciers and traverse the North Atlantic. First described by marine geologist Hartmut Heinrich (Heinrich, H., 1988), they occurred during five of the last seven glacial periods\nover the past 640,000 years (Hodell, et al., 2008). Heinrich events are particularly well documented for the last glacial period but notably absent from the penultimate glaciation (Obrochta et al., 2014). The icebergs contained rock mass, eroded by the glaciers, and as they melted, this material was dropped to the sea floor as ice rafted debris (abbreviated to \"IRD\").\n\nThe icebergs' melting caused vast quantities of fresh water to be added to the North Atlantic. Such inputs of cold and fresh water may well have altered the density-driven, thermohaline circulation patterns of the ocean, and often coincide with indications of global climate fluctuations.\n\nVarious mechanisms have been proposed to explain the cause of Heinrich events, most of which imply instability of the massive Laurentide Ice Sheet, a continental glacier covering northeastern North America during the last glacial period. Other northern hemisphere ice sheets were potentially involved as well, such as the (Fennoscandic and Iceland/Greenland). However, the initial cause of this instability is still debated.\n\nThe strict definition of Heinrich events is the climatic event causing the IRD layer observed in marine sediment cores from the North Atlantic: a massive collapse of northern hemisphere ice shelves and the consequent release of a prodigious volume of icebergs. By extension, the name \"Heinrich event\" can also refer to the associated climatic anomalies registered at other places around the globe, at approximately the same time periods. The events are rapid: they last probably less than a millennium, a duration varying from one event to the next, and their abrupt onset may occur in mere years (Maslin \"et al\". 2001). Heinrich events are clearly observed in many North Atlantic marine sediment cores covering the last glacial period; the lower resolution of the sedimentary record before this point makes it more difficult to deduce whether they occurred during other glacial periods in the Earth's history. Some (Broecker 1994, Bond & Lotti 1995) identify the Younger Dryas event as a Heinrich event, which would make it event H0 (\"table, right\").\nHeinrich events appear related to some, but not all, of the cold periods preceding the rapid warming events known as Dansgaard-Oeschger (D-O) events, which are best recorded in the NGRIP Greenland ice core. However, difficulties in synchronising marine sediment cores and Greenland ice cores to the same time scale raised questions as to the accuracy of that statement.\n\nHeinrich's original observations were of six layers in ocean sediment cores with extremely high proportions of rocks of continental origin, \"lithic fragments\", in the 180 μm to size range (Heinrich 1988). The larger size fractions cannot be transported by ocean currents, and are thus interpreted as having been carried by icebergs or sea ice which broke off glaciers or ice shelves, and dumped debris onto the sea floor as the icebergs melted. Geochemical analyses of the IRD can provide information about the origin of these debris: mostly the large Laurentide Ice Sheet then covering North America for Heinrich events 1, 2, 4 and 5, and on the contrary, European ice sheets for the minor events 3 and 6. The signature of the events in sediment cores varies considerably with distance from the source region. For events of Laurentide origin, there is a belt of IRD at around 50° N, known as the Ruddiman belt, expanding some 3,000 km (1,865 mi) from its North American source towards Europe, and thinning by an order of magnitude from the Labrador Sea to the European end of the present iceberg route (Grousset \"et al\"., 1993). During Heinrich events, huge volumes of fresh water flow into the ocean. For Heinrich event 4, based on a model study reproducing the isotopic anomaly of oceanic oxygen 18, the fresh water flux has been estimated to 0.29±0.05 Sverdrup with a duration of 250±150 years (Roche \"et al\"., 2004), equivalent to a fresh water volume of about or a sea-level rise.\n\nSeveral geological indicators fluctuate approximately in time with these Heinrich events, but difficulties in precise dating and correlation make it difficult to tell whether the indicators precede or lag Heinrich events, or in some cases whether they are related at all. Heinrich events are often marked by the following changes:\n\n\nThe global extent of these records illustrates the dramatic impact of Heinrich events.\n\nH3 and H6 do not share such a convincing suite of Heinrich event symptoms as events H1, H2, H4, and H5, which has led some researchers to suggest that they are not true Heinrich events. That would make Gerard C. Bond's suggestion of Heinrich events fitting into a 7,000-year cycle (\"Bond events\") suspect.\n\nSeveral lines of evidence suggest that H3 and H6 were somehow different from the other events.\n\nAs with so many climate related issues, the system is far too complex to be confidently assigned to a single cause. There are several possible drivers, which fall into two categories.\n\nThis model suggests that factors internal to ice sheets cause the periodic disintegration of major ice volumes, responsible for Heinrich events.\n\nThe gradual accumulation of ice on the Laurentide Ice Sheet led to a gradual increase in its mass, as the \"binge phase\". Once the sheet reached a critical mass, the soft, unconsolidated sub-glacial sediment formed a \"slippery lubricant\" over which the ice sheet slid, in the \"purge phase\", lasting around 750 years. The original model (MacAyeal, 1993) proposed that geothermal heat caused the sub-glacial sediment to thaw once the ice volume was large enough to prevent the escape of heat into the atmosphere. The mathematics of the system are consistent with a 7,000-year periodicity, similar to that observed if H3 and H6 are indeed Heinrich events (Sarnthein \"et al\". 2001). However, if H3 and H6 are not Heinrich events, the Binge-Purge model loses credibility, as the predicted periodicity is key to its assumptions.\nIt may also appear suspect because similar events are not observed in other ice ages (Hemming 2004), although this may be due to the lack of high-resolution sediments.\nIn addition, the model predicts that the reduced size of ice sheets during the Pleistocene should reduce the size, impact and frequency of Heinrich events, which is not reflected by the evidence.\n\nSeveral factors external to ice sheets may cause Heinrich events, but such factors would have to be large to overcome attenuation by the huge volumes of ice involved (MacAyeal 1993).\n\nGerard Bond suggests that changes in the flux of solar energy on a 1,500-year scale may be correlated to the Dansgaard-Oeschger cycles, and in turn the Heinrich events; however the small magnitude of the change in energy makes such an exo-terrestrial factor unlikely to have the required large effects, at least without huge positive feedback processes acting within the Earth system. However, rather than the warming itself melting the ice, it is possible that sea-level change associated with the warming destabilised ice shelves. A rise in sea level could begin to corrode the bottom of an ice sheet, undercutting it; when one ice sheet failed and surged, the ice released would further raise sea levels, and further destabilizing other ice sheets. In favour of this theory is the non-simultaneity of ice sheet break-up in H1, H2, H4, and H5, where European breakup preceded European melting by up to 1,500 years (Maslin \"et al.\" 2001).\n\nThe Atlantic Heat Piracy model suggests that changes in oceanic circulation cause one hemisphere's oceans to become warmer at the other's expense (Seidov and Maslin 2001). Currently, the Gulf Stream redirects warm, equatorial waters towards the northern Nordic Seas. The addition of fresh water to northern oceans may reduce the strength of the Gulf stream, and allow a southwards current to develop instead. This would cause the cooling of the northern hemisphere, and the warming of the southern, causing changes in ice accumulation and melting rates and possibly triggering shelf destruction and Heinrich events (Stocker 1998).\n\nRohling's 2004 Bipolar model suggests that sea level rise lifted buoyant ice shelves, causing their destabilisation and destruction. Without a floating ice shelf to support them, continental ice sheets would flow out towards the oceans and disintegrate into icebergs and sea ice.\n\nFreshwater addition has been implicated by coupled ocean and atmosphere climate modeling (Ganopolski and Rahmstorf 2001), showing that both Heinrich and Dansgaard-Oeschger events may show hysteresis behaviour. This means that relatively minor changes in freshwater loading into the Nordic Seas, such as a 0.15 Sv increase or 0.03 Sv decrease, would suffice to cause profound shifts in global circulation (Rahmstorf \"et al.\" 2005). The results show that a Heinrich event does not cause a cooling around Greenland but further south, mostly in the subtropical Atlantic, a finding supported by most available paleoclimatic data. This idea was connected to D-O events by Maslin \"et al\". (2001). They suggested that each ice sheet had its own conditions of stability, but that on melting, the influx of freshwater was enough to reconfigure ocean currents, and cause melting elsewhere. More specifically, D-O cold events, and their associated influx of meltwater, reduce the strength of the North Atlantic Deep Water current (NADW), weakening the northern-hemisphere circulation and therefore resulting in an increased transfer of heat polewards in the southern hemisphere. This warmer water results in melting of Antarctic ice, thereby reducing density stratification and the strength of the Antarctic Bottom Water current (AABW). This allows the NADW to return to its previous strength, driving northern hemisphere melting and another D-O cold event. Eventually, the accumulation of melting reaches a threshold, whereby it raises sea level enough to undercut the Laurentide Ice Sheet, thereby causing a Heinrich event and resetting the cycle.\n\nHunt & Malin (1998) proposed that Heinrich events are caused by earthquakes triggered near the ice margin by rapid deglaciation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944856", "title": "Bobby Roode", "text": "Bobby Roode\n\nRobert Francis Roode Jr. (born May 11, 1977) is a Canadian professional wrestler currently signed to WWE, performing on the SmackDown brand under his real name, Robert Roode. He is best known for his tenure for impact Wrestling under the ring name Bobby Roode.\n\nAfter debuting for TNA as part of Team Canada in 2004, Roode won the NWA World Tag Team Championship with Eric Young. After a singles run following the team's breakup, he formed a tag team with James Storm as Beer Money, Inc. Together with Storm, he is a six-time TNA World Tag Team Champion and they are the longest reigning champions in TNA history. Roode eventually became a two-time TNA World Heavyweight Champion, with his first reign being the longest reign in the company's history at 256 days. In his later years with the company, Roode also won the World Tag Team Championship with Austin Aries and was a one-time TNA King of the Mountain Champion.\n\nRoode signed with WWE in 2016 and began his career in their development territory NXT, where he was a one-time NXT Champion prior to his main roster call-up. Roode debuted on SmackDown in August 2017, winning the United States Championship in January 2018, his first championship on the main roster. He transferred to Raw in April and won the Raw Tag Team Championship with partner Chad Gable in December, followed by the 24/7 Championship in May 2019, and another Raw Tag Team Championship with partner Dolph Ziggler in September 2019.\n\nRoode grew up around an athletic environment playing minor hockey in Peterborough and attended Kenner Collegiate Vocational Institution. He was also a stick boy for the OHL's Peterborough Petes and witnessed players such as future NHLers Mike Ricci, Tie Domi, and Chris Pronger train for the local major junior team.\n\nRoode was trained in his hometown of Peterborough, Ontario by fellow Ontarians Shane Sewell and Sean Morley. He completed his training after a year and wrestled his debut match in June 1998 as \"Total\" Lee Awesome against Pete Rock. He then went on to work for various Canadian independent promotions, as well as making appearances for the Puerto Rican promotion, World Wrestling Council (WWC). He also went on to work a series of dark matches for World Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Entertainment (WWF/WWE) between 1998 and 2004 before he was signed by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA).\n\nRoode began working for Real Action Wrestling in 2001, where he formed a villainous stable known as The Cardinal Sinners along with Kingman and Mike Hughes as well as part-time members Wildman Gary Williams and The Acadian Giant. Roode later rejoined them as a part of their \"Wrestling Reality\" show to be aired on The Fight Network, but he was not seen on these episodes due to contractual obligations with TNA.\n\nWhile in TNA, Roode also wrestled for BSE Pro in Ontario, Border City Wrestling in Windsor, Ontario and at NWA Shockwave in New Jersey. On March 18, 2006, he won the NWA Shockwave Internet Championship from Josh Daniels at an NWAS/New York Wrestling Connection cross-promotional event. Eight days later on March 26, Roode won the vacant NWA Shockwave Heavyweight Championship at \"Disturbing the Peace 2006\" in a four-way match. Roode held both titles until May 21, when he dropped the Internet title and successfully defended the Heavyweight title against Slyck Wagner Brown. Due to the restarting of the company, all of the NWA Cyberspace championships were vacated, including Roode's Heavyweight title.\n\nRoode performed for the WWF/WWE numerous times between 2001 and 2004. He usually appeared in secondary television programs like \"Jakked/Metal\", \"Sunday Night Heat\" or \"Velocity\". He also wrestled dark matches before \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\".\n\nIn May 2004, Roode was brought into Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) by Scott D'Amore, the owner of Border City Wrestling, a Canadian independent promotion for which Roode had worked on occasion. Roode debuted in TNA as part of the Team Canada stable, and took part in the World X-Cup, which was won by Team USA. Team Canada went on to feud with 3Live Kru and America's Most Wanted. As the biggest and most powerful member of Team Canada at the time, Roode acted as the enforcer of the group, a role popularised by Arn Anderson. In early 2006, recognizing his comparisons to Anderson, he made the request that he be called \"The Canadian Enforcer\" from that point onward, and began coming to the ring in sequined robes reminiscent of the flashy style popularized by the Four Horsemen and Rick Rude in the late 1980s.\n\nRoode began a feud with Dustin Rhodes in early 2005, losing to him at April's Lockdown in a best of three falls steel cage match, with the third fall a blindfold match. After that Roode feuded with Lance Hoyt, who he defeated at Slammiversary and at No Surrender with Team Canada, Hoyt teaming with The Naturals. At Sacrifice, Team Canada defeated America's Most Wanted and The Naturals in an Eight-man tag team match. After defeating Jeff Hardy at Unbreakable in September, Roode and the remainder of Team Canada resumed their feud with 3Live Kru. At Bound for Glory, Team Canada defeated 3Live Kru. at Genesis (2005), Team Canada lost to 3Live Kru in a 6-Sided Stick Fight with Kip James as special guest referee and at Turning Point Team Canada defeated 4Live Kru (B.G. James, Kip James, Konnan and Ron Killings) in an Eight-man tag team match.\n\nAt Final Resolution, Roode began a singles career, while still being linked to Team Canada, by defeating Ron Killings. Five months later, on the June 29 episode of \"TNA Impact!\", TNA Management Director Jim Cornette forced the breakup of Team Canada. However, on the July 6 episode of \"Impact!\", Cornette gave Team Canada one more chance to stay together but only if they could win a match a week later against Jay Lethal, Rhino and Team 3D (Brother Ray and Brother Devon). On the July 13 episode of \"Impact!\", Team Canada lost the match when Jay Lethal pinned A-1, disbanding Team Canada once and for all.\n\nAfter the breakup of Team Canada, Roode began referring to himself as \"TNA's hottest free agent\". Vignettes began playing with various TNA managers such as Simon Diamond, Jim Mitchell, and Shane Douglas putting over the idea of Roode being an NWA World Heavyweight Championship contender and stating their interest in becoming his manager, but he eventually dismissed them. Having chosen not to work with a current TNA manager, segments began airing with Roode interviewing managers for the position; Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan on September 7, Col. Robert Parker on September 14, and Sherri Martel on September 21. He revealed his chosen manager, Traci Brooks, at Bound for Glory, and promptly started going by \"Robert Roode\" while adopting a Wall Street stock trader gimmick, with Brooks now being referred to as \"Ms. Brooks\", his \"Chief Executive Offender\" (CEO). His first feud after the retool was against Eric Young, of whom he became jealous when he realized fans still were not cheering him, but cheered Young's every move. After Young beat Brooks in a bikini contest he demanded that Brooks \"sign\" Young to \"Robert Roode Inc.\". Finally, at the 2007 Against All Odds event Brooks successfully seduced Young into signing a contract with \"Robert Roode Inc.\", and Roode began to control Young by ordering him around. However, Young began to fight back due to the advice of a mystery \"friend\".\nAt Lockdown, Roode faced Petey Williams, the man he believed to be Young's \"friend\", and won the match despite Young attempting to help Williams. The following week, Young proclaimed that Williams was not his \"friend\", and Roode, who controlled Young's contract, gave Young a week to tell him who his friend was or he'd be fired. The following week, Young revealed his \"friend\" to be Jeff Jarrett, which resulted in Roode facing Jarrett at Sacrifice. Roode went on to defeat Jarrett after hitting him with the Pay Off. Roode eventually faced Young in a match at Slammiversary. Roode scored the pinfall after hitting Young with a steel chair, but, just as he was about to fire Young, Jim Cornette came out and ordered the match to be restarted. Young then pinned Roode with an inside cradle, in the process severing his ties with Roode. At Victory Road, Roode and Ms. Brooks lost to Eric Young and Gail Kim in a Mixed tag team match.\n\nRoode and Ms. Brooks then joined forces with Christian's Coalition to aid in their battles with Sting and Abyss, and on the July 26 episode of \"Impact!\", Mike Tenay stated that Roode had joined the stable. Weeks after that, after Eric Young lost a match against Team 3D, Roode and Brooks \"tarred and feathered\" Young. On the August 7 episode of \"TNA Today\" Young issued a challenge for a \"humiliation match\" at Hard Justice to Roode, with the loser to be tarred and feathered. Roode won, but Ms. Brooks ended up tarred and feathered while Roode just watched from the stage and afterwards, as she questioned his loyalty, his apparent bullying of her became a key storyline and side angle.\n\nRoode then entered a mini-feud with Kaz, who confronted Roode when he mistreated Ms. Brooks. Roode defeated Kaz at No Surrender. Soon afterwards, other wrestlers followed in Kaz's footsteps. An interview revealed that Brooks put up with Roode's actions because she needed to raise money for her ill mother. Since then, the \"superstars' protest\" portion of the mistreatment angle quietly faded, though Roode's egotistical bullying antics got worse.\n\nRoode participated in the Fight for the Right Tournament. At Bound for Glory, he was the last person eliminated in the gauntlet section of the tournament by Eric Young and lost his opening tournament match to Junior Fatu. Around this time, Roode not only started mistreating Brooks even further, he started to show signs of full-blown misogyny in segments involving or referring to other women, such as Karen Angle, Gail Kim or Sharmell. In the loss to Fatu, the dissension was reciprocated by Brooks, who laughed as Fatu gave Roode a stinkface. On the November 8, 2007 episode of \"TNA Impact\", Brooks finally stood up to Roode by shoving him away from his attack on Chris Harris, and herself attacking \"Roode's No. 1 Fan\". at Genesis (2007), Roode lost to Samoa Joe.\n\nRoode formed a partnership with Christian Cage against TNA newcomer Booker T, claiming that \"has beens\" like Booker T show up and gain main event status at the expense of long time Talent like himself. at Turning Point (2007), Roode and Cage lost to Booker T and Kaz. Roode and Cage then aligned themselves with Kurt Angle, after an invitation to join the Angle Alliance on \"Impact!\". This only lasted for one night, however, as the Angle Alliance lost to the team of Samoa Joe, Kevin Nash, Kaz, Booker T and Eric Young, when Nash pinned Roode. Cage and Roode then had a face to face altercation in the ring which lead to Angle and Roode attacking Cage, thus kicking Cage out of the Angle Alliance and turning the Angle-Cage tension into a full-blown feud.\n\nAt Final Resolution, Roode teamed up with Ms. Brooks in a mixed tag team match against Booker T and his wife Sharmell. After losing the match Roode finally completed his turn on Brooks and as Sharmell ran back into the ring to stop it, Roode turned around and hit her in the jaw, knocking her out. As Booker T ran to the ring to aid his wife, Roode escaped the ring, and looking back at the ring he realized what he had done. The following \"Impact!\", Roode faced Brooks and fired her, but was stopped by Jim Cornette when he tried to lay hands on her. Subsequently, Roode's \"number one fan\" attacked Brooks when she was leaving the ring. Roode's fan, named Ms. Payton Banks, replaced Brooks.\n\nAfter Final Resolution, and with Payton Banks by his side, Roode continued his feud with Booker T. at Against All Odds, where the two faced off in a singles match. Roode ran from the ring and escaped the arena in a car, only to further infuriate Booker. Booker and Roode faced off again at Destination X in a Stand By Your Man Strap Match, with the loser's manager (Banks for Roode, Brooks for Booker) to receive ten leather lashes from the winner's manager. Roode won after using a handcuff-armed fist, but Sharmell returned and whipped everyone with a leather belt, including Jim Cornette. The following week on \"Impact!\", Cornette punished her by putting her in a mixed tag team match with Booker against Roode and Banks at Lockdown, which Booker and Sharmell won. After the match, Roode verbally abused Banks for losing, much like he used to abuse Ms. Brooks, effectively ending their alliance. At Sacrifice (2008), Roode and Booker T lost to Christian Cage and Rhino in a Deuces Wild Tag Team Tournament Quarterfinal match. At Slammiversary, Roode competed in the King of the Mountain match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship in a losing effort.\n\nOn the June 12 episode of \"Impact!\", Roode, along with James Storm, challenged The Latin American Xchange (LAX) (Homicide and Hernandez) for the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Storm and Roode won, after Storm performed a \"Last Call\" on Hernandez, with a belt wrapped around his boot. Hector Guerrero, LAX's manager, was at ringside, however, and got the match restarted by informing the referee about what had happened. LAX then retained, leading to Roode, Storm, and Jacqueline attacking LAX. The next week, LAX challenged Storm and Roode to a Fan's Revenge Lumberjack match at Victory Road. Roode and Storm then began calling themselves \"Beer Money, Inc.\", sometimes shortened to simply \"Beer Money\", with their name based on their individual gimmicks (Storm's beer-drinking cowboy gimmick representing \"Beer\" and Roode's Wall Street stock trader gimmick representing \"Money\"). At Victory Road, LAX won the match. At Hard Justice, however, Beer Money became the new TNA World Tag Team Champions, defeating LAX after hitting Homicide with a beer bottle. The feud continued through No Surrender with Beer Money, Inc. once again getting the win. At Bound for Glory IV, Beer Money successfully defended their titles in a four-team Monster's Ball match, after Roode pinned Hernandez of LAX.\nAfter that Beer Money retained the tag team championship at Turning Point 2008 against The Motor City Machine Guns (Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin). Beer Money, Inc. later engaged in a feud with Matt Morgan and Abyss, retaining the titles against them at Final Resolution. Roode and Storm lost the titles to Lethal and Creed on the January 8 episode of \"Impact!\" but regained them three days later at Genesis in a 3-way match which also involved the team of Abyss and Matt Morgan. Beer Money, Inc. faced Creed and Jay Lethal at Against All Odds and retained the championship. At Lockdown 2009, Beer Money lost the TNA World Tag Team Championship to Team 3D in a Philadelphia Street Fight, where Team 3D's IWGP Tag Team Titles were also on the line. On May 21, Beer Money turned face by coming to the rescue of Team 3D, who were being attacked by The British Invasion (Doug Williams, Brutus Magnus and their bodyguard Rob Terry). They stated that from all of the times they have fought, Team 3D showed them that if you are going to fight, you should at least fight fairly. At Sacrifice Beer Money defeated The British Invasion to win the Team 3D Invitational Tag Team Tournament and earn the right to challenge Team 3D for the TNA World Tag Team Titles. At Slammiversary, Beer Money defeated Team 3D to win the TNA World Tag Team Titles for the third time. The following month at Victory Road, Beer Money lost the titles to Booker T and Scott Steiner of The Main Event Mafia.\n\nThe two teams' feud intertwined with that of Team 3D and the British Invasion, causing a three-month long war between the four teams. Beer Money went on to lose to the British Invasion in an IWGP Tag Team Championship match at Hard Justice, win a Lethal Lockdown match at No Surrender (teaming with Team 3D against MEM and the Invasion), and lose a 4-way Full Metal Mayhem match at Bound for Glory for both the TNA and IWGP Tag Team Championships, with Team 3D winning the IWGP belts and the British Invasion the TNA belts. Beer Money were permitted one last title shot the following \"Impact!\", where they fought the British Invasion in a Six Sides of Steel match. Brutus Magnus had his team disqualified by punching the referee, causing him and Doug Williams to retain the championships. On the November 12 episode of \"Impact!\" Beer Money defeated the British Invasion in a non-title match to join the Motor City Machine Guns in the Tag Team Title match at Turning Point. At the Pay-Per-View The British Invasion managed to retain their titles after Kevin Nash nailed Storm with the TNA Global Championship belt. At Genesis Roode and Storm scored an upset victory over The Band of Kevin Nash and Syxx-Pac.\nWith Hulk Hogan and Eric Bischoff taking over TNA at the beginning of 2010, Beer Money's TV time was significantly reduced. Upon their return to \"Impact!\", Beer Money turned heel on the March 8 episode of \"Impact!\" by first volunteering to face Jeff Jarrett in a handicap match and then defeating him after a low blow and the DWI, claiming it was the only way they were going to get noticed by the new management. Roode and Storm had since acted as Bischoff's henchmen, taking on wrestlers he's had problems with, often in two-on-one situations. At Destination X Beer Money challenged Matt Morgan and Hernandez for the TNA World Tag Team Championship, but were unable to dethrone the defending champions. At Lockdown Beer Money, along with Sting and Desmond Wolfe, represented Team Flair in the annual Lethal Lockdown match, where they were defeated by Team Hogan (Abyss, Jeff Jarrett, Rob Van Dam and Jeff Hardy). They then started a feud with the newly formed team of Jeff Hardy and Mr. Anderson, known collectively as The Enigmatic Assholes, who went on to defeat them at Slammiversary VIII. On the following episode of \"Impact!\", Ric Flair, who had aligned himself with Roode, Storm, A.J. Styles, Desmond Wolfe and Kazarian, revived the Four Horsemen under the new name , stating that each of them had to earn their spots in the group; Flair also compared Storm and Roode to Ole Anderson and Tully Blanchard. After the TNA World Tag Team Championship was vacated in June, Beer Money entered a four-team, two-week-long tournament to decide the opponent of The Motor City Machine Guns for the titles at Victory Road. Beer Money advanced to the title match at the pay-per-view by defeating Team 3D and Ink Inc. (Jesse Neal and Shannon Moore). At Victory Road Beer Money was defeated by the Motor City Machine Guns in the match for the World Tag Team Championship. After Victory Road Beer Money entered a Best of Five Series with the Motor City Machine Guns, contested for the TNA World Tag Team Championship. Beer Money won the first two matches, a ladder match and a Street Fight, after knocking their opponents out with beer bottles. On the July 29 episode of \"Impact!\", Ric Flair offered Roode and Storm, who were just one victory away from becoming four-time TNA World Tag Team Champions, the final two spots on . However, Shelley and Sabin came back to win the two following matches in the Best of Five Series, a steel cage match and an Ultimate X match, to even the score to 2–2 and set up a deciding match for the August 12 episode of \"Impact!\". On the August 12 episode of \"Impact!\" Beer Money, Inc. was defeated in a Two Out of Three Falls match and as a result lost the Best of Five Series 2–3. Later that night Douglas Williams and Matt Morgan were added to , as the stable attacked EV 2.0, a stable consisting of former Extreme Championship Wrestling performers. In the weeks leading to Bound for Glory, the stable's name was tweaked to Fortune to represent the expansion in the number of members in the group. At Bound for Glory Roode, Storm, Styles, Kazarian and Morgan were defeated in a Lethal Lockdown match by EV 2.0 members Tommy Dreamer, Raven, Rhino, Sabu and Stevie Richards. On the following episode of \"Impact!\" Fortune formed an alliance with Hulk Hogan and Eric Bischoff's new stable, Immortal. At Turning Point Fortune defeated EV 2.0 in a ten-man tag team match and, as a result, EV 2.0's Sabu was released from TNA. The following month at Final Resolution, Roode and Storm returned to the TNA World Tag Team Championship picture by defeating Ink Inc. in a number one contender's match. On January 9, 2011, at Genesis, Beer Money, Inc. defeated the Motor City Machine Guns to win the TNA World Tag Team Championship for the fourth time.\nOn January 31 at the tapings of the February 3 episode of \"Impact!\", Fortune turned face by attacking Immortal, when they interfered in a TNA World Heavyweight Championship match between Mr. Anderson and Jeff Hardy. Ric Flair, who did not take part in Fortune's turn due being out with a torn rotator cuff, returned at the February 14 tapings of the February 17 episode of \"Impact!\", turning on Fortune and jumping to Immortal. On April 17 at Lockdown, Roode, Storm, Kazarian and Christopher Daniels, who replaced an injured A.J. Styles, defeated Immortal representatives Ric Flair, Abyss, Bully Ray and Matt Hardy in a Lethal Lockdown match, when Roode forced Flair to submit with a Fujiwara armbar. The finish was used to write Flair off television for a month. In early May, Roode began once again using the first name Bobby. On May 15 at Sacrifice, Beer Money, Inc. successfully defended the TNA World Tag Team Championship against Immortal representatives Matt Hardy and Chris Harris, Storm's old tag team partner who had made his surprise return to TNA on the previous episode of \"Impact!\". On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode was a victim of a five-on-one beatdown at the hands of Immortal as a retribution for what he did to Flair at Lockdown. Two weeks later, Eric Bischoff attempted to strip Beer Money, Inc. of their TNA World Tag Team Championship due to Roode's injury, but was interrupted by the champions' former rival Alex Shelley (whose partner, Chris Sabin, had also become injured), who agreed to take Roode's spot in the title defense against the British Invasion at Slammiversary IX. At the pay-per-view, Storm and Shelley were successful in their title defense. Roode made his in-ring return on the June 23 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", in a tag team match, where he and Storm were defeated by Crimson and Matt Morgan. On July 13, Beer Money, Inc. became the longest reigning TNA World Tag Team Champions in the title's history, breaking the previous record of 184 days set by A.J. Styles and Tomko in 2007. On August 7 at Hardcore Justice, Beer Money, Inc. successfully defended the TNA World Tag Team Championship against Mexican America (Anarquia and Hernandez). Two days later, at the tapings of the August 18 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Mexican America defeated Beer Money, Inc. in a rematch, following interference from Jeff Jarrett, to win the TNA World Tag Team Championship, ending Roode's and Storm's record-setting reign at 212 days.\n\nFrom June to September, Roode was one of the twelve participants in the Bound for Glory Series to determine the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. When the group stage of the tournament concluded, Roode finished in the top four and thus advanced to the finals at No Surrender along with James Storm, Bully Ray and Gunner. On September 11 at No Surrender, Roode defeated Gunner via submission, moving him up to 52 points, tying the score of Bully Ray, who had defeated Storm earlier in the event, and setting up a tiebreaker match between Roode and Ray. In the tiebreaker match, Roode defeated Ray via pinfall to win the Bound for Glory Series and earn a match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship at Bound for Glory. In the weeks leading to Bound for Glory, TNA World Heavyweight Champion Kurt Angle, in an attempt to cause dissension within Fortune, forced Roode to face each of his stablemates in a series of singles matches, promising them title matches, should they be able to defeat him. In the first match on the September 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode defeated Kazarian via submission. After Daniels refused to take part in his match, Roode finished the series by defeating Styles and Storm respectively on the September 29 and October 6 episodes of \"Impact Wrestling\". On October 16 at Bound for Glory, Roode failed to win the World Heavyweight Championship when he was pinned by Angle, after the referee failed to notice his arm under the ropes or Angle using the ropes for leverage.\nOn the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", after it was revealed that Roode was not eligible for a rematch with Angle, new authority figure Sting gave the next title shot to James Storm, who then went on to defeat Angle to become the new World Heavyweight Champion. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode defeated Samoa Joe to become the number one contender to Storm's title. On the November 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode defeated Storm to win the World Heavyweight Championship, after hitting him with his own beer bottle, dissolving Beer Money, Inc. turning heel in the process. Roode and Storm had a rematch for the title the following week. As a result of a backstage attack, Storm came into the match bleeding and eventually lost, after passing out due to blood loss. After the match, Roode was challenged by his former Fortune stablemate, A.J. Styles. On November 13 at Turning Point, Roode successfully defended the World Heavyweight Championship against Styles, pinning him while holding his tights. On December 11 at Final Resolution, Roode retained the World Heavyweight Championship, after wrestling Styles to a draw in a 30-Minute Iron Man match. Roode and Styles wrestled a sudden death overtime period on the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", where Roode managed to retain his title. On January 8, 2012, at Genesis, Roode again retained the TNA World Heavyweight Championship after getting himself disqualified in his title match against Jeff Hardy. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", a rematch between Roode and Hardy ended in a no contest, following interference from Bully Ray. The following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", both Roode and Ray interfered in a number one contender's match between Hardy and Storm, which ended the match in a no contest. On February 12 at Against All Odds, Roode defeated Hardy, Ray, and Storm in a four-way match to retain the TNA World Heavyweight Championship after special ringside enforcer Sting accidentally knocked out Hardy with the title belt. The following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode retained the championship against Hardy in a No Disqualification match, following interference from Kurt Angle. Roode then began feuding with TNA's General Manager Sting, which eventually led to Sting returning to the ring on March 18 at Victory Road, where Roode defeated him in a non-title No Holds Barred match. On April 15 at Lockdown, Roode defeated James Storm in a steel cage match to retain the TNA World Heavyweight Championship after being accidentally superkicked out of the cage for the win. On May 13 at Sacrifice, Roode defeated Rob Van Dam in a ladder match to retain the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. On the May 24 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode successfully defended the title against A.J. Styles to break Styles' record of 211 days as TNA World Heavyweight Champion the following day. Following the match, Roode was attacked by the returning Sting. The following week, Roode was defeated by Sting in a non-title lumberjack match in the first live episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". On June 10 at Slammiversary, Roode successfully defended the TNA World Heavyweight Championship in a rematch against Sting, after hitting him with James Storm's beer bottle. After the match, Roode was again attacked by Sting. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode made another successful title defense, defeating Mr. Anderson by submission. On July 8 at Destination X, Roode lost the TNA World Heavyweight Championship to Austin Aries, ending his reign at 256 days.\n\nIn an attempt to prove that Aries' victory had been a fluke, Roode faced the new World Heavyweight Champion in a non-title match on the July 19 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". However, the match ended in a no contest, when both competitors were attacked by a group of masked assailants, known only as the \"Aces & Eights\". On August 12 at Hardcore Justice, Roode unsuccessfully challenged Aries for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship, with a pre-match stipulation preventing him from getting another rematch for the title as long as Aries was champion. After not being seen for several weeks, Roode returned on September 9 at No Surrender, costing James Storm his Bound for Glory Series semifinal match against Bully Ray. On the September 20 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Storm challenged Roode to a match as part of the Open Fight Night. The match ended in a no contest, when referee Brian Hebner was unable control the two brawling rivals. The rivalry between Roode and Storm culminated on October 14 at Bound for Glory in a Street Fight, with King Mo serving as the special guest enforcer, which was won by Storm. On November 11 at Turning Point, Roode was again defeated by Storm in a three-way number one contenders match for the World Heavyweight Championship, also involving A.J. Styles; however, Roode was not pinned; had he been, he would not get another title opportunity until Bound for Glory 2013. However, on the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode defeated Storm in a rematch for the number one contendership for the World Heavyweight Championship. On the December 6 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode was revealed as the man who paid off the Aces & Eights to attack World Heavyweight Champion Jeff Hardy at the end of the show. Three days later at Final Resolution, Roode failed in his title challenge against Hardy, after which, both men were attacked by the Aces & Eights. On the following episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Aces & Eights member Devon revealed Roode was outbidded by Austin Aries to prevent him from winning the title. The following week, Roode attacked Aries in the main event of the evening, costing him his shot at the World Heavyweight Championship. Roode and Aries faced off in a number one contender's match on the next episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". The match ended in a no contest after the two attacked referee Earl Hebner and then were, in turn attacked by Hardy. The rivalry culminated in a three-way elimination match on January 13, 2013, at Genesis, where Roode failed again to capture the World Heavyweight Championship from Hardy.\n\nOn January 25, at the tapings of the January 31 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" in Manchester, England, Roode and Aries defeated Chavo Guerrero Jr. and Hernandez to win the TNA World Tag Team Championship, for the fifth time in his career. Roode and Aries made their first successful title defense on March 10 at Lockdown, defeating Bad Influence (Christopher Daniels and Kazarian) and Chavo Guerrero, Jr. and Hernandez in a three-way match. On the March 21 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode and Aries defeated Guerrero and Hernandez to retain the TNA World Tag Team Championship, following interference from Daniels and Kazarian. Afterwards, the champions were attacked by Daniels and Kazarian. On the April 11 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode and Aries lost the TNA World Tag Team Championship back to Guerrero and Hernandez in a Two-out-of-Three Falls match, ending their reign at 76 days. Roode and Aries received their rematch on the April 25 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", but were again defeated by Guerrero and Hernandez after an inadvertent interference from Christopher Daniels and Kazarian. Roode and Aries faced Daniels and Kazarian in number one contenders match on the May 9 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", however, the match ended in a no contest after special guest referee James Storm superkicked Aries and Daniels and walked out on the match. Roode and Aries received another shot at Guerrero and Hernandez's titles on June 2 at Slammiversary XI, in a fatal four-way elimination match, which also included Bad Influence and was won by Gunner and James Storm.\n\nAs a result of previously winning the Bound for Glory Series, Roode and Jeff Hardy were entered into the 2013 Bound for Glory Series on the June 13 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". Roode began the BFG series with a string of losses against Jeff Hardy, Magnus, and his former tag team partner Austin Aries. On the August 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode claimed he would go back to his old ways in order to regain the World Heavyweight Championship. Roode then defeated Hernandez via pinfall, after hitting him in the head with a beer bottle, to earn seven points in the tournament. The following week, Roode allied himself with Christopher Daniels and Kazarian to form a new force and so that one of them would win the Bound for Glory series. On August 15 at \"Impact Wrestling: Hardcore Justice\", Roode defeated Magnus, Mr. Anderson, and Samoa Joe in a tables match, following interference from Daniels and Kazarian, to capture twenty points in the BFG Series. The following week, the trio labelled themselves EGO and Roode and Kazarian went on to defeat TNA World Tag Team Champions Gunner and James Storm in a non-title match. EGO also tried to recruit Roode's former tag team partner Austin Aries, but Aries answered their offer by attacking Daniels and costing him his BFG series match. Roode's participation in the Bound for Glory series ended on the September 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", when he was eliminated from a twenty-point battle royal by A.J. Styles.\n\nEGO went on to feud with Magnus by attacking him and costing him several matches. On the October 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Magnus ran a gauntlet match against EGO and eliminated both Daniels and Kazarian before Roode won the match by making Magnus submit to an ankle lock. As a result of defeating Magnus, EGO held a mock Hall of Fame induction for Roode the following week, in mockery to Kurt Angle's induction, leading to Angle returning, attacking all three members of EGO in retaliation, and issuing a challenge to Roode at Bound for Glory, which Roode accepted. On October 20 at Bound for Glory, Roode defeated Kurt Angle after Angle injured himself while hitting his finisher. The two had a rematch on the October 31 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", where Roode won via referee stoppage after Angle suffered convulsions and post-concussive symptoms. After his two victories, Roode continued the feud by insulting Angle and brawling with him. Simultaneously, Roode entered a tournament for the vacant World Heavyweight Championship and defeated James Storm in a Florida Death Match in the first round to advance. Two weeks later, after losing in the semi-finals to Jeff Hardy in a Tables match, Roode attacked Angle during his match with Magnus, costing him and also eliminating him from the tournament. On December 19 at Final Resolution, Roode defeated Angle again in a 2-out-of-3 falls match. The rivalry culminated in a steel cage match on January 23, 2014, at Genesis, where Angle emerged victorious.\n\nWith his rivalry with Angle behind him, Roode began having problems with TNA President Dixie Carter due to being upset about not receiving a World title opportunity after aiding her on many occasions. On the February 20 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode considered leaving TNA, citing changes in opinions on Angle and Carter, but was then persuaded to agree to captain Team Dixie against Team MVP at Lockdown in return for 10% ownership if Team Dixie was successful. On March 2, Roode was part of a group of TNA wrestlers that took part in Wrestle-1's event in Tokyo, Japan. During the event, Roode was defeated by Masakatsu Funaki in a singles match. On March 9 at Lockdown, Team Dixie (Roode, The BroMans (Jessie Godderz and Robbie E), and Austin Aries) were defeated by Team MVP (MVP, The Wolves (Eddie Edwards and Davey Richards) and Willow) in the Lethal Lockdown match after special referee Bully Ray powerbombed Roode through a table, allowing MVP to pin him and gain control of TNA. This started a rivalry between Roode and Ray, with the two attacking each other on several occasions. At Sacrifice, Roode defeated Bully Ray in a Tables match, thanks to an intervention of Dixie Carter.\nAt the edition of May 9 of \"Impact Wrestling\", Bobby Roode showed signs of a possible face turn when he showed mutual respect for TNA World Champion Eric Young, and the two shook hands on one more championship match for that same night. The match, however, did not happen because TNA Director of Operations MVP declined to make the match. At the end of the episode, MVP ended up attacking Young and declared himself the number-one contender for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship at Slammiversary. At the edition of May 15 of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode was suspended indefinitely for his confrontation with MVP. A campaign began on impactwrestling.com to lift Roode's suspension. On the edition of June 19 of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode returned and attacked Kenny King and saving his long-time best friend Eric Young from further injury after losing the TNA World Heavyweight Championship to Lashley, and turning face in the process for the first time since 2011. On the July 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", he defeated Kenny King in a Street Fight and MVP on the July 24 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" in a Falls Count Anywhere match. On the September 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", he defeated Eric Young to be the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. However, he was defeated by Lashley at No Surrender and failed to win the title. On the October 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", he defeated Austin Aries, Eric Young and Jeff Hardy once again to be the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. On September 18, 2014, in the main event of the \"Impact Wrestling\" episode taped to air on October 28, Roode defeated Lashley to win the TNA World Heavyweight Championship for the second time. He successfully retained his title against MVP on the November 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". On November 15, 2014, Roode successfully defended the TNA World Heavyweight Championship against Tommy Dreamer at House of Hardcore VII. On January 7, 2015 on \"Impact Wrestling\" Roode lost the TNA World Heavyweight Championship to Lashley, after interference from MVP, Kenny King, and two masked men who seconds later revealed themselves as Samoa Joe and Low Ki. Roode's best friend Eric Young came out with a steel chair to scare them away but ultimately hit Roode with the chair, costing him the match. On the January 16, 2015, episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode was defeated by Young in a No Disqualification match. On the January 23 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode teamed with Kurt Angle, but lost once again against Eric Young and Low Ki. However, Bobby Roode defeated Eric Young in a Six Sides of Steel match at Lockdown and once again in a Last Man Standing match on the March 13 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". The feud ended in a Submission match on the April 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", which Eric Young won.\n\nIn May, Roode reformed Dirty Heels with Austin Aries in pursuit of the vacant TNA World Tag Team Championship. They both agreed to a best of five series with The Wolves. On June 3, 2015 in the third match of the series, with The Wolves up 2–0, Aries pressured Roode to hit Eddie Edwards with a steel chair. As Roode refused, Aries distracted the referee and Roode hit Edwards with a low blow and hit him with a steel chair to win the match, thanks to the influence of Aries, turning heel in the process. They win the fourth round on the June 24 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", in a Full Metal Mayhem match. At Slammiversary, Roode helped Aries to beat Davey Richards for pick the stipulation for the fifth match of the best of five series. Later, he competed in the King of the Mountain match for the reactivated TNA King of the Mountain Championship, in a losing effort. Roode and Aries lost the best of five series to The Wolves for the tag titles in the fifth match on the July 1 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" in an Iron Man match. On the July 22 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode lost a Tables match to Matt Hardy. On the August 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Aries was forced to face Rockstar Spud, with Aries' TNA career and Spud's \"Rockstar\" moniker on the line. Aries ultimately lost the match, resulting in him leaving TNA. On the August 12 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode attacked Rockstar Spud for ending Aries' career in TNA when Spud defeated Aries the previous week.\n\nOn the September 2 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode showed signs of a face turn after he defeated GFW representative PJ Black to win the TNA King of the Mountain Championship. On October 4, at Bound for Glory, Roode successfully defended his King of the Mountain Championship against Lashley. After the match, Roode and Lashley shook hands, thus turning Roode face once again. During October and November (taped in July), he participated in the TNA World Title Series. Roode ended first of his block, tied with Eric Young, advancing to the finals where he was defeated in the round of 16 by Matt Hardy.\n\nOn January 5, 2016 on TNA's debut on Pop, James Storm returned to TNA to help Bobby Roode fight off Eric Young and Bram. After Storm told Roode he wanted to \"get back to having fun\", Storm handed Roode a beer officially reuniting Beer Money, Inc. On the January 12, 2016, edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", Roode lost the TNA King of the Mountain Championship to Eric Young. At TNA One Night Only, Beer Money defeated Eric Young and Bram. In a rematch at Lockdown, Beer Money defeated once again Eric Young and Bram in a Six Sides of Steel match, thus ending the feud. On February 9, 2016, Beer Money attempted to cash in their title shot against current champions the Wolves, however in their attempt to cash in, Decay (Abyss, Crazzy Steve, Rosemary) stopped them and mysteriously asked them to join their path of Decay. They eventually challenged the group to a match, but it ended in disqualification when Abyss pulled the referee out of the ring and began choking him. After the match, Crazzy Steve hit a low blow on Roode. On the March 8 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Beer Money successfully cashed their Feast or Fired against The Wolves and win the TNA World Tag Team Championship for the fifth time in their career. They successfully retained their titles against The BroMans on the March 22 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" and against Decay, The BroMans and Eric Young and Bram on the April 12 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". Their feud against Decay culminated at Sacrifice in a Valley of Shadow match, which Decay won, winning the TNA World Tag Team Championship. On March 19, 2016, TNA announced Roode's departure from the company after 12 years.\n\nThrough TNA's working relationships with various Japanese promotions, Roode has competed in Japan numerous times, beginning in 2009 when he and Storm, as Beer Money, debuted in New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), defeating Legend (Akira and Masahiro Chono). They returned to New Japan in October 2010, first defeating Bad Intentions (Karl Anderson and Giant Bernard), and then No Limit (Tetsuya Naito and Yujiro Takahashi). Storm and Roode made their debuts in the Tokyo Dome on January 4, 2011, at Wrestle Kingdom V, taking part in a three-way tag team match for the IWGP Tag Team Championship, won by Bad Intentions.\n\nBobby Roode made his debut for House of Hardcore on November 15, 2014 as a surprise opponent for Tommy Dreamer in a successful defense of the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. On March 7, 2015 at House of Hardcore VIII, Dirty Heels lost to The Young Bucks (Matt and Nick Jackson) in the main event. On July 1, 2015, Roode competed in Global Force Wrestling's Global Championship tournament. Roode made it to the finals, losing to Nick Aldis. On July 18, 2015 at House of Hardcore IX, Roode defeated Pepper Parks. On November 13, 2015 at House of Hardcore 11, Roode faced Austin Aries in a losing effort. At House of Hardcore 11, Dirty Heels (Roode and Austin Aries) faced The Wolves for the TNA World Tag Team Championship but failed to win the titles. At House of Hardcore 14, Roode defeated Eric Young In the main event with Jimmy Korderas as the special guest referee.\n\nOn April 1, 2016, Roode was shown on-screen standing in the crowd at . On June 8 at , Roode appeared backstage during an interview with NXT General Manager William Regal, where he was seen walking into Regal's office, hinting that Roode was about to sign with WWE or had already done so. On June 11 during NXT's tour in the United Kingdom at Download Festival, Roode made his in-ring debut and defeated Angelo Dawkins. On August 3, Roode made his NXT television debut and quickly turned on the crowd to establish himself as a heel. The following week on \"NXT\", Roode appeared after Andrade \"Cien\" Almas defeated Angelo Dawkins and informed Almas that General Manager William Regal scheduled a match between the two on August 20 at , where Roode defeated Almas. On the September 14 episode of \"NXT\", Roode defeated No Way Jose in his Full Sail University debut. On the September 28 episode of \"NXT\", Roode appeared after Tye Dillinger defeated Angelo Dawkins and later persuaded Dillinger to be his tag team partner for the 2016 Dusty Rhodes Tag Team Classic. On the October 12 episode of \"NXT\", Roode and Dillinger were defeated by SAnitY (Alexander Wolfe and Sawyer Fulton) in the first round after Roode walked out on Dillinger during the match. Roode and Dillinger attacked each other following their matches throughout the subsequent weeks, leading to a match on November 19 at , in which Roode defeated Dillinger.\nOn the December 14 episode of \"NXT\", Roode qualified for a #1 contender's fatal four-way match for the NXT Championship after defeating Oney Lorcan. On the December 21 episode of \"NXT\", Roode defeated Andrade \"Cien\" Almas, Tye Dillinger and Roderick Strong in the fatal four-way match to earn the title shot against NXT Champion Shinsuke Nakamura. On January 28, 2017 at , Roode defeated Nakamura to win the title, becoming the oldest NXT champion in WWE history in the process. On the March 15 episode of \"NXT\", Roode made his first successful title defense, defeating Kassius Ohno. On April 1 at , Roode successfully defended the title against Nakamura in a rematch, giving Nakamura his first clean singles loss in his departing match from NXT. On the April 19 episode of NXT, Roode was interrupted by Hideo Itami, who attacked him with a \"GTS\". On May 20 at , Roode retained the NXT Championship against Itami. On the June 7 episode of \"NXT\", Roderick Strong announced his intentions of capturing the NXT Championship and Roode came out to mock him. Sparking a rivalry, the two engaged in a backstage brawl two weeks later after Roode mocked Strong and his family. On the July 5 episode of \"NXT\", Roode successfully defended the NXT Championship against Strong. On the July 19 episode of \"NXT\", Drew McIntyre defeated Killian Dain, earning the right to challenge Roode for the NXT Championship. On the August 2 episode of \"NXT\", Strong attempted to attack Roode during a backstage interview, in which Roode claimed to be a \"better man\" than Strong. On the August 16 episode of \"NXT\", Roode attacked both McIntyre and Strong during their main event to end the show. On August 19 at , Roode lost the NXT Championship to McIntyre, giving Roode his first singles loss in NXT. On the August 30 episode of \"NXT\", Roode lost to Strong in his last televised NXT match. Roode wrestled his NXT farewell match at a NXT live event in Toronto on September 9, when he defeated Velveteen Dream.\n\nOn the August 22 episode of \"SmackDown\", Roode made his main roster debut as a face, defeating Aiden English in a singles match and later defeated Mike Kanellis on the following episode of \"SmackDown Live\". On the September 26 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", Roode confronted and challenged Dolph Ziggler for a match on October 8 at Hell in a Cell which Roode won with a roll-up whilst holding Ziggler's tights. Afterwards, Ziggler attacked Roode and demanded a rematch on the following episode of \"SmackDown Live\" which Roode accepted, suffering his first pinfall loss on the main roster as this time it was Ziggler who held Roode's tights. On the October 24 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", Roode interrupted a backstage interview with Ziggler and Renee Young, suggesting a two out of three falls match next week on \"SmackDown Live\" with Ziggler, which he accepted. Roode then defeated Ziggler two falls to one, ending their feud and also earning a spot on Team SmackDown at Survivor Series. On November 19 at Survivor Series, Roode was eliminated second overall by Braun Strowman and Team SmackDown then eventually lost to Team Raw. In late November, Roode started a rivalry with United States Champion Baron Corbin, leading to a match for the title on December 17 at \"Clash of Champions\" also involving Ziggler, who won the title by pinning Corbin.\n\nOn January 3, 2018, Roode was announced to team with SmackDown Women's Champion Charlotte Flair (dubbed The Robe Warriors) in the \"Mixed Match Challenge\" tournament. After Ziggler vacated the United States Championship on the December 19 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", an eight-man tournament was set up to crown a new champion. Roode defeated Baron Corbin in the first round and Mojo Rawley in the semi-finals. On the January 16 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", Roode defeated Jinder Mahal in the final to win his first championship since joining the main roster. Roode would defend the title for 54 days, retaining against Rawley during the Royal Rumble kick-off show during an open challenge and Rusev on the February 6 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", until he lost it against Randy Orton at Fastlane, causing Roode to attack Orton out of frustration after saving him from Mahal. Roode tried to regain the title at WrestleMania 34 in a fatal 4-way match against Orton, Mahal and Rusev, which was won by Mahal. During this time, in the \"Mixed Match Challenge\", Flair (who had to undergo a minor teeth surgery) was replaced by Becky Lynch via fan-vote on social media, and Roode and Lynch defeated Finn Bálor and Sasha Banks. Flair returned for the finals of the \"Mixed Match Challenge\", which Roode and Flair lost to the team of The Miz and Asuka.\n\nOn April 16, Roode was moved to the Raw as part of the Superstar Shake-up. In his \"Raw\" debut, he was unveiled as the surprise member of the ten man tag match in which he teamed with Bobby Lashley, Braun Strowman, Finn Bálor, and Seth Rollins in successful fashion as they faced off against The Miz, Bo Dallas, Curtis Axel, Kevin Owens, and Sami Zayn. At the Greatest Royal Rumble event, Roode performed in his first ever Royal Rumble match, lasting just under eighteen minutes before being eliminated by Baron Corbin. Roode's first rivalry on the \"Raw\" roster was with Elias with the pair trading victories over the months of April and May. On the May 14 episode of \"Raw\", Roode defeated Baron Corbin and No Way Jose to qualify for the Men's Money in the Bank ladder match at Money in the Bank on June 17, which was won by Braun Strowman.\n\nOn the September 3 episode of \"Raw\", Roode started a partnership with Chad Gable and went on to defeat The Ascension. At Survivor Series, they would lead the Raw tag team division, but they would lose to Team SmackDown in a 10-on-10 Survivor Series tag team elimination match. After feuding with them for weeks, Roode and Gable defeated AOP (Akam and Rezar) and their manager Drake Maverick in a three-on-two handicap to capture the Raw Tag Team Championship on the December 10 episode of \"Raw\", after Roode pinned Maverick. At , Roode and Gable along with Balor, Crews and Angle helped Strowman defeat Baron Corbin in a Tables, Ladders, and Chairs match and Corbin was stripped of all authoritative power. Roode and Gable would go on to beat The Revival in title matches on December 24, 2018 episode of Raw and on the January 7, 2019 episode of Raw in a Lumberjack Match and then again on the January 21 episode of Raw with Curt Hawkins as the special guest referee. At the Royal Rumble kick-off show, Gable and Roode defeated Rezar and Scott Dawson in a non-title match. The match stipulation stated that if Rezar and Dawson were to win, their respective teams (AOP and The Revival) would both receive tag team championship matches. The Revival would eventually receive their title match on the February 11 episode of \"Raw\", in which Gable and Roode lost the championship. On the March 4 episode of Raw, Roode and Gable interfered in The Revival's match with Ricochet and Aleister Black, attacking both teams. At Fastlane, Roode and Gable competed in a triple threat tag team match for the Raw Tag Team Championship, which was won by The Revival. At WrestleMania 35, Roode competed in the André the Giant Memorial Battle Royal, but was unsuccessful. \n\nOn the April 8 episode of \"Raw\", Roode and Gable turned heel by attacking Aleister Black and Ricochet, after losing a tag team match to them. This would be Roode's first time as a heel on the main roster. On April 16, Chad Gable was drafted to SmackDown during the Superstar Shake-up, disbanding the team and leaving Roode on his own. On the April 22 episode of \"Raw\", Roode, sporting a clean shave and moustache, formalized his name to Robert Roode, before defeating Ricochet. On the May 20 episode of \"Raw\", Roode became the second holder of the WWE 24/7 Championship, pinning the inaugural champion Titus O'Neil on the entrance ramp. His reign ended in the same night when R-Truth defeated him in the parking lot.<ref name=\"5/20/19\"></ref> At Super ShowDown, Roode competed in the 50-Man Battle Royal where he was unsuccessful.\n\nOn the August 26 episode of \"Raw\", Roode teamed with Dolph Ziggler to win a tag-team turmoil match to earn a Raw Tag Team Championship match against Seth Rollins and Braun Strowman at Clash of Champions where they won the tag titles. On the October 14 episode of \"Raw\", Roode and Ziggler lost the titles to The Viking Raiders (Erik and Ivar) and they were drafted to SmackDown as part of the 2019 WWE Draft. The team later aligned themselves with Baron Corbin during his feud against Roman Reigns. At Survivor Series, Roode and Ziggler won a 10-team Interbrand Tag Team Battle Royal. On December 10, Roode was suspended for 30 days, for violating WWE's Wellness Policy.\n\nRoode returned on the January 10 episode of Smackdown, where he helped King Corbin and Ziggler beat down Roman Reigns and The Usos. on the January 17 episode of Smackdown, Roode lost a Tables Match to Reigns. Roode entered the Royal Rumble match at the namesake pay-per-view at #4 but was quickly eliminated by the WWE Champion Brock Lesnar. It was later announced that Roode and Ziggler would compete in a Elimination Chamber match for the WWE SmackDown Tag Team Championship at the Elimination Chamber event. On the March 6 episode of Smackdown, Roode and Ziggler won a tag team gauntlet match to enter the Elimination Chamber last. at the event, Roode and Ziggler eliminated Heavy Machinery but then were eliminated by The Usos. Following Elimination Chamber, Roode was not seen on television as he wasn't able to travel due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nRoode made his video game debut in 2008's \"TNA Impact!\" and also appeared in its sequels \"TNA Wrestling\" (2009), \"TNA Impact!: Cross the Line\" (2010) and \"TNA Wrestling Impact!\" (2011). He made his WWE video game debut in \"WWE 2K18\" (2017) then \"WWE 2K19\" (2018) and most recently \"WWE 2K20\" (2019).\n\nRoode and his wife Tracey have three sons Robert III, Riley, and Nicholas. He is a childhood friend of professional lacrosse player Tracey Kelusky. Roode attended Kenner Collegiate Vocational Institute in Peterborough, Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944868", "title": "Blue Angel (certification)", "text": "Blue Angel (certification)\n\nThe Blue Angel (Der Blaue Engel) is a German certification for products and services that have environmentally friendly aspects.\n\nIt has been awarded since 1978 by the Jury Umweltzeichen, a group of 13 people from environment and consumer protection groups, industry, unions, trade, media and churches.\n\nBlue Angel was the first ecolabel in the world, and it covers some 10,000 products in some 80 product categories.\n\nAfter the introduction of Germany's Blue Angel in 1978 as the first worldwide environmental label, other European and non-European countries followed this example and introduced their own national and supra-regional environmental labels. The common goal of these labels is to inform consumers about environmentally friendly products thereby giving global support to product-related environmental protection.\n\nIn 1994, some countries cooperated in developing the Global Ecolabelling Network (GEN) - a non-profit interest group composed of ecolabel organisations throughout the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944871", "title": "Alzira", "text": "Alzira\n\nAlzira may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1944877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944877", "title": "Noble Network of Charter Schools", "text": "Noble Network of Charter Schools\n\nThe Noble Network of Charter Schools (formerly known as Noble Street Charter School) is an open enrollment, public charter network of high schools and middle schools serving students throughout Chicago. Noble was co-founded in 1999 by Michael Milkie and Tonya Hernandez through a partnership between Ron Manderschied, President of Northwestern University Settlement House. Noble's first expansions, Rauner College Prep and Pritzker College Prep, opened in 2006. There are currently 18 schools in the charter school network: 1 middle school and 17 high schools. Noble schools are public and open to all students in Chicago and there is no testing required for admission.\n\nThe student population for Noble Network schools is 98% minority and 89% low-income. It currently serves 12,543 students from more than 70 Chicago communities. The Noble Network has an overall college acceptance rate of 90%. In 2014 black and Hispanic students in Noble schools ranked in the top 30 percent in reading, math and science. It was named top public charter network in 2015 by the Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation and Chicago Magazine named Noble schools as the five top charter high schools in Chicago.\n\nAccording to Princeton University and the Brookings Institution in 2018, attending a Noble high school increased college enrollment by 13 percentage points, with most of the increase coming at four-year, relatively selective institutions. Persistence in college also increased, with a 12 percentage point increase in attending four or more semesters of higher education.\n\nIn the 2018-2019 School Quality Rating Policy results published by the Chicago Public Schools, Noble's high schools earned 10 of the 15 top ranking school slots in the district. The School Quality Rating Policy (SQRP) is the Board of Education's policy for evaluating school performance. It establishes the indicators of school performance and growth and the benchmarks against which a school's success will be evaluated on an annual basis. Through this policy, each school receives a School Quality Rating and an Accountability Status.\n\nThe Noble-Relay Teaching Residency, run in partnership with Relay Graduate School of Education, launched in the summer of 2014, provides a one-year pathway into a career as a teacher in an urban setting for Noble alumni and interested community members.\n\nNoble's college counseling and alumni support program has led to students graduating from college at 3-5x the national average. Noble uses college counseling tools and software to match students with the highest graduation rate schools. This system has been shared with other schools in Chicago and around the country. Each senior has a college counselor and applies to 8-10 colleges to find the right \"match\" school. Students can attend a College Seminar course their senior year to help them complete college, financial, and scholarship applications.\n\nThe Summer of a Lifetime program allows Noble Network students to participate in classes over the summer for high school or college credit. Students also visit colleges, museums, and other educational venues. Since 1997, 4500 students have participated in the program.\n\nSince 2014 Noble has offered scholarships to undocumented students who participate in the federal DACA program. The program mirrors the financial aid that would otherwise be available to students through FAFSA. Approximately 70 undocumented Noble graduates are awarded nearly full-ride scholarships annually.\n\nIn April 2018 Noble Network of Charter Schools faced criticism for alleged disconnect from its student population and \"dehumanizing\" policies. Students claim that \"policies [are] so strict that some menstruating girls are bleeding through their pants for lack of permitted bathroom breaks.\"\n\nTeachers have also stated that policies can be culturally insensitive, such as demanding \"level zero\" in which teachers \"shout ‘hands up’ at a hallway full of black children.\" During training teachers were told to \"light the students up\" despite the Sandra Bland incident occurring that summer. \"The phrase the police officer used was ‘I’m going to light you up.’...there was no sensitivity around how we’re using that phrase,\" said a former teacher. The difference in demographics between teachers and students have been discussed since at least 2016. While the demographics of Chicago Public School teachers are 50% white, 23% black, and 20% latino, Noble's teachers are 66% white, 14% black, and 9% latino despite 98% minority student enrollment.\n\nSome students and alumni claim the disciplinary culture of the Noble Network has made them unwilling to recommend schools in the charter network to friends or family.\n\nProponents of Noble's disciplinary code state that the school culture is set up to challenge students and set up a better educational environment. They also point to Noble students' high college acceptance rates, ACT scores higher than Chicago Public Schools, and high enrollment. The president of the Noble Network, in an email to staff, stated parts of the article were “exaggerated or plainly false.” Teachers also defend the charter system by stating there is more autonomy than in district public schools.\n\nIt has also been claimed that \"Noble officials have privately suggested that teachers are publicizing discipline stories as a way to promote their unionization efforts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944883", "title": "Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport", "text": "Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport\n\nFort Lauderdale Executive Airport is a general aviation airport located within the city limits of Fort Lauderdale, in Broward County, Florida, United States, five miles (8 km) north of downtown Fort Lauderdale. It is a division of the Transportation and Mobility Department of the City of Fort Lauderdale.\n\nThe airport was built in 1941 to train Naval Aviators during World War II, and was named West Prospect Satellite Field. In 1947, the federal government deeded the airport to Fort Lauderdale for use as a public airport.\n\nThe airport serves over 150,000 aircraft operations per year, making it the eighth-busiest General Aviation center in the United States. The airport is designated as general aviation reliever facility for the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport by the FAA. The airport is a Landing Rights Airport with a U.S. Customs and Border Protection facility. The airport also operates a 24/7 ARFF facility that meets the requirements of index B, although the airport is not certificated under FAR Part 139. ARFF services are provided by Fort Lauderdale Fire-Rescue\n\nThe airport is home to two rare Florida native species of animal, the gopher tortoise and the Florida burrowing owl.\n\nFort Lauderdale Executive Airport covers an area of which contains two asphalt paved runways: 09/27 measuring 6,002 x 100 ft (1,829 x 30 m) and 13/31 measuring 4,000 x 100 ft (1,219 x 30 m).\n\nThe airport is ideal for flight training because of its 24-hour air traffic control tower and has multiple instrument approaches. For the 12-month period ending December 31, 2017, the airport had 179,023 aircraft operations, an average of 490 per day: 94% general aviation, 6% air taxi and <1% military. There are 909 aircraft based at this airport: 52% single-engine, 26% multi-engine, 16% jet and 5% helicopter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944885", "title": "The Way We Was", "text": "The Way We Was\n\n\"The Way We Was\" is the twelfth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 31, 1991. In the episode, Marge tells the story of how she and Homer first met and fell in love. Flashing back to 1974, it is shown how Homer falls in love with Marge in high school and tries to get close to her by enlisting her as his French tutor. After several hours of verb conjugation, Marge falls for Homer too, only to become enraged when he admits he is not a French student. Marge rejects Homer's invitation to the prom and goes with Artie Ziff. Artie turns out to be a terrible date and Marge realizes that it is Homer she really wants.\n\nThe episode was written by Al Jean, Mike Reiss, and Sam Simon, and directed by David Silverman. It was the first flashback episode of \"The Simpsons\". Jon Lovitz guest-starred in it as Artie Ziff. The episode features cultural references to songs such as \"The Joker\" and \"(They Long to Be) Close to You\", and the television series \"Siskel & Ebert & the Movies\". \n\nSince airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 15.6, and was the highest rated show on Fox the week it aired.\n\nWhen the Simpsons' television set breaks, Marge tells her children how she and Homer met in a flashback. Marge and Homer were both high school seniors in 1974. Unlike Homer, Marge was studious, but she was sent to detention for burning a bra at a feminist rally. Homer and his close friend Barney also earned detention for smoking in the boys' restroom. Homer instantly fell in love with Marge the first time he saw her in the detention room. Despite his father Abe's warning that he was aiming too high, Homer was determined to win Marge's heart.\n\nTo impress Marge, Homer joined her debate team, where he learned she was romantically interested in the more articulate Artie Ziff. Homer asked Marge to tutor him in French and she accepted his invitation to the senior prom. When Homer confessed that he was not enrolled in French class and was only using the ruse to spend time with her, Marge was furious at him for making her needlessly stay awake late the night before a debate tournament. She lost the debate to Artie, who asked her to be his prom date. Homer was unaware Marge accepted Artie's invitation and unexpectedly arrived at her house on prom night. When Artie arrived moments later, Homer despondently left her house and attended the prom alone.\n\nArtie and Marge were crowned prom king and queen and shared the first dance. Marge found a heartbroken Homer crying in the hallway and urged him to accept her love for Artie. At Inspiration Point after the prom, Artie tried to make out with Marge in the back seat of his car; when he tore her dress in a fit of passion, Marge slapped him and demanded to be taken home. \n\nHomer's limousine rental expired and he walked home because he had no money. Marge and Artie's car passed him walking on the roadside. After Artie dropped Marge at her house, she returned in her car to pick up Homer.\nShe realized she loved Homer and apologized for wounding his heart. Homer fixed the torn strap of Marge's dress with the corsage he had bought for her. As Marge ends her flashback, Lisa and Maggie are touched, but Bart makes gagging sounds of disgust.\n\nThe episode was written by Al Jean, Mike Reiss, and Sam Simon, and directed by David Silverman. Jon Lovitz guest starred as Artie. It was his first guest appearance on \"The Simpsons\", but he has appeared many times since. Artie's departing line to Marge after he drops her off was supposed to be \"Good night. I'm Artie Ziff!\", but short on time, the editors shortened it to just \"Good night?\".\n\nCharacters making their first appearance on the show in this episode are Wiseguy, Artie, Rainier Wolfcastle (as the fictional action hero McBain), Principal Dondelinger, and Marge's father. Artie's appearance and body language is based on a man Silverman went to high school with named Mark Eisenberg. Silverman said that when he directed the episode, he went through his own high school yearbook for character ideas and designs because he also had attended high school in the seventies. Wolfcastle's voice and design was based on actor Arnold Schwarzenegger. The writers actually invented Wolfcastle for the episode \"Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?\", before \"The Way We Was\" went into production, but since \"The Way We Was\" aired before it is still considered his first appearance. The character was originally named McBain, after the film franchise he stars in. When the film \"McBain\" was released in 1991, after the episode had aired, the films' producers refused to allow the show to use the name in future episodes, so the name Rainier Wolfcastle, to represent the actor's real name, was created to use instead. Later, the use of the name McBain returned to the show.\n\n\"The Way We Was\" originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 31, 1991. The episode was, together with \"Homer vs. Lisa and the 8th Commandment\", selected for release in a video collection titled \"The Best of The Simpsons\", which was released May 26, 1998. The episode was also included on \"The Simpsons\" season two DVD set, which was released on August 6, 2002. Jean, Reiss, Silverman, Matt Groening, and James L. Brooks participated in the DVD's audio commentary. An action figure set based on the episode was released by Winning Moves. It featured the characters Homer, Marge, Artie, Barney, Grampa, Patty, and Selma, all in their flashback designs. In April 2002, as part of an EB Games exclusive, action figures of Marge and Homer in their prom outfits were released by Playmates Toys. An action figure of Artie was also released in June 2004 as part of the wave sixteen release of the World of Springfield series of action figures by Playmates Toys.\n\nThe television show that the Simpson family watches at the beginning of the episode, in which the two reviewers discuss the latest \"McBain\" film, is a parody of the American television series \"Siskel & Ebert & the Movies\". In the flashback sequence, Homer is seen singing along to the 1973 song \"The Joker\" by the Steve Miller Band while driving to school. Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin posters hang on the wall of Homer's 1974 bedroom. The 1970 song \"(They Long to Be) Close to You\" by The Carpenters is heard when Homer sees Marge for the first time. Homer eats a bucket of Shakespeare Fried Chicken when he reveals his feelings towards Marge to Grampa. At the debate, Homer disagrees about the idea of lowering the United States national speed limit to , arguing that \"Sure, it'll save a few lives, but millions will be late!\" This is a reference to the National Maximum Speed Law provision of the 1974 \"Emergency Highway Energy Conservation Act\", which (at the time) prohibited speed limits higher than 55 everywhere. Barney asks a girl named Estelle if she wants to go to the prom with him, but she tells him she would not go to the prom with him even if he were American actor Elliott Gould. Artie says he can think of a dozen highly cogent arguments to why Marge should accept his prom offer, one of which is from a \"Time\" magazine titled \"America's Love Affair with the Prom: Even wallflowers can look forward to one date a year,\" a reference to the American magazine \"Time\". Songs played in the episode include \"The Streak\" by Ray Stevens , \"Goodbye Yellow Brick Road\" by Elton John, \"Colour My World\" by Chicago, \"Pick Up the Pieces\" by Average White Band, and \"The Hustle\" by Van McCoy.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"The Way We Was\" finished sixteenth in the ratings for the week of January 28 – February 3, 1991, with a Nielsen rating of 15.6, equivalent to 14.5 million viewing households. It was the highest-rated show on Fox that week. Since airing, the episode has received positive reviews from television critics. \n\nIn 1998, \"TV Guide\" listed it in its list of top twelve \"Simpsons\" episodes, calling it \"a superbly observant, hilarious, perfect time capsule that tells how Homer Simpson wooed and somehow won Marge Bouvier\". \n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, wrote: \"A superb episode. Some colorful background for Homer and Marge (and a glimpse of Homer and Barney's schooldays) plus our introduction to the world of the McBain films. Excellent.\" \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson thought the episode was a \"fine program\", and added that Lovitz made Artie \"amusingly annoying\". Jacobson thought the episode captured the \"tone of the mid-seventies with warmth and insight\", and the courtship \"seemed charming but not sappy, and the show worked well overall\". Jacobson's favorite line of the episode was Grampa's advice to Homer about Marge, \"Oh, son, don't overreach! Go for the dented car, the dead-end job, the less attractive girl!\" \n\nDawn Taylor of The DVD Journal thought the best lines of the episode were when Homer arrives at the Bouvier house to pick up Marge for the prom, Selma tells Patty \"Marge's dates get homelier all the time,\" to which Patty replies \"That's what you get when you don't put out.\"\n\nIGN ranked Lovitz as the eighth-best guest star in the show's history.\n\nIn his book \"Drawn to Television – Prime-time Animation from the Flintstones to Family Guy\", Keith Booker wrote: \"The episode details in a rather sentimental fashion the early struggles of the irresponsible Homer to support his new family [...] Such background episodes add an extra dimension to the portrayal of the animated Simpson family, making them seem oddly real and adding weight to their status as a family with a long history together.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1944887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944887", "title": "Synovial bursa", "text": "Synovial bursa\n\nA synovial bursa (plural bursae or bursas) is a small fluid-filled sac lined by synovial membrane with an inner capillary layer of viscous synovial fluid (similar in consistency to that of a raw egg white). It provides a cushion between bones and tendons and/or muscles around a joint. This helps to reduce friction between the bones and allows free movement. Bursae are found around most major joints of the body.\n\nThere are four types of bursa: adventitious, subcutaneous, synovial, and sub-muscular. Among these, only adventitious is non-native. When any surface of the body is subjected to repeated stress, an adventitious bursa develops under it. Examples are Students' elbow and bunion.\n\nInfection or irritation of a bursa leads to bursitis (inflammation of a bursa). The general term for disease of bursae is \"bursopathy.\"\n\n is Medieval Latin for \"purse\", so named for the resemblance of an anatomical bursa to a purse. \"Bursae\" or \"bursas\" is its plural form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944897", "title": "The Answer Machine?", "text": "The Answer Machine?\n\nThe Answer Machine? is the eighth full-length album by British folk metal band Skyclad.\n\nThe album marks the peak of the folky sound from the group, with a bigger focus on traditional instruments and barely use of electric guitars.\n\nThis was also the group's last album as a quartet, with Steve Ramsey overdubbing all guitars, Paul A.T. Kinson as session drummer and with Mitch Oldham as session percussionist. Moreover, lots of guest musicians had been involved in this record, with Sasha Jankowic as narrator, Pete Coleman as flute-player (both on \"Troublesometimes\"), Yasmin Krull (sister of Alexander Krull from Atrocity) as female singer on \"The Thread of Evermore\" and with multi-instrumentalist John Leonard on pipes, whistles, accordion, banjo and additional vocals.\n"}
{"id": "1944909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944909", "title": "Attila (opera)", "text": "Attila (opera)\n\nAttila is an opera in a prologue and three acts by Giuseppe Verdi to an Italian libretto by Temistocle Solera, based on the 1809 play \"\" (\"Attila, King of the Huns\") by Zacharias Werner. The opera received its first performance at La Fenice in Venice on 17 March 1846.\n\nEzio's act 2 aria of heroic resolution ' (\"My lot is cast, I am prepared for any warfare\") is a fine example of a characteristic Verdian \"genre\", and it achieved fame in its own time with audiences in the context of the adoption of a liberal constitution by Ferdinand II. Other contemporary comment praised the work as suitable for the \"political education of the people\", while, in contrast, others criticised the opera as \"Teutonic\" in nature.\n\nVerdi had read the ultra-Romantic play in April 1844, probably introduced to it by his friend Andrea Maffei who had written a synopsis. A letter to Francesco Maria Piave (with whom he had worked on both \"Ernani\" and \"I due Foscari\") had included the subject of Attila as opera number 10 on a list of nine other possible projects, and in that same letter, he encouraged Piave to read the play, which musicologist Julian Budden describes as having \"sprung from the wilder shores of German literary romanticism [and which contains] all the Wagnerian apparatus - the Norns, Valhalla, the sword of Wodan , the gods of light and the gods of darkness.\" He continues: \"It is an extraordinary Teutonic farrago to have appealed to Verdi\".\n\nVerdi works with Solera\n\nBut, as \"Attila\" was to be the second opera Verdi would be writing for Venice, he appears to have changed his mind about working with Piave as the librettist and then convinced him to relinquish the project, seemingly preferring to work with Solera, who had been his librettist for both \"Nabucco\" and \"I Lombardi\", two operas which employed the format of large choral tableaux and something which the librettist was prepared to re-use for the new opera. No clear reason for this change seems to have emerged, except that speculates that, in returning to Solera, he was more comfortable working with a librettist who was more suited to \"sketching epic sagas and historical-religious frescoes.\n\nSolera's approach to the project was to emphasize an appeal to Italian, specifically Venetian, patriotism, while ignoring many of the elements of the play. These included reversing the order of key scenes and, in the case of the opening scene showing the foundation of Venice, totally inventing it. But the pace began to slow as, firstly, illness limited the composer's ability to do much work. Then came the second blow: Solera left the project altogether and followed his opera singer wife to Madrid where he became director of the Royal Theatre, leaving only the draft sketch of the third act.\n\nVerdi returns to Piave\n\nAs things turned out, Verdi returned to Piave for the completion of act 3 - with Solera's blessing. However, the relationship between composer and the new librettist worsened in a variety of ways, especially over the use of stage bands in the context of the composer claiming to think in terms of his work being a grand opera: \"Aren't \"Guillaume Tell\" and \"Robert le Diable\" grand operas? Yet they don't contain a band.\"\nAnd the differences between Piave's version and what Solera (who received a copy of Piave's act 3) had originally conceived were so great as to cause a final rift between Verdi and his long-time collaborator; the composer's ideas of musical theatre had moved far ahead of his older colleague.\n\n19th Century\n\nOverall, the reception from the press on opening night was not as positive as that from the audience present. As Budden notes, \"the Italian public had taken \"Attila\" to their hearts\" and he adds that the Roman general Ezio's aria - \"Avrai tu l'universo, resta l'Italia a me\" (\"You can have the universe, but leave Italy for me\") - brought forth spontaneous cheers\".\n\nAfter its world premiere in 1846 in Venice, the opera went on to be produced in all of the major Italian cities (plus Barcelona, Lisbon, and Trieste), a total of over 25 productions, including one in Palermo under the title of \"Gli Unni e I Romani\" in 1855. One production in Como is recorded to have taken place in 1875, after which the opera appears to have disappeared in Italy, at least.\n\"Attila\" was first produced in London in 1848 by Benjamin Lumley who, as impresario at Her Majesty's Theatre, had successfully presented Verdi's \"I masnadieri\" there in 1847. In his 1864 autobiography he notes that \"none perhaps of Verdi's works had kindled more enthusiasm in Italy or crowned the fortunate composer with more abundant laurels than \"Attila\". The \"Attila\" premiere featured Sophie Cruvelli, Italo Gardoni, Velletti, and Cruzzoni. The opera was first given in New York City in 1850.\n\n20th Century and beyond\n\nIn the 20th century, it was revived in concert performance during Venice Festival of 1951 with Caterina Mancini, Gino Penno, Giangiacomo Guelfi, and Italo Tajo, under the conductor Carlo Maria Giulini; and at Sadler's Wells in London in 1963 (with an English libretto), with Rae Woodland, Donald Smith, Harry Mossfield and Donald McIntyre, with Muir Mathieson conducting. There was a Rome revival a year later, then productions in Trieste in (1965), in Buenos Aires in (1966), in Berlin in (1971), and in 1972 \"Attila\" was performed at the Edinburgh Festival and in Florence.\n\nOn 21 December 1980, the Vienna State Opera presented a new production conducted by Giuseppe Sinopoli, and staged by Giulio Chazalettes. The cast included Nicolai Ghiaurov as Attila, Piero Cappuccilli as Ezio, Mara Zampieri as Odabella, and Piero Visconti as Foresto.\n\nFrom 1981 onwards the role of Attila was taken up by the American bass, Samuel Ramey, who made his first appearances at the New York City Opera in March 1981 in the opera which had not been seen in the city for one hundred and fifty years. Throughout that decade Ramey \"unquestionably rack[ed] up more performances in the role than any bass since its creator\" in houses such as La Fenice and San Francisco, finally making an audio recording in 1989 and a video recording in 1991, both under Riccardo Muti. Ramey again appeared in the title role in a production staged by La Scala in 1986 and filmed for DVD release. In February 2000 a concert performance was given by the Opera Orchestra of New York, again featuring Ramey as Attila.\n\nThe Royal Opera House premiered it on 13 October 1990, with Ruggero Raimondi in the title role, Josephine Barstow as Odabella, Giorgio Zancanaro as Ezio, Dennis O'Neill as Foresto, with Edward Downes conducting.\nSan Francisco Opera presented \"Attila\" on 21 November 1991, with Samuel Ramey in the title role, Elizabeth Connell as Odabella, Vladimir Chernov and Luis Giron May alternating as Ezio, Antonio Ordonez as Foresto, with Gabriele Ferro conducting in a production by Lotfi Mansouri.\nIn 2007, it was included as part of the Sarasota Opera's \"Verdi Cycle\". \n\"Attila\" received a concert performance on 8 September 2007 at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, with Ildar Abdrazakov, Hasmik Papian, Paolo Gavanelli, and Massimiliano Pisapia. Jaap van Zweden conducted; a recording and broadcast followed.\n\nThe Metropolitan Opera mounted its first production directed by Pierre Audi on 23 February 2010 conducted by Riccardo Muti, who was making his house debut. Ildar Abdrazakov sang the title role, with Violeta Urmana as Odabella, Ramón Vargas as Foresto, Giovanni Meoni as Ezio, and Samuel Ramey as Leone. Miuccia Prada and the architects Herzog & de Meuron collaborated on costumes and sets. It was presented in September 2011 as part of the Washington Concert Opera's 2011/12 season and was staged by San Francisco Opera in June 2012 in a co-production with La Scala; Ferruccio Furlanetto sang the title role in San Francisco, while Orlin Anastassov sang the role in Milan when the production was first presented there in 2011. The work was presented by Berliner Operngruppe in 2012 in Berlin conducted by Felix Krieger.\n\n\"Scene 1: The ruined city of Aquileia\"\n\nAttila and his victorious horde are surprised to see a group of women spared as prisoners of war. Their leader, Odabella, asks why the Huns' women remain at home (\"Allor che i forti corrono\" / \"While your warriors rush to their swords like lions\"). Attila, impressed by her courage, offers a boon and she asks for her sword, with which she intends to avenge the death of her father at Attila's own hand (\"Da te questo or m'è concesso\" / \"O sublime, divine justice by thee is this now granted\"). The Roman envoy Ezio asks for an audience and proposes a division of the empire: \"Avrai tu l'universo, Resti l'Italia a me\" / \"You may have the universe, but let Italy remain mine\". Attila disdainfully calls him a traitor to his country.\n\n\"Scene 2: A swamp, the future site of Venice\"\n\nA boat bearing Foresto and other survivors arrives; he thinks of the captive Odabella (\"Ella in poter del barbaro\" / \"She is in the barbarian's power!\") but then rouses himself and the others to begin building a new city (\"Cara patria già madre e reina\" / \"Dear homeland, at once mother and queen of powerful, generous sons\").\n\n\"Scene 1: A wood near Attila's camp\"\n\nOdabella laments her father and Foresto (\"Oh! Nel fuggente nuvolo\" / \"O father, is your image not imprinted on the fleeting clouds?...\") believing the latter to be dead. When he appears, she is put on the defensive, denying any infidelity and reminding him of the biblical Judith. The couple is reunited: \"Oh, t'inebria nell'amplesso\" / \"O vast joy without measure\")\n\n\"Scene 2: Attila's tent\"\n\nAttila awakes and tells Uldino of a dream in which an old man stopped him at the gates of Rome and warned him to turn back (\"Mentre gonfiarsi l'anima parea\" / \"As my soul seemed to swell\"). In the daylight, his courage returns and he orders a march (\"Oltre quel limite, t'attendo, o spettro\" / \"Beyond that boundary I await you, O ghost!\"). However, when a procession of maidens clad in white approaches, singing \"Veni Creator Spiritus\", he recognizes the Roman bishop Leo as the old man of his dream and collapses in terror.\n\n\"Scene 1: Ezio's camp\"\n\nEzio has been recalled after a peace has been concluded. He contrasts Rome's past glory with the current child emperor Valentine (\"Dagl'immortali vertici\" / \"From the splendid immortal peaks of former glory\"). Recognizing the incognito Foresto among the bearers of an invitation to a banquet with Attila, he agrees to join forces (\"E' gettata la mia sorte, son pronto ad ogni guerra\" / \"My lot is cast, I am prepared for any warfare\" ). \n\n\"Scene 2: Attila's banquet\"\n\nForesto's plot to have Uldino poison Attila is foiled by Odabella, jealous of her own revenge. A grateful (and unsuspecting) Attila declares she shall be his wife, and places the unmasked Foresto in her custody.\n\n\"The forest\"\n\nUldino informs Foresto about the plans for the wedding of Odabella and Attila; Foresto laments Odabella's apparent betrayal (\"Che non avrebbe il misero\" / \"What would that wretched man not have offered for Odabella\"). Ezio arrives with a plan to ambush the Huns; when Odabella comes Foresto accuses her of treachery, but she pleads for his trust. Attila finds the three together and realizes he has been betrayed. As Roman soldiers approach, Odabella stabs him with the sword he had given her. The three conspirators cry that the people have been avenged.\n\nModern day critical reactions to Verdi's music and musical choices varies somewhat, but there is general unanimity as to its principal weaknesses. For , \"Attila\" is \"one of the weakest scores of the 'galley years'\" and he references the contemporary critical viewpoint of Luigi Casamorata who wrote in the \"Gazzetta Musicale di Milano\" of 17 January 1847 that, with this opera, Verdi had reached the \"apogee of cabalettism\". However, Baldini does point to the strengths of the score which include the prologue's dawn over the Adriatic music, the music for the bass in his act 1 scene, and the baritone's act 2 aria as well as the final ensemble in act 3 \"which possesses great powers of human communication\".\n\nBoth Kimbell (\"the sheer noisiness of \"Attila\" made it a \"bête noire\" of fastidious critics\" and Budden (\"...the heaviest and \nnoisiest of the Risorgimento operas, blunt in style, daubed in thick garish colours\") refer to some of least successful aspects of the work. However, Parker states something to which the others would appear to agree:\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1944910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944910", "title": "Global Ecolabelling Network", "text": "Global Ecolabelling Network\n\nThe Global Ecolabelling Network (GEN) is a non-profit network composed of some 27 ecolabel organisations throughout the world representing nearly 60 countries and territories, with 2 associate members and a growing number of affiliate members, one of which is Google. GEN members have certified over 252,000 products and services for environmental leadership. GEN was established in 1994.\n\nThe stated goal of the Network is to further the exchange of information between national ecolabel organisations that operate \"Type 1\" ecolabels, the strongest category, as defined by ISO 14024. \"Blauer Engel\" (Blue Angel), the German ecolabel, established in 1978, was the first of this kind. Ecolabels are \"licensed\" for use only after a product or service is proven to meet transparent, published standards for environmental preferability, verified by a qualified, independent, third party, and assessed over multiple environmental parameters (not just one single issue). The ecolabels are an assurance to consumers and procurement professionals that a product or service is proven \"green\" and has high environmental values and integrity. \n\nThe Global Ecolabelling Network, its members, their licensees, and the public celebrates World Ecolabel Day every year in October. Click the link for details.\n\n\nOrganizations that formally support ecolabelling principals and goals.\n\nEthical organizations that support ecolabelling and sustainable consumption.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944911", "title": "Edge and Christian", "text": "Edge and Christian\n\nEdge and Christian (E&C) was a tag team made of real life best friends Edge (Adam Copeland) and Christian (Jason Reso). They are best known for their time in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), later renamed World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) where they won the WWF Tag Team Championship on seven occasions. Initially, the two were portrayed as on-screen brothers, but the aspect was de-emphasized in the mid-2000s, and in 2010, the team was officially retconned as childhood friends. The team split up in 2001 but reunited briefly on the SmackDown brand in 2011. Edge, however, announced his retirement from professional wrestling due to neck injury on the April 11 episode of \"Monday Night Raw\", which would ultimately end their final run together.\n\nIn addition to their seven reigns as WWF Tag Team Champions, they each won singles titles during their run as a tag team. Edge and Christian are also noteworthy for their participation in the first three Tables, Ladders, and Chairs matches (TLC matches). In 2012, WWE named them the greatest tag team in WWE history. The team's popularity propelled Edge and Christian to main event success, with both men becoming multiple-time world champions in their own right.\n\nCopeland and Reso formed a tag team in the Canadian independent circuit after completing their training with Ron Hutchison and Sweet Daddy Siki at Hutchinson's \"Sully's Gym\". The pair primarily used the ring names of Sexton Hardcastle and Christian Cage, respectively. Their tag team wrestled under several team names, such as \"High Impact\", \"Suicide Blondes\", \"Revolution X\", \"Hard Impact\" and \"Canadian Rockers\". They were part of a faction dubbed \"Thug LiFe\" in 1997. The stable consisted of Cage, Hardcastle, Joe E. Legend, Rhino Richards, Bloody Bill Skullion, Big Daddy Adams and Martin Kane. In 1998, Sexton and Christian began teaming up in independent promotions such as Insane Championship Wrestling (ICW) and Southern States Wrestling (SSW).\n\nThe duo won the ICW Streetfight Tag Team Championship twice and SSW Tag Team Championship once during their time in the independent circuit.\n\nOn the June 22, 1998 episode of \"Raw is War\", Copeland debuted as Edge in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) against Jose Estrada, Jr.. He was a mysterious \"loner\" character, who would emerge from the crowd before his matches. Eventually, he started a feud with Gangrel. At , during a match pitting Edge against Owen Hart, Reso, cited as an unknown person looking similar to Edge, came out to the ring distracting him enough to allow Hart to get the win. It was later revealed that Reso's character was Christian, Edge's storyline brother, and he was aligned with Gangrel as his vampire follower. After some confrontations between the two gothic brothers, Edge was convinced to 'come home' with Christian and Gangrel, and the three of them formed a stable known as \"The Brood\".\nAt , the Brood defeated The J.O.B. Squad (Al Snow, Bob Holly and Scorpio). The Brood briefly joined The Undertaker's Ministry of Darkness faction, but left after Christian was flogged and almost sacrificed for revealing Stephanie McMahon's whereabouts to Ken Shamrock. Following a short feud with the Ministry, Gangrel turned on Edge and demanded that Christian do the same. He refused and both he and Edge broke with Gangrel turning them into fan favorites. From there, the gothic storyline enjoyed limited success, beginning their eventual tag team feud with The Hardy Boyz (Matt Hardy and Jeff Hardy), who also briefly formed a new Brood with Gangrel before turning on him as well. At this point, the duo had rehashed Edge's pre-Brood gimmick as borderline gothic fan favorites most notable for a tendency to enter the ring through the audience.\n\nThe tag team feud with the Hardy Boyz intensified as Gangrel became Matt and Jeff's new manager, combining to form \"The New Brood\", in the summer of 1999. However, both teams were more interested in acquiring the managerial services of Terri Runnels for which (along with $100,000) they would compete in a best-of-five series of matches known as the Terri Invitational Tournament. Edge and Christian won the first two matches, putting the Hardyz in sudden jeopardy. The Hardyz went on to win the next two matches, however, leading to a rubber match at No Mercy to determine which team would earn Terri's services. The rubber match would be a ladder match, in which Gangrel tried to interfere, only to get ejected. Matt and Jeff Hardy went on to win the match and the Terri Invitational Tournament after a competitive bout that resulted in both teams receiving a standing ovation after the match as well as the next night on \"Raw is War\". On that next night, the four men shook hands in a show of respect, then all turned against Gangrel by attacking him when he came out to boast about spending the night with Terri, establishing them as heroic figures and removing Gangrel from the equation.\n\nThe storyline then focused around the \"mutual respect\" between Edge and Christian and the Hardy Boyz, along with both teams' pursuit of the WWF Tag Team Championship. The two teams were involved in several matches together, such as at Survivor Series and No Way Out. However, shortly after Terri betrayed the Hardyz at No Way Out, the truce between the two teams imploded and they began fighting each other once more. Terri then attempted to sew discord between Edge and Christian in a storyline that was originally intended to see the two split off into singles wrestlers with Terri managing Christian, but was soon changed to keep the tag team together and have them reject Terri's plans.\n\nEdge and Christian continued their \"mutual respect\" storyline with the Hardy Boyz, At WrestleMania 2000, they defeated the defending champion Dudley Boyz (Bubba Ray Dudley and D-Von Dudley) and the Hardy Boyz in a Triangle ladder match for their first WWF Tag Team Championship. Immediately thereafter, Edge and Christian redefined themselves as a villainous duo of comedic surfer-styled teen idols. No longer entering the arena through the crowd, the two engaged in various antics including making fun of their opponents or the city they were performing in, using strange exclusive phrases (the most notable being \"reek of awesomeness\"), and dressing in outlandish costumes. Other trademarks of theirs included the \"five-second pose\" where, \"for the benefit of those with flash photography\", they would stand still in odd positions in the middle of the ring so fans could take pictures. These poses usually involved making fun of either their opponents or aspects of town pride (for instance, making fun of Elvis Presley during a show in Memphis, Tennessee or imitating Bill Buckner in the 1986 World Series at an event in Boston) to generate a negative reaction from the crowd.\n\nAt Backlash, the duo retained their titles against D-Generation X (X-Pac and Road Dogg). They began a feud with Too Cool (Scotty 2 Hotty, Grand Master Sexay and Rikishi). On May 29, 2000 edition of \"Raw is War\", they dropped the titles to Scotty and Sexay. At the King of the Ring pay-per-view, the duo defeated Too Cool, Hardy Boyz and T & A (Test and Albert) in a Four Corners elimination match to win their second WWF Tag Team Championship.\n\nMatching the Dudleyz' penchant for driving enemies through tables and the Hardyz' proficiency in diving attacks using ladders, Edge and Christian became known for using the \"con-chair-to\", an attack consisting of simultaneous steel chair shots on both sides of a victim's head. At SummerSlam, they defended their titles successfully against the Dudleyz and Hardyz in the first-ever Tables, Ladders and Chairs match (TLC match), a specialized ladder match themed around the signature weapons of all three teams. Edge and Christian stated that instead of doing the \"time-honored tradition\" of shaking the hands of their opponents, they would instead do the time-honored tradition of mocking their opponents, and had four little people show up dressed as the Hardy Boyz and the Dudley Boyz, with toy ladders and tables, with a \"37 second pose\" when the fake Hardys and Dudleys bowed to Edge and Christian, who stood on the table.\n\nAfter Edge and Christian lost the tag team championship to the Hardy Boyz at Unforgiven, they had a rematch on the September 25 edition of \"Raw is War\" in a ladder match which they lost. According to the pre-match stipulation, they could never again challenge for the tag team championship as long as the Hardy Boyz held them. Thus, they began competing under the masks of Los Conquistadores. On the October 16 edition of \"Raw Is War\", they defeated Dudley Boyz, and on the October 19 edition of \"SmackDown!\", they won a tag team battle royal to earn themselves a tag team title shot. They went on to defeat the Hardy Boyz at No Mercy to once again become the tag team champions .\n\nSoon after, another team began competing as Los Conquistadores as well, and they soon challenged Edge and Christian for their tag team championship on the October 23 episode of \"Raw is War\". \"Los Conquistadores\" defeated Edge and Christian before ripping off their masks and revealing themselves as the Hardy Boyz.\n\nThey eventually started to team with Kurt Angle, forming \"Team ECK\", a group that was later joined by Rhyno when he came in from Extreme Championship Wrestling in early 2001 to make \"Team RECK\".\n\nAt Armageddon, Edge and Christian competed in a Four Corners match which included the champions, Right to Censor (Bull Buchanan and The Goodfather), Dudley Boyz and the makeshift team of Road Dogg and K-Kwik. Edge and Christian went on to win the match and their fourth WWF Tag Team Championship. A week later, they lost the WWF Tag Team Championship to The Undertaker and The Rock but eventually regained them.\n\nAt the Royal Rumble, they lost the titles to the Dudley Boyz. They aided the Hardy Boyz in defeating the Dudley Boyz for the titles on March 5, 2001 edition of \"Raw is War\" and then two weeks later, they defeated the Hardy Boyz themselves for their record breaking sixth WWF Tag Team Championship. Later that night, they dropped the titles to the Dudley Boyz making them the shortest reigning WWF Tag Team Champions of all time. At WrestleMania X-Seven, they defeated the then-champions the Dudley Boyz and the Hardy Boyz in the second TLC match for their seventh and final WWF Tag Team Championship, but with help from their teammate Rhyno. On the April 19 episode of \"SmackDown!\", they lost the WWF Tag Team Championship to The Brothers of Destruction (Undertaker and Kane).\n\nFriction arose between the team (as well as the entire RECK faction) at King of the Ring when Edge won the 2001 King of the Ring tournament (all four members had made it to the semi finals). As a result, on the September 3 edition of \"Raw is War\" in their hometown of Toronto, Christian appeared to be jealous of his brother and insisted on carrying Edge's trophy to the ring. During the night, he assaulted Edge with a \"one-man con-chair-to\" turning into a major heel and joined The Alliance. The former partners went on to feud over the WWF Intercontinental Championship for several months, causing the team to split.\n\nEdge and Christian had a one-night reunion at a \"SmackDown!\" live event on October 13, 2002 when they defeated Los Guerreros (Eddie and Chavo). They reunited again on November 15, 2004 edition of \"Raw\" but ended up losing to Chris Benoit and Shelton Benjamin. From there, they would become loosely united through Christian facing Edge's storyline rivals, leading to three more reunion tag team matches in 2005. These reunions, officially or otherwise, also included a brand new third party in the form of Christian's acting problem solver at the time, Tyson Tomko.\n\nChristian left WWE on November 13, 2005. He debuted in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) at its Genesis pay-per-view under the ring name Christian Cage, which he used in Canadian independent circuit. Christian experienced immediate success in TNA, where he won the NWA World Heavyweight Championship twice. Edge also achieved greater success in WWE after Christian's departure. He went on to win (Before Christian departed) the first-ever Money in the Bank ladder match at WrestleMania 21 and cashed in his Money in the Bank contract at New Year's Revolution and won the WWE Championship, his first of eleven world championship reigns.\n\nIn 2009, Christian returned to WWE, and at Backlash, won the ECW Championship, his first world championship in WWE. Following his title win, and prior to Edge's ninth world title win that same night, the duo interacted on television for the first time since Christian's return, with Christian criticizing Edge for not being \"fun\" anymore. On the first \"SmackDown\" following the 2010 WWE Draft, Christian and Edge came face-to-face following Edge's goodbye speech, in which they referred to themselves simply as childhood friends rather than brothers. Christian would force Edge to reveal that he had manipulated the fans, challenging Edge to a match. Edge refused, leading to a brawl between the two, in which Christian got the upper hand. On \"Raw\" May 17, in their hometown of Toronto, Edge was scheduled for a \"Pick Your Poison\" match and his opponent turned out to be Christian. Edge eventually won the match with a spear, however moments later Randy Orton revealed that The Undertaker was in fact his real opponent. Though Edge got himself intentionally counted out, Christian got the last laugh by throwing Edge back into the ring to get chokeslammed by the Undertaker.\n\nThey reunited once again at the 2010 Slammy Awards, with Edge as a face again and on better terms. They presented the award for meltdown of the year, which was ironically won by Edge for destroying the laptop where the Raw brand General Manager sends his messages to. At the 2011 Royal Rumble, Edge paid homage to Christian when he applied a Killswitch to Dolph Ziggler and retained the World Heavyweight title. Christian returned at Elimination Chamber and came to the aid of Edge when he was being attacked by Alberto Del Rio right after his match. At the March 4th tapings of \"SmackDown\", Christian saved Edge from Alberto Del Rio and Ricardo Rodriguez. The following week, Christian once again saved Edge from Alberto Del Rio and his NXT rookie, Brodus Clay. The duo were beaten down however, which resulted in Teddy Long setting up a tag team match as the main event. Later that night, Edge and Christian officially reunited when they defeated Alberto Del Rio and Brodus Clay. A week later, Edge defeated Brodus Clay in a one on one match. Alberto attacked Edge afterwards but was stopped by Christian. The duo brawled until Teddy Long announced a steel cage match as the main event. Christian defeated Alberto. Afterwards, Edge attempted to destroy Alberto's Bentley. He was stopped though and given a con-chair-to. The following week, Teddy Long announced that if Edge or Alberto touched each other before WrestleMania XXVII, they would both be banned from it. The main event saw Christian face Del Rio once again. Christian won but Edge, who had accompanied him, nearly hit Alberto with a chair. Christian stopped him though and hit Alberto himself. On next week's episode of Raw, the duo once again faced Del Rio and Clay. They defeated them but afterwards Del Rio applied the cross armbreaker to Christian. Edge chased him off but was then attacked from behind by Del Rio.\n\nAt WrestleMania, Edge defeated Del Rio. Afterwards, with Christian's help he destroyed Alberto's car. On the following Smackdown, Alberto expressed his anger towards Edge and Christian and promised to make them pay. Edge came out with the car he destroyed at WrestleMania to taunt him. Alberto demanded a rematch but Edge said others deserved it more, like Christian who exited the towing truck. Before any fight erupted, Teddy scheduled a match between Christian and Del Rio to the determine the number-one contender that would face Edge in a ladder match for the title at the 2011 Extreme Rules. Del Rio defeated Christian after he got distracted by Edge spearing Brodus Clay.\n\nOn the April 15, 2011 edition of \"Raw\", Edge announced his retirement from professional wrestling due to injury, vacating the World Heavyweight Championship in the process. Upon his retirement, Christian would gain a championship match for the vacated World Heavyweight Championship against Del Rio after winning a 20-Man Battle Royal. At Extreme Rules, after a distraction by Edge reversed the effects of interference from Clay, Christian defeated Del Rio for the vacated title. Edge and Christian celebrated the win and embraced in the ring one final time.\n\nAt Summerslam, Christian revealed that Edge would be at ringside for his match against Randy Orton. However, Edge berated Christian for his recent actions and left him to fight in a losing effort to Orton. On the September 16, 2011 edition of Smackdown, entitled 'Edge Appreciation Night', the duo once again came face to face backstage. They made up but argued again after Christian tried asking Edge to get him for another title shot. After the tapings, a tribute for Edge aired and the two did a five-second pose in front of their hometown. In January 2012, it was announced that Edge will be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame. On March 31, 2012, Christian inducted Edge into the WWE Hall of Fame. At the end of Edge's speech, he did a five-second pose to end the ceremony.\n\nEdge and Christian guest hosted the December 29, 2014 episode of \"Raw\". During the show, Christian was attacked and forced out of the ring by Seth Rollins, Big Show, and J&J Security. Edge was held to the mat by Big Show while Rollins threatened to break his neck with the Curb Stomp if John Cena did not bring back The Authority. Ultimately Cena would give in to Rollins' demands, saving Edge but bringing back The Authority. Edge & Christian appeared on the \"Stone Cold Podcast\" on the WWE Network following the September 7, 2015 episode of \"Raw\".\n\nOutside of WWE, the two have appeared together on the Syfy TV series \"Haven\", on which Copeland had a strong recurring role as Dwight Hendrickson and Reso made guest appearances as McHugh, a close friend and ally of Dwight's. They are also now co-hosts of \"The Edge and Christian Show That Totally Reeks of Awesomeness\" on the WWE Network. Their new show debuted on February 21, 2016, immediately following Fastlane. To promote the show, Edge and Christian hosted \"The Cutting Edge Peep Show\" at Fastlane featuring The New Day as their guests, a second season of the show was announced in April 2018. In addition, they started their own podcast called E&C's Pod of Awesomeness in April 2017.\n\nIn 2018, Edge and Christian inducted The Dudley Boyz (Bubba Ray Dudley and D-Von Dudley) into the WWE Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944912", "title": "Eric Young (wrestler)", "text": "Eric Young (wrestler)\n\nJeremy Fritz (born December 15, 1979) is a Canadian professional wrestler and television personality. He is more recently known for his time in WWE, where he was a former NXT Tag Team Champion. he performed under the ring name Eric Young.\n\nHe is best known for his time in for Impact Wrestling (TNA) from 2004 to 2016, where he was a one-time TNA World Heavyweight Champion, one-time X Division Champion, a three-time Legends/Global/Television/King of the Mountain Champion, and a four-time world tag team champion, having held the NWA World Tag Team Championship twice with Bobby Roode, the TNA World Tag Team Championship twice once with Kaz, and once as a member of The Band with Kevin Nash and Scott Hall (under the Freebird Rule), and the only male to co-hold the TNA Knockouts Tag Team Championship, winning the title with female wrestler ODB. He is also one of only five men to win TNA's Grand Slam Championship. All together, Young won 11 championships during his career in TNA, and is considered a \"TNA Original\".\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Young began training with veteran wrestler Waldo Von Erich in Cambridge, Ontario. After training for ten weeks he wrestled his debut match on October 14, 1998 in Benton Harbor, Michigan, facing his friend \"Suicide\" Sean Ball. He later received supplementary training from Scott D'Amore and Chris Kanyon. After four months, he had wrestled ten matches and was consequently promoted to head trainer. After his training was complete, Young began working on the independent circuit. When wrestling infrequently, Young subsidised his income with a number of other jobs, including working in a pizza parlour, manufacturing brass horse harnesses and sand casting. During his time in the Ontario independent scene, Young also owned and operated the Wrestleplex training facility out of Cambridge. Notable wrestlers to come out of the gym include Jake O'Reilly, Ontario mainstay Crazzy Steve and World Wrestling Entertainment signee Shawn Spears.\n\nOn June 30, 2007, Eric secured the APWF Light Heavyweight Championship defeating former four-time NWA World Light Heavyweight Champion \"Luscious\" Rocky Reynolds in Oil City, Pennsylvania.\n\nYoung appeared on WWE television three times. The first was on an \"WWE Velocity\"; he teamed with future tag team partner Bobby Roode and were defeated by Chuck Palumbo and Johnny Stamboli. The second appearance was also on \"WWE Velocity\" in which he was announced as \"Showtime\" Eric Young; he lost to Sean O'Haire. He appeared the next day on \"WWE Sunday Night Heat\", losing a match to Val Venis.\n\nIn January 2004 Young debuted in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) as a member of Team Canada. He took part in the World X Cup event, defeating Jerry Lynn, Mr. Águila and Taichi Ishikari in a ladder match. Team Canada were a regular feature on \"Impact!\" throughout mid-2004, feuding with the 3Live Kru.\nOn the October 15, 2004 \"Impact!\", Young and Bobby Roode defeated Christopher Daniels and \"Cowboy\" James Storm for the NWA World Tag Team Championship. They held the titles until November 7, when they were defeated by the 3Live Kru (represented by Konnan and B.G. James) at Victory Road. They regained the titles a month later at Turning Point on December 5, defeating B.G. James and Ron Killings.\n\nYoung and Roode began feuding with America's Most Wanted in early 2005, and lost the NWA World Tag Team Championship to America's Most Wanted on January 16 at Final Resolution. Young began teaming with Team Canada member Petey Williams, and on April 24, 2005 they unsuccessfully challenged America's Most Wanted for the NWA World Tag Team Championship at Lockdown. After defeating Apolo and Sonny Siaki at Hard Justice on May 15, Williams and Young challenged and lost to new NWA World Tag Team Champions The Naturals at Slammiversary on June 19.\n\nTeam Canada began feuding with The Naturals and Lance Hoyt, with Young, Roode and A-1 defeating Hoyt and The Naturals at No Surrender on July 17. America's Most Wanted formed a loose alliance with The Naturals against Team Canada, with Young, Roode, Williams and A-1 defeating The Naturals and America's Most Wanted at TNA Sacrifice on August 14. After Williams renewed his pursuit of the X Division Championship, Young began teaming with A-1 on a regular basis. At Unbreakable on September 11, Young and A-1 faced America's Most Wanted, Alex Shelley and Johnny Candido and defending champions The Naturals in a four-way tag match. Young was able to pin both Candido and \"Wildcat\" Chris Harris, but Team Canada lost the match after Chase Stevens managed to pin A-1.\n\nAt Bound for Glory on October 23, Young, A-1 and Bobby Roode defeated the 3Live Kru. After the match, their attempt to attack Konnan was foiled by Kip James. Later that night, Team Canada stopped 3Live Kru from saving Rhino from an attack by Planet Jarrett, and then helped Jarrett place Rhino in a casket which they had brought to ringside. As Team Canada and Planet Jarrett celebrated together, however, Team 3D entered the ring and, with the help of the now recovered 3Live Kru, drove Planet Jarrett and Team Canada from the ring. Young, who had been standing atop the casket, was hit with a 3D by Team 3D. He was then thrown into the casket in the place of Rhino, who in turn stood atop the casket, celebrating his earlier victory for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship over Jeff Jarrett. As a result of the events of Bound For Glory, Young, Roode and A-1 faced the 3Live Kru in a rematch at Genesis on November 13. Team Canada lost the match after Ron Killings pinned Young. The long-running feud between Team Canada and the 3Live Kru ended at Turning Point on December 11 when Young, Williams, Roode and A-1 defeated the Kru and Kip James (the \"4Live Kru\") after Konnan turned on his teammates.\n\nAfter the debut of TNA on Spike TV in October 2005, Young adopted a new character who was highly paranoid and afraid of almost anything and anybody. The character was introduced at the mock funeral staged by Planet Jarrett for Team 3D on the October 15, 2005 \"Impact!\", when Young was startled after Abyss crushed a box of tissues that were offered to him, and then speculated that the funeral parlour was haunted by a ghost named \"Katie\", a tongue-in-cheek reference to the WWE \"Katie Vick\" storyline. The simplest things began to frighten Young, including the pyrotechnics that accompanied Team Canada's entrance. The character drew comparisons to South Park characters Tweek and Butters, and was often used for comic relief. During an interview about the World X-Cup by SoCal Val during \"TNA Global Impact!\", Young stated \"Foreigners frighten me. They're from other countries, and I don't know how to deal with that\".\n\nTwo weeks after Sting and Christian Cage defeated Jeff Jarrett and Monty Brown at Final Resolution, Sting made his \"Impact!\" debut and announced his retirement. Jarrett wasted no time in pointing out that \"after one match with me, Sting took his ball and went home\", and most of Planet Jarrett agreed with that assessment. Young, however, became convinced that Sting was not gone, and raised the ire of Jarrett and Scott D'Amore by frequently expressing that belief. In an attempt to persuade Young that Sting had left, Jarrett commissioned Alex Shelley to obtain footage of Sting at home with his children; however, this failed to allay Young's fears. He insisted that Sting would come back and get each of them, he would even go as far as to insist that the fellow Planet Jarrett members should not call him by his nickname \"Showtime\" any more, due to Sting's catchphrase \"\"It's showtime, folks!\"\". Young lost to Sting in the main event of the April 13, 2006 \"Impact!\". Young's paranoia did not always hinder his abilities during a match. He remained aggressive (even putting people through a table), would not hesitate to cheat, and was not afraid to capitalize on outside interference. He continued to be aided by Team Canada and Planet Jarrett.\n\nWhen Jim Cornette became the new face of management in TNA and said someone would be fired, Young was afraid it would be him. He was seen on \"Impact!\" holding an up a sign in the crowd that read \"Don't fire Eric Young\" as the fans chanted \"Don't fire Eric!\" along with him. On the June 29 \"Impact!\", Young wrestled like a classic fan favorite out of fear of being fired, and tried to prevent his fellow Canadians from doing anything underhanded. Cornette announced later that night Team Canada was now disbanded, but Young was more happy than upset because it was Earl Hebner who got fired, not Young. On the July 14 \"Impact!\", Team Canada lost an \"all or nothing\" match (their only chance to stay together), keeping Team Canada disbanded.\n\nAt Victory Road, Team Canada joined together in the ring one last time. After running through how he felt about each member, Scott D'Amore stopped at Young. He then blamed Young for their demise and made him strip of any Team Canada items. D'Amore then said that he believed Eric Young would still be fired as he was to blame for Team Canada's end. Young then remained in the ring after the others had left and began a secret petition with the fans to keep his job. He would soon start being announced as hailing from \"An Undisclosed Location\". Young continued to be worried about his job/employment security, creating his own \"Don't Fire Eric\" T-shirts for sale.\n\nYoung's paranoia proved warranted yet again as he was fired on the October 5 \"Impact!\" after being hit with a golf club by Larry Zbyszko causing Young to lose a \"Loser gets fired\" match. Due to Zbyszko's interference, however, Jim Cornette gave Young a chance to get his job back by facing Zbyszko in a \"Loser Gets Fired\" match at Bound for Glory. Young won and got his job back avoiding the unemployment line in the process. On the Genesis pre-show, Young scored an upset by defeating Team Canada captain Robert Roode. This infuriated Roode and on the following \"Impact!\", Roode cut a promo against Young. The match started a six month rivalry between the two.\n\nYoung, then dubbed the \"Paranoid Pied Piper of TNA\" by announcer Mike Tenay, would soon be challenged to a bikini contest by Roode's associate, Ms. Brooks. Young accepted and beat Ms. Brooks in a bikini contest at Turning Point on December 10, 2006, by wearing a SpongeBob SquarePants bikini. Young continued his feud with Robert Roode and Ms. Brooks, with Ms. Brooks trying to get Young to join \"Robert Roode Inc.\". Finally, at Against All Odds Ms. Brooks seduced Young into signing a contract with \"Robert Roode Inc.\". This consequently sent him into a shoot angle where he was systematically humiliated every week by Roode, by having to clean toilets for Roode's own personal use, and getting illegally involved in Roode's matches. Young was forced to perform these tasks because the contract Young signed gave Roode control over his TNA contract as well, so if he was fired from Roode, Inc., he was fired from TNA as well. He eventually began to fight back the orders of Roode, in part due to the advice of a mysterious \"friend\". On the April 26, 2007 \"Impact!\", the \"friend\" was revealed as Jeff Jarrett. Young eventually sued Roode for breach of contract and subsequently defeated Roode at Slammiversary via an inside cradle, after Gail Kim took out Ms. Brooks. At Victory Road, Young and Kim would defeat Roode and Ms. Brooks in a Mixed Tag Team match. Around this time, Young would be billed as from \"Freedomland, USA\", a reference to Young being free from his contract with Roode.\n\nOn the August 2, 2007 \"Impact!\", Roode had Young tarred and feathered on national television in the Impact Zone. On August 8, on \"TNA Today\", Young commented on the humiliation he felt when he was tarred and feathered, and then challenged Roode to a \"Humiliation Match\" at Hard Road to Justice. Roode would eventually go on to accept the challenge begrudgingly. Roode won the match, but Gail Kim came to Young's aid. Roode attempted to attack her, but accidentally knocked Ms. Brooks out instead causing her kayfabe injuries. Roode retreated up the ramp, leaving a semi-conscious Ms. Brooks to be tarred and feathered by Young and Kim for fun.\n\nWhen Adam \"Pacman\" Jones joined TNA, Young was desperate to get an autograph, but ended up getting attacked by Ron Killings and spray painted by Pacman. Young started teaming up with Shark Boy on a consistent basis, nearly winning the number one contenders spot to the Tag Team Championship. Young was Judas Mesias' opponent in his official debut match, and was badly injured despite Shark Boy's rescue attempt. On the October 4 edition of \"Impact\", Young faced and defeated James Storm in a Gauntlet match when he reversed Storm's sleeper hold into a pin. At Bound for Glory, Young won the 15 men Fight for the Right Battle Royal by pinning Robert Roode with a small package to win the first round. He was eliminated from the tournament in the second round after being pinned by Storm. From there, Young and Storm engaged in a storyline which saw them compete in beer drinking contests, most notably at Genesis, where Young took Storm's World Beer Drinking Championship belt after Storm passed out. Young defended the belt on the last \"Impact!\" before Turning Point in a 60-second speed drinking contest and won, but was assaulted by Storm. He went on to defeat both Storm and the Angle Alliance, the latter as Samoa Joe and Kevin Nash's replacement partner for Scott Hall in matches at Turning Point.\n\nOn the February 28 edition of \"Impact!\", Young lost the Beer Drinking Championship in a ladder match to James Storm. Young then participated in a feud with Rellik, losing to Rellik on \"Impact!\". This then led to a match at Destination X with Young teaming up with Kaz to defeat Rellik and Black Reign in a tag match. It was at this pay-per-view that Young debuted a new superhero gimmick under the name \"Super Eric\", which was supposed to be his alter-ego. At Lockdown, he and Kaz won \"The Cuffed in a Cage\" match to earn a future Tag Team Championship match. On the April 17 \"Impact!\", Young (who left the match and returned as Super Eric) and Kaz won the World Tag Team Championship, but later in the night were stripped of the titles due to Young not admitting he was Super Eric. On the May 1 \"Impact!\", he teamed up with A.J. Styles, who was desperately looking for a partner backstage, and won against The Rock 'n Rave Infection. He and Styles went to Sacrifice, as part of the Deuces Wild Tournament to crown new Tag Team Champions, but lost to the eventual winners The Latin American Xchange.\n\nYoung started a gimmick where he would look around the streets of Memphis, Tennessee for Elvis. The gimmick took a hiatus at Slammiversary, after Awesome Kong attacked a fake Elvis impostor. He revived the Super Eric gimmick on the July 17 \"Impact!\" and joined Curry Man and Shark Boy as part of a Justice League parody, called \"The Prince Justice Brotherhood\", which was at the same time making fun of the former ring name of TNA wrestler Abyss. At Bound for Glory IV, Super Eric competed in a Steel Asylum match, which was won by Jay Lethal.\nOn the October 30 \"Impact!\", A.J. Styles and Samoa Joe created a stable called The TNA Frontline, which was a group which formed a faction of younger wrestlers to oppose the Main Event Mafia. This group included wrestlers like Eric Young, Jay Lethal, Consequences Creed, Petey Williams, O.D.B. and The Motor City Machine Guns. His character evolved as well, as he was no longer paranoid and began showing confidence and leadership abilities. He also stopped being startled by his pyrotechnics. On the November 13 \"Impact!\", Young defeated Sheik Abdul Bashir to win the TNA X Division championship after Bashir shoved TNA Official Shane Sewell to the mat, leading to Sewell attacking Bashir, which gave Young an opportunity to hit the Death Valley driver on Bashir and pin him. The following week on \"Impact!\", however, Young was stripped of his X Division Championship due to Sewell's interference, and the title was awarded back to Bashir. Young was awarded a championship match against Booker T for his TNA Legends Championship but lost due to the interference from Sharmell. At Final Resolution Sewell once again helped Young defeat Bashir for the X Division Championship. Due to the controversial ending of the match he was stripped of the championship by Jim Cornette, who set up a tournament for the vacant title. Young defeated Bashir in the first quarter-final match of the tournament to move on to the semi-finals. He then lost to Alex Shelley controversially after Chris Sabin interfered to see The Motor City Machine Guns face off in the final, which was won by Shelley.\n\nOn March 20, 2009, Young appeared on Danny Bonaduce's morning radio show on WYSP in Philadelphia where it was announced that the two of them would wrestle each other at Lockdown. Young bad-mouthed Bonaduce and slapped him twice in the face before being pushed out of the room. At the Lockdown pre-show, Young defeated Bonaduce. After the bout, Bonaduce attacked Young before Rhino came to the ring to aid Young and then hit the Gore on Bonaduce.\n\nYoung began to show frustration over losses to the likes of Sting and Jeff Jarrett. On the May 28 \"Impact!\", Young turned heel after attacking Jarrett, who had just defeated him in a King of the Mountain qualifying match. The following week he confronted Jarrett and made implications to him paying more attention to wrestling than to his daughters just like his father, which led to Jarrett slapping him and starting a brawl. The following week Young's good friend Jeremy Borash confronted him in an interview which resulted in Young slapping JB down. At the Slammiversary pre-show, the heel turn was signified even further when he walked out on his tag team partner Rhino in a match against The British Invasion of Doug Williams and Brutus Magnus. His rivalry with Rhino would continue until Young defeated Rhino after a distraction from Rhino's protege Jesse Neal. He would then be chosen by Kurt Angle to be the special guest referee in a 3-way match where Angle faced Jeff Jarrett and Mick Foley. Throughout the match he would perpetually slow count all of Jarrett's pinfall attempts and at the end of the match when Angle locked the ankle lock on Foley he ordered for the bell to be rung even though Foley did not tap out or pass out. After the match, Young got beaten down by Jarrett.\n\nOn the July 23, 2009, edition of \"Impact!\", Young apologized for his crude remarks and personal issues with Jeff Jarrett, and wished Mick Foley best of luck in his match against Kurt Angle that night for the ownership of TNA and stated \"If you lose TNA, I lose TNA. If I lose TNA, I lose everything.\" Foley allowed Young to join the team of A.J. Styles, Daniels, James Storm, and Robert Roode to face the British Invasion, Kiyoshi, and Sheik Abdul Bashir in a ten-man tag team match. However, in the conclusion of the match, he turned on the TNA originals by hitting Styles with a spike piledriver and allowing him to be pinned. Eric Young then became leader of a new faction named World Elite, consisting of himself (representing Canada), Bashir (representing Iran), Kiyoshi (representing Japan), and The British Invasion (representing the UK). The following week, Young helped Doug Williams and Brutus Magnus win the IWGP Tag Team Championship from Team 3D. On the August 6 \"Impact!\" it was revealed that Kurt Angle and Eric Young had made a deal to turn the Main Event Mafia and the World Elite factions into one super faction. That same night Young debuted a new look shaving his head and wearing new attire in a match where he defeated Daniels. On the September 10 edition of \"Impact!\", World Elite recruited Homicide (representing Puerto Rico) into their group, turning him heel in the process. On the October 1 edition of \"Impact!\" the alliance between World Elite and Main Event Mafia came to an end in an all out brawl between the two factions. At Bound for Glory Young pinned Kevin Nash in a three-way dance, which also included Hernandez, to win the TNA Legends Championship. On the October 29 edition of \"Impact!\", Young made his first title defense, losing to Bobby Lashley by disqualification. After the match, Young renamed the Legends Championship to the \"TNA Global Championship\" and claimed he would not defend it on U.S. soil or against any American wrestler. On the November 19 edition of \"Impact!\" Kevin Nash congratulated Young on outsmarting him the previous month and joined World Elite. On January 27, 2010, Young lost the Global Championship to World Elite teammate Rob Terry at a house show in Cardiff, Wales. Since the beginning of 2010 World Elite has not appeared together and the only sign of there still being an alliance between its members, apart from the British Invasion, has been Young teaming up with Kevin Nash on the January 21 edition of \"Impact!\" in a losing effort against The Nasty Boys.\n\nOn the February 11 edition of \"Impact!\" Young started showing signs of a face turn after standing up for Kevin Nash after The Band of Scott Hall and Syxx-Pac had turned on him the previous week. The following week Young and Nash brawled with Hall and Syxx-Pac and on the March 8 edition of \"Impact!\" Young defeated Syxx-Pac in a singles match, solidifying his status as a face. At Destination X Young and Nash faced Hall and Syxx-Pac in a tag team match, where the Band's TNA futures were on the line. In the end Nash turned on Young and helped the Band pick up the victory, which finally gave them contracts with the company. On the March 29 edition of \"Impact!\" Nash offered Young a spot in the Band, claiming that what happened in Destination X was just business and nothing personal. Young refused the offer and in the main event of the evening, teamed up with Rob Van Dam and Jeff Hardy to defeat the Band in a six-man tag team steel cage match. At Lockdown Nash defeated Young in a steel cage match. On the May 3 edition of \"Impact!\", Young turned heel once again by turning on Team 3D and joining The Band. The following week Nash cashed in his \"Feast or Fired\" contract and teamed with Hall to defeat Matt Morgan for the TNA World Tag Team Championship Nash named Young one third of the champions under the Freebird rule. At the June 14 tapings of the June 17 edition \"Impact!\" The Band was stripped of the Tag Team Championship, due to Scott Hall's legal problems. The following day it was reported that Hall had been released from his contract with TNA. On the June 24 edition of \"Impact!\" Young and Nash decided to part ways, as Nash intended to go after Hogan, whom he blamed for what had happened to Hall and Waltman, and did not want Young to get into trouble for it.\n\nAt the July 12, 2010, tapings of \"Xplosion\", Young made his return to singles competition, losing to Suicide. In the finish of the match Young took a bump on his head and on the July 29 edition of \"Impact!\" he re-emerged as a face, returning to his comic relief roots with a gimmick of a mentally challenged person, teaming with Orlando Jordan and costing him their tag team match against Ink Inc. (Jesse Neal and Shannon Moore), after throwing a mannequin in the ring, which he had first tagged into the match. The following week Young's antics provided a distraction, which cost Jordan his match against D'Angelo Dinero. Young kept teaming with Jordan the following months, appearing exclusively on \"Xplosion\", before returning to \"Impact!\" on the October 7 live edition, where they defeated Ink Inc., after a low blow by Jordan. However, after the match Young announced that they were forfeiting the match due to the finish and suggested they set up a rematch at Bound for Glory. In storyline, Young's mental issues made him completely unaware of Jordan's bisexual orientation and interest in him. At the pay-per-view Young's antics cost him and Jordan the match against Ink Inc. On the November 4 edition of \"Impact!\" Young and Jordan were featured in a segment, where they tried to get help from a specialist to improve their relationship with one another. This ended up being Fritz's final appearance for the company on his old contract, which expired shortly thereafter. On November 12 it was reported that Fritz had re-signed with the promotion. Young and Jordan returned to \"Impact!\" on December 16, defeating Generation Me (Jeremy and Max Buck) in a tag team match. Prior to the match Young appeared with the old TNA World Heavyweight Championship belt, which had been thrown away by Immortal, when they introduced the newly designed version of the belt. The following weeks, Young kept walking around with the belt, claiming to be the World Heavyweight Champion. On April 17 at Lockdown, Young and Jordan were unsuccessful in becoming the number one contenders to the TNA World Tag Team Championship in a four tag team steel cage match, which was won by Ink Inc.\n\nOn the May 12 edition of \"Impact!\", Young took part in a number one contender's battle royal. After eliminating TNA Television Champion, Gunner, Young jumped out of the ring and left the arena with his title. On May 17 at the tapings of the May 26 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young admitted that he had mistakenly taken Gunner's title and agreed to lie down for him in the ring, but ended up double crossing him and pinning him to win the TNA Television Championship, the title formerly known as the TNA Legends and Global Championship, for the second time, which made him the second person to hold the title under all three of its incarnations. On July 10 at Destination X, Young teamed with the returning Shark Boy to defeat Generation Me in a tag team match. As the new Television Champion, Young started a storyline, where he claimed that the title could only be defended against television stars, making a challenge towards \"American Gladiators\" alum Matt Morgan and \"defending\" the title against TNA producer and former cast member of \"The Wonder Years\", Jason Hervey, in a backstage assault, before embarking on a several-week-long trip to Hollywood to find Scott Baio. The trip culminated in a comedy segment on the August 25 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", where Young pinned Baio to, in his mind, successfully defend the Television Championship. Young returned to in-ring action on the September 8 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", when he successfully defended the Television Championship against Robbie E. After another successful title defense against Robbie on the October 27 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young was attacked by both Robbie and his bodyguard Rob Terry, which led to him announcing that he was going to bring Ronnie from the television show \"Jersey Shore\" to face them the following week. On November 1, Young became the longest reigning TNA Television Champion in history by breaking the previous record of 167 days, held by Rob Terry. On the November 3 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young and Ronnie were attacked by Robbie E and Rob Terry, which led to a tag team match the following week, where Ronnie pinned Robbie for the win. On November 13 at Turning Point, Young lost the Television Championship to Robbie E, following interference from Rob Terry, ending his reign at 180 days. On December 11 at Final Resolution, Young failed to recapture the title from Robbie E in a rematch.\n\nOn the December 22 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\" Young teamed up with ODB in the Wild Card Tournament, advancing to the semifinals after a win over Anarquia and Shannon Moore. The following week, the team was eliminated from the tournament by Magnus and Samoa Joe. After this loss, Young would pursue a storyline relationship with ODB and the two would begin a feud with Angelina Love and Winter. Young and ODB defeated Love and Winter in a tag team match on the January 26 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\". On the March 8 \"Impact Wrestling\", Young and ODB defeated Gail Kim and Madison Rayne to win the TNA Knockouts Tag Team Championship, making Young the first male wrestler to have held the title and the first wrestler to have held all of TNA's exclusive tag team titles; the NWA World Tag, TNA World Tag and TNA Knockouts Tag Team Championships. After the match, ODB accepted Young's marriage proposal.\n\nYoung and ODB made their first title defense two weeks later, when they defeated Mexican America (Rosita and Sarita). Young's and ODB's wedding ceremony took place on the April 12 \"Impact Wrestling\". Three days later at Lockdown, Young and ODB defeated Rosita and Sarita in a steel cage match to retain the Knockouts Tag Team Championship. On May 13 at Sacrifice, Young was defeated by Crimson in a singles match. Afterwards, Young took a hiatus from TNA to film his upcoming Animal Planet program. During the hiatus, Young and ODB became the longest reigning Knockouts Tag Team Champions in history by surpassing The Beautiful People's reign of 141 days on July 19. Young returned to TNA on the August 30 \"Impact Wrestling\", reuniting with ODB after her match with Madison Rayne. Young made his in-ring return on November 11 at Turning Point, teaming with ODB to defeat Tara and Jesse in a non-title mixed tag team match. On the following \"Impact Wrestling\", Young was defeated by Jesse in a singles match. The following week during the TNA Turkey Bowl, Young pinned Jesse in a three-way match, which also included Robbie E and forced Jesse to wear a turkey suit as part of the Thanksgiving theme. After the match, both he and ODB were ambushed by the Aces & Eights and they proceeded to injure Young by hitting his exposed ankle with a ball-peen hammer, while ODB was handcuffed outside the ring and forced to watch. Young returned on the February 28, 2013, episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", being revealed as the final member of Sting's Lethal Lockdown team and attacking their opponents, Aces & Eights. On March 10 at Lockdown, Team TNA, consisting of Young, James Storm, Magnus, Samoa Joe, and Sting defeated Aces & Eights, consisting of Devon, DOC, Garett Bischoff, Knux, and Mr. Anderson in a Lethal Lockdown match, with Young pinning Knux for the win.\n\nOn the June 20 \"Impact Wrestling\", Young and ODB were stripped of the Knockouts Tag Team Championship by Brooke Hogan due to Young being a male, ending their reign at a record 478 days. The titles were then retired on June 27.\n\nOn the September 19, episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" Young then returned to singles action when he defeated Robbie E. In September 2013, Young began working and teaming with Joseph Park. On the September 26, episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" Young along with ODB and Joseph Park defeated The BroMans (Jessie Godderz and Robbie E) and Gail Kim in a six-person mixed tag team match. At the Bound for Glory pre-show, Eric Young and Joseph Park competed in a tag-team gauntlet match for be the number one contenders to the TNA World Tag Team Championship later that night. However, after eliminating Bad Influence, the team was eliminated by The BroMans. Later, during the PPV, he was attacked by Bad Influence, but was saved by Abyss. On October 31, 2013 episode of \"Impact\", Abyss came to the aid of Eric Young again after he was attacked by Bad Influence, and proved he is no threat to Eric Young. However, on December 5, 2013, Bad Influence revealed the Parks' Law Firm closed 15 years ago. Next week, Park and Young defeated Bad Influence. After the match, Young said to Park that he was Abyss. On December 26, 2013, Young booked a Monster's Ball match between Bad Influence and Park and gave Janice to Park. Joseph won the match when he turned into Abyss. On February 6, 2014, Abyss defeated Young in a Monster's Ball match. However, during the match, Young stripped Abyss' mask, revealing to Park that Abyss and Joseph are the same person. Abyss went on to turn heel as he aligned with Magnus. On March 27 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young lost to Samoa Joe by knockout/submission.\n\nOn the April 10, 2014, edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", after winning a battle royal earlier in the night to become number-one contender, Young defeated Magnus to become TNA World Heavyweight Champion for the first time in his career. The victory also makes Young the seventh Triple Crown Champion and the fourth Grand Slam Champion in TNA. The following week, Young successfully made his first title defense against Abyss in a Monster's Ball match. At Sacrifice, Young defeated Magnus in a rematch for the title. Proclaiming himself a fighting champion, he successfully defended the TNA World Heavyweight Championship against Bobby Roode on the following \"Impact Wrestling\". On the May 8, 2014 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" broadcast, Young and Roode agreed to have a rematch, but TNA Director of Operations MVP declined the match and promised World Heavyweight Champion Eric Young that he would reveal his opponent at June's Slammiversary event. MVP revealed himself as the opponent, which was shown when he attacked the champion. On May 15, Young challenged MVP for a match, which he agreed, but was disqualified when Kenny King attacked Young. Bobby Lashley pretended to help Young, but he speared him. On June 5, Young, Bully Ray, Austin Aries and Samoa Joe defeated MVP, Kenny King, Bobby Lashley and Ethan Carter III in an eight-man tag team First Blood match. As Aries and Joe had been among MVP's harshest critics, they were put in matches against MVP associates King and Lashley respectively in singles matches at the PPV. MVP was later injured and not able to compete at the PPV, TNA announced on their website Friday before the PPV, that the match will now be a three-way cage match for the title, with the winners of Lashley vs. Samoa Joe and Austin Aries vs. Kenny King qualifying for the match. At Slammiversary XII, Young successfully defended his TNA World Heavyweight Championship against Lashley and Austin Aries. On the June 19, 2014 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young lost the TNA World Heavyweight Championship to Lashley. On the July 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Eric Young had a rematch but failed to regain the title.\n\nOn the January 7, 2015 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young turned heel when he saved Bobby Roode from an attack by MVP, Kenny King, Low Ki and Samoa Joe, but instead hit Roode with a chair, costing Roode his match against Lashley, as well as the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. On the following night's tapings of the January 16, episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young defeated Bobby Roode thanks to help from The Beat Down Clan, and assisted the group in beating down World Heavyweight Champion Lashley, who refused to become a part of the new group. Young and Roode would then face off in a variety of matches, including a steel cage match at Lockdown and a Last Man Standing match, both of which Roode won. The feud ended when Young defeated Roode in a Submission match using the figure-four leglock. At Slammiversary, Eric Young competed in the King of the Mountain match for the TNA King of the Mountain Championship, against Jeff Jarrett, Matt Hardy, Drew Galloway and Bobby Roode, but lost the match.\n\nAt Bound for Glory, Young faced a returning Kurt Angle in a No Disqualification match but lost. During October and November (taped in July), he participated in the TNA World Title Series, where he ended first of his block, tied with Bobby Roode, advancing to the round of 16, but was defeated in the semifinals by Matt Hardy. On the January 12 edition of \"Impact Wrestling\", Young defeated Roode to win the TNA King of the Mountain Championship for the record-breaking third time. With this victory, Young is the only wrestler to have held the title in all four of its incarnations. On the January 26 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Eric Young formed an alliance with Bram, attacking Jeff Hardy and Piledriver him through a table. Eric Young and Bram entered in a feud against Beer Money, after a returning James Storm saved Bobby Roode from an attack of the duo. Eric Young and Bram were defeated by Beer Money at TNA One Night Only, and once again at Lockdown in a Six Sides of Steel match, thus ending the feud. Eric Young entered in a short feud against Jeff Hardy, who defeat him on the March 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" in a match for be the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. Eric Young was defeated by Jeff Hardy once again in a Six Sides of Steel match on the April 4 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". On the April 12 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Eric Young and Bram were defeated by Beer Money, in a match for the TNA World Tag Team Championship, which also included Decay and The BroMans. During the match, Bram unintentionally hit Young. On the April 17 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Eric Young declared that he left TNA with the TNA King of the Mountain Championship with Bram. However, Bram refused, which resulted to Eric Young attacked him. At Sacrifice, Eric Young lost the title to Bram in a Falls Count Anywhere match.\n\nOn March 19, 2016, TNA announced that Young would be leaving the company after 12 years.\n\nThough not under contract, Young appeared on the May 4, 2016 episode of \"NXT\" by confronting NXT Champion Samoa Joe, then Young faced Joe in the main event, lost by submission.\n\nOn the October 12, 2016 episode of \"NXT\", Young officially debuted as leader of the villainous stable SAnitY, along with Alexander Wolfe, Sawyer Fulton, and Nikki Cross. After Fulton suffered an injury in November, he was replaced by Killian Dain on January 18, 2017 episode of \"NXT\". Young then feuded with Tye Dillinger, who rejected an invitation to join the group. Young defeated Dillinger at , and Sanity defeated Dillinger, Kassius Ohno, Roderick Strong, and Ruby Riott in an eight-person mixed tag team match at , but Young lost to Dillinger in a steel cage match on the April 19 episode of \"NXT\", ending their feud. At on August 19, Young and Wolfe defeated The Authors of Pain (Akam and Rezar) to win the NXT Tag Team Championship. At , Sanity lost the WarGames match to The Undisputed Era (Adam Cole, Bobby Fish, and Kyle O'Reilly), that also involved The Authors of Pain and Roderick Strong. On the December 20 episode of \"NXT\", SAnitY lost the title to The Undisputed Era, ending their reign at 123 days.\n\nOn April 17, 2018, Young and the rest of Sanity, except for Nikki Cross, were drafted to SmackDown brand as part of the Superstar Shake-up. They debuted on the June 19 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", where they attacked The Usos (Jey Uso and Jimmy Uso). The next week on \"SmackDown Live\", Young made his main roster in-ring debut by answered United States Champion Jeff Hardy's open challenge, which he won by disqualification after The Usos ran in, leading to a six-man tag team match, where SAnitY lost. At Extreme Rules, SAnitY defeated The New Day (Big E, Kofi Kingston, and Xavier Woods) in a tables match. At Survivor Series, they made up part of Team SmackDown as they took on Team Raw, and they would go on to win the match, although they were eliminated from match. On the April 2, 2019 episode of \"SmackDown Live\", SAnitY lost to The Miz in a handicap falls count anywhere match, in what would be their final match as a stable. A WWE.com article blamed their lack of success on \"SmackDown\" on being \"in the same division as The New Day, The Usos, The Bar, and The Bludgeon Brothers.\"\n\nOn April 15, 2019, Young was drafted to Raw brand as part of the Superstar Shake-up, separating him from Sanity. His first appearance as a part of the brand was on the May 20 episode of \"Raw\", when he was involved in a scramble to crown the first ever WWE 24/7 Champion, which was eventually won by Titus O'Neil. In the following months, Young primarily competed on \"Main Event\" and suffered many losses on \"Raw\" against the likes of Andrade and Aleister Black. On April 15, 2020, Young was released from his WWE contract as part of budget cuts stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nYoung appears as a playable character in the video games \"TNA iMPACT!,\" \"WWE 2K18,\" \"WWE 2K19\" and \"WWE 2K20\".\n\nFritz has hosted his own television program, \"\", on the Animal Planet channel. After the first season ran successfully from July to September 2012, the show returned for a second season from June to August 2013.\n\nOn April 26, 2014, Fritz announced that he would host \"No Limits\", scheduled for May 30 on Animal Planet. The show ran for one season, beginning on May 30, 2014. The show consisted of Fritz taking part in various extreme sports and other activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944916", "title": "Body shop", "text": "Body shop\n\nBody shop or bodyshop may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1944917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944917", "title": "Charles Gordon-Lennox, 10th Duke of Richmond", "text": "Charles Gordon-Lennox, 10th Duke of Richmond\n\nCharles Henry Gordon-Lennox, 10th Duke of Richmond, 10th Duke of Lennox, 10th Duke of Aubigny, 5th Duke of Gordon (19 September 1929 – 1 September 2017), styled Lord Settrington until 1935 and Earl of March and Kinrara between 1935 and 1989, was an English peer and landowner. \n\nThe son of Frederick Gordon-Lennox, 9th Duke of Richmond, he succeeded to the titles when his father died in 1989. The seat of the Dukes of Richmond is Goodwood House in Sussex. The 10th Duke moved to the smaller Molecomb House nearby when his son Lord March took over control of the estate and moved into the main house with his family.\n\nThe Duke was educated at Eton College and William Temple College, a now defunct Church of England theological college (see William Temple Foundation). He was a 2nd Lieutenant in the 60th Rifles from 1949 to 1950. He was a Chartered Accountant and spent nearly two decades working in the corporate world.\n\nHe held a number of civic, business and church appointments, including Chancellor of the University of Sussex from 1985 to 1998, and Church Commissioner from 1963 to 1976; member of the General Synod of the Church of England from 1960 to 1980 and on committees of the World Council of Churches. He was a Deputy Lieutenant of West Sussex from 1975 until 1990, and Lord Lieutenant from 1990 to 1994.  He was also a patron of Prisoners Abroad, a charity supporting the welfare of Britons imprisoned overseas and their families.\n\nThe then Earl of March married in 1951 Susan Monica Grenville-Grey (b. 1932), daughter of Colonel Cecil Everard Montague Grenville-Grey. They had three children:\nThe Duke and Duchess, then Earl and Countess of March, attracted press attention when they adopted two girls of mixed race during a time of anti-immigrant sentiment and when interracial marriage was frowned upon:\n\n\nBoth girls were born in England to white mothers, with a Ghanaian and a black South African father respectively. Adopted children of peers were not allowed to use courtesy titles until a Royal Warrant issued in April 2004 meant that Maria and Naomi were allowed to be called Lady, as daughters of a duke.\n"}
{"id": "1944920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944920", "title": "USS Pocahontas (1852)", "text": "USS Pocahontas (1852)\n\nThe first USS \"Pocahontas, a screw steamer built at Medford, Massachusetts in 1852 as \"City of Boston\", and purchased by the Navy at Boston, Massachusetts on 20 March 1855, was the first United States Navy ship to be named for Pocahontas, the Algonquian wife of Virginia colonist John Rolfe. She was originally commissioned as USS \"Despatch – the second U.S. Navy ship of that name – on 17 January 1856, with Lieutenant T. M. Crossan in command, and was recommissioned and renamed in 1860, seeing action in the American Civil War. As \"Pocahontas\", one of her junior officers was Alfred Thayer Mahan, who would later achieve international fame as a military writer and theorist of naval power.\n\n\"Despatch\", carrying naval passengers and cargo, departed New York on 4 April for the Gulf of Mexico, returned on 12 June, and decommissioned on 4 July for installation of improved boilers and condensers. The ship was in custody of the U.S. Coast Survey Service from January–March 1857.\n\nRecommissioned on 1 March 1858, \"Despatch\" departed New York on the 6th to cruise along the Gulf coast seeking ships attempting to smuggle slaves into the nation. She headed north in December, arriving Norfolk, Virginia on the 20th where, following a run to Washington, D.C. to tow to Norfolk, she decommissioned on 2 January 1859.\n\nRebuilt at the Norfolk Navy Yard, the ship was enlarged to , reclassified a second-class sloop, renamed \"Pocahontas\", the first U.S. Navy ship of that name, on 27 January 1860, and recommissioned on 19 March 1860, Commander S. F. Hazzard in command. The revitalized warship got under way for the Gulf on the 27th. Arriving Vera Cruz on 16 April, she joined the Home Squadron and cruised along the Mexican coast protecting American citizens and commerce and carrying diplomatic despatches.\n\nDeparting Vera Cruz during the secession crisis, \"Pocahontas\" arrived Hampton Roads on 12 March, and on 5 April was assigned to the small joint Army-Navy force sent to Charleston Harbor to provision the federal garrison at Fort Sumter. However, she did not reach Charleston Harbor until the afternoon of the 13th, as Major Robert Anderson was surrendering the beleaguered U.S. fort. The next day, she helped evacuate the Union troops and returned north.\n\nDuring the first months of the Civil War, \"Pocahontas\" patrolled the Potomac and Rappahannock rivers and Chesapeake Bay protecting water approaches to Washington, D.C. against possible Confederate naval attack. She seized steamer \"James Guy\" off Machodoc Creek, Virginia on 21 May and fired on and damaged Confederate sidewheel steamer, in Aquia Creek, Va. on 7 July.\n\nAssigned to the newly established South Atlantic Blockading Squadron, \"Pocahontas\" departed Washington on 15 October for Newport News, Virginia and sortied from Hampton Roads on the 29th with Flag Officer Samuel F. Du Pont's fleet.\n\nUnder the command of Percival Drayton, \"Pocahontas\" arrived at Port Royal, South Carolina, either after its defensive forts had been destroyed by other Union vessels or near the end of the battle; Drayton's brother Thomas was commanding Confederate troops on shore in a literal instance of the \"brother against brother\" phrase used to describe the American Civil War. At the battle, \"Pocahontas\" was apparently piloted into the anchored by its executive officer, a man who would later achieve international fame as a renowned naval theorist: Lt. Alfred Thayer Mahan.\n\nThe joint Army-Navy task force captured Port Royal Sound on 7 November, winning for the Union what Du Pont called \"the most important point to strike, and the most desirable to have first and to hold...\" Port Royal, he continued, \"alone admits the large ships – and gives us a naval position on the sea coast as our Army is holding across the Potomac.\" Subsequent Union naval operations along the Confederate coast fully substantiated Du Pont's appraisal of Port Royal's strategic value.\n\nDuring the following months, \"Pocahontas\" operated along the coasts of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, performing blockade duty, reconnoitering rivers and inlets, and supporting amphibious operations. She helped to capture Tybee Island, Georgia on 24 November and assisted in towing ships of the \"Stone Fleet\" to Maffitt's channel and sank them from 20–26 January 1862 to block the approaches to Charleston from the sea.\n\nFrom 28 February-15 March, she participated in an expedition which captured St. Simons Island and Brunswick, Georgia, and Fernandia, Florida. She then continued blockade duty through the spring and early summer. On 14 August, \"Pocahontas\" and tug \"Treaty\" fought Confederate troops ashore along some of the Black River while trying to capture steamer \"Nina\". Later that month she was ordered north for repairs and arrived Philadelphia Navy Yard on the 31st.\n\nAssigned to the West Gulf Blockading Squadron, \"Pocahontas\" departed Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 2 October and reported to Admiral David Farragut at Pensacola, Florida on the 18th. The steamer performed blockade duty off Mobile Bay where she captured British steamer \"Antona\" with a valuable cargo of munitions and merchandise on 6 January 1863. On 5 March, her guns destroyed blockade running sloop \"Josephine\", previously forced aground by near Fort Morgan. After repairs at New Orleans, Louisiana from 6 July-19 August, \"Pocahontas\" sailed north. Damaged severely in a storm during the passage, the steamer arrived on 7 September and decommissioned a week later for repairs.\n\nRecommissioned 16 March 1864, \"Pocahontas\" sailed for the gulf on 14 April and arrived New Orleans on 9 May. On blockade duty for the remainder of the year, she cruised along the coast of Louisiana and Texas, operating primarily off Sabine Pass. After repairs at New Orleans from 22 December 1864 – 23 April 1865, the steamer returned to the Texas coast where she served until departing Galveston, Texas on 6 July for the east coast. After stops at Pensacola and Port Royal, South Carolina \"Pocahontas\" arrived New York on 25 July and decommissioned at the New York Navy Yard on the 31st. Sold at New York on 30 November, the ship was reduced to a bark and served as \"Abby Bacon\" until 1868.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944924", "title": "Michael Ferguson (director)", "text": "Michael Ferguson (director)\n\nMichael Ferguson (born 14 June 1937) is a British script writer, television director and television producer. Ferguson was executive producer of the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\" between 1989 and 1991. He was responsible for the introduction of two of the soap's most popular and long-running characters, Phil and Grant Mitchell, in 1990. He also directed and produced ITV's popular police drama \"The Bill\", and directed four serials of the BBC's science fiction series \"Doctor Who\" between 1966 and 1971.\n\nFerguson started his career as an actor, before moving into directing. He began directing for the BBC in the 1960s, contributing to television shows such as \"Z-Cars\" (1962–67), \"The Newcomers\", \"Compact\" (1964), \"199 Park Lane\" (1965), \"Out of the Unknown\" (1969) and \"Doctor Who\", for which he directed the serials \"The War Machines\" (1966), \"The Seeds of Death\" (1969), \"The Ambassadors of Death\" (1970) and \"The Claws of Axos\" (1971). He remained at the BBC during the 1970s, directing various programmes including \"Quiller\" (1975) and \"Colditz\" (1972), before moving to rival network ITV in 1976.\n\nAt ITV he directed \"Dickens of London\" (1976), directed and produced the spy drama \"The Sandbaggers\" (1978), \"Flambards\" (1979), \"Airline\" (1982) and \"The Glory Boys\" (1984). In 1985 Ferguson began directing for ITV's police drama \"The Bill\" and rose to producer in 1988. Ferguson worked on \"The Bill\" during “its most popular period” when it switched in 1987 from a series to a “soap-style” twice-weekly half-hour format. Because of Ferguson's success with the programme, Peter Cregeen - the head of series at the BBC - “poached” him in 1989 to become the executive producer of BBC1's flagship soap opera, \"EastEnders\". Ferguson took over from series producer Mike Gibbon in the latter part of 1989.\n\n\"EastEnders\" had come under criticism due to falling ratings and \"comic storylines\" which many viewers felt were stretching its credibility. According to \"EastEnders\" scriptwriter Colin Brake, Ferguson was responsible for bringing in a \"new sense of vitality\", and creating a programme that was “more in touch” with the “real world” than it had been over the last year. Ferguson altered the way the episodes were produced, changed the way the storylines were conceptualised and introduced a far greater amount of location work than had previously been seen. As a consequence of these changes, a large number of characters were axed in early 1990 as the new production machine cleared way for a new direction and new characters. Among the characters he introduced were the Tavernier family, pub landlord Eddie Royle and most notably the Mitchell brothers and their sister Sam — the Mitchells went on to become major long-term characters, among the most popular featured in the programme. At \"EastEnders\" Ferguson was responsible for storylines such as the return of runaway Diane Butcher, Mark Fowler's HIV, Mo Butcher's Alzheimer's, Nick Cotton's attempt to poison his mother Dot Cotton, and the murder of Eddie Royle. Ferguson decided to leave \"EastEnders\" in July 1991.\n\nHe remained with the BBC, producing for the popular hospital drama \"Casualty\" (1993–94), before returning to ITV in 1996 to once again direct for \"The Bill\". His last directorial credit for the programme was in 2002.\n\nFerguson has two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "1944935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944935", "title": "Jonathan Cain", "text": "Jonathan Cain\n\nJonathan Leonard Friga (born February 26, 1950), known professionally as Jonathan Cain, is an American musician, singer, and songwriter best known as the keyboardist for Journey. He has also worked with The Babys and Bad English. Cain was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Journey on April 7, 2017.\n\nCain was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Leonard and Nancy Friga, who were Italian. At the age of eight, Cain began accordion lessons, and by the time he was in his teens, he was playing accordion and piano at parties and in clubs. He also plays guitar, bass, and harmonica. Cain was a survivor of the Our Lady of the Angels school fire of 1958, in which 92 students and 3 nuns died. In 1968 Cain graduated from East Leyden High School in the Chicago suburb of Franklin Park, Illinois and later attended the Chicago Conservatory of Music before moving to Nashville, Tennessee, and eventually to Los Angeles, California.\n\nIn 1976, Cain released his first record as the Jonathan Cain Band, \"Windy City Breakdown\", on Bearsville Records. In 1979, he joined The Babys, appearing on their albums \"Union Jacks\" and \"On the Edge\". In 1980, Cain left The Babys to join the rock band Journey, taking Gregg Rolie's place on keyboards. Cain aided Journey's rise to the top of the charts with his first collaborations on the album \"Escape\", composing and playing the piano on songs such as \"Don't Stop Believin'\", described by AllMusic as \"one of the best opening keyboard riffs in rock\". Perhaps his most notable contribution was as sole author of the Journey ballad \"Faithfully\", a song about life on the road while in a band. Cain would go on to appear on at least 13 other Journey albums and compilations.\n\nThe song \"Working Class Man\" sung by Jimmy Barnes is one of Cain's compositions and is considered to be Barnes' signature song.\n\nCain reunited with former Babys bandmates John Waite and Ricky Phillips, fellow Journey bandmate Neal Schon, and future Journey drummer Deen Castronovo to form the band Bad English. The band released two albums before disbanding in the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1996, the Journey lineup from the album \"Escape\" was reunited. They reformed and recorded the album \"Trial by Fire\". Steve Perry then left the band again in 1998, after suffering a hip injury, while hiking in Hawaii, that required surgery. Journey has continued on with three subsequent lead singers, Steve Augeri from 1998 to 2006, Jeff Scott Soto from 2006 to 2007, and Arnel Pineda from 2007 to the present.\n\nCain is known to perform a piano solo at every Journey concert, usually right before the band performs \"Open Arms.\" He started this tradition when he first joined the band in 1980.\n\nIn addition to his work with Journey, Cain has released eight solo albums and contributed to solo albums by fellow Journey member Neal Schon.\n\nCain has married three times. His first wife was singer Tané McClure for whom he wrote the 1983 hit song \"Faithfully\".\n\nIn 1989, he married his second wife, Elizabeth Yvette Fullerton, with whom he has three children: Madison (1993) and twins Liza and Weston (1996). He and Elizabeth divorced the end of 2014.\n\nIn April 2015, he married minister Paula White. This is the third marriage for both. They reside in Apopka, Florida.\n\nCain and David Kalmusky designed and built a recording studio called Addiction Sound in Nashville.\n\n\nHe has received two BMI songwriter awards, both for songs co-written with Steve Perry, \"Open Arms\" and \"Who's Crying Now\". The Journey song, \"When You Love a Woman\", which he co-wrote with Perry and Schon, was nominated for a Grammy Award in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944937", "title": "Manuel Clouthier", "text": "Manuel Clouthier\n\nManuel de Jesús Clouthier del Rincón (b.June 13, 1934 – d.October 1, 1989) was a Mexican agriculturalist, businessman and politician. His 1988 presidential campaign challenged the dominance of Mexico's PRI party in the nation's politics, with rhetoric and protests before, during and after the elections. Although officially coming in third, he remained a prominent political force in Mexico until his death in a car accident a year after the elections.\n\nClouthier was born on June 13, 1934 in Culiacán, Sinaloa, Mexico to Manuel Clouther Martínez de Castro and María Cristina del Rincón Bernal. His family owned 30,000 hectares of land in the Culiacán Valley as the descendant of Jean Auguste Clouthier, a French-Canadian doctor who made his home there in 1850.\n\nHe became known to friends and family, and later as a political figure by the nickname “Maquio” which he got during childhood.\n\nHe spent his early childhood in Culiacan, attending primary school at Colegio Cervantes. In 1942, his parents divorced and he moved with his mother and two brothers to Guadalajara. His mother remarried in Guadalajara, after which Manuel and his brother Marco Antonio were enrolled in the Instituto de Ciencias. Manuel was expelled from the school for bad behavior.\n\nIn 1947, the boys’ father sent them to the United States to study middle school at the Brown Military Academy in Los Angeles. Clouthier left the school with the rank of first lieutenant. He then studied for a short time at the Black Fox Military Institute in San Diego.\n\nHe returned to Mexico in 1951 to attend high school at Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Studies in Monterrey, going study a bachelors in agricultural engineering at the same campus, graduating in 1957. In 1956 and 1957, he played defensive tackle and was president of the Student Association of the school.\n\nIn 1959, he married Leticia Carrillo. The couple had eleven children, six daughters and five sons. One of his sons committed suicide, prompting him to spend more time with his family.\n\nDuring his political career, Clouthier was heavy set, with white hair and beard. He was often described as fiery, with a blunt and aggressive style, and took pride in talking straight, often crudely. The newsweekly Proceso described him as “Businessman, Catholic, dynamic, vain, efficient, boastful, humorous, foulmouthed, aggressive, forthright, controversial…” According to his son, “Maquío was raised in the social doctrine of the Catholic Church and believed that wealth created a social obligation. He believed in democracy, in the social economy of the market, respecting the dignity of the individual, in solidarity and in subsidiarity.”\n\nIn his free time, he liked sports, singing, and playing poker and dominos.\n\nClouthier died on October 1, 1989 in a car accident on the Mexico City-Nogales highway (KM158+100) in Culiacan, while on the way to a rally for a PAN candidate for mayor of Mazatlán. The car crashed with a truck loaded with fruit. Both occupants of Clouthier's car died instantly. The truck driver survived. There were rumors that it was not an accident, with several farmworkers reporting a helicopter in the area. The family asked for an investigation to clarify what happened in the accident. Thousands of people attended Clouthier's funeral at the Culiacán cathedral including Dionisio Garza Sada, Mauricio Fernández Garza, Concepción Guadalupe Garza, Ingrid Fiehn, Fernando Canales, Raúl Monter, Alberto Fernández Ruiloba, Javier Livas, Rafael Rangel Sostmann, Porfirio Muñoz Ledo, Cuauhtémoc Cárdenas, Luís H. Álvarez, Elías Villegas, Vicente Fox and Fernando Gutiérrez Barrios. Clouthier is buried at the Jardines del Humaya cemetery.\n\nHis widow, Leticia Carrillo Cázarez, died in December 2017 at age 84. Children, Rebeca, Tatiana and Manuel have since gone into politics, but not in his PAN party.\n\nAfter graduating from Monterrey Tech, he worked for a time with Paul Williams in Mexicali. He then returned to Culiacan, where his father gave him seventy hectares of land to farm. Here he grew tomatoes, chili peppers, cucumbers and rice. Clouthier was successful with this, increasing his land holdings to 270 hectares and starting fourteen businesses in agroindustry.\n\nHis success in business prompted his entry into politics. In 1969, he was elected president of the, Asociación de Agricultores del Río Culiacán. In 1971, he became the head of the Unión Nacional de Productores de Hortalizas. That same year, he founded the Comité de Caminos Vecinales and joined the Movimiento Familiar Cristiano.\n\nIn 1971, he was nominated as a PRI candidate to become the municipal president of Culiacán, but another candidate was chosen to run. From then on, Clouthier shifted his focus to opposing the agrarian policies of then president Luís Echeverría, who expropriated lands during the last months of his term. Clouthier organized opposition businessmen, connected with other in similar situations in other states. Although he did not lose any of his lands, he suffered other repercussions and other pressures from local and federal governments.\n\nBetween 1974 and 1978 he headed the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial de Sinaloa. Although unknown at the time, he was instrumental in the founding of the newspaper El Noroeste with Enrique Murillo and Jorge del Rincón. By 1978, he had national recognition as a business and political leader.\n\nIn 1982, after the nationalization of the banks, he started the \"México a la libertad\" movement against authoritarianism, interventionism and increasing control of state of the economy.\n\nThe bank situation also had the effect of turning him away from the ruling PRI party to an alternative. By 1983, he had joined the PAN party, as its ideology was closest to his own, but did not publicly announce the affiliation until 1984. Clouthier was instrumental in bringing in new blood to PAN in the 1980s, recruiting owners of small and medium-sized businesses. He also brought in support from women, with PAN organizing groups called “Damas de Clouthier” (Clothier's Ladies).\n\nIn 1986, he was slated as the PAN candidate as governor of Sinaloa against Francisco Labastido Ochoa. He lost but PAN did not accept the results. He introduced PAN to civil disobedience tactics, emboldened by events in the Philippines against the Marcos regime, bringing in Philippine activists to teach peaceful civil disobedience. This made this party more radical than that of the past. These activities had repercussions in the press, with Clouthier and the PAN being branded as “the barbarians of the north” However, it became a point of pride with supports putting bumper stickers on their cars announcing themselves as northern barbarians.\n\nClouthier launched his presidential candidacy in 1987 with PAN and was nominated by the party in November 1987, with 70% of the delegate vote. During his campaign, he toured Mexico with mobile home, with his wife and several of his children. Clouthier was an effective campaigner and his rallies drew large and enthusiastic crowds. As a stump speaker, he relied on a stock of earthy stories, puns, jokes, anecdotes and analogies to get his points across. Ending PRI's dominance on the country's politics became Clouthier's main campaign theme, which also includes calls for greater personal freedom, less interference by the government in Mexico City and end to federal monopolies such as the printing of public school textbooks. He had appeal to traditional Catholics in the county. His candidacy was classified as be a new kind of right-wing population or new right for Mexico, distinguishing it from that of the Cristeros and Mexico anticommunists, with a broader message. It was not capitalist, more in line with the socialism of then West Germany.\n\nAfter a successful interview with journalist Ricardo Rocha, the government-controlled media outlets blacked him out. In response, Clouthier organized a boycott of Jacobo Zabludousky's show “24 Horas” to protest the lack of opportunities for opposition candidates. He also protested the media lockout by holding silent rallies, in which he appeared with his mouth taped shut.\n\nPRI announced on 7 July that its candidate had won the presidential election. At the Federal Electoral Commission a PAN official got a hold of a computer file with the real returns and when discovered, was evicted. The computer crashed and the final results were withheld for a week. Both Clouthier and PRD candidate Cuauhtémoc Cárdenas declared the election results illegitimate. Clouthier signed a document pledging to not accept the PRI victory, but neither would he acknowledge that Cárdenas probably won.\n\nClouthier and PAN affiliates took the streets in protest in Mexico City, including a rally to the Angel of Independence that drew about 20,000 people. Clouthier also started a public hunger strike as the same monument, not eating for 177 hours from the 15th to 22 December 1988. After the end of the strike, a pro-government newspaper ran the headline “Maquio Ends Diet.” Salinas was confirmed as president but after weeks of vote recount, PRI recognized that PAN had won 101 seats in the Chamber of Deputies, a record for the party.\n\nClouthier remained a prominent figure even after his loss (placing third), until his death. In February 1989, Clouthier presented his “shadow cabinet” to monitor government actions in certain important areas. The cabinet proposed its own solutions to national issues. Clouthier was the coordinator of the cabinet.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944938", "title": "Steven Hill (model)", "text": "Steven Hill (model)\n\nSteven Alfred Hill is an American reality television personality, model, guest speaker, author, and occasional actor. Hill is best known as a cast member on the twelfth season of the MTV reality television show \"The Real World\".\n\nSteven Hill was born in San Marcos, Texas, but was raised predominantly in Austin. At the age of 16, Hill left home and has since lived on his own. Before appearing on \"The Real World\", Hill worked as a shirtless bartender at a gay bar, although he is straight. He was briefly married to a woman he once worked with at a Wal-Mart Distribution Center.\n\nHill's marriage failed by the time he was selected by MTV to appear in the 12th season of the \"Real World\" reality series, \"\". In the first episode, he met fellow castmates Brynn and Trishelle Cannatella for a three way makeout session in a hot tub. The relationship would end after a dramatic pregnancy scare.\n\nAfter \"The Real World\" ended, Hill appeared in several subsequent MTV shows, including one season of the \"Real World/Road Rules Challenge\" and was a co-host of \"Say What? Karaoke\" for a season. He also took part in a reunion mini-season with his \"Real World: Las Vegas\" castmates called \"\".\n\nIn 2007, Hill was married to designer Donna Katz. They have one son Riley James David, born in April 2008. Hill and Katz divorced in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944939", "title": "Anti-abortion feminism", "text": "Anti-abortion feminism\n\nAnti-abortion feminism or pro-life feminism is the opposition to abortion by some feminists. Anti-abortion feminists may believe that the principles behind women's rights also call them to oppose abortion on right to life grounds and that abortion hurts women more than it benefits them.\n\nThe modern anti-abortion feminist movement cites precedent in the 19th century; the movement itself began to take shape in the early to mid-1970s with the founding of Feminists for Life (FFL) in the United States and Women for Life in Great Britain amid legal changes in those nations which widely permitted abortion. FFL and the Susan B. Anthony List (SBA List) are the most prominent anti-abortion feminist organizations in the United States. Other anti-abortion feminist organizations include New Wave Feminists and Feminists for Nonviolent Choices.\n\nAnti-abortion feminists consider the legal option of abortion to \"support anti-motherhood social attitudes and policies and limit respect for women's citizenship\". Anti-abortion feminists believe that abortion is an action dictated by society and legal abortion \"perpetuates an uncaring, male-dominated society.\" Laury Oaks, Associate Professor of Feminist Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, writes that when abortion is legal, anti-abortion feminists believe, \"women come to see pregnancy and parenting as obstacles to full participation in education and the workplace,\" and describes anti-abortion feminist activism in Ireland as more \"pro-mother\" than \"pro-woman\". Oaks has written that while Irish abortion opponents valorize child-bearing and are critical of the notion that women have \"a right to an identity beyond motherhood\", some, such as Breda O'Brien, founder of Feminists for Life Ireland, also offer feminist-inspired arguments that women's contributions to society are not limited to such functions.\n\nAnti-abortion feminist organizations generally do not distinguish between views on abortion as a legal issue, abortion as a moral issue, and abortion as a medical procedure. Such distinctions are made by many women, for example, women who would not abort their own pregnancies but would prefer that abortion remain legal.\n\nAnti-abortion feminist organizations seek to personalize abortion by using women who survived abortions to attempt to convince others of their argument.\n\nProminent American anti-abortion feminist organizations seek to end abortion in the U.S. The SBA List states this as their \"ultimate goal\", and FFL President Serrin Foster said that FFL \"opposes abortion in all cases because violence is a violation of basic feminist principles\".\n\nAnti-abortion feminists form a part of the anti-abortion movement rather than the mainstream feminist movement. During the second-wave era of the late 1960s and 1970s the tenets of the emerging group of anti-abortion feminists were rejected by mainstream feminists who held that for full participation in society, a woman's \"moral and legal right to control her fertility\" needed to be a fundamental principle. From their minority position, anti-abortion feminists said that mainstream feminists did not speak for all women.\n\nHaving failed to gain a respected position within mainstream feminism, anti-abortion feminists aligned themselves with other anti-abortion and right to life groups. This placement, according to Oaks, has eroded a feminist sense of identity separate from other anti-abortion groups, despite pro-woman arguments that are distinct from the fetal rights arguments put forward by other anti-abortion advocates.\n\nThe abortion debate has primarily been centered around the question of whether or not the fetus is a person. Anti-abortion feminist organizations do distinguish themselves as \"pro-woman\" organizations as opposed to \"fetal rights\" organizations. This sets them apart from other anti-abortion groups.\n\nThe \"pro-woman\" argument frames abortion as harmful to women. Anti-abortion feminists argue that women do not truly want to have abortions, but rather are forced into abortions by third parties, partners or medical practitioners. These unwanted abortions, they say, cause physical and emotional damage to women. However, research from the Guttmacher Institute shows that the majority of women who have abortions seek the procedure for personal, financial, vocational, and/or family planning purposes rather than under coercion from third-parties. \n\nBy positing the existence of a \"post-abortion syndrome\" mental condition, which is not medically recognized, anti-abortion feminists reframe opposition to abortion in terms of protecting women's public health. The \"pro-woman\" argument has been used to sway men and women against-abortion.\n\nFeminist anti-abortion groups say they are continuing the tradition of 19th-century women's rights activists such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda Joslyn Gage, Victoria Woodhull, Elizabeth Blackwell, and Alice Paul who considered abortion to be an evil forced upon women by men. The newspaper, \"The Revolution\", published by Susan B. Anthony and Stanton, carried letters, essays and editorials debating many issues of the day, including articles decrying \"child murder\" and \"infanticide.\" According to historians A. Kennedy and K. D. Mary, Alice Paul felt that abortion was the \"ultimate exploitation of women\" and worried about female babies being aborted. Kennedy and Mary also say that Elizabeth Blackwell, the first female doctor in the United States, became a doctor because of her passionate hatred for abortion. By way of criticism, however, sociologists Nicole Beisel and Tamara Kay have written that white Anglo-Saxon Protestants (WASPs) in the US were worried that continued abortions by their kind would endanger their position at the top of society's hierarchy, especially fearing the influx of Irish Catholics, but also concerned about African Americans, and describe Anthony and Stanton as part of this reactionary racial stance.\n\nIn arguing for \"voluntary motherhood\" (abstinence until children are wanted), Stanton said that the problem of abortion demonstrates the victimization of women by men who pass laws without women's consent. Woodhull and her sister argued that abortion clinics would go out of business if voluntary motherhood was widely practiced.\n\nA dispute about Anthony's abortion views arose in 1989: anti-abortion feminists in the U.S. began using Anthony's words and image to promote their anti-abortion cause. Scholars of 19th-century American feminism, as well as pro-choice activists, countered what they considered a co-opting of Anthony's legacy as America's most dedicated suffragist, saying that the anti-abortion activists are falsely attributing opinions to Anthony, and that it is misleading to apply 19th century arguments to the modern abortion debate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944940", "title": "Internal fertilization", "text": "Internal fertilization\n\nInternal fertilization is the union of an egg cell with a sperm during sexual reproduction inside the female body. For this to happen there needs to be a method for the male to introduce the sperm into the female's reproductive tract. In mammals, reptiles, some birds, some fish and certain other groups of animals, this is done by copulation, the penis or other intromittent organ being introduced into the vagina or cloaca. In most birds, the cloacal kiss is used, the two animals pressing their cloacas together while transferring sperm. Salamanders, spiders, some insects and some molluscs undertake internal fertilization by transferring a spermatophore, a bundle of sperm, from the male to the female. Following fertilization, the embryos are laid as eggs in oviparous organisms, or in viviparous organisms, continue to develop inside the reproductive tract of the mother to be born later as live young.\n\nFertilization which takes place inside the female body is called internal fertilization in animals is done through the following different ways:\n\nAt some point, the growing egg or offspring must be expelled. There are several possible modes of reproduction. These are traditionally classified as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944942", "title": "Matthew 3:2", "text": "Matthew 3:2\n\nMatthew 3:2 is the second verse of the third chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. John the Baptist has just been introduced and this verse describes the message that he is preaching.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\"\"And saying, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.\"\"\n\nThe New International Version translates the passage as:\n\"\"and saying, \"Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near.\"\"\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 3:2.\n\nClarke notes that this is the first of twenty-nine references to the Kingdom of Heaven in the Gospel of Matthew. Luke and Mark tend to prefer the term \"kingdom of God.\" That Matthew uses the word \"heaven\" is often seen as a reflection of the sensibilities of the Jewish audience this gospel was directed to, and thus tried to avoid the word \"God\". Most scholars believe the two phrases are theologically identical. Robert Foster rejects this view. He finds the standard explanation hard to believe as Matthew uses the word \"God\" many other times and even uses the phrase \"Kingdom of God\" four times. Foster argues that, for Matthew, the two concepts were different. He feels that the word heaven had an important role in Matthew's theology and links the phrase especially to \"Father in Heaven\", which Matthew frequently uses to refer to God. Foster argues that the Kingdom of God represents the earthly domain that Jesus' opponents such as Pharisees thought they resided in, while the Kingdom of Heaven represents the truer spiritual domain of Jesus and his disciples.\n\nScholars believe that when it was written this phrase was intended to be eschatological, with the Kingdom of Heaven referring to the end times. When the last judgment failed to occur, Christian scholars gradually redefined the term to refer to a spiritual state within, or worked to justify a much delayed end time. This passage presents a difficulty in this later endeavour as the phrase translated as \"at hand\" or \"is near\" refers to an imminent event. Albright and Mann suggest that a better translation would state that the kingdom is \"fast approaching.\" France sees it as even more immediate, suggesting that the phrase should be read as referring to \"a state of affairs that is already beginning and demands immediate action.\"\n\nAccording to France the word translated as repent means \"return to God.\" Albright and Mann state that at the time a general repentance was seen as necessary before the arrival of the messiah. Clarke notes that in the Vulgate of St. Jerome the word is translated as \"be penitent\" both here and in . This translation played a central role in the development of the Catholic doctrine of penance. With the increased knowledge of Greek in the Renaissance this translation began to be criticized with Lorenzo Valla first pointing out the error. In Erasmus' 1516 translation and commentary he became the first to use \"repent\" rather than \"be penitent\". It was from the doctrine of pennance that the concept of indulgences had grown, and these new translations played an important role in Martin Luther and other Protestant's reappraisal of these practices. Today the word is universally translated as \"repent,\" leading some Protestant Christians to assume that the Catholic doctrine is grounded more in theology than in scripture.\n"}
{"id": "1944950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944950", "title": "Charoen Pokphand Foods", "text": "Charoen Pokphand Foods\n\nCharoen Pokphand Foods Public Company Limited a company of the Charoen Pokphand Group, is an agro-industrial and food conglomerate headquartered in Thailand. Approximately 64 percent of its revenue came from overseas operations, with 30 percent from its home market of Thailand, and six percent from export operations. It recently acquired Bellisio Foods, one of the largest frozen food suppliers in the United States, for US$1 billion, as well as Westbridge Foods, a major British poultry producer with turnover of over £340 Million \n\nThe company's core businesses are livestock and aquaculture. Livestock operations include chicken broilers, chicken layers, ducks, and swine. In aquaculture, the two main marine animals are shrimp and fish.\n\nCalendar year 2017 results: revenues of 501,507 million baht, net income of 15,259 million baht, and total assets of 593,497 million baht. It employed 126,341 persons in 2017.\n\nCPF's livestock business includes broilers, layers, swine, and ducks. Products can be divided into three main categories, animal feed, breeders, and meat and food products.\n\nThe company produces livestock feed in the forms of concentrate, powder and pellets for broilers, layers, swine, and ducks. The feed is distributed by more than 600 sales representatives throughout Thailand. A portion of the livestock feed is sold directly to large animal farms.\n\nThe company researches and develops natural animal breeds. The goal is to obtain breeds that are disease-free and suited to the breeding environment in Thailand. The company produces parent stock broiler chicks, parent stock layer chicks, parent stock swine, broiler chicks, layer chicks, layers, and piglets for distribution to animal farms and domestic sales representatives.\n\nGrandparent stock used in livestock breeding is imported from abroad to breed parent stock which are then raised on the company's farms.\n\nThe NGO World Animal Protection succeeded in persuading CPF, a major pork producer, to end the use of uses sow stalls in their pork production process by 2025. The practice confines sows in cages no bigger than a refrigerator in order to use them as \"breeding machines\". Sow stalls have been banned in the UK since 1999 as well as in other jurisdictions.\n\nProducts in this category can be further divided according to two types of production processes: animal farming for commercial purposes and processing and manufacture of cooked food products.\n\nProducts from animal farming for commercial purposes include live chickens, eggs, live ducks, and live swine which are distributed to sales representatives throughout the country. The products are also distributed in surrounding local areas, to wholesalers and retailers, or to the company's processing plants or other processing plants in Thailand.\n\nThe company has offices across the country, which act as centers for technical information to farmers on how to properly raise animals to obtain fast growth as well as assistance with marketing and distribution.\n\nThe company has a support program for the farming of swine and broilers. The company selects farmers who have their own farms and farming equipment. Selected farmers receive support in the areas of animal breeds, animal feed, medication, and farming knowledge from the company. The company then undertakes to purchase all yield which meets the CPF standards.\n\nBroilers, ducks, and swine from the company's farms are brought to processing plants to be butchered into meat products according to customer specifications. The meats are packaged, frozen, and distributed as chilled and frozen meat products to wholesalers, domestic retailers, and importers in various countries. The company adds value to processed meat products by flavoring and cooking through the process of boiling, steaming, frying, baking and grilling according to customer specifications. Export products are distributed through importers in various countries in the European Union, Asia, and Japan.\n\nThe aquaculture business includes mainly shrimp and some fish. The products can be classified into three main categories: animal feed, animal breeders, and meat and food products.\n\nThe company produces and distributes aquatic feed, with the main product being shrimp feed. Aquatic feed is produced in the forms of concentrate, powder, and pellets and distributed through sales representatives who are in shrimp farming areas throughout the country. Agricultural products such as soybean meal, fish meal, and wheat flour are used in the production of aquatic feed.\n\nFollowing the company's policy of supporting sustained growth and development in the shrimp industry, the company has developed shrimp fry to distribute to farmers, which will increase their opportunity to successfully farm shrimp. In 2004, the company entered into a joint venture with an American company with shrimp breeding expertise to develop shrimp fry that are suitable to for farming conditions in Thailand. The company's culture farms and hatcheries are in the shrimp farming areas in the eastern and southern regions of Thailand.\n\nThe company has developed fish breeds to distribute to farmers, including tabtim fish fry, developed from tilapia fish. In 2006, the company also succeeded in developing the morakot fish breed type, which was developed from basa fish.\n\nProducts in this category can be further divided according to two types of production process: shrimp and fish farming for commercial purposes and processing and manufacture of cooked food products.\n\n\"Traceability\" has prompted the company to expand its shrimp farming business, resulting in fully integrated operations that produce for the company's processing plants as well as other processing plants in Thailand. In the management of the company's shrimp farms, research and development and technology are applied to find ways to prevent the outbreak of disease in shrimp and farming methods, which are friendly to the environment and do not cause residue build-up. The company promotes \"probiotic farming\" which avoids the use of drugs and chemicals.\n\nProducts derived from processing are one of the important products in the food products category of the aquaculture business. The main products are processed fresh shrimp and value-added processed shrimp, most of which are produced for export as chilled and frozen products and distributed through importers in various countries. The selling prices are also determined by agreement if the products have been manufactured according to customer specifications.\n\nIn June 2014, after a several-month-long investigation, the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" claimed that Charoen Pokphand Foods (CPF) purchases fishmeal, which it then feeds to its farmed prawns, from suppliers that own, operate, or buy from fishing boats manned with slaves. \"The Guardian\" claimed that after the slaves are bought \"for as little as £250\", the working conditions on those boats included forced labor with 20-hour work days, forced drug use, starvation, and executions.\n\nIn July 2014, CP Foods hosted a three-day meeting to create a task force on the issue, with representatives from retailers, local government authorities, and non-governmental organisations such as Oxfam and the Environmental Justice Foundation. The progress made at this meeting is difficult to ascertain, as the original newspaper, \"The Guardian\", has not posted any additional stories and the company website's sustainability page says \"For the latest general update covering our approach and achievements\" to read a page from December 2013, which promises \"a further progress update in Q1 2014.\"\n\nThe president and CEO of Charoen Pokphand subsequently posted a \"Statement to Shareholders\" vowing to purchase only from certified processing plants, only acquire product from certified Thai fisheries, and that supply chain \"...fishing vessels, fishmeal processing plants...must be certified by Thailand's Labor Standard or have been audited...by an external agency (Third Party)...\"\n\nIn Australia, Woolworths stocks only CPF-Vietnam products and Metcash, wholesale supplier to Independent Grocers of Australia (IGA), has eliminated CPF SKUs from their inventory.\n\nIn January 2017, the United States District Court, Northern District of California ruled on multiple grounds in favour of CP Foods in relation to litigation brought against them and others, which claimed damages related to the alleged presence of human rights abuses in the supply chain for Thai shrimp. The Court's order - dismissal with prejudice - bars the plaintiffs from bringing such claims again.\n\nCP Foods only produces and sells farmed shrimp, and does not own or operate any fishing vessels. The company has been working to improve the traceability of the fishmeal element of its supply chain since 2012, and broadened this to encompass a full traceability system for its farmed shrimp supply chain in 2014. As part of that process, CP Foods has significantly reduced the number of suppliers that provide fishmeal for the production of shrimp feed. In October 2018, CPF announced that by 2020 it will have audited all of its suppliers for sustainability, including environmental, human rights, and labor issues. Of particular focus are CPF's fishmeal suppliers, which represent \"CP Foods' only link to the ocean\".\n\nCP Foods is currently undertaking a full independent, third-party audit of its shrimp feed supply chain (all the way back to the individual fishing boats catching fish for fishmeal production), conducted by a leading international supply chain audit company. In addition, the by-product fishmeal in their shrimp feed is certified \"IFFO RS CoC\" - the highest international benchmark in the sustainable usage of fishmeal.\n\nCP Foods is a founding member of the Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Task Force (SSSC), established in July 2014, which has convened food producers, international retailers, and NGO representatives to map out an audit plan for the Thai shrimp industry, and to identify and agree the concrete steps and timetable to increase the sustainability and transparency of the supply chain. The key aim of CP Foods and the SSSC is to ensure that abuse of workers and damage to the maritime ecosystem in the Gulf of Thailand and Andaman Sea becomes a thing of the past, and to restore trust in the industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944952", "title": "Michael Ferguson", "text": "Michael Ferguson\n\nMichael Ferguson may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1944958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944958", "title": "Estádio Algarve", "text": "Estádio Algarve\n\nThe Estádio Algarve is an association football stadium located between Faro and Loulé, in Portugal. It was the former home of Farense and Louletano, having received some Olhanense and Portimonense matches during their respective stadiums' works of renovation. From 2004 to 2013, Louletano shared the stadium with Sporting Clube Farense.\n\nThe Estádio Algarve was also the temporary home ground of the Gibraltar national football team and it also hosts the final match of the Algarve Cup, a major annual international tournament in women's football.\n\nThe stadium has a capacity of 30,305 and was built for the Euro 2004 tournament. Aside from football, it has also hosted music festivals and concerts, and was temporarily converted into a super special stage during the 2007 Rally Portugal (part of the 2007 World Rally Championship season).\n\nThe Estádio Algarve was designed in the summer of 2000 to UEFA and FIFA standards by Populous. The design team included WS Atkins engineers and local partners including Marobal. The design is regional in nature, alluding to the maritime traditions of Portugal and harmonising with the distinctive local landscape. The stadium is considered a model small/regional flexible use stadium for European football and cultural events, being one of the most used stadiums in Portugal, compared to others used for matches in the main Portuguese Football League.\n\nThe stadium hosted the inaugural Algarve Challenge Cup tournament on 22 and 24 July 2008 that saw Cardiff City, Celtic, Middlesbrough, and Vitória de Guimarães in action. Cardiff City were the eventual winners of the tournament with victories over Celtic and Vitória.\n\nThe following national team matches were held in the stadium.\n\nThe following national team matches were held in the stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944961", "title": "Bergtatt – Et eeventyr i 5 capitler", "text": "Bergtatt – Et eeventyr i 5 capitler\n\nBergtatt – Et eeventyr i 5 capitler (translated as \"\"Spellbound – A Fairy Tale In 5 Chapters\"\") is the debut studio album by the Norwegian band Ulver, issued on February, 1995 via Head Not Found. The album was recorded at Endless Lydstudio in Oslo in November and December 1994 with Kristian Romsøe as engineer and co-producer.\n\nThe album was praised for its unique atmosphere and was described as “mysterious, melancholic, eerie, and oddly tranquil.” The archaic Dano-Norwegian lyrics were greatly influenced by Scandinavian folktales and inspired by Baroque poets such as Ludvig Holberg and the hymn-writer Thomas Kingo.\n\n\"Bergtatt\", the first part of what has become known as \"\"The Trilogie – Three Journeyes Through the Norwegian Netherworlde\"\", was released during the rise of the Norwegian black metal subculture in Norway in the early 1990s. Separated from the more straightforward black metal sound of their contemporaries, Ulver incorporated elements of Norwegian folk music, utilizing acoustic guitars, droning low choirs, flutes, melody-focused songwriting and clean vocals together with fast tempos, shrieked vocals, highly distorted guitars, blast beat drumming, raw (lo-fi) recording and unconventional song structures. This earned them the label \"folk metal\".\n\n\"Bergtatt\" is notable in that its lyrical content deviates substantially from that of other second-wave black metal albums. While it is heavily rooted in Norwegian folklore, it features no anti-Christian themes, unlike the music of many of Ulver's contemporaries, particularly Burzum and Darkthrone. The album's title, \"Bergtatt\", translates as \"Spellbound\"; in Norwegian folklore the word refers to people who wander off into forests and mountains, lured by trolls or other mythical creatures. The album's overarching narrative follows a young maiden who is pursued, lured and killed by these creatures, her spirit becoming \"one with the mountain\".\n\nThe folk-like acoustic elements of \"Bergtatt\" were isolated and expanded upon for their second album \"Kveldssanger\", incorporating classical guitars, cello and choral chamber chants overlaid with subtle orchestral landscapes. The band's third album, \"Nattens madrigal\", abandoned these acoustic and atmospheric elements, and was recorded with an intentionally underproduced, \"raw and grim black metal\" sound.\n\nIn an interview with Rob Hughes for \"Unrestrained Magazine\" in 2007, Kristoffer Rygg reflected, \"We were influenced by a period known as the Kingdom of Denmark–Norway (1536—1814) — the language and literature of that era combined with the superstition and folklore of the Middle Ages. It was the kind of stuff we were learning about in school at the time. When it comes to music, we were already listening to a whole slew of other things, and already had our two next records in mind, so by the time \"Nattens madrigal\" (1997) was released, we had developed a strong urge to explore something else. We had also acquired the knowledge of how to do so in the meantime.\"\n\nAllMusic praised the album, writing, \"\"Bergtatt\" is not the heaviest or most aggressive black metal around by a long shot; nor is it the most evil or blasphemous. What makes the album stand out, along with the varied vocal styles and the excellent songwriting, is its unique atmosphere—mysterious, melancholic, eerie and oddly tranquil.\"\n\nAngry Metal Guy stated: \"Musically, the album is focused on melody and atmosphere, it blends black metal with acoustics, reverb, and gorgeous, melancholic songwriting. It even eschews Satanism in text and imagery. Except Ulver was right there when it all went down; outsiders to a scene of outsiders.\" Going on to acknowledge \"Bergtatt\"s influence on Agalloch, Cormorant, Alcest and October Falls; the reviewer goes on to reflect \"\"Bergtatt\" is the work of kids. These guys weren't old, they weren't seasoned; they were 16 and 17 when they started this band, and 18/19 when \"Bergtatt\" dropped on the famous Head Not Found label 2 years later. They were—from Garm's own mouth—not super mature or sophisticated.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1944963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944963", "title": "Johnny Devine", "text": "Johnny Devine\n\nJohn Parsonage (born April 27, 1974) is a Canadian semi-retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name \"Hot Shot\" Johnny Devine. He is best known for his time in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling.\n\nAs a teenager, John and his friends organized and competed in a wrestling show. After graduating from Garden City Collegiate high school, Devine relocated to the United States, attending college in Minnesota. After graduating, he joined the Canadian infantry, and met Bret Hart while posted to Calgary, Alberta in 1997. Devine then decided to train as a wrestler.\nHe began training in August 1997 in the infamous Hart Dungeon under Bruce Hart, a son of the legendary Stu Hart. He debuted on October 27, 1997, facing \"Gorgeous\" Vinny Vegas (not to be confused with Vinnie Vegas). Devine then wrestled for various independent promotions in Western Canada, and in April 1999 he joined the resurrected Stampede Wrestling, a wrestling promotion operated by the Hart family, at times forgoing pay when attendances were poor and takings low. As part of the Stampede Wrestling roster, Devine appeared on the A-Channel on Canadian television. In 2001 he wrestled with the short-lived Western Canadian Extreme Wrestling promotion.\n\nDevine wrestled dark matches for both Extreme Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation. While unable to wrestle due to nerve damage in his right shoulder, he operated his own promotion, Young Lions Wrestling.\n\nIn February 2004, Devine debuted in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) as part of Team Canada, taking part in the TNA X Cup. He returned to TNA on May 26, 2004 along with Petey Williams, Bobby Roode and Eric Young, taking part in the TNA World X Cup, which pitted teams of wrestlers from Canada, Mexico, the United States and Japan against one another. On the July 9 edition of \"Impact\", Team Canada (Eric Young, Johnny Devine and Bobby Roode) defeated Rod Steele and Bruce Steele and Frankie Capone, Team USA was victorious with six victories in the course of the night, with Team Canada in third place with three points. At Sacrifice, Devine competed in a World X Cup Gauntlet which was won by Petey Williams.\n\nIn June 2004, Team Canada began a lengthy feud with the 3Live Kru. On the August 11 edition of \"Impact\", Team Canada (Eric Young and Johnny Devine) defeated 3-Live Krew (BG James and Konnan). On the August 25, 2004 edition of \"Impact\", Team Canada (Scott D’Amore, Johnny Devine, and Eric Young) defeated 3Live Kru in a six-man tag match. On the August 27 edition of \"Impact\", Team Canada (Williams, Roode, Young, and Devine) beat Rod and Bruce Steele, Mikey Batts, and Jerrelle Clark. On the September 1 edition of \"Impact\", Team Canada (Young, Devine, and Roode) faced BG James, Konnan, and the Midnight Rider (Dusty Rhodes) in a six-man tag match in a losing effort. On the September 10 edition of \"Impact\", Devine and Roode defeated Chris Harris and Elix Skipper. Following the September 26 edition of \"Impact\", Devine and fellow TNA wrestler Andy Douglas were involved in an altercation after leaving Bar Nashville in Nashville, Tennessee. Devine was stabbed in the stomach, and his gallbladder and a foot of his lower intestine were removed as a result. He was sidelined for six weeks while recuperating, returning on December 5 at Turning Point 2005 in a surprise return where he helped Team Canada recapture the Tag Team titles. On the December 24 edition of \"Impact\", Devine faced AJ Styles in a losing effort. On the January 28, 2005 edition of \"Impact\", Devine faced Monty Brown in a losing effort. On the February 11, edition of \"Impact\", Devine defeated Sonny Siaki.\n\nIn March 2005, Devine was removed from in-ring competition once more after he tore his medial collateral ligament and anterior cruciate ligament while defending the Mid-Southern Tag Team Championships with Eric Young for Memphis Wrestling in Memphis, Tennessee. He underwent knee surgery on March 15, with a predicted recovery time of six months to a year. While injured, Devine worked as a trainer at Scott D'Amore's Can Am Wrestling School in Windsor, Ontario, as well as acting as an announcer for some promotions. He was replaced within Team Canada by A-1.\n\nDevine returned to the ring in July 2005, wrestling occasionally for various Canadian independent promotions. On August 18, 2005, Devine appeared on an episode of World Wrestling Entertainment's \"SmackDown!\" as J.P. Parsons, teaming with Ruffy Silverstein and losing to Road Warrior Animal and Heidenreich in a squash match.\n\nIn October 2005, he returned to Winnipeg, Manitoba. Two weeks later, he announced that he required further surgery as a result of the stabbing thirteen months earlier, which had been improperly treated by doctors in Nashville, leaving him with several hernias. He underwent surgery to repair the hernias on January 27, 2006. Devine later relocated to Windsor, Ontario.\n\nDevine returned to TNA on the May 4, 2006 episode of \"TNA Impact!\", teaming with Eric Young and subsequently losing to Shocker and Magno of Team Mexico in the first round of the 2006 World X Cup. At Sacrifice, Devine competed in a World X Cup Gauntlet which was won by Petey Williams.\n\nOn the June 29, 2006 episode of \"Impact!\", Team Canada was disbanded by TNA Management Director Jim Cornette. On the same episode of \"Impact!\", Devine joined Paparazzi Productions.\n\nHe was enlisted by Alex Shelley to be Paparazzi Production's production assistant, the two of them wearing Shelley's new \"Eye Spy\" T-shirt. They wrestled as a tag team on a special TNA Xplosion match and an Impact! non-title match versus then, NWA Tag Team champions A.J. Styles and Christopher Daniels. After Kevin Nash went out of action due to the injury, Alex Shelley and Johnny Devine continue to wrestle in both singles and tag-team action. On July 16, 2006, at Victory Road, Devine w/Alex Shelley defeated Shark Boy on the Pre-show. On the July 27 edition of Impact, Devine competed in a 4-way X-Division match which was won by Petey Williams. On the August 10 edition of Impact, Devine, Kevin Nash and Alex Shelley lost a six-man tag team match to Chris Sabin, Sonjay Dutt and Jay Lethal. At Hard Justice (2006), Devine faced Eric Young in a losing effort. On the August 17 edition of Impact, Devine teamed with Alex Shelley and Petey Williams faced the team of Chris Sabin, Sonjay Dutt and Jay Lethal in a losing effort. On the August 24 edition of Impact, The Paparazzi (Alex Shelley & Johnny Devine) defeated The Naturals. At No Surrender (2006), Shelley and Devine competed in Triple Chance tag team battle royal, which was won by The Naturals. On the September 28 edition of Impact, Devine teamed with Senshi and Alex Shelley in a losing effort against Chris Sabin, Sonjay Dutt and Jay Lethal. On the October 12 edition of Impact, Devine teamed with Senshi, Shelley and Petey Williams to face Chris Sabin, Jay Lethal, Sonjay Dutt and Sharkboy in a losing effort. At Bound for Glory 2006, Devine competed in the Kevin Nash Open Invitational X Division Gauntlet battle royal where he was eliminated by Austin Starr. On the November 2 edition of Impact, Devine was later fired from the Paparazzi by Kevin Nash. Devine was replaced, much to the dismay of Shelley, by former Generation Next teammate Austin Starr due to Kevin Nash's wishes. On the November 9 edition of Impact, Devine lost a 3-way match to Austin Starr.\n\nDevine appeared with Matt Bentley and Frankie Kazarian at TNA's prime time premiere, the trio displaying an entirely different look. The three were soon dubbed Serotonin, a new version of Raven's Flock stable. As a member of the new group, Devine's name was changed to Havok. On the October 25 edition of Impact!, he participated in a fatal four way X Division style match against Williams, Sonjay Dutt and Shark Boy, but the match went to a no-contest after Team 3D interfered and put both Havok and Williams through tables. At Genesis (2006), Devine & Kazarian, Maverick Matt lost to The Voodoo Kin Mafia. at Against All Odds (2007) pre show, Serotonin (Kazarian and Havok) defeated Jay Lethal and Sonjay Dutt, At Lockdown, Serotonin (Havok and Kaz) lost to The Voodoo Kin Mafia (B.G. James and Kip James) in a Six Sides of Steel match. At No Surrender 2007, Serotonin (Raven and Havok) competed in a Ten-team tag team gauntlet match which was won by A.J. Styles and Tomko. At Bound for Glory (2007), Devine was in a Fight for the Right Reverse Battle Royal which was won by Eric Young. Following Kaz's turn, the release of Martyr (Bentley), and Raven's disappearance from television, the Havok gimmick still continued even with him on his own as a member of the X Division, including standing up for them against Team 3D. On the November 15 edition of Impact, Team 3D apparently took him hostage in order to get their demands met by the Motor City Machine Guns. The X Division rescued him and he went under the ring and grabbed a Kendo stick, then he suddenly attacked his fellow X Division stars, thus turning on the division and joining Team 3D on their quest to destroy it. This also effectively ended Serotonin once and for all, since within that segment, he'd ditched both the face paint and the brooding attitude associated with the group, although he continued wielding Serotonin's signature weapon, the Kendo stick.\n\nThe week after that he went back to being called Johnny Devine, with the new handle \"The X-Division Traitor\" attached, and became Team 3D's new interference runner, leading to Ray and Devon giving him the nickname \"Brother Devine\". This also began his signature catch phrase directed toward opponents, \"you may be good, but you're not devine!\".\n\nOn the November 15 edition of Impact, Team 3D took a mystery member of the X-Division hostage and made a list of demands. The entire X-Division came to his rescue but the hostage (Devine) was a traitor and helped Team 3-D destroy everyone. On the November 22 edition of Impact, Devine competed in a 3-way Turkey Bowl Qualifier which was won by Samoa Joe. At Turning Point, Johnny Devine and Team 3D defeated Jay Lethal and The Motor City Machine Guns in a Six Man Tag Team Tables match. On the November 27, 2007 edition of \"TNA Today\", Devine defeated former Team Canada teammate Petey Williams after driving him to the mat with a double underhook piledriver. Devine was sporting new entrance music and attire as well and regained his cocky and obnoxious attitude. On the December 6 edition of Impact, Devine and Team 3D defeated Jay Lethal & Chris Sabin & Alex Shelley in a Ladder Match. On the December 13 edition of Impact, Devine faced \"Black Machismo\" Jay Lethal in a Lumberjack Strap match, which he lost. On the December 20 edition of Impact, Team 3-D and Devine faced Jay Lethal, Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin in a Double North Pole Match, which they lost. On the January 3, 2008 edition of Impact, Devine participated in a TNA X-Division Gauntlet Match, which was won by Petey Williams. At Final Resolution (January 2008), Devine and Team 3D defeated Jay Lethal and The Motor City Machine Guns in a Six-man tag team Ultimate X match. On the January 24, 2008 taping of \"TNA Impact\", Devine defeated Jay Lethal to win the TNA X Division Championship after Brother Ray hit Lethal with a kendo stick. This was Devine's first title in TNA. On the February 7 edition of Impact, Devine faced Homicide where he lost by DQ. He lost the title to Lethal at Against All Odds after being pinned by Lethal in a six-man street fight which also included Team 3D and The Motor City Machine Guns. On the February 21 edition of Impact, Devine lost 3-way #1 Contenders match for a shot at the X Division title. On the March 27 edition of Impact, Devine defeated Alex Shelley in an X-Scape Qualifying match. At Lockdown (2008), Devine was a part of a Six Man Xscape match for the TNA X Division Championship, which was won by Jay Lethal. On the April 17 edition of Impact, Devine got a X-Division title shot but failed to win the title. At Sacrifice, Devine competed in a TerrorDome match to determine the number one contender to the TNA X Division Championship and take Kurt Angle's place in the main event; the match was won by Kaz. On the May 15 edition of Impact, Devine and The Rock & Rave Infection faced Kaz, Jay Lethal and Sonjay Dutt in a losing effort. On the June 5 edition of Impact, Devine competed in a King of the Mountain match, which was won by Kaz. On the July 24 edition of Impact, Devine competed in a Fatal 4 Way Match, which was won by Consequences Creed. On the July 31 edition of Impact, Devine teamed with Lance Rock and Jimmy Rave to face Jay Lethal, Curry Man and Shark Boy in a losing effort. On the August 14 edition of Impact, Devine faced Matt Morgan in a losing effort. On the September 4 edition of Impact, Devine faced Abyss in a Hardcore Match that ended in a No Contest. On the September 11 edition of Impact, Devine faced Samoa Joe in Match #1 of Kevin Nash's \"Challenge\" for Joe. On the September 18 edition of Impact, Devine teamed with Petey Williams and Jimmy Rave to face Super Eric, Shark Boy and Curry Man in a losing effort. At Bound for Glory, Devine competed in a Steel Asylum match (during which he botched his finishing move, resulting in the injury of Jimmy Rave), which was won by Jay Lethal; on the same night, he also interfered during the Monster's Ball match, helping Team 3D put Abyss through a flaming table.\n\nDevine was released from TNA and left on October 13, 2008. Devine claimed he left because wrestling was \"no longer fun\" for him.\n\nDevine returned for TNA One Night Only 10 Reunion on August 2, 2013 (taped March 17, 2013) where he competed in a Battle Royal which was won by Matt Morgan.\n\nAfter completing a program at Specs Howard School of Broadcast Arts, Devine moved from Windsor to Toronto, Ontario and was hired as an On Air Personality/Analyst for The Fight Network. He has also done some work for the Canadian Independent Promotion, BSE Pro.\nOn January 18, 2013 Devine worked for the Hart Legacy promotion in Calgary, taking part in a six-man tag team match, where Devine, Bobby Lashley and Chris Masters were defeated by Lance Storm, Davey Boy Smith, Jr. and Lance Archer.\nOn April 11, 2016, Devine competed on the second night of the two-night Vendetta Pro Wrestling event 'Casino Royale' in Las Vegas, Nevada. First, he won the Second Chance Battle Royal to get into the night's main event for the Cauliflower Alley Cup. Then, he defeated Tokyo Monster Kahagas (who won the Casino Royale Rumble on the first night) to become the first competitor to win the Cauliflower Alley Cup after winning the Second Chance Battle Royal.\nCurrently XICW Lightheavyweight Champion, Devine has defeated the likes of Tyson Dux and Cody Deaner for Border City Wrestling, Joey Ryan of Lucha Underground fame, and the one legged wonder Zach Gowan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944968", "title": "Gould Electronics", "text": "Gould Electronics\n\nGould Electronics Inc. was a manufacturer of electronics and batteries that branched into other fields before being partially absorbed in 1988 by Nippon Mining (now JX Holdings) and closed by them in 2014. \n\nHowever, as part of the U.S. government approval of the 1988 deal, Nippon Mining was required to divest the Gould divisions then doing work for the Department of Defense, including the Computer Systems Division. Later, in 1989, Encore Computer Corporation (about 250 employees) bought the computer division (about 2500 employees) from Nippon Mining.\n\nGould was founded in 1928 and at some point was based in Chandler, Arizona. Some time in the 1950s or beyond it became involved in the semiconductor industry, making printed circuit materials for use by electronics manufacturers. Having acquired Systems Engineering Laboratories Gould became involved in the Superminicomputer computer business.\n\nFrom 1977 to the mid-1980s the company owned the Modicon brand of programmable logic controller, today owned by Schneider Electric. This was in a phase where the company became a mini-conglomerate, with a diverse portfolio of industrial interests.\n\nGould's non-defense businesses were acquired in 1988 by Nippon Mining (now JX Holdings). At some point it became headquartered in Eichstetten, Germany.\n\nIn July 2014, Gould's then current corporate parent, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (a part of JX Holdings), announced that it would be closing down the company as a part of JX Nippon Metals & Mining's restructuring, involving closing down several facilities in Japan, the Philippines, and in Germany, where Gould was headquartered. The restructuring was in response to, according to their press release about Gould's closure, \"a shrinking market in Europe, high overcapacity and an ongoing erosion of prices, partly triggered by subsidized manufacturers from China and other Asian countries.\"\n\nGould is the current owner of a lead-contaminated parcel of land in Throop, Pennsylvania, which it bought in the early 1980s from the former Marjol Battery and Equipment Company.\n\nThe CGI title credits of the 1980s television show \"Amazing Stories\" was created using a Gould Powernode 9080 computer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944972", "title": "External fertilization", "text": "External fertilization\n\nExternal fertilization is a mode of reproduction in which a male organism's sperm fertilizes a female organism's egg outside of the female's body.\nIt is contrasted with internal fertilization, in which sperm are introduced via insemination and then combine with an egg inside the body of a female organism. External fertilization typically occurs in water or a moist area to facilitate the movement of sperm to the egg. The release of eggs and sperm into the water is known as spawning. In motile species, spawning females often travel to a suitable location to release their eggs. However, sessile species are less able to move to spawning locations and must release gametes locally. Among vertebrates, external fertilization is most common in amphibians and fish. Invertebrates utilizing external fertilization are mostly benthic, sessile, or both, including animals such as coral, sea anemones, and tube-dwelling polychaetes. Benthic marine plants also use external fertilization to reproduce. Environmental factors and timing are key challenges to the success of external fertilization. While in the water, the male and female must both release gametes at similar times in order to fertilize the egg. Gametes spawned into the water may also be washed away, eaten, or damaged by external factors.\n\nSexual selection may not seem to occur during external fertilization, but there are ways it actually can. The two types of external fertilizers are nest builders and broadcast spawners. For female nest builders, the main choice is the location of where to lay her eggs. A female can choose a nest close to the male she wants to fertilize her eggs, but there is no guarantee that the preferred male will fertilize any of the eggs. Broadcast spawners have a very weak selection, due to the randomness of releasing gametes. To look into the effect of female choice on external fertilization, an in vitro sperm competition experiment was performed. The results concluded that there was a decreased importance of sperm number, but increased the importance of the sperm velocity, thus changing the outcome of sperm competition. The ovarian fluid also increased the paternity for the preferred male because they release fewer and faster sperm. The success of a male fertilizing an egg relies on the ability of a male's sperm to outcompete other sperm that is looking to fertilize the same egg. Sperm chemotaxis is the use of chemical signals to give sperm the ability to navigate an egg and is a huge contributor to reproductive success.\n\nBenthic sessile animals that make up the majority of invertebrates using external fertilization rely on ambient water motion to bring the sperm and eggs together. Other invertebrates that externally fertilize are organisms like the sea urchin, are confined to shallow burrows on exposed shores. Turbulent flows in the surf zone also create a transport of gametes. Hydrodynamic conditions and gamete properties control the efficiency of fertilization because they influence the rate at which the water mixes. The only dilemma with turbulence is the possibility of dilution of sperm and egg because of over mixing. Rapid mixing can cause a lower probability to fertilize. Sessile adult staged animals commonly produce gametes at the same times, also known as a synchronized release of gametes, for external fertilization in the water column. This is helpful because of the lack of mobility these organisms share. They also can rely on turbulent mixing and sperm mobility to enhance the chances of fertilization.\n\nThe presence of food, resources, favorable environmental conditions, and the lack of predators are thought of when thinking of survival of the next generation. When the female is producing eggs, they perform predator satiation, which is when multiple females will release gametes in a mass reproductive event. The Great Barrier Reef is known for having a “mass spawn.” This occurs the week after the full moon in October. This mass reproductive event is given by reef forming corals, which perform a synchronized release of gametes in one evening from dusk to midnight. Up to 130 species release gametes during this time. In some cases, fertilization can take place on a spawning animal's surface and when the animals are in the turbulent wake. Although fertilization is usually thought of as a short-term process, there is the possibility of gametes being retained on the surface of an animal for an extended period of time. In order to release an egg or sperm over time, clumps are formed that float in the water column. This allows for a variation in locations and time differences of fertilization taking place by the same invertebrate.\n\nThe earliest amphibians were all internal fertilizers. It wasn't until 300 million years ago that the Anura (early internal fertilizer) and Caudata (early external fertilizer) orders had begun. Most anurans now externally fertilize. Anurans are the amphibians lacking a tail such as frogs and toads. Anurans are commonly used as a model organism for amphibians, because of the large, easy to manipulate eggs, fast developmental rate, high fecundity rate, no parental involvement, and external fertilization. Males will congregate near a lake or pond and establish calling stations. Females approach the area and listen to all of the different male calls, and then continue to move towards the mate she chooses. This is the anuran's sexual selection. It has been concluded that females prefer a male with a more attractive call, which is also the larger male. Copulation occurs when a male anuran hops onto the back of a female. They then move to a spot near water to simultaneously release their sperm and eggs. Other males in the area can also release sperm onto the eggs to also attempt to fertilize the eggs. If the female does not want to reproduce with the male that jumps onto her back, she will wait until the male leaves or move to a new location. Sperm released into the water must be in close proximity, get to the egg first, and then enter the gel layer of the egg to have the best chance of fertilizing. When the anurans are not close to eggs, they sometimes release their sperm into oocyte containing foam nests, or terrestrial breeders go right to the gel coat of the oocyte to release their sperm. Over the course of a breeding season, males can copulate numerous times by releasing sperm anywhere he finds unfertilized eggs or encounters a female who is/wants to spawn. Females, however, can only release eggs once per breeding season. Releasing sperm directly into the water increases sperm competition through agonistic behavior and spawning in groups. This has been tested, with good evidence associated with a larger sperm number and testes size. Smaller testes size and a slower sperm velocity were seen with the anurans that released the sperm into the foam nests instead of into open water. To further increase sperm competition, there is a larger thickness to an anuran oocyte gel, specifically the green tree frog. Anuran sperm also have high longevity and osmotic tolerance compared to fresh water fish.\nThe Caudata order contains all of the salamanders and newts, amphibians that have tails. Within this, the only subgroups that externally fertilize are Cryptobranchidae (giant salamanders) Sirenidae, and Hynobiidae. The females release egg sacs onto stones or branches and the male later hovers over the eggs to release the sperm to them. Males are seen to be very protective over the eggs and may continue to hover over the eggs after sperm release to decrease sperm competition. In some cases, males may even latch onto the females while they lay their eggs to ensure that they fertilize them first. Other times there may be numerous males surrounding a single sac of eggs, creating scramble competition. Cryptobranchid sperm is seen to have higher longevity. This is about 600 times greater than in freshwater fish, but not even close to as high as anurans.\n\nSalmon, cod, trout, and char are all examples of the fish that externally fertilize. The female and male both release their gametes into the water, where they diffuse together and fertilize. On top of the sperm locating the oocyte and penetrating the gel layer, it must also infiltrate the mycropyle. If there is turbulent water or even in open, calm water, the closer fish that releases sperm has the higher chance of fertilizing the eggs. If sperm is released too early, it can become to dilute or die before it ever reaches the eggs. If sperm is released too late, there is a higher chance that a different fish's sperm has already reached the eggs. Also, the faster the speed of the sperm, as well as the number of sperm will increase the chances of fertilization. There are instances where males will create habitats in an attempt to monopolize females and increase his chance of fertilizing the eggs.\n\nFishes can be iteroparous, and spawn more than once, but there are some who only spawn once before death, known as semelparous. Within iteroparous fish, they usually give no parental care with external fertilization. The sperm present in male fish are immotile while in testes and in seminal fluid, and the fertilization environment determines when the sperm become motile. In salmon, a decrease of potassium in fresh water will initiate the motility of the sperm. A decrease in osmolality after spawning in fresh water makes a cyprinid fish's sperm motile.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944982", "title": "XHAS-TDT", "text": "XHAS-TDT\n\nXHAS-TDT, virtual channel 33 (UHF digital channel 34), is an Azteca América-affiliated television station located in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico and serving the Tijuana–San Diego international metropolitan area. The station is 99.9%-owned by Mexican-based Televisora Alco, a 40%-owned subsidiary of station operator Entravision Communications; XHAS is a sister station to Milenio Televisión affiliate XHDTV-TDT (channel 49), Univision affiliate KBNT-CD (channel 17) and UniMás affiliate KDTF-LD (channel 51). All four stations share studios on Ruffin Road in the Kearny Mesa section of San Diego, California, United States; XHAS-TDT's transmitter is located on Mount San Antonio in Tijuana.\n\nUntil June 30, 2017, it was an affiliate of Telemundo.\n\nWhile XHAS received its concession and began operations in the fall of 1981, its history stretched back to the late 1960s. In March 1968, Mario Rincón Espinosa, the head of Tele Nacional, S.A., requested and received a concession to build a UHF station in Tijuana. At this time, the callsign XHAS-TV and channel number 33 were assigned, with a visual effective radiated power of 105 kW. With the technical parameters set, Tele Nacional set out to build the station, and after some delays, it submitted the technical details in 1970. The next year, Rincón Espinosa was granted authorization to cut power in half; on several occasions in 1976, the SCT reached out to seek revised technical information and was not given a response. In July 1978, the \"Diario Oficial\" ran a notification warning that the SCT would begin an administrative proceeding to revoke the concession.\n\nThe station first signed on the air in the fall of 1981 after receiving a new concession that September. It originally operated as an affiliate of Televisa's Canal de las Estrellas for all but two hours a day, when it aired a limited slate of Mexican movies and independent programs.\n\nIn 1985, XHAS began to air a local newscast titled \"Síntesis\". It subcontracted a company, Logovisión, to produce the program, which got viewers' attention for its independence — and Televisa's attention for allegedly disrespecting Mexican institutions. \"Síntesis\" was regarded as more unbiased in its coverage than Televisa's newscasts; it beat XEWT's news in local surveys and reported news of voting irregularities in the 1989 Baja California gubernatorial elections. Televisa retaliated by pulling programs from the XHAS local block, the only time when it could sell its own advertising. The station began taking programs from Imevisión to fill the local window instead. In September 1990, given the uneasy state of relations between station and network, XHAS switched its affiliation to the U.S.-based Spanish language network Telemundo; the Síntesis newscast moved from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. as a result of the changes.\n\nIn December 1994, new management at XHAS fired the Síntesis team and built their own news department; after five months on local radio, Síntesis moved to XHJK and Televisión Azteca, where it remained for eight years. A weekday 6pm newscast launched in 2002.\n\nXHAS carried 109 Spanish-language telecasts of the San Diego Padres in the 2005 season.\nIn January 2017, NBC announced that it was hiring people for KNSD with the intention of launching a new Telemundo O&O station in San Diego, replacing XHAS-TDT (whose affiliation expired on 30 June 2017). Telemundo programming moved to KNSD-DT20 (Now KUAN-LD) on July 1, 2017 at 12:00 AM. At the same time, XHAS became an affiliate of Azteca América; the network, which had been affiliated with KZSD-LP, was carried on a subchannel of sister station XHDTV-TDT from 15 March 2017 until XHAS joined the network.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\n\nWhile the United States completed its transition to full-power digital television on 12 June 2009, Mexico made the transition over a period of several years 4 years later, XHAS-TV discontinued its analog signal on 28 May 2013, as all television stations in the Tijuana metropolitan area were required to convert to digital-exclusive broadcasts on that date as part of a pilot program; the stations were later ordered to resume analog transmissions until 18 July 2013 due to concerns about the interaction of the shutoff with state elections.\n\nXHAS-TV presently broadcasts 7½ hours of local newscasts each week (with 90 minutes on weekdays); the station does not produce newscasts on Saturdays and Sundays. The station broadcasts an hour-long local newscast each weeknight at 5:00 p.m. and a half-hour newscast at 11:00 p.m. Previously, when the station was affiliated with Telemundo prior to switching to KUAN, the station aired newscasts at 5:30, 6:00 and 11:00 p.m. While it competes with the local newscasts on Univision-affiliated sister station KBNT-CD seen in the same timeslots, as the two stations share studio facilities in Entravision's building, XHAS focuses its newscasts more on issues affecting Tijuana (competing against locally programmed XEWT-TDT (channel 12)), while KBNT-CD focuses more on San Diego.\n\nWhen Telemundo and XHAS parted ways, the newscasts on XHAS were renamed \"Noticias Ya Frontera\" (News Now Frontera), after the Noticias Ya series of news portals run by Entravision.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944986", "title": "Battle of Oulart Hill", "text": "Battle of Oulart Hill\n\nThe Battle of Oulart Hill took place on 27 May 1798 when a rebel gathering of between 4,000 and 5,000 massacred a detachment of 110 militia sent from Wexford town to stamp out the spreading rebellion in County Wexford.\n\nWhen news of the long expected rising on 23 May of the United Irishmen in the midlands reached county Wexford, it was already in an unsettled condition due to fears brought by the recently instituted anti-insurgent disarmament campaign in the county. The measures used included pitchcapping, half-hanging, and house burnings to uncover rebel conspirators. The recent arrival in Wexford of the North Cork Militia who were notorious for their brutality in the \"pacification\" of Ulster, terror raids by local yeomen and finally news of the massacres at Dunlavin Green, Carlow and Carnew, had the effect of drawing people together in large groups for security, especially at night.\n\nOne such group of one hundred or so had gathered on the evening of 26 May at The Harrow, near the parish of Boolavogue under the tutelage of Fr. John Murphy when they encountered a patrol of about 20 yeomen on their way to the house of a suspected rebel. They burned the suspect's dwelling but, returning empty-handed, they encountered Fr. Murphy's band again. The patrol were pushing their way through when a skirmish began in which they lost two of their number, the rest fleeing with news of the killings.\n\nThe reaction on both sides was rapid; vengeful yeomanry patrols roamed, burning and killing indiscriminately. while the rebels roused the countryside and made several raids on manors and other houses holding arms, killing more loyalists and yeomen. News of the skirmish and raids had by now reached Wexford town and, on the morning of 27 May, the bulk of its garrison, 110 of the North Cork militia under Colonel Foote, were ordered north to crush the nascent rebellion. They were joined \"en route\" by some 16 yeomen cavalry under Colonel Le Hunt. However, these yeomanry were of doubtful loyalty, many (including their sergeant) having joined the rebels that morning.\n\nThe militia reached the village of Oulart at 2 p.m. on 27 May. Finding a mass of \"from four to five thousand combatants\" occupying the high ground of Oulart hill, they rashly advanced and pursued the rebels to the summit. The rebel leaders mistakenly believed a large body of yeoman cavalry was waiting to intercept their flight, so their forces desperately turned to face their enemy and \"killed the whole detachment in an instant\", leaving only the commanding officer, Colonel Foote, and four other survivors to escape to their base at Wexford\n\nFoote reported that, contrary to his orders, the militia had advanced incautiously and were surrounded and overpowered by the overwhelming rebel numbers, mostly armed with pikes, and that \"great numbers\" of the rebels were killed.\n\nFollowing the rebel victory, almost all of North Wexford joined the rebellion. Crown forces and loyalist civilians ceded control of the countryside, withdrawing to towns such as Enniscorthy, Gorey and Wexford.\n\n"}
{"id": "1944999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944999", "title": "Wine, women and song", "text": "Wine, women and song\n\n\"Wine, women, and song\" is a hendiatris that endorses hedonistic lifestyles or behaviors. A more modern form of the idea is often expressed as \"sex and drugs and rock 'n' roll\", a phrase popularized by British singer Ian Dury in his song of the same title.\n\nSimilar tripartite mottoes have existed for a long time in many languages, for example:\nNot all hendiatris including women are positive: in instead suggest three dangers rather than pleasures, and offers the three essentials of quite another culture.\n\nThe following \"tetrad\" (using four concepts rather than three) predates all of the above :\n\nOmar Khayyam addressed the trio in 1120 in his Rubaiyat, verse XII. For him singing was replaced by a book, but he acknowledged its importance for others. \n\nThe English couplet \"Who loves not woman, wine, and song / Remains a fool his whole life long\" appears in print as early as 1837, translated from German verse attributed to Martin Luther. John Addington Symonds used the phrase \"Wine, Women and Song\" as the title for his 1884 book of translations of medieval Latin students' songs. Symonds is largely known today for his passionate writings about male homosexual love.\n\nThe phrase in German is apparently older than in English. Symonds and the anonymous 1837 writer both provide the German text, attributing it to Luther. The attribution to Luther has been questioned, however, and the earliest known reference in German is to a folksong first printed in 1602. \"Bartlett's Familiar Quotations\" cites Johann Heinrich Voss (1751–1826) as a likely source, but any use by him would have to be a later use of the phrase.\n\nThe waltz \"Wine, Women and Song\" (\"Wein, Weib und Gesang\") is Op. 333 (1869) of Johann Strauss II.\n\nThe lines \"Deutsche Frauen, deutsche Treue, / Deutscher Wein, und deutscher Sang\" (German women, German loyalty, / German wine, and German song) are found in the second verse of \"Das Lied der Deutschen,\" the third verse of which is the German national anthem.\n\n\n<poem>Omne mundi trinum,\nmulier, tabacum, vinum,\net qui curat de pluribus,\nmaximus est asinus!</poem>\n"}
{"id": "1945015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945015", "title": "Gale W. McGee", "text": "Gale W. McGee\n\nGale William McGee (March 17, 1915April 9, 1992) was a United States Senator of the Democratic Party, and United States Ambassador to the Organization of American States (OAS). He represented Wyoming in the United States Senate from 1959 until 1977. To date, he remains the last Democrat to have represented Wyoming in the U.S. Senate.\n\nMcGee was born in Lincoln, Nebraska, on March 17, 1915. He attended public schools, and had planned to study law in college, but was forced by the Great Depression to attend the State Teachers College in Wayne, Nebraska, instead. He graduated from the Teachers College in 1936, and worked as a high school teacher while studying for a master's degree in history at the University of Colorado. He continued as a college instructor at Nebraska Wesleyan University, Iowa State College, and Notre Dame. In 1946 McGee received his Ph.D. in history from the University of Chicago.\n\nShortly after he received his Ph.D, McGee accepted a position as a professor of American history at the University of Wyoming. Soon after, he founded and served as chair of the University's Institute of International Affairs, which brought national dignitaries every summer through a Carnegie Foundation grant. Twenty-one teachers from Wyoming high schools were selected each summer to participate. For the next 12 years, the Institute brought international foreign policy thinkers such as Eleanor Roosevelt, Hans Morgenthau, and Henry Kissinger.\n\nIn 1952, McGee took a one-year leave of absence from the University of Wyoming to serve as a Carnegie Research Fellow in New York with the Council on Foreign Relations, where he was assigned to research the mysteries of Soviet intentions.\n\nIn 1956, because of the connections he made during his Carnegie fellowship, McGee led a group of teachers on a trip to the Soviet Union; it was the first trip of its kind.\n\nActive in Democratic Party politics, McGee was asked to run for the United States Congress in 1950, but declined, saying he wanted to get more in touch with Wyoming and its people. In 1955–56 he took a leave of absence from the university to work as top aide to Wyoming Democratic Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney.\n\nIn 1958 McGee left the university to make his bid for the U.S. Senate, challenging incumbent Frank A. Barrett. He ran on a program of youth and new ideas. The race between McGee and Barrett attracted the attention of national party leaders on both sides. Senate Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson, Senator John F. Kennedy, Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon, Senator-elect Edmund Muskie of Maine, Congressman Joseph M. Montoya of New Mexico, and former President Harry S. Truman came to the state to support McGee, whose campaign slogan was \"McGee for Me!\". Lyndon Johnson pledged that, if Wyoming sent McGee to Washington, he would appoint him to the prestigious Appropriations Committee. Eleanor Roosevelt even conducted a national fund-raising drive for him. Barrett received assistance from national leaders as well, including Vice President Richard Nixon. McGee ultimately defeated Barrett by a margin of 1,913 votes out of a total of 116,230 votes cast in the election.\n\nHe won the majority of the votes in seven of the 23 counties. These were the southern \"Union Pacific\" counties (Albany, Carbon, Laramie, Sweetwater, Uinta) Platte, just north of Cheyenne, and Sheridan in the north. McGee won the endorsement of the Wyoming AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education (COPE) and the labor vote played an important part in the election.\n\nHe became a member of the Democratic class of 1958, which was elected in the middle of President Eisenhower's second term.\n\nAfter his victory McGee was appointed to the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee and Senate Majority Leader Johnson kept his promise and appointed him to the prestigious Appropriations Committee. McGee and his fellow Senate freshmen, Thomas J. Dodd and Robert C. Byrd, were the first freshmen ever to receive such an appointment.\n\nIn 1958, President Dwight D. Eisenhower nominated Lewis Strauss to serve as Secretary of Commerce. Previously, Mr. Strauss had served in numerous government positions in the administrations of presidents Truman and Eisenhower. At the time, the 13 previous nominees for this Cabinet position won Senate confirmation in an average of eight days. Because of both personal and professional disagreements, Senator Clint Anderson took up the cause to make sure that Mr. Strauss would not be confirmed by the Senate. Senator Anderson found an ally in McGee on the Senate Commerce Committee, which had jurisdiction over Mr. Strauss' confirmation. During and after the Senate hearings, Senator McGee had charged Mr. Strauss with \"a brazen attempt to hoodwink\" the committee. \nAfter 16 days of hearings the Committee recommended Mr. Strauss' confirmation to the full Senate by a vote of 9-8. In preparation for the floor debate on the nomination, the Democratic majority's main argument against the nomination was that Mr. Strauss' statements before the Committee were \"sprinkled with half truths and even lies ... and that under rough and hostile questioning, [he] can be evasive and quibblesome.\"\nDespite an overwhelming Democratic majority, the 86th United States Congress was not able to accomplish much of their agenda since the President had immense popularity and a veto pen. With the 1960 elections nearing, congressional Democrats sought issues on which they could conspicuously oppose the Republican administration. The Strauss nomination proved tailor made.\n\nOn June 19, 1959 just after midnight, the Strauss nomination failed by a vote 46-49. At the time, It marked only the eighth time in U.S. history that a Cabinet appointee had failed to be confirmed.\n\nFrom \"Harper's Magazine\":\n\nBy nature of their service together in the Senate, Senator McGee continued to enjoy a good relationship with President Kennedy while in the White House. President Kennedy provided a recorded tribute to Senator McGee for a dinner in the Senator's honor in Wyoming in July 1963. President Kennedy referred to him as \"an old friend\", and \"an asset and a leader in this country.\"\n\nAs part of a nationwide tour in September 1963, President Kennedy made a stop in Cheyenne, and then boarded a smaller plane for the flight to Laramie. Senator McGee, as is protocol for a United States Senator, escorted the President in his travels throughout Wyoming. In a video of the President's tour (at the 4 minute, 50 second mark), Senator McGee can be seen disembarking with President Kennedy upon arrival in Laramie. President Kennedy then delivered remarks at the University of Wyoming.\n\nMcGee had concerns about falling cattle prices and that large chain drug stores were engaging in unfair practices with large meat processors at the expense of western cattle farmers. He felt an investigation was necessary to assess the \"complete change\" that had occurred in food marketing since World War II. He said the Commission should establish what, if any, \"is the relationship between the phenomena of the food chain store and the increasing cost squeeze on the farm front.\" On April 26, 1963, McGee introduced S J Res 71 which authorized the Federal Trade Commission to conduct an investigation of purchasing, processing, marketing and pricing practices of large chain stores to determine whether there may have been any violation of antitrust laws. Special emphasis was to be given to why a sharp drop in meat producers' income since January 1963 had not been reflected in consumer prices, which had generally remained level since a rise in 1962.\n\nOn July 3 President Johnson signed S J Res 71 into law (PL 88-354). The fiscal 1965 supplemental appropriations bill (HR 12633–PL 88-635) provided $700,000 to start the Commission's studies.\n\nMr. Johnson July 14 appointed the five public members of the Commission on Food Marketing. They were: William M. Batten, a Republican, president of the J. C. Penney Co.; Albert K. Mitchell, a cattle producer and Republican National Committeeman from New Mexico, former president of the American National Livestock Assn. and a member of several advisory committees to the Secretary of Agriculture; former U.S. Rep. J. Fred Marshall (D Minn. 1949-63), a farmer and former state director of the Minnesota Farm Security Administration (1941–48); Elmer R. Kiehl, a professor of agricultural economics, former dean of the College of Agriculture at the University of Missouri and member of the advisory commission to the Secretary of Agriculture; and Marvin Jones, of Texas, former Chief Justice of the U.S. Court of Claims (1947–64), a Democrat, who was named Commission Chairman. Jones resigned as chairman Sept. 1 and President Johnson Sept. 17 appointed Phil S. Gibson, former chief justice of the California Supreme Court, to replace him.\n\nThe five Senate members of the Commission, named by Majority Leader Mike Mansfield (D Mont.) July 1, were: Sens. Warren G. Magnuson (D Wash.), Commerce Committee chairman, Philip A. Hart (D Mich.), Thruston B. Morton (R Ky.), Gale W. McGee (D Wyo.) and Roman L. Hruska (R Neb.). The five House members, named July 7 by Speaker John W. McCormack (D Mass.), were: Reps. Benjamin S. Rosenthal (D N.Y.), Catherine May (R Wash.), Glenn Cunningham (R Neb.), Leonor Kretzer Sullivan (D Mo.) and Graham Purcell (D Texas).\n\nIn 1963, Congress acted for the first time in peacetime to impose compulsory arbitration in a major labor dispute. President Kennedy sent Congress a bill to submit a dispute over the railroads' attempts to eliminate \"featherbedding\" to the Interstate Commerce Commission, which was to impose an interim solution binding on the parties for two years.\n\nDuring Congressional consideration of the President's legislation, McGee offered an amendment to remove these less controversial questions from arbitration and make the Senate bill conform with the House bill, thereby expediting passage to avoid the strike. Congress on cleared the bill on August 28, 1963 that created a seven-member board to arbitrate the major issues in the dispute and prohibited the railroads from issuing \"anti-featherbedding\" rules. The arbitrated settlement was imposed for two years, and no strikes or lockouts were allowed during that time. The President signed the bill into law (PL 88-108) six hours before the strike was to begin on August 29, 1963.\n\nRepublican leaders in Wyoming were singularly focused on defeating McGee for re-election in 1964. Republican Congressman William Henry Harrison ultimately decided not to challenge the incumbent Senator. The remaining candidates for the Republican nomination did not offer stark differences between them, only their degree of attack upon McGee.\n\nMcGee took advantage and concentrated on discrediting the state Republican Party and promoted McGee's specific contributions to particular areas of the state, especially given his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee.\n\nCounties thought to be steadfastly Republican, such as Big Horn County, wound up supporting both the re-election of President Johnson and Senator McGee. The town of Lovell, never known to support a Democrat, gave Senator McGee 123 more votes than it gave President Johnson, 145 more than it gave McGee's opponent, John Wold. Lovell had been the beneficiary of thousands of dollars in Area Re-development Loans. It was located close to the [Yellowtail Dam], the State's most recent large reclamation project, and just before election learned that its interstate access road had been designated a federal highway.\n\nAnother important factor, like it was in the 1958 election, was organized labor and the State's right-to-work law. The 1964 election found labor organized for political action in virtually every county in the state, most particularly in the pivotal counties of Natrona and Fremont, and the key Democratic counties of Laramie, Albany, Carbon, Sweetwater, and Uinta. Organized labor distributed 23,000 bumper stickers with the phrase, \"Poverty Lurks in Right-to-Work.\" \nMass media, TV, radio and newspapers played its greatest role yet in a Wyoming campaign. McGee's campaign released a 30-minute documentary, \"This is Gale McGee\" in the summer and it was broadcast on all local TV networks and was the single most effective use of the medium\nUltimately, McGee won reelection over Wold by a margin of 16,397.\n\nHe strongly supported President Lyndon B. Johnson's views on the Vietnam War. On March 6, 1965, CBS News aired an hour-long TV special titled \"Vietnam: Hawks and the Doves\" that featured a debate between McGee and Senator George McGovern for the full hour. It was moderated by Charles Collingwood. Hanson Baldwin of the New York Times and former Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs (1963–64) Roger Hilsman also participated. During the debate, McGee called for \"planned escalation;\" Baldwin contemplated massive bombing campaign and a naval blockade of North Vietnam. It appeared that Hilsman agreed that troops should be sent, but didn't think it would make a difference. McGovern was all alone in arguing against military intervention. At the conclusion on the debate, Collingwood summarized that McGee was a \"hawk\" on Vietnam, McGovern a \"dove\" and Hilsman was a \"chicken hawk.\"\n\nAlso that year, after over 10 years as a member of the Appropriations Committee, McGee was named chairman of the Foreign Operations Appropriations subcommittee.\n\nIn March 1966, McGee was appointed to the Foreign Relations Committee where he would serve until 1967 and then was reappointed in 1969 and served until he left the Senate. He believed in the policy of containing communism, and his pro-military views were accented by his firm support for foreign aid. Johnson strongly considered appointing Senator McGee to be Ambassador to the UN after the resignation of Arthur Goldberg.\n\nIn 1968, McGee wrote \"The Responsibilities of World Power\", which warned against isolationism and urged the United States to accept its power and position imposed upon it in the aftermath of World War II. The book further argued that the U.S. had a responsibility to be a Pacific power, to act as a counterweight to China, and to support free nations in their efforts to remain nonaligned or western allies but not to fall into the Communist fold. The work was nominated for a Woodrow Wilson Foundation award.\n\nIn 1972, McGee introduced S. 352, which would allow eligible voters to register by mail in federal elections. The bill would establish a new Voter Registration Administration as part of the U.S. Census Bureau to administer the registration program. Under the procedure, postcard forms would be mailed to all postal addresses and residences, and the cards would have to be returned to local registration agents no later than 30 days before a federal election. Processing of the forms would be paid for by the Voter Registration Administration. McGee believed argued that existing methods discourage registration citing the fact that 62 million people did not vote in 1972 election, nearly half of all Americans eligible to vote. Opponents believed that the proposal would destroy the two-party system, lead to increased fraud, and cost too much to implement. The Nixon Administration formally opposed the bill citing the potential for fraud and cost but McGee's committee reported the bill with only Hiram Fong, the Committee's ranking Republican member, opposing. During floor debate In spring 1973, the bill was filibustered for almost a month. The 13th successful cloture vote since in the Senate came after two earlier attempts to terminate a four-week filibuster on the voter registration bill (S 352) failed. Had the May 9 vote also fallen short, McGee had warned opponents of S 352 during floor debate that not only would there have been another cloture vote, but \"if necessary there'll be another and another and another.\" The nearly 100 per cent attendance for the May 9 vote, plus three switches in favor of cloture on the third try, gave the cloture motion the necessary two-thirds vote. John C. Stennis (D Miss.) was the only senator to miss the vote. Earlier efforts to shut off the talkathon on the bill failed by two and three votes, respectively. The April 30 vote was 56-31; the May 3 vote was 60-34. On May 9, cloture succeeded by a one-vote margin, 67-32. Two Republicans and one Democrat switched from opposition to support for cloture on the May 9 67-32 vote. The Republicans were Robert T. Stafford (Vt.) and Milton R. Young (N.D.); both had voted against cloture on the two previous cloture motions. The Democrat was Russell B. Long (La.), who opposed cloture on the May -3 vote. In addition, supporters of cloture gained four of five new votes of members who did not vote May 3: Alan Bible (D Nev.), Mark O. Hatfield (R Ore.), Joseph M. Montoya (D N.M.) and William B. Saxbe (R Ohio). John Sparkman (D Ala.), one of the other two members (along with Stennis) who did not vote May 3, cast the only additional vote against cloture. Final passage of S. 352 was successful on May 9, 1973 by a vote of 57-32. The legislation died after the House failed to take action on the bill.\n\nMcGee's bid for reelection in 1970 was targeted by Republicans as one of the top seven races in the country. Republican leaders recruited Congressman John Wold to again take on McGee, despite Wold being trounced by McGee in the 1964 election.\n\nMcGee faced a primary challenger for the Democratic nomination because of McGee's support for continued military action in Vietnam. McGee won nomination overwhelmingly by 24,508 votes.\n\nMcGee again promoted his seniority in the Senate and his committee assignments (Appropriations, Foreign Relations, and Post Office and Civil Service) that benefited the State. To charges that he was a big spender of federal monies, he pointed out that he helped bring over $349 million in federal aid to Wyoming in the previous year and that if that was big spending he was \"for it.\" \n\nVice President Spiro Agnew supported Wold's campaign but never specifically mentioned McGee by name. The Denver Post chided the Vice President for speaking against McGee considering it was McGee who helped Nixon solve a major postal strike and continued to support military action in Vietnam. The same newspaper reported that in 1969, McGee voted with the Nixon Administration 69 percent of the time and 24 percent against, while Wold only supported the Administration on issues 49 percent of the time, and opposed 28 percent.\n\nMcGee won re-election receiving 67,207 votes to Wold's 53,279. McGee won eleven of the 23 counties he picked up in 1964 but added for others and increased his margin of victory in Natrona County, Wyoming – a moderately strong Republican county and Wold's home base. McGee continued to have strong support of organized labor, carrying big margins in the southern \"Union Pacific\" counties.\n\nIn his third term he continued to be a leading member of the committees on which he served. He was Chairman of Western Hemisphere Affairs subcommittee of the Foreign Relations Committee.\n\nMcGee was a voice of moderation in the affairs of the Watergate scandal and the impeachment proceedings of President Richard Nixon. Against the wishes of many of his constituents, McGee stood on principle and fought hard for positions unpopular in Wyoming in support of gas rationing and the 55-mile per hour speed limit in the era of the first Arab oil embargoes.\n\nIn his third Senate term, McGee gave up the gavel of the Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee to become Chairman of Agriculture, Environmental and Consumer Protection Appropriations Subcommittee. He would remain Chairman of that subcommittee until he left the Senate. At an August 1971 hearing held by McGee's subcommittee, a Wyoming helicopter pilot testified that sheep ranchers paid him to fly near eagles which they killed with shotguns. About 500 bald eagles were destroyed in this manner, the pilot said. The Wyoming Woolgrowers Association had claimed that 8,000 lambs were lost to eagles annually, and the group's president declared he had seen eagles kill grown sheep and antelope. Conservationists disputed the figures and said that eagles seldom touched lambs unless they were already dead. A University of Montana study of prey items collected from 40 golden eagle nests over a three-year period found evidence of only one dead lamb and one dead sheep, with no proof they had been killed by eagles. In October 1972, Congress approved legislation strengthening the penalties imposed for violations of Bald Eagle Protection Act of 1940.\n\nA long-time supporter of the United Nations, McGee was appointed by President Richard Nixon to a four-member congressional delegation to represent the United States at the United Nations' 27th General Assembly in 1972. His chief assignment at the Assembly was to get the United Nations members to agree to lower the U.S.'s share annual dues from 31 percent to 25 percent - a difference of $13 million. Both the House and Senate had already passed measures to limit the United States' contribution to the U.N. But each country's share is ultimately decided by a majority of the 130 member nations. Through the efforts of McGee, along with U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. George Bush, the U.N. assembly approved the reduction, with 80 nations voting to support the resolution.\n\nIn 1965, Senator McGee began calling for a mandated August recess for Congress. It was not until 1969 that his idea gained enough support amongst his colleagues that they gave it a test run - the Senate recessed from August 13 to September 3. Finally, on August 6, 1971, as mandated by the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970, the Senate began its first official August recess. The account from the Office of the Senate Historian \n\nA July 10, 1975 memo from then White House Chief of Staff Donald Rumsfeld to President Gerald Ford listed McGee as one of many potential candidates to be Director of Central Intelligence. Rumsfeld listed \"pros and cons\" of each candidate (including George Bush, Lee Iacocca, and Byron White and others). The memo thought McGee was a strong defender of the intelligence community, respected within the foreign affairs community, and well-regarded for his independence. On November 4, 1975, William Colby was replaced as CIA Director by George Bush in a major shakeup of President Ford's administration termed the Halloween Massacre.\n\nIn his 1976 bid for a fourth term, McGee was defeated by Republican challenger Malcolm Wallop, who ran an expensive television advertising campaign attacking McGee for, among other positions, his opposition to state right-to-work laws, and problems with the U.S. Postal Service, based on McGee's chairmanship of the U.S. Senate committee overseeing the Postal Service. The margin of defeat was almost ten percentage points.\n\nAfter his defeat by Malcolm Wallop, McGee was nominated by President Jimmy Carter as United States Ambassador to the Organization of American States. After approval by the Senate, he was sworn in on March 30, 1977 at a ceremony in the Roosevelt Room in the White House by Judge John Sirica. His former colleague from the U.S. Senate, Vice President Walter Mondale, was in attendance as were former U.S. secretaries of State Henry Kissinger and William P. Rogers, former United States Ambassador to South Vietnam Ellsworth Bunker, Under Secretary of State Warren Christopher, National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, and senators John Sparkman and William Fulbright.\n\nDuring his tenure, McGee headed the U.S. delegation to four OAS assemblies and lobbied for the successful approval of the 1978 Panama Canal Treaty.\n\nIn September 1981, Gale W. McGee Associates, a consulting firm specializing in international and public affairs activities was formed with its headquarters in Washington, D.C. The firm offered a broad range of political and economic services to both domestic and international companies with a special emphasis on developing new business opportunities with the nations of Latin America and in the Caribbean. McGee later served as president of the American League for Exports and Security Assistance, Inc. in 1986; as a senior consultant at Hill & Knowlton, Inc. from 1987 to 1989; and was also president of the consulting firm of Moss, McGee, Bradley, Kelly & Foley, which was created with former U.S. Senator Frank Moss.\n\nMcGee married Loraine Baker in 1939 and together they had four children: David, Robert, Mary Gale and Lori Ann. Senator McGee died on April 9, 1992, in Washington, D.C. He is buried in Oak Hill Cemetery.\n\nIn January 2007, the Wyoming congressional delegation introduced federal legislation (H.R. 335, S. 219) to rename the U.S. Post Office in Laramie, Wyoming as the \"Gale W. McGee Post Office.\" The United States House of Representatives passed the legislation by voice vote on January 29, 2007. The United States Senate passed the legislation by Unanimous consent on February 7, 2007. The President signed the bill into law on March 7, 2007.\n\n•Gale McGee Papers at the University of Wyoming\n"}
{"id": "1945024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945024", "title": "Sam Torrance", "text": "Sam Torrance\n\nSamuel Robert Torrance (born 24 August 1953) is a Scottish professional golfer and sports commentator. He was one of the leading players on the European Tour from the mid-1970s to the late 1990s, with 21 Tour wins. Torrance was a member of European Ryder Cup teams on eight occasions, from 1981 to 1995 consecutively; he was on Cup-winning teams in 1985, 1987, 1989, and 1995. He was the winning non-playing captain of the European Ryder Cup team in 2002. Torrance was honoured with the MBE (1996) and OBE (2003), for his outstanding contributions to golf.\n\nTorrance turned professional at the age of 16, and joined the European Tour at 17. He achieved his first professional win in 1972, and won the Sir Henry Cotton Rookie of the Year award in the same year. He recorded his first European Tour win in 1976. He won 21 times on the European Tour; only fellow Scot Colin Montgomerie has accumulated more European Tour titles without winning one of golf's four major championships. His best finish on the European Tour Order of Merit was second, which he achieved in 1984 and 1995. In total he finished in the top ten on the list ten times. He holds the record for the most career appearances on the European Tour, with over 700 events played at the close of the 2008 season. During his prime Torrance was known for long driving and accurate short iron play, often played in a daring style.\n\nTorrance was also an early user of the broomhandle putter. After a disappointing 1988 season on the greens, Torrance experimented with the long putter that was already being used successfully in the U.S. He debuted his version, which anchored on the chin rather than the midriff, at the 1989 Jersey Open and subsequently finished in the top five. He has used it relatively successfully ever since.\n\nIn 2003, upon turning 50, Torrance became eligible to play in senior tournaments, and he picked up his first win on the European Senior Tour in 2004. He finished first on the European Senior Tour's Order of Merit in 2005, 2006 and 2009.\n\nTorrance played for Europe in the Ryder Cup eight times, from 1981 to 1995 consecutively; the Cup is contested every two years. In 1985 he sank the winning putt, which deprived the Americans of the trophy for the first time in 28 years. He also was a member of Cup-winning teams in 1987 (first-ever win for Europe on American soil), 1989 and 1995. In 2002, he was the non-playing captain on the European team which won the 2002 Cup at The Belfry. This made him the second European captain to sink the winning putt and captain a winning team at separate Ryder Cups, after Seve Ballesteros in 1987 (as a player) and 1997 (as captain). He was also named a vice-captain for the 2016 Ryder Cup at Hazeltine by captain Darren Clarke.\n\nTorrance's father Bob was a highly respected golf instructor who coached son Sam from childhood. He also coached Sam's son Daniel who played golf to a high level, competing with Sam at the Dunhill Links Championship in the Pro Am competition, winning it once. Torrance married English actress Suzanne Danielle in 1988. They have four children.\n\nTorrance was awarded an MBE in 1996 for services to golf, and an OBE in the 2003 New Year Honours List, for his captaincy of Europe's Ryder Cup team.\n\nTorrance currently works as a commentator for BBC Sport golf coverage. Along with Kelly Tilghman, he also provided commentary for \"Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09\".\n\nTorrance has appeared on the sport personality quiz show \"A Question of Sport\" five times since 2005. In October 2006, he took over nine minutes to consider with his teammates Ally McCoist and Michael Holding the question, \"Who is the only golfer from Europe or the United States to have won two majors without making a Ryder Cup appearance\", eventually correctly answering John Daly. On 17 March 2008, he competed with Sharron Davies and team captain Phil Tufnell in the 37th season of \"A Question of Sport\", and made history by achieving the first-ever perfect score on the show since it started in 1970. He is a supporter of Celtic and Manchester United football clubs.\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (4–2)\nPGA Tour of Australasia playoff record (0–1)\n\nEuropean Senior Tour playoff record (1–1)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut (3rd round cut in 1973, 1977 and 1978 Open Championships)<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n\n\"Results are not in chronological order before 2016.\"\n\nDNP = Did not play<br>\nCUT = missed the halfway cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place.<br>\nYellow background for top-10.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945025", "title": "Lakpa Gelu", "text": "Lakpa Gelu\n\nLakpa Gelu () (born June 23, 1967), often spelled \"Lhakpa\", is a Nepalese Sherpa climber from Jubing - 1, KhariKhola, Solukhumbu, Nepal. He is known for holding a world record for the fastest climbing of Mount Everest (the world's tallest mountain at 8,848 meters, known to the Nepalese as \"Sagarmatha\") in only 10 hours 56 minutes and 46 seconds. Gelu's record-breaking trip was his tenth trip to the summit of the mountain.\n\nLhakpa Gelu was born around June 23, 1967 in the Solukhumbu of Nepal. The ethnic Sherpa community in Nepal does not record exact birth dates, though, so it is impossible to know his precise birth date.\n\nLhakpa Gelu comes from a family of climbers. His older brother died in 1991 while climbing Annapurna, and his youngest brother has also climbed Mount Everest. He is married to Fulli and has three children—Ang Dawa, Nima, and Tashi.\n\nIn December 2006, Lhakpa Gelu moved to Utah. Despite his mountaineering accomplishments, Lhakpa struggled financially, as Sherpas are paid far less than Western guides. In Utah, he had difficulty finding work as a mountain guide, so instead he had to work at a coffee house, installing signs, and delivering pizzas while searching for employment as an expedition guide.\n\nIn 2008, Lhakpa began working as a guide for Alpine Ascents International, where he has guided expeditions up Mount Rainier and Aconcagua.\n\nHe is also involved in a social work by donating a fund to a public in Solukhumbu.\n\nGelu started for the summit at 5:00 p.m. on May 25, 2003, and reached on the summit at 3:56:46 a.m. on May 26. He returned to Base Camp at 11:20 a.m. on the 26th. (It is also reported that upon reaching the top, Gelu hoisted the Nepalese flag on a brass pole.) The total time of his climb from Base Camp to the summit and back to Base Camp was 18 hours 20 minutes.\n\nThe record he beat (12 hours 45 minutes) was set just a few days earlier on May 23, 2003 by 25-year-old Pemba Dorjie, a Sherpa from Rolwaling Himal.\n\nLakpa Gelu was the climbing \"Sardar\" of the 12-member \"Jubiläums Expedition Mt. Everest 2003\". He began his ascent of Everest from the Southeast Ridge under the leadership of Eckhard Schmitt, a 56-year-old mountaineer from Schaftlach, Germany.\n\nNearly one year later, on May 21, 2004, Pemba Dorjie surpassed Gelu's record, reaching the top in 8 hours and 10 minutes. On November 28, the Supreme Court of Nepal officially invalidated Pemba Dorje Sherpa's claim that, in 2004, he ascended Everest in 8 hours and 10 minutes, setting the fastest known time on the world's highest peak, according to Nepalese media reports. The decision, which restores the record to its previous holder, ends a 14-year dispute between Sherpa climbers and highlights the dubious and often arbitrary practice of claiming speed records on the world's highest mountains.\n\nThe debate over Everest's fastest known time stretches back at least to May 22, 2003, when Pemba Dorje Sherpa claimed to have summited from the mountain's south side in 12 hours and 45 minutes. However, his record was broken just three days later by Lakpa Gelu Sherpa, who recorded a summit time—verified by a fellow climber—of 10 hours and 56 minutes on the same route. Pemba Dorje initially disputed this claim, then returned the following season and, on May 21, 2004, claimed to summit Everest in 8 hours and 10 minutes, a shockingly fast time that earned him a Guinness World Record title, which stood for 13 years.\n\n\"I think [in 2004] there were a lot of eyebrows raised\", says Alan Arnette, an Everest veteran and longtime mountaineering blogger. \"That seemed a little aggressive, but is it impossible? Probably not.\"\n\nShortly after Pemba Dorje reset the fastest known time, Lakpa Gelu challenged the veracity of his record. Lakpa Gelu and other skeptics pointed to the fact that no photographic evidence exists to support Pemba Dorje's claim, no one climbed with him to verify the summit, and the harsh weather on May 21, 2004, would likely have prevented a successful summit attempt. This body of evidence—or lack thereof—led Lakpa Gelu in 2013 to appeal to the Nepalese Supreme Court, which ruled last week in his favor, ending what Arnette calls a \"turf battle\".\n\nNepal's Ministry of Culture, Tourism, and Civil Aviation, which issued a certificate acknowledging Pemba Dorje's record in 2004, will reportedly act in accordance with the Supreme Court ruling, according to the Himalayan Times. It is expected that Pemba Dorje will soon be stripped of his record by Nepal's Department of Tourism and that Lakpa Gelu will be formally recognized as having set the Everest speed record.\n\nBut Lakpa Gelu's speed record is not the only fastest known time currently acknowledged on the world's highest mountain. Records have been claimed on different routes—the North Face from the Tibetan side, for instance—and under different circumstances. In 1996, Italian climber Hans Kammerlander went from the north side's Advanced Base Camp to the summit without oxygen in 17 hours. On May 22, 2017, Spanish ski mountaineer and ultrarunner Kilian Jornet ascended Everest's North Face from Base Camp without the use of oxygen and fixed ropes (both of which Lakpa Gelu and Pemba Dorje used), and then returned to Advanced Base Camp in a mere 26 hours, setting a fastest known time for such an attempt. But to compare Jornet's ascent to Lakpa Gelu's would be futile. The mountaineers used different techniques and climbed from different sides of the mountain. And in Jornet's case, no previous speed record existed on the route.\n\nMoreover, Pemba Dorje's record is not the first speed record to be disputed by fellow climbers. In 1978, when Reinhold Messner and Peter Habeler made the first summit of Everest without supplemental oxygen, Sherpas including Tenzing Norgay (who made the first-ever ascent of Everest with Sir Edmund Hillary) doubted that it was possible. And even mountaineers as accomplished as the late Ueli Steck have had their records challenged. In 2014, when he claimed to have summited Annapurna solo—a feat for which he won the Piolets d'Or award—the legendary climber lost his camera in a small avalanche and did not carry a GPS. With little proof to support Steck's claim, some people in the mountaineering community doubted it ever happened. Even Jornet's Everest record from last May has been challenged by skeptics, Arnette says.\n\nSetting speed records is an increasingly popular trend—whether it be on Himalayan peaks or the Appalachian Trail—and come climbing season on Everest next spring, we will likely see another attempt. \"Most likely it will be a Sherpa\", Arnette says. \"Let's hope they bring their GPS and camera.\"\n\nIn addition to over a dozen Everest summits, Lhakpa has also summitted Cho Oyu and Ama Dablam in the Himalayas.\n\nIn 2007, Lhakpa climbed Everest to raise money for an elementary school in his hometown in Nepal and to increase public awareness of the contributions of the Sherpa people to Himalayan mountaineering.\n\nGelu owns an expedition/trekking company called Adventure Ascents, adventureascents.com. He guides on several peaks around the world with a focus on Himalayan expeditions and trekking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945031", "title": "Alice Notley", "text": "Alice Notley\n\nAlice Notley (born November 8, 1945) is an American poet. Notley came to prominence as a member of the second generation of the New York School of poetry--although she has always denied being involved with the New School movement, or any specific movement in general--having been a workshop leader and frequent attendee and reader at the school's hub, the St. Mark's Poetry Project. Notley's early work laid both formal and theoretical groundwork for several generations of poets; she is considered a pioneering voice on topics like motherhood and domestic life. \n\nNotley's experimentation with poetic form, seen in her books \"165 Meeting House Lane\", \"When I Was Alive\", \"The Descent of Alette\", and \"Culture of One\", ranges from a blurred line between genres, to a quotation-mark driven interpretation of the variable foot, to a full reinvention of the purpose and potential of strict rhythm and meter. She also experimented with channeling spirits of deceased loved ones, primarily men gone from her life like her father and her husband, poet Ted Berrigan, and used these conversations as topics and form on her poetry. Her poems have also been compared to Gertrude Stein, as well as her contemporary Bernadette Mayer. Mayer and Notley both used their experience as mothers and wives in their work.\n\nIn addition to poetry, Notley has written a book of criticism (\"Coming After\", University of Michigan, 2005), a play (\"Anne's White Glove\"—performed at the Eye & Ear Theater in 1985), a biography (\"Tell Me Again\", Am Here, 1982), and she has edited three publications, Chicago, Gare du Nord, and Scarlet. Notley's collage art appeared in Rudy Burckhardt's film \"Wayward Glimpses\" and her illustrations have appeared on the cover of numerous books, including a few of her own. As is often written in her biographical notes, \"she has never tried to be anything other than a poet,\" and with over forty books and chapbooks and several major awards, she is one of the most prolific and lauded American poets today. She is a recipient of the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize.\n\nNotley was born on November 8, 1945 in Bisbee, Arizona and grew up in Needles, California. Notley wrote extensively of her childhood and early life in her book \"Tell Me Again\" (Am here, 1982).\n\nNotley left Needles for New York City to attend Barnard College in 1963, desiring an escape from the isolation of her hometown. She received a Bachelor of Arts from Barnard College in spring 1967 and left New York City that fall for the fiction program at the Iowa Writers' Workshop. She was the only woman in her genre and one of two in the entire graduate writing department. Notley cites—in part—a reading by Robert Creeley as early inspiration for her writing more poetry. A close relationship with the poet Anselm Hollo, who was teaching at the program at that time, led to Notley leaving Iowa City for Morocco in 1968. Notley claims it was boring and returned to Iowa City where she met the poet Ted Berrigan who began as an instructor at the school that fall.\n\nAfter Notley's graduation, she and Berrigan spent periods of time in New York City and Buffalo. During the winter of 1970–71, Notley and Berrigan lived on Long Island, where Notley wrote her first book, \"165 Meeting House Lane\" (Twenty-Four Sonnets). The book took its title from the address of their home on Long Island and was published by Berrigan's C Press. It bears a dedication to James Schuyler and Anne and Fairfield Porter, who were also residing together on Long Island at the time. Notley also thanks Tom Clark who would go on to re-publish the sonnet cycle in his anthology \"All Stars.\" Notley and Berrigan spent the several months between Long Island and Chicago in Bolinas, California, which is where Berrigan officially printed \"165 Meeting House Lane\". Notley's second book, Phoebe Light, was published in 1973 by Bill Berkson's Bolinas-based press Big Sky.\n\nIn 1972, Notley married Berrigan and the two moved to Chicago where Berrigan had been given Ed Dorn's newly vacated teaching position at Northeastern Illinois University. Notley and Berrigan joined an already active community of Chicago poets, including Paul Carroll, Paul Hoover, and Maxine Chernoff. Notley gave birth to their first son, Anselm Berrigan, named after Anselm Hollo, in 1972, as well.\n\nAt Berrigan's behest, his students at Northeastern became very active members of the local poetry scene, starting magazines and reading series. One group of students—Darlene Pearlstein, Peter Kostakis, and Richard Friedman—started a small poetry press, The Yellow Press, which would go on to publish two books by Notley, one book by Berrigan, and give out a yearly Ted Berrigan Prize—overseen in part by Notley—for a first book (though the press would cease publishing two years in). Young poets on the Chicago scene regularly hung out with Notley and Berrigan at their home and many followed the couple back to New York City in the late 70s. The circle of younger poets who spent time with Notley and Berrigan included the aforementioned members of the Yellow Press team, Barbara Barg, Rochelle Kraut, Rose Lesniak, Bob Rosenthal, Steve Levine, Simon Schuchat, Tim Milk, and several others.\n\nWhile in Chicago, Notley started publishing her magazine \"Chicago\", a legal-sized mimeograph publication which would continue through both her pregnancies and even her relocation to England. Notley began the magazine to connect with preexisting poet friends and meet new writers on both coasts while living in the midwest. The magazine ran for eight issues, three of which were published while Notley and Berrigan lived in England. Notley edited seven of the issues with Berrigan taking over one while Notley was pregnant with their first son. The artist George Schneeman, perhaps most famous for his artworks that appeared on the covers of dozens of books of poetry, did all of the covers for the magazine.\n\nIn 1974, Berrigan got a job as a visiting poet at University of Essex, so Notley and Berrigan, with their son Anselm, relocated first to London, then to Brightlingsea in Essex. While in England, Notley would write her second sonnet cycle \"Great Interiors, Wines and Spirits of the World,\" which was originally published in a Notley-themed issue of the Chicago magazine Out There.\n\nFrom February through June 1974 in Wivenhoe, Essex, Notley wrote her book \"Songs for the Unborn Second Baby\" (United Artists, 1979). While Notley had written on motherhood prior to \"Songs\", this book was her first to focus fully on the matter and is the first full-length book of a New York School-affiliated poet to take on the task of addressing poetry's sexism and the pressures and setbacks of motherhood in both personal and creative life. \"Songs for the Unborn Second Baby\" is currently not fully in print. There are seven pages in Notley's book \"Grave of Light: New and Selected Poems\". Notley gave birth to her and Berrigan's second child, Edmund Berrigan, at Colchester Hospital in 1974.\n\nThe couple returned to Chicago for a brief period of time after their year in England before moving to New York City in 1976.\n\n1976 saw Notley and Berrigan moving their family permanently to New York City's Lower East Side, where they'd live together until Berrigan's death in 1983. Their apartment at 101 St. Mark's Place again became a hub for both young writers and Berrigan and Notley's contemporaries. Notley remained fairly prolific during this era, writing and publishing several full-length collections. Perpetually strapped for cash, the two took on whatever small jobs they could to support the family. Notley and Berrigan were frequent instructors at Naropa University's summer writing program. Some of Notley's most famous engagements with the poetry community while in NYC were her workshops at the Poetry Project at St. Mark's Church, which were attended by dozens of young poets including Bob Holman, Patricia Spears Jones, Steve Carey, and Susie Timmons. Eileen Myles wrote of her experience in Notley's workshops in her books \"Chelsea Girls\" (Black Sparrow Press, 2004; Ecco, 2015) and \"Inferno\" (O/R Books, 2010). Of her 1983 workshop, Notley wrote:\n\nIn 1986, Notley led a workshop where participants were required to write an entire book during the course of their meetings. After the workshop ended, Notley teamed up with students to print copies of their works on the mimeograph machine in the St. Mark's basement. The books were published under the imprint Unimproved Editions and Notley made cover art for the majority of the titles. Her own book, entitled \"Parts of a Wedding,\" was published first in a small edition by Unimproved Editions then later as a section of the O Books anthology \"O One.\"\n\nBerrigan's death in 1983 struck the poetry community exceptionally hard and over the next decade, Notley would suffer the loss of many others who were close to her. Notley's 1985 play \"Anne's White Glove,\" a commission by Ada Katz's Eye and Ear Theater navigated the pain of Berrigan's death, and her collections \"Margaret & Dusty\" (Coffee House, 1985), \"Parts of a Wedding\" (Unimproved Editions, 1986), and \"At Night the States\" (The Yellow Press, 1987) contain material written during a period of mourning. Notley's elegiac work during this era, including her poems \"Beginning With a Stain\" and \"At Night the States,\" is some of her most widely celebrated.\n\nIn 1992, Notley moved to Paris with her second husband, the British poet and novelist Douglas Oliver (1937–2000), whom she met while living in England in 1974. The two worked on two magazines together, Gare du Nord and Scarlet, and self-published a compendium of their own books, \"The Scarlet Cabinet,\" which contained Notley's \"Descent of Alette.\" \"Descent\" would grow to be Notley's most widely read and taught collection after its reprinting by Penguin in 1996. Notley has remained in Paris but makes several trips to the United States each year to give readings and teach small workshops. Some have linked Notley's geographical move to Paris—since it followed a period of intensely personal writing—as also marking a creative distance between herself and her poems, though her books \"Mysteries of Small Houses\" (Penguin, 1998) and \"Culture of One\" (Penguin, 2011) engage very much with personal matter.\n\nIn 1999, Notley was both a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize and a winner of the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Poetry. In spring 2001, she received an award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the Poetry Society of America's Shelley Memorial Award. This period also marked an increase in scholarly interest in Notley's work.\n\nNotley has stayed very involved in the preservation of both Berrigan and Oliver's works, having edited and written introductions for a number of their books and she continues to be a prolific and powerful force in contemporary poetry, winning the Leonore Marshall Poetry Prize in 2007 and the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize in 2015. Several poems from her 2007 collection \"In the Pines\" were set to music by the Canadian indie pop band AroarA for their 2014 Polaris Music Prize-nominated 2013 EP \"In the Pines\" and in Fall 2014, a conference celebrating Notley's work was held at the Bay Area Public School in Oakland, California. Over two nights, November 14 and 15, 2016, Notley read \"The Descent of Alette\" in its entirety at The Lab in San Francisco.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945047", "title": "John Bennett (actor)", "text": "John Bennett (actor)\n\nJohn David Bennett (8 May 1928 – 11 April 2005) was an English actor. Born in Beckenham, Kent, he was educated at Bradfield College in Berkshire, then trained at the Central School of Speech and Drama, followed by a wide repertory theatre experience including Bromley, Bristol Old Vic, Dundee, the Edinburgh Festival and Watford before going to London's West End.\n\nOften cast as a villain, he had many roles on television including \"Market in Honey Lane\", \"Porridge\", \"Survivors\", \"The Avengers\", \"Strange Report\", \"Bergerac\", \"The Professionals\" and four episodes of \"The Saint\" . He guest-starred in two \"Doctor Who\" serials, as General Finch in \"Invasion of the Dinosaurs\" (1974) and as the Chinese magician Li H'sen Chang in \"The Talons of Weng-Chiang\" (1977). He is also well remembered as Philip Bosinney in the BBC's adaptation of \"The Forsyte Saga\" (1967), but also appeared in over three hundred TV productions including \"God's Architect\"; \"Blake's 7\"; \"I, Claudius\"; \"Rome\"; \"Rosemary & Thyme\"; \"Saracen\"; \"Honey Lane\"; \"Special Branch\"; \"Softly, Softly\"; \"Mulberry\"; \"Tales of the Unexpected\" and \"Anna Karenina\". One of his last televised roles was in an episode of \"Jonathan Creek\".\n\nHis film roles included \"The House That Dripped Blood\" (1970), \"The House in Nightmare Park\" (1973), \"The Fifth Element\" (1997), \"Charlotte Gray\" (2001) and \"Minority Report\" (2002). He also played an undercover detective in \"Victim\" (1961) (starring Dirk Bogarde), but the role was uncredited.\n\nHis theatre roles included Yasha in \"The Cherry Orchard\" and Henry Percy (Hotspur) in \"Richard II\" both for John Gielgud, Exton in \"Richard II\" and Volscian Senator in \"Coriolanus\" (Almeida Theatre), Marley's Ghost in \"A Christmas Carol\" (Royal Shakespeare Company) and Uncle in \"Inner Voices\" (Royal National Theatre), as well as working extensively at the Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester. He starred in many West End musicals including \"On Your Toes\" (Palace), \"Marilyn!\" (Adelphi), \"The Sound of Music\" (Apollo Victoria), \"The King and I\" (London Palladium), \"The Baker's Wife\" (Phoenix) and was nominated for an Olivier Award for Best Supporting Performance in a Musical for his performance as Louis Epstein in \"Jolson The Musical\" (Victoria Palace and Royal Alexandra Theatre, Toronto). His last stage role was as Conrad in \"Gates of Gold\" by Frank McGuinness with William Gaunt at the Finborough Theatre, London, in December 2004.\n\nIn radio, he had been a member of the BBC Drama Repertory Company, and his broadcast parts included roles in programmes that ranged from Shakespeare to Paul Temple.\n\nBennett was an enthusiastic amateur flier and an accomplished glider pilot. For many years he was a member of the RAF G.S.A (Gliding and Soaring Association) Centre at RAF Bicester in the 1970s. He flew alongside Warrant Officer Andy Gough (then Chief Flying Instructor) and was a part owner of a number of high performance gliders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945059", "title": "Iraq Today", "text": "Iraq Today\n\nIraq Today is a newspaper in Iraq. \n\nIt is the first domestic English-language newspaper published in Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein. \n\nThe newspaper's first issue was published on 9 April 2003. Its tagline is \"The Independent Voice of Iraq\". \n\n"}
{"id": "1945062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945062", "title": "Alex Steffen", "text": "Alex Steffen\n\nAlex Steffen (born 1968) is an American futurist who writes and speaks about sustainability and the future of the planet. He emphasizes the importance of imagining persuasive, positive possible futures: “It’s literally true that we can’t build what we can’t imagine... The fact that we haven’t compellingly imagined a thriving, dynamic, sustainable world is a major reason we don’t already live in one.”\n\nFrom 2003–2010, Steffen was Executive Editor at the website Worldchanging. Worldchanging practiced \"solutions-based journalism.\" The nonprofit announced the goal of its work was to highlight new solutions to what the editorial team saw as the planet's most pressing problems, rather than to spread news of those problems or critiques of their causes.\n\nThe site won or was nominated for a number of awards and prizes, including: 2005 won the Utne Independent Press Award; 2006, finalist for a Webby for Best Blog; 2007 finalist for a Webby for Best Magazine, as well as for Bloggie awards for Best Group Weblog and Best Writing for a Weblog; won the Green Prize for Sustainable Literature for its book; won Organic Design Award; Prix Ars Electronica nominee; 2008 named a Webby Official Honoree.\n\nIn November 2006, Steffen published a survey of global innovation, \"Worldchanging: A User's Guide for the 21st century\" () with a foreword by Al Gore, design by Stefan Sagmeister and an introduction by Bruce Sterling. A new, updated edition, with a foreword by Van Jones and an introduction by Bill McKibben, was published in 2011.\n\nIn 2012, Steffen released \"Carbon Zero: Imagining Cities That Can Save the Planet\", a book which explored the innovations and policy changes a North American city would need to make to become carbon neutral.\n\nIn 2013, he became \"Planetary Futurist in Residence\" at the design company IDEO.\n\nIn 2016, Steffen successfully ran a crowd-funding campaign for \"The Heroic Future\": a three part series of documentaries on how we might imagine a sustainable future. The theme was \"you cannot build what you cannot imagine\". The series was filmed in front of a live audience over three nights in September 2016 at the Marines' Memorial Theatre in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2017, following the election of President Donald Trump, Steffen modified his style to a form of 'anticipatory journalism'; taking the same themes as the Heroic Future and setting them in the near future, post-Trump. This series of newsletters are titled \"The Nearly Now\".\n\nSteffen is a frequent public speaker and has spoken at TED, Poptech, Design Indaba, Amsterdam's PicNic, The Royal Geographical Society and New Delhi's Doors of Perception. As well as keynote addresses at industry events like the AIGA and IDSA national conferences, O'Reilly's Emerging Technologies (eTech), FOO Camp and the Business Expo Bright Green held during the Copenhagen Climate Summit. Steffen has keynoted three different South by Southwest conferences (SxSW). Steffen has also spoken at universities including Harvard, Yale, Oxford, Stanford and the London School of Economics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945064", "title": "Mizia (town)", "text": "Mizia (town)\n\nMizia () is a town and municipality in Vratsa Province, northwestern Bulgaria near the Danube river. As of December 2009, the town has a population of 3,354 inhabitants.\n\nThe town's original name was Bukyovtsi (Букьовци); an urban-type settlement, it was merged with Glozhene in 1970 to create the town of Mizia (meaning \"Moesia\"), but the two were separated again in 1978. However, Bukyovtsi retained the new name and its town status, while Glozhene kept its old name and village status.\n\nMiziya Peak on Livingston Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Miziya.\n"}
{"id": "1945076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945076", "title": "Voice of Iraq", "text": "Voice of Iraq\n\nThe Voice of Iraq ( lit: \"Idha'atu Sawt Il-Iraq\") is a privately owned radio station in Iraq that has broadcast since August 27, 2003. It broadcasts in Arabic, Iraqi Turkish and English on 1179 kHz medium wave in Baghdad and nearby towns including Ba'qubah and Fallujah to an area with 12 million inhabitants. Voice of Iraq is supervised by the International Agency for Free Media, which is a media institution that was active abroad during the Saddam Hussein regime and covered Iraqi news via the Internet.\n\nThe editorial policy of the Voice of Iraq is supportive of national unity, on the basis that Arabs, Kurds and Turkomans should have equal rights. Programmes include news reports and panel discussions of current affairs, combined with Shi'a religious and patriotic songs.\n\nPrior to the formation of \"Voice of Iraq\" in 2003, the name had been used previously by several radio stations including an English language FM station owned by Uday Hussein. There were also an Egyptian Government funded radio station that operated between 1958–1959, which advocated pan-Arabism and supported Abdul Karim Qassim. In addition there was another radio station that operated in 1959 that was a black propaganda effort that mimicked the pro-Qassim station but attacked his government and was widely considered to be U.S. funded.\n\nThe Voice of Iraq radio station should also not be confused with the independent daily Iraqi newspaper with the similar name \"Sawt al-Iraq\" (Voice of Iraq) which launched in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945077", "title": "Jerome Kersey", "text": "Jerome Kersey\n\nJerome Kersey (June 26, 1962 – February 18, 2015) was an American professional basketball player in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Portland Trail Blazers (1984–1995), Golden State Warriors (1995–96), Los Angeles Lakers (1996–97), Seattle SuperSonics (1997–98), San Antonio Spurs (1998–2000), and Milwaukee Bucks (2000–01). Kersey won an NBA championship with the Spurs in 1999.\n\nThe Trail Blazers selected Kersey in the second round of the 1984 NBA draft from Longwood University (then Longwood College) in Farmville, Virginia. He was a member of the Spurs during their 1999 NBA Finals victory over the New York Knicks. Following his playing career, Kersey worked with his former Portland teammate and then-head coach of the Milwaukee Bucks Terry Porter as an assistant in 2005. Kersey died from a pulmonary embolism caused by a blood clot at his home in Tualatin, Oregon, on February 18, 2015.\n\nKersey attended the then Longwood College, at the time a NCAA Division II school, where he set school records for points, rebounds, steals and blocked shots while making 57% of his baskets. As a senior, his rebounding average of 14.2 led all Division II players. However, it was not until May 2006 that Kersey graduated from Longwood, having only needed two more college courses to graduate for some years.\n\nComing from a school that was not known as a basketball powerhouse, Kersey was selected in the second round of the 1984 NBA draft (46th overall pick) by the Portland Trail Blazers. He was a regular contributor from the bench, eventually becoming a starter, and by his third year, he began to shine, even coming in second behind Michael Jordan in the Slam Dunk Contest.\n\nThe 1987–88 season, was his best statistically, as he averaged 19.2 points and 8.3 rebounds. He became a starter and was part of the nucleus of a strong Portland team, along with Clyde Drexler, Terry Porter, Buck Williams, and Kevin Duckworth that made it to the NBA Finals two out of the next three years (in 1990 and 1992). However, in subsequent years Clifford Robinson would take his place and Kersey found himself spending more time on the bench.\n\nBy 1995, Portland had several talented forwards, and he was left unprotected in that year's expansion draft when he was selected by the Toronto Raptors, but they waived him before the 1995–96 season began. He signed with the Golden State Warriors, where he started 58 games, and had an altercation with Latrell Sprewell, which resulted in the latter threatening to bring a gun to practice. For the 1996–97 season Kersey signed with the Los Angeles Lakers as a free agent, and he had a quite productive year, logging his most playing time in five seasons, because trades and injuries had left the Lakers thin. The 1997–98 season saw him go to his fourth team in four years, but injuries kept him out of the Seattle SuperSonics' lineup for most of the season.\n\nFor the lockout-shortened 1998–99 season, Kersey found himself on the San Antonio Spurs. The team won the 1999 NBA championship. Kersey provided frontcourt depth and experience off the bench in the team's title run, although his scoring, rebounding, and minutes played were all career lows. He stayed with the Spurs for another season and then spent one final season in the NBA with the Milwaukee Bucks, who fell short in the Eastern Conference Finals. He retired at the conclusion of the 2000–01 season.\n\nAs a Portland Trail Blazer, Kersey was near the top in many of Portland's career categories at the time of his leaving, including games played (second), minutes played (third), scoring (third), rebounding (second), assists (sixth), steals (third), field goals made (fourth), and blocked shots (second).\n\nFollowing his retirement in 2001, Kersey served as a coach in various capacities for several teams. For a short time, Kersey worked for Wells Fargo home mortgages. During the 2003–04 NBA season, Kersey was hired by the Trail Blazers to serve as director of player programs. After a season in that capacity, Kersey was hired as an assistant coach by the Milwaukee Bucks, where he served under his former Portland teammate, head coach Terry Porter. He served with the Bucks for one year, but was let go (along with Mike Schuler, who coached both Kersey and Porter while in Portland) on May 6, 2005. Porter was subsequently fired as the Bucks' coach later that year. For a period of time following, Kersey joined the automotive industry as an auto wholesaler.\n\nIn November 2005, Kersey was in Longwood's first Hall of Fame class. Others included baseball player Michael Tucker and LPGA golfer Tina Barrett.\n\nIn 2008, Kersey was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame and was selected to receive the 2015 recipient of the William Henry Ruffner Alumni Award, the highest award given to a Longwood alumni. The court at Willett Hall, Longwood's basketball facility, was posthumously named in his honor on December 3, 2016.\n\nKersey married his girlfriend of over nine years, Teri (Teresa Folsom) Donnerberg, on September 21, 2013 at the Columbia Edgewater Country Club in Portland, Oregon. Together, they have four children from previous relationships. \n\nOn February 18, 2015, Kersey died suddenly at the age of 52. Lake Oswego Fire Department responded to a call from Kersey's home shortly after 5 pm, and he was taken to Legacy Meridian Park Medical Center in Tualatin, Oregon where he died. Just days prior to his death, Kersey underwent knee surgery. On the day of his death, he left the Trail Blazers' Rose Quarter office because he was not feeling well. Medical examiners linked his death to a blood clot that traveled to his lungs, causing a pulmonary embolism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945079", "title": "John Savident", "text": "John Savident\n\nJohn Savident (born 21 January 1938) is a British actor, known for his numerous television roles, including his portrayal of Fred Elliott in the soap opera \"Coronation Street\" from 1994 until 2006. He is also known for his performance as Monsieur Firmin in the West End debut of \"The Phantom of the Opera\".\n\nSavident was born in Guernsey and still lived there at the time of the German occupation of the island in 1940. He and his family escaped to England in a fishing boat. During his early years, he was a police officer before turning to acting as his profession.\n\nSavident created the role of Monsieur Firmin in the original production of 'Phantom of the Opera' which opened on 9 October 1986 at Her Majesty's Theatre, Haymarket, London SW.\n\nDespite his many film and TV roles, (including civil servant Sir Frederick Stewart in \"Yes, Minister\" and in \"A Clockwork Orange\"), it was only during the 1990s when he joined the cast of \"Coronation Street\" as the bellicose but romantic butcher Fred Elliott that he became a household name. He made his first appearance on the show in 1994 and his character quickly became popular with viewers.\n\nOn 1 December 2000, Savident was stabbed in the neck by Michael Smith who claimed he was acting in self-defence. Savident said at the time \"I suddenly felt somebody come up behind me and whizz me round so I was face down on the bed and then I felt a prick on my throat\". Savident had met Smith in a gay bar. They then went to Savident's home apparently to discuss the theatre which Smith claimed was a euphemism for sex. The next week on \"Coronation Street\" the large sticking plaster on his character's neck was explained as a \"butchering accident\"..\n\nIn December 2005, Savident announced that he was to leave \"Coronation Street\" citing (undisclosed) \"personal reasons\". His character died of a stroke nine months later, in October 2006. He later revealed that he had retired from the show \"because he wanted to spend more time with his family in Hertfordshire\".\n\nSince leaving, he has been critical of the way the series is produced in a number of articles and television interviews, claiming that the programme is amongst other things \"on too frequently\" and \"badly lit\". He has also said he disagrees with the programme hiring well-known actors, as it takes jobs away from struggling, unknown actors.\n\nHe was one of the readers on the BBC's online Advent Calendar in December 2006 and starred in the 2006 pantomime \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" as the henchman at Manchester Opera House, appearing alongside Suranne Jones, Justin Moorhouse, and the all-star seven dwarves including Warwick Davis.\n\nIn 2007, he was touring as the lead in a production of \"Hobson's Choice\".\n\nHe appeared on \"Loose Women\" on 19 March 2009 to discuss his part as Sir Joseph Porter in the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta \"HMS Pinafore\", which toured the United Kingdom during the spring and summer of 2009.\n\nHe guest-starred in the Christmas special episode of \"Holby City\" in 2012, playing patient Rupert Pool. He voiced the character Pendle in the Doctor Who audio-drama \"Order of the Daleks\".\n"}
{"id": "1945081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945081", "title": "Treaty of Gandamak", "text": "Treaty of Gandamak\n\nThe Treaty of Gandamak was signed on 26 May 1879 to officially end the first phase of the Second Anglo-Afghan War. Under the treaty, the Afghan Emir, Mohammad Yaqub Khan, ceded various frontier areas to the British Raj, including Quetta, Pishin, Harnai, Sibi, Kurram, and Khyber, while retaining sovereignty over the rest of Afghanistan.\n\nIt was signed on by Emir Mohammad Yaqub Khan of Afghanistan and Sir Louis Cavagnari of the British government's India Office at a British army camp near the village of Gandamak, about east of Kabul and west of Jalalabad. The treaty was ratified by Lord Edward Robert Bulwer Lytton, Viceroy of India, on 30 May 1879.\n\nMost historical writings consider the Treaty of Gandamak as the prelude to the second phase of the Second Anglo-Afghan War, 1879–1880. As result of the British victory at the Battle of Kandahar in 1880 the treaty was reaffirmed and the British appointed Abdur Rahman as Emir.\n\nOn 22 July 1878 a Russian delegation arrived in Kabul without the explicit invitation of Amir Sher Ali Khan. In early August 1878 to counteract the Russian initiative, the British informed the Amir that he must receive a special mission that included members of other European states \"with all becoming honors.\"\n\nThe mission was denied entry into Afghanistan at a military post commanded by Ali Masjid in the Khyber pass on 21 September. In retaliation, the British Government of India issued an ultimatum that by 20 November 1878 the Amir must apologize for the effrontery and provide a satisfactory explanation. Sher Ali's response of 19 November 1878, delayed by his own son and heir apparent's death on 17 August, did not reach the Viceroy until 30 November, and lacked an apology.\n\nOn 21 November the British Raj declared war on Afghanistan, occupied the Korram valley and the Paywar pass, and moved its armed forces via the Khyber pass and Quetta towards Jalalabad and Qandahar, respectively. Unable to offer effective military resistance, on 23 December 1878, the Amir left Kabul for Turkestan, intending to seek Russian aid for the defence of his domains. Sher Ali died on 21 February 1879 near Balkh and his son, Mohammad Yaqub Khan, declared himself Emir of Afghanistan. On 26 May 1879, after preliminary correspondence with Cavagnari prior to the British withdrawal from most occupied Afghan territories, Muhammad Yaqub's request for permission to visit the British military camp was accepted, and so he proceeded there to sign the Treaty of Gandamak, considered one of the most humiliating ever accepted by an Afghan ruler, essentially making the Afghan Amir a feudatory of the British Crown.\n\n\"His Highness the Amir of Afghanistan and its depen-dencies engages, on the exchange of the ratifications of this Treaty, to publish a full and complete amnesty, absolving all his subjects from any responsibility for intercourse with the British forces during the war, and to guarantee and protect all persons of whatever degree from any punishment or molestation on that account. His Highness the Amir of Afghanistan and its depen-dencies agrees to conduct his relations with Foreign States in accordance with the advice and wishes of the British Government. His Highness the Amir will enter into no engagements with Foreign States, and will not take up arms against any Foreign State, except with the concurrence of the British Government. On these conditions the British Government will support the Amir against any foreign aggression with money, arms, or troops, to be employed in whatsoever manner the British Government may judge best for this purpose. Should British troops at any time enter Afghanistan for the purpose of repelling foreign aggression, they will return to their stations in British territory as soon as the object for which they entered has been accomplished.\" —\"First section of the treaty\"\nUnder the provisions of the treaty the Amir surrendered control over Afghani foreign relations policy and allowed for a British Mission, with European members, to reside in Kabul. Jurisdiction over the Korram and Pishin valleys, the Sibi district, and the Khybar pass were transferred to the British. The treaty provided for increased commercial contacts and the establishment of a telegraph line between Kabul and British India. Mohammad Yaqub Khan was to issue amnesty to all those who had collaborated with the British occupying forces.\n\nThe British Mission led by Cavagnari arrived in Kabul on 24 July 1879, but less than two months later Cavagnari and all members of his Mission were massacred when on 3 September 1879 a dissatisfied regiment of the Amir's army from Herat stormed the mission compound.\n\nThe massacre set the stage for another British invasion of Afghanistan and the expulsion of Mohammad Yaqub Khan to India. It culminated in the British appointment of Abdur Rahman (ruled 22 July 1880 – 1 October 1901), a patrilateral cousin of Yaqub, as Amir of Afghanistan. Abdur Rahman accepted the provisions of the Treaty of Gandamak - with the modification that the British agent and his staff in Kabul would be classed as Indian Muslims.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945084", "title": "The Rum Diary (novel)", "text": "The Rum Diary (novel)\n\nThe Rum Diary is an early novel by American writer Hunter S. Thompson. It was written in the early 1960s but was not published until 1998. The manuscript, begun in 1959, was discovered amongst Thompson's papers by Johnny Depp. The story involves a journalist named Paul Kemp who, in the 1950s, moves from New York to work for a major newspaper, \"The Daily News\", in San Juan, Puerto Rico. It is Thompson's second novel, preceded by the still-unpublished \"Prince Jellyfish\".\n\nSet in the late 1950s, the novel encompasses a tangled love story involving jealousy, treachery and violent alcoholic lust among the Americans who staff the newspaper. Thompson himself travelled from New York to San Juan in 1960 to write for an ill-fated sports newspaper on the island of Puerto Rico. Thompson had unsuccessfully applied to work at the larger English-language daily called \"The San Juan Star\" which novelist William J. Kennedy edited. While in Puerto Rico, Thompson befriended many of the writers at the \"Star\", providing the context for \"The Rum Diary\"'s fictional storyline.\n\nAlthough Thompson wrote his narrative at the age of 22, it deals extensively with a fear of \"going over the hill\" and growing old. The prominent characters are typical of Thompson's work: violent, maniacal and alcoholic, stumbling through life. The narrative uses a highly paced and rather exciting style, also typical of Thompson's oeuvre.\nThompson himself stated that he wanted to write the Great American Novel. \"I still can't beat that goddamn Gatsby.\"\n\nThompson told PBS talk-show host Charlie Rose in 1998 that he had given up the novel because it had originally \"bounced about seven times – I got the standard list of rejection letters – and I came back from South America and I got into the politics of the 60s and 70s, and it was a full time job\". He then said that he revisited the book because \"it's got a romantic notion...that and money...and I was faced with the fact of having to dig out my 40-year old story...I can't change it, like, 'ye gods, this is me, this is the world I lived in'...so I approached it as a writer...it's a good story.\"\n\n\"The Rum Diary\" has been adapted into a film. Bruce Robinson wrote the screenplay and directed the film, which stars Johnny Depp as journalist Paul Kemp. Filming took place in Puerto Rico during 2009. It was released on October 28, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945093", "title": "Summon the Heroes", "text": "Summon the Heroes\n\nSummon the Heroes is a one-movement orchestral composition written for the 1996 Summer Olympics by the American composer John Williams for the National Broadcasting Company (NBC). It premiered July 19, 1996, at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in Atlanta, Georgia. The composition was dedicated to Tim Morrison, trumpet soloist of the Boston Pops Orchestra. The piece is the third of four compositions Williams has written for the Olympics, following 1984's \"Olympic Fanfare and Theme\" and 1988's \"Olympic Spirit\", and preceding 2002's \"Call of the Champions\".\n\n\"Summon the Heroes\" is scored for a full orchestra and lasts just over six minutes in duration. Music journalist Jon Burlingame described the piece as having \"antiphonal brass choirs\" and added that it was \"longer and more complex\" than Williams' previous Olympic compositions. Christian Clemmensen of \"Filmtracks\" has also noted \"Roman and Greek-like historical appeal\" in the brass writing that the work \"featured with nobility.\"\n\nIn reviewing \"Summon the Heroes\" on the 2002 album \"American Journey\" (featuring an eponymous composition and the 2002 Olympic theme \"Call of the Champions\", among other Williams' pieces), film music critic James Southall highly praised the work, saying that it \"...manages to offer in six minutes the kind of development and depth that simply isn't possible in the shorter tracks that have come before.\" Southall added, \"For my money it's Williams's best concert piece, and maybe his best piece period.\" Christian Clemmensen of \"Filmtracks\" also praised the work for having more world appeal than Williams' other Olympic compositions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945097", "title": "Venter", "text": "Venter\n\nVenter or Venters is a Jewish and Afrikaans surname, and may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945099", "title": "Joel Gertner", "text": "Joel Gertner\n\nJoel Gertner (born September 20, 1975) is an American professional wrestling announcer and manager best known for his work in Extreme Championship Wrestling.\n\nGertner was barely 17 years old when he began making wrestling appearances at a local wrestling federation as a heel announcer under the nickname Joey Jaguar. He would threaten the wrestlers and usually get beat up for his actions. Gertner attended Poly Prep Country Day School in Brooklyn, New York and started attending Cornell University in 1993. He began working for ECW over the summer of 1995, and after his bookings started to interfere with his schoolwork, he dropped out of Cornell in the spring of 1996. Gertner was one year short of a bachelor's degree. Gertner also worked for the Cornell radio station.\n\nJoel Gertner started out as a ring announcer in Extreme Championship Wrestling. Soon after, Shane Douglas influenced Gertner to become a heel and Gertner started taunting and making fun of the babyface wrestlers during their introduction to or in the ring and as a result, the face wrestlers usually made Gertner pay for his insults. He was then given the position of a color commentator by Taz and Bill Alfonso to counterbalance the influence of announcer Joey Styles, who they regarded as being biased against them. He also hosted a segment on ECW's weekly television program entitled \"Gertner Vision\". During this time, Gertner became popular with the fans for his introductions, which would consist of limericks containing multiple sexual innuendos.\n\nGertner later became the manager and ring announcer for The Dudley Boyz, even going as far as to be called \"Studley Dudley\". At Barely Legal, the Dudleys faced The Eliminators for the ECW World Tag Team Championship. During the match, Gertner was hit by The Eliminators finishing move, the Total Elimination, and as a result he began wearing his now infamous neckbrace and continues to do so. The Eliminators would go on to win the match and the titles as well. Joel involved himself in a six-man tag team match at 1998 Heat Wave, between Tommy Dreamer, The Sandman and Spike Dudley taking on D-Von, Big Dick and Bubba Ray, insulting head ECW referee John Finnigan. Later in the match Joel was hung in the tree of woe and Finnigan baseball slide a steel chair into his face. Despite the 'injury', Joel led the Dudley Boyz to a record eight ECW Tag Team Title reigns until they left for the World Wrestling Federation.\n\nUpon the Dudleys departure, Gertner then became a broadcaster on \"ECW on TNN\" alongside Joey Styles. Upon doing so, Gertner turned face and began feuding with The Network's representative Cyrus, and got unlikely support from broadcast partner (and former nemesis) Joey Styles. The feud came to a head at Anarchy Rulz in which Gertner faced Cyrus in a one on one match. Gertner won the match and ended the feud after assistance from The Sandman. Gertner remained with ECW until its closure on April 4, 2001. Gertner showed up on ECW's last pay-per-view Guilty As Charged where he began to cut a promo before being attacked by Cyrus and Da Baldies. He returned later during the main event attacking Cyrus and helping Rob Van Dam perform a Van Terminator on Jerry Lynn.\n\nGertner made his Total Nonstop Action Wrestling debut on June 26, 2002 to introduce the a new tag team called the Rainbow Express (Bruce and Lenny Lane). However, he left TNA shortly after this and did not make any appearances for the company until 2010. He was also a part World Wrestling Entertainment's first-ever ECW One Night Stand reunion pay-per-view during which, in the course of two separate interviews with \"SmackDown!\" and \"Raw\", he was pie-faced by John \"Bradshaw\" Layfield and begged on his hands and knees to then-\"Raw\" General Manager Eric Bischoff for a job. Gertner also appeared at Hardcore Homecoming and faced former enemy Cyrus. After Cyrus seemingly made amends, he insulted Gertner and Gertner subsequently attacked him before being pulled off by Joey Styles.\n\nGertner is also the promoter for Connecticut's MXW Pro Wrestling independent organization. On August 8, 2010, Gertner returned to TNA to take part in ECW reunion show, Hardcore Justice, where he accompanied Team 3D to the ring. In 2012, Gertner began announcing for Shane Douglas' Extreme Rising promotion. Gertner also made a special appearance at a Kaiju Big Battel event. Gertner, on April 27, 2014 at the former ECW Arena in South Philadelphia, was the MC for Masked Mania, and he spoke perfect Spanish throughout the event.\n\nIn the summer of 2016, Gertner began commentating for Wildkat Sports and Entertainment in New Orleans. He also makes regular appearances at their events as a ring announcer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945101", "title": "List of Hindu festivals", "text": "List of Hindu festivals\n\nThere are a great number of Hindu religious festivals held throughout the world. The festivals typically celebrate events from Hindu mythology, often coinciding with seasonal changes. There are many festivals which are primarily celebrated by specific sects or in certain regions of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThe festive season is widely celebrated. These events have a historic significance to them and are rooted in various cultural and linguistic norms. The onset of the famous Diwali marks the beginning of lighting 'diyas', beautifying homes, offering gifts and visiting friends and family. Similarly, the Holi festival is described as the 'Festival of Colors', with its magnificent rain dance and the 'gulaal'.\n\nUtsava' is the Sanskrit word for Hindu festivals, it refers to “religious practices. Todumal or Todumal or Todumal is derived from the Sanskrit word, \"Utsava\". The Sanskrit word \"Utsava\" comes from the word \"ut\" meaning \"removal\" and \"sava\" which means \"worldly sorrows\" or \"grief\".]]\n\nHindu calendar dates are usually prescribed according to a solunar calendar. In Vedic timekeeping, a tithi is a lunar day.\n\n\n\"'Hindu festival related concepts\"\n\nOthers\n\n"}
{"id": "1945107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945107", "title": "Cowichan River", "text": "Cowichan River\n\nThe Cowichan River is a moderately sized river in British Columbia, Canada. It originates in Cowichan Lake, flowing east towards its end at Cowichan Bay. Its drainage basin is in size.\n\nThe Cowichan River is popular in the summer for river tubing. People float from the weir to Little Beach which takes around two and half hours.\n\nAbout after exiting Cowichan Lake, the river drops over Skutz Falls, a small waterfall that is often visited when fish are climbing the fish ladder constructed beside the falls. Below the falls, in the summer time, are swimming areas. Downstream, the river flows through Marie Canyon, a popular kayaking run.\n\nThe river is widely considered one of the finest trout fishing streams in British Columbia. The Cowichan River is the centre of a provincial park, the Cowichan River Provincial Park, on southern Vancouver Island. The park area is home to hundreds of animal species: small and large mammals, including the native Vancouver Island ermine, an endangered species, and more than 200 species of birds.\n\nThe Cowichan River was nominated as a Canadian Heritage River in 1999 and designated in 2003. The river is also the namesake of Cowichan Herald Extraordinary at the Canadian Heraldic Authority.\n\nIn the decade leading up to 2014, water levels dropped considerably possibly due to climate change to the point where fish were trucked up the river and the Cowichan Valley Regional District instituted water restrictions for residents. Water from the river is used in the pulp and paper mill operated by Catalyst Paper in Crofton.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945109", "title": "Phi Sigma Rho", "text": "Phi Sigma Rho\n\nPhi Sigma Rho (ΦΣΡ), also known as Phi Rho or PSR, is a social sorority for women in Engineering. The sorority was founded in 1984 at Purdue University by two young women. The first chapter of Phi Sigma Rho was installed on September 24, 1984, with 10 charter members. It has since expanded nationwide and are members of Fraternity Executive Association (FEA).\n\nPhi Sigma Rho was founded in 1984 by Rashmi Khanna and Abby McDonald at Purdue University. Khanna and McDonald were unable to participate in traditional sorority rushes due to the demands of their engineering program, so they decided to start their sorority instead. The Alpha chapter was founded with ten charter members: Gail Bonney, Anita Chatterjea, Ann Cullinan, Pam Kabbes, Rashmi Khanna, Abby McDonald, Christine Mooney, Tina Kershner, Michelle Self, and Kathy Vargo.\n\nSince the founding of the Alpha chapter in 1984, Phi Sigma Rho has grown to forty-five chapters nationally.<ref name+\"Chapters/Colonies\"></ref>\n\n Phi Sigma Rho is a social sorority for women in engineering and engineering technology serving members and the community by promoting:\nThrough shared experiences, common bonds, and recognition of service and achievement.\n\n The objectives of the Sorority, which apply to all members, are:\n\n\nThe tables below hold information about all of the Phi Sigma Rho chapters and colonies listed on the organization's official website.<ref name+\"Chapters/Colonies\"></ref> \n"}
{"id": "1945122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945122", "title": "Syzygium", "text": "Syzygium\n\nSyzygium is a genus of flowering plants that belongs to the myrtle family, Myrtaceae. The genus comprises about 1200–1800 species, and has a native range that extends from Africa and Madagascar through southern Asia east through the Pacific. Its highest levels of diversity occur from Malaysia to northeastern Australia, where many species are very poorly known and many more have not been described taxonomically.\n\nMost species are evergreen trees and shrubs. Several species are grown as ornamental plants for their attractive glossy foliage, and a few produce edible fruits that are eaten fresh or used in jams and jellies. The most economically important species, however, is the clove \"Syzygium aromaticum\", of which the unopened flower buds are an important spice. Some of the edible species of \"Syzygium\" are planted throughout the tropics worldwide, and several have become invasive species in some island ecosystems. Several species of \"Syzygium\" bear fruits that are edible for humans, many of which are named \"roseapple\". Fifty-two species are found in Australia and are generally known as lillipillies, brush cherries or satinash.\n\nAt times \"Syzygium\" was confused taxonomically with the genus \"Eugenia\" (ca. 1000 species), but the latter genus has its highest specific diversity in the neotropics. Many species formerly classed as \"Eugenia\" are now included in the genus \"Syzygium\", although the former name may persist in horticulture. The Syzygium Working Group, an international group of researchers, formed in April 2016 with the aim to produce a monograph of \"Syzygium\".\n\nSelected species include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1945127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945127", "title": "Graeme Harper", "text": "Graeme Harper\n\nGraeme Harper (born 11 March 1945) is a British television director. He is best known for his work on the science-fiction series \"Doctor Who\", for which he is the only person to have directed episodes of both the original run (1963–89) and revived run (2005–) of the programme. \"Doctor Who Magazine\" has described him as \"the longest-serving crew member on \"Doctor Who\".\"\n\nBorn in St Albans, Harper began elocution lessons at the Italia Conti Academy as a child in 1955, at the encouragement of his mother who was worried that he was developing a cockney accent. This led to him being cast as Master Bardell in an adaptation of Charles Dickens' novel \"The Pickwick Papers\" for the independent television company Associated-Rediffusion, when the company approached the Academy asking if they had a boy with bright red hair for the role, and they recommended Harper.\n\nFurther television work followed in the late 1950s, appearing in children's serials for BBC Television under producer / director Shaun Sutton. From the ages of sixteen to twenty-one Harper worked predominantly in the theatre, not only as an actor but also as a stage manager. After further television work, however, he decided that acting was not the career he would like, and he would instead rather be behind the scenes. One of his main ambitions for becoming involved in the production side of the industry was to make Westerns.\n\nWhile applying for production jobs in television, he worked for a time as a driving instructor. One of his pupils was the personal secretary of film director Stanley Kubrick, who arranged for him to visit the sound stages at MGM-British Studios where Kubrick's film \"\" was then being produced. During this visit, Harper briefly met Kubrick.\n\nAfter hearing nothing from his various applications to the BBC, Harper wrote to his former director Shaun Sutton, who was by now Head of Drama Serials at the BBC. With Sutton's assistance Harper gained an interview for the position of floor assistant, in which role he began working at BBC Television Centre in London in September 1966.\n\nHarper worked on various productions in this capacity, including the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Power of the Daleks\" and later the 1967 adaptation of \"The Forsyte Saga\" novels. He also worked on the \"Play of the Month\" series, where he first worked with the director Douglas Camfield, with whom he would often work in later years. In 1969 he was promoted to assistant floor manager. In 1975 he was promoted again and became a production assistant. One of the first productions he was assigned to in this role was the \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Seeds of Doom\", again working under director Douglas Camfield.\n\nIn 1980, Harper once more worked on \"Doctor Who\" when he was assigned to be production assistant to director Paul Joyce on the serial \"Warriors' Gate\". Joyce's approach to the production resulted in various delays, and Harper had to take on extra responsibility for helping to direct the serial in order to ensure it was finished in time. Following this, \"Doctor Who\"'s executive producer and producer, Barry Letts and John Nathan-Turner, endorsed Harper's application for the BBC's in-house television director course, from which he graduated in 1982.\n\nHarper's first television directing work consisted of episodes of the medical drama series \"Angels\". In 1983, John Nathan-Turner offered him work on \"Doctor Who\", but as he could only employ freelance directors, Harper would need to resign from the staff of the BBC first. This Harper did, and he began working on \"Doctor Who\" in the autumn of 1983.\n\nHarper's first \"Doctor Who\" serial, \"The Caves of Androzani\", was the last \"Doctor Who\" story to feature Peter Davison in the title role. Produced in late 1983, it was broadcast in March 1984. It is widely regarded by fans of the programme as one of the finest instalments of the series. Davison has been especially complimentary about Harper's direction of the story, claiming in 2009, \"Graeme’s philosophy was that it needed pace and it needed energy. Graeme’s input, and the fact that it was a great script, really lifted it, I think.\" Davison has also claimed Harper \"directed far more filmically than it had ever been done before.\" In 1985 he worked again on the programme, directing \"Revelation of the Daleks\", starring Colin Baker. In 1989 he was approached to direct the Sylvester McCoy-starring \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Battlefield\", but he was committed to episodes of the Central Television drama series \"Boon\". In 1993 he was attached to the potential \"Doctor Who\" thirtieth anniversary special \"The Dark Dimension\", but this was abandoned at the pre-production stage.\n\nHarper's other work has included episodes of \"Juliet Bravo\" (1984 & 1985), \"Bergerac\" (1985 & 1987), \"Star Cops\" (1987), \"The New Statesman\" (1987), \"The House of Eliott\" (1991–93), \"The Bill\" (1993), \"The Detectives\" (1995–97), \"Casualty\" (1997, 2004–05), \"EastEnders\" (2000–02) and \"Robin Hood\" (2006 & 2009). In 1999 his work on the television adaptation of David McRobbie's novel \"See How They Run\" was nominated for an Australian Film Institute Award for \"Best Direction in a Television Drama\", and in 2001 he shared in a BAFTA Children's Award win in the category of \"Best Drama\" for \"Custer's Last Stand Up\". Harper directed ITV1 soap opera \"Coronation Street\"'s fateful tram crash in October 2010, screened on 6 December as part of its fiftieth anniversary special. In 2012 he filmed several episodes of the Nickelodeon series \"House of Anubis\".\n\nIn 2016, Harper directed a special Christmas episode of the BBC Two comedy-horror anthology series \"Inside No. 9\". In a deliberate attempt to emulate the appearance of 1970s British television drama, this was made using the multi-camera video, production style that Harper had been used to working in at the beginning of his career.\n\nIn 2005, twenty years after his last work on \"Doctor Who\", he was invited to direct four episodes of the 2006 series, starring David Tennant. Having previously worked with the new series' executive producer Russell T Davies on the programmes \"On the Waterfront\" and \"The House of Windsor\", Harper had contacted Davies soon after the announcement of \"Doctor Who\"'s revival in September 2003, to say that he would very much like to work on it. Scheduling conflicts meant that he was unable to work on the first series of the revival in 2005, but for the second series in 2006 he directed two two-part stories featuring the Cybermen; \"Rise of the Cybermen\" / \"The Age of Steel\", and the series finale \"Army of Ghosts\" / \"Doomsday\". His work on the episode \"Doomsday\" saw him awarded the BAFTA Cymru Award for Best Drama Director in April 2007.\n\nHarper directed two episodes, \"42\" and \"Utopia\", for the 2007 series of \"Doctor Who\", as well as the mini-episode \"Time Crash\", part of the 2007 edition of the BBC's annual Children in Need charity telethon. He also directed \"Whatever Happened to Sarah Jane?\", a two-part serial for spin-off series \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\".\n\nHe directed five episodes of the 2008 series of \"Doctor Who\", \"Planet of the Ood\", \"The Unicorn and the Wasp\", \"Turn Left\", \"The Stolen Earth\", and \"Journey's End\" and the third of the 2008–10 specials, \"The Waters of Mars\", broadcast in November 2009. He directed the last two stories for the second series of \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\": \"The Temptation of Sarah Jane Smith\" and \"Enemy of the Bane\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945136", "title": "Lean Back", "text": "Lean Back\n\n\"Lean Back\" is a song by American hip hop group Terror Squad. It was released as the second single from their second studio album, \"True Story\", on June 8, 2004. An uptempo hip hop song built for the club environment, it features Fat Joe with Remy Ma handling the second verse. It topped the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for three weeks from August 21, 2004 and topped the R&B charts for more than a month. The song appeared in the video games \"Need For Speed Underground 2\", \"Def Jam Rapstar\" and \"The Hip Hop Dance Experience\".\n\nJessy Terrero and Raul Conde directed the music video and filmed it at a mansion at Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles. Fat Joe described the dance in the video as throwing back the right shoulder to the beat of the song. The video features cameos from DJ Khaled, N.O.R.E., Tego Calderon, Tony Sunshine, Kevin Hart, and Lil Jon, as well as the production-duo Cool & Dre.\n\nJason Birchmeier of AllMusic called the song \"a perfect club-ready duet between Joe and Remy Ma that boasts a trademark Scott Storch beat and a memorable singalong hook and dance-along step\". \"Vibe\" called the song a \"summer classic\". In 2008, the song was ranked at no. 55 on VH1's 100 Greatest Songs of Hip Hop.\n\nThe official remixed version of the song, featuring Lil Jon, Eminem, and Mase is available on Fat Joe's 2005 album \"All or Nothing\" and Lil Jon's \"Crunk Juice\" remix disc. The official remix is more uptempo and contains a new beat with a crunk–like feel to it. However, there are two different versions of the remix. The \"All or Nothing\" version, the main remix, features an additional verse by Remy Ma and was released in July 2004. The \"Crunk Juice\" version features Lil Jon's vocals throughout the song, omitting Remy Ma's verse. On both versions, Mase's verse is in line with his then-clean style of rapping (as heard on \"Welcome Back\").\n\nFat Joe also released a remix in tribute to his Puerto Rican ancestry, featuring Tego Calderon and Tony Touch.\n\nOther remixes of the song are performed by Chamillionaire, in \"The Mixtape Messiah\" titled \"Body Rock\", Lil Wayne, Max B, Jadakiss, U.S.D.A., and G-Unit. Also, mashup artist Girl Talk layered \"Lean Back\" over Spacehog's \"In the Meantime\" in his album \"All Day\". Houston rapper Lil' Flip did a freestyle over the song as a diss towards Atlanta rapper T.I.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945140", "title": "Saddle River (Passaic River tributary)", "text": "Saddle River (Passaic River tributary)\n\nThe Saddle River flows south through much of Bergen County, New Jersey. The river runs through densely populated suburban areas for much of its course. The river takes its name from the river near Saddell in Argyll and Bute in Scotland.\n\nThe headwaters of the Saddle River are in the piedmont terrain of Rockland County, in southern New York state. Streams from this area flow south, forming the Saddle River at their confluence, two miles south of the New York state border, in the town of Upper Saddle River, New Jersey.\n\nFrom its feeder streams in Upper Saddle River and the source in Airmont, New York, the Saddle River continues south for 16.3 miles, passing through the towns of Saddle River, Waldwick, Ho-Ho-Kus, Ridgewood, Glen Rock, Paramus, Fair Lawn, Rochelle Park, Saddle Brook, Lodi, Garfield, and Wallington.\n\nThe Ho-Ho-Kus Brook, a major tributary, joins the Saddle River at the Dunkerhook area of Saddle River County Park. Their confluence marks the border of four Bergen County towns: Ridgewood, Paramus, Glen Rock and Fair Lawn.\n\nThe terminus of the Saddle River is at Garfield and Wallington, where the waterway empties into the Passaic River. The Passaic River drains at Newark Bay and via Arthur Kill and Kill van Kull to the Atlantic Ocean. he northern part of the Saddle River watershed drains an area between the Ramapo River watershed to the west, and the Hackensack River watershed to the east.\n\nFish species in the Saddle River include largemouth bass, pickerel, bullhead catfish, sunfish and different varieties of trout. Most of the trout are stocked by the New Jersey Division of Fish and Wildlife, although the uppermost reaches of the river and some of its tributaries hold wild brown trout. These wild trout are threatened by increased residential use of lawn fertilizer which contributes to algae and weed growth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945141", "title": "Normanton on Soar", "text": "Normanton on Soar\n\nNormanton on Soar (), formerly known as Normanton-upon-Soar and known locally as Normanton, is a village and civil parish in the south of Nottinghamshire in England near the River Soar. This historic village is home to one of the last operating chain ferries in the country, the only lived in cruck building in Nottinghamshire and a 13th-century Grade I listed parish Church.\n\nThe ancient parish of Normanton on Soar occupies 1,449 acres about 13 miles south-west of Nottingham. Nearby villages include Zouch, Sutton Bonington, and Stanford on Soar. The post town for Normanton is Loughborough leading to the confusion of being in Nottinghamshire but with a Leicestershire post code.\n\nNormanton on Soar is situated in the Soar Valley (previously also known as the 'vale of the Soar'). The Parish is mostly made up of farmland, and contains seven farms. The village is situated along the River Soar and extends uphill north-eastwards towards East Leake.\n\nWhite's Directory of Nottinghamshire, written in 1853, describes Normanton thus: Normanton-On-Soar is a picturesque village and parish in the vale of the Soar, 13 miles south by west of Nottingham, bounded on the south by Leicestershire and on the north by the Wolds.John Throsby, writing during 1790 in his new edition of Robert Thoroton's Antiquities of Nottinghamshire, recalls his account when surveying Normanton: Shenstone [s]ung while I was viewing the [s]urrounding beauties.\"'How [s]weetly [s]miled the Hill, the Vale,\"\"'And all the Land[s]cape round!\"\"'The River gliding down the Dale,\"\"'The Hill with Beeches crown'd!\"\nThe 1881 census reported that the village had 322 inhabitants. The village is now home to between 450 and 500 inhabitants. The population of the civil parish at the 2011 census was 448.\n\nThe Lordship of the Manor of Normanton on Soar is currently held since 1995 by John and Enid Burnett as Lord and Lady of the Manor of Normanton on Soar. The Official History Project of everything to do with the Parish is conducted under the direction of the Lord and Lady and the High Steward Ivan J Manning QStJ Esq.\n\nNormanton appears several times in the Domesday survey of 1086 as \"Normantune\" and \"Normantun\". The name, Normanton, derives from the Anglo-Saxon 'Northman's Tun' meaning Northman's Farm. It is believed to be first used sometime between AD 870 and 940.\n\nNormanton on Soar has a Grade I listed Church along with four Grade II listed buildings, all on Main Street: The Old Post Office (75 Main Street), Dovecote at Rangraak, Home Farmhouse and Ivy Cottage.\n\nThe medieval Grade I Listed church, Church of St. James, was built in the 13th century. Located in the south of the village, on Main Street, it is situated on the east bank of the River Soar. The church is one of only two churches in Nottinghamshire to have a central tower crowned with a spire (the other being the Church of St. John in Whatton); although the Chapel of St. Mary at Clumber Park also has a central tower with a spire. The C.15th century timber roof was noted for being of “excellent design” in 1910. Also of note are the royal coat-of-arms of Charles II, dated 1683, which sit above the chancel arch. In April 2014 work was completed rebuilding and re-pointing the spire. Within the Church there is a bronze war memorial dedicated to the lives of villagers lost in World War One. The priest in charge also serves the neighbouring parish of Sutton Bonington. There are regular weekly services, with the village choir attending on the first Sunday of each month. The Church is kept open for the public during the day on Saturday and Sunday.\n\nThe Old Post Office, on Main Street, is a Grade II listed thatched cruck cottage dating from 1454. It is the oldest house in Normanton and the only lived-in cruck building in Nottinghamshire.\n\nThe Chain Ferry is located in the south of the village and was mentioned earliest on a map from 1771. It is one of the few remaining Chain Ferries operating in the UK. It is the last chain ferry still operating in Nottinghamshire (the Hazleford Ferry, in Nottinghamshire, is no longer in use). In 1981 responsibility for the maintenance of the Ferry was transferred from the Paget Estate to the Parish Council. The Ferry was relaunched in April 2017 offering crossings between 10AM and 4:30PM every weekend during the summer (between April and September). The current fee per crossing is £1 per person and 50p per dog/bicycle. The Ferry is operated by volunteers from the village.\n\nThe old telephone box is now used to house a defribrillator which can be accessed in case of an emergency.\n\nIn June 2012 a memorial plaque was unveiled on the playing fields commemorating the crash of a Wellington Bomber in the village on 19 April 1944 during a training exercise. Four members of the Royal Air Force were killed.\n\nThe Member of Parliament for the parliamentary constituency of Rushcliffe is Kenneth Clarke, of the Conservative party, who has held the seat since 1970. Despite stating he would not stand for reelection in June 2016 (before the announcement of the 2017 election), Ken Clarke stood for reelection at the 2017 General Election and was reelected with a reduced majority of 8,010. The voter turnout for Rushcliffe was 78%, which was the ninth highest in the country.\n\nFor Nottinghamshire County Council elections the parish comes within the Leake & Ruddington electoral ward, which has two council seats. The most recent election was in May 2017, when Andy Brown and Reg Adair, both of the Conservative party, won the two available seats.\n\nFor the election of a councillor to Rushcliffe Borough Council, the parish forms part of the Leake ward, which has three council seats. The most recent election was on 7th May 2015 when Ronald Hetherington, Margaret Males and John Thurman, all of the Conservative party, won the three available seats. The next Borough election will be on 2 May 2019.\n\nThe parish council has 7 councillors. Council meetings usually take place on the first Thursday of each month at the village hall.\n\nThe parish fell within the ancient Rushcliffe wapentake of Nottinghamshire. Before 1894 Normanton, along with the nearby villages of Sutton Bonnington, Stanford on Soar, East Leake and West Leake, was part of the Loughborough Rural Sanitary District. From 1894 the parish was part of the Leake Rural District, until its abolition in 1935, when the parish was then transferred to the Basford Rural District. In 1974 the Basford Rural District was abolished and the non-metropolitan district of Rushcliffe was created, which Normanton became part of.\n\nWithin the village there is a small primary school, located on Main Street, catering for children aged between three and eleven. In its most recent Ofsted report (2013) the school was rated as Good.\n\nThe village is served by the Skylink bus service, operated by Trent Barton, which can be taken from the edge of the village on the A6006. The village is also served by the volunteer-run Soar Valley Bus service which can be taken from within the village. Both bus services provide regular journeys to Loughborough and Nottingham.\n\nThe Village Hall, built in 2007, is located south within the village and is available for hire. The community shop is run by volunteers and is located at the rear of the Village Hall. The shop is open Monday to Friday and Saturday morning. The Village Hall is surrounded by 5 acres of playing fields with an outdoor children's play area. The village allotments are located behind the Village Hall.\n\nThe Soar Boating Club is a private members club which was founded in the spring of 1953. In 1961 the club acquired its current position on Main Street. The club has a membership of around 100 boats and holds its main annual rally over the spring bank holiday.\n\nThe village has a pub, located on Main Street, called the Plough Inn. The pub is positioned along the river bank and offers free moorings. Next to the Plough Inn, but separate, Soar Lane offers access to a slipway for launching river craft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945157", "title": "Cape Elizabeth Lights", "text": "Cape Elizabeth Lights\n\nCape Elizabeth Light (also known as Two Lights) is a lighthouse in Cape Elizabeth, at the southwestern entrance to Casco Bay in Maine.\n\nOnly the eastern tower of the two that made up the light station until 1924 is active. The western tower is deactivated, but it is still standing and is privately owned.\n\nThe facility is adjacent to Two Lights State Park, a state facility which allows a view of, but not access to, the grounds of the lighthouse. Until recently, the light used a second-order Fresnel lens.\n\nCape Elizabeth Light, designed in the Gothic Revival style, was added to the National Register of Historic Places as Two Lights on December 27, 1974.\n\nThe area is known as \"Two Lights\" due to the history of the station. It was originally built in 1828 as two rubble stone towers apart. Steam-driven warning whistles were installed in the twin towers in 1869, the first used in North America. In 1874, both structures were replaced by conical towers made of cast-iron, each high and above sea level. Despite its twin beacons, Cape Elizabeth witnessed many shipwrecks. In January 1885, during a raging snowstorm, keeper Marcus A. Hanna made a daring rescue of two seamen from the schooner \"Australia\", which had run aground on a nearby ledge.\n\nThe use of multiple lights in a given site was discontinued in 1924. The western light was removed from service, and eventually sold in 1971 to retired actor Gary Merrill, who had been previously married to Bette Davis. Merrill sold the property in 1983.\n\nThe eastern tower remains in service as \"Cape Elizabeth Light\" and is often used as a motif for artists. Artist Edward Hopper painted Two Lights in \"Lighthouse Hill\" (1927) and \"The Lighthouse at Two Lights\" (1929); the latter was used on a U.S. postage stamp in 1970.\n\nTwo rubble stone towers were first erected on Cape Elizabeth in 1828 at a cost of $4,250. President John Quincy Adams appointed Elisha Jordan as the first keeper in October 1828 at a salary of $450 per year.\n\nIn 1855 Fresnel lenses were installed and in 1869 a giant steam whistle was set up for use in foggy weather. In 1873 the rubble towers were taken down and two cast-iron edifices erected, apart. One was a fixed and one a flashing light. A fog siren replaced the locomotive whistle.\n\nOne of the most thrilling episodes in the history of the lighthouse occurred on January 28, 1885, when Keeper Marcus A. Hanna saved two crew members of the schooner Australia which had run aground on the ledge near the fog signal station. The two men had taken to the rigging and were coated with ice, unable to move. The captain was drowned as a huge comber washed the deck. Keeper Hanna, securing a heavy iron weight to the end of a stout line, attempted time and again to reach the men with it. Suddenly a towering wave struck the schooner and smashed her against the rocks, putting her on her beam ends.\nKeeper Hanna again threw his line and watched it land on the schooner. One of the seamen managed to reach it and bent it around his waist. Then he jumped into the sea and the keeper, with great effort, pulled him up over the rocky ledge. The keeper now heaved the line a second time and finally it reached the second seaman who wound it around his icy body. Then he too jumped into the ocean. Just as the keeper's strength was exhausted in trying to haul ashore the second man, help came in the shape of the keeper's assistant and two neighbors, who helped haul the man to safety.\n"}
{"id": "1945171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945171", "title": "Flimwell", "text": "Flimwell\n\nFlimwell is a village in the civil parish of Ticehurst, in the Rother district of East Sussex, England. It is located about two miles from the village of Ticehurst, close to the border with Kent. The village is located at a busy crossroads on the A21 road where two roads — the A268 to Hawkhurst and a secondary road, the B2087 — cross it.\n\nThe origin of the place-name is from the Old English words \"fliema\" and \"wella\" meaning the spring of the fugitives. The place-name appears as \"Flimenwelle\" in 1210.\n\nThe village is linear in shape and is the largest of a group of settlements, some of which contain some large residential properties, to both west and east of the main road. Other settlements are \"Union Street\" and \"Dale Hill\" to the west, and \"Seacox Heath\" to the east. Including the surrounding woods and fields, Flimwell covers an area of approximately 3.5 km, of which only approximately 5% is built-up.\n\nAlthough Flimwell has no defined centre and no convenience store, there are a number of businesses and facilities in and around the village, including an award-winning smokery and wine store, pub, motel, pine furniture shop, church, cricket ground with pavilion, playground, maintenance garage, HGV garage, car showroom, fencing merchant and NFU Mutual insurance broker.\n\nSituated in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, between Bewl Water and Bedgebury Pinetum, the village is a 25-minute cycle ride from the Bewl Valley Sailing Club, where windsurfing, sailing, kayaking and fishing are readily available. Mountain biking and walking routes in Bedgebury Forest are a one-minute cycle ride from the A21 crossroads, as is the golf course at Dale Hill, on the western edge of the village. Several local farm shops are within a short drive, as is the 700-year-old Bodiam Castle to the southeast.\n\nFlimwell parish church is dedicated to St Augustine of Canterbury.\n\nNeighbouring villages include Ticehurst, Hurst Green and Hawkhurst.\n\nIn the 16th century, Flimwell was one of the stages on the post road from London to Rye.\n"}
{"id": "1945173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945173", "title": "Roman goose", "text": "Roman goose\n\nThe Roman goose is an Italian breed of domestic goose. It is said to be one of the oldest breeds of goose, bred more than 2000 years ago and originally sacred to the goddess Juno. \nIn the modern period, it is kept for a range of purposes such as for meat and eggs depending on location. It is a popular exhibition breed in North America, where it is more commonly known as the tufted Roman goose and possesses a crest. In Europe, it is primarily kept as a utility meat breed, while in Australia, they are used for both purposes. Crests are optional in Europe and Australia.\nRoman geese can live up to 25 years and lay between 10 and 20 eggs. It takes 28 to 30 days for incubation.\n"}
{"id": "1945174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945174", "title": "Okayplayer", "text": "Okayplayer\n\nOkayplayer is an online hip-hop and alternative music website and community, described by \"Rolling Stone\" as a \"tastemaker\" and \"an antidote to dull promotional Web sites used by most artists\".\n\nThe community was founded by The Roots' drummer Ahmir \"Questlove\" Thompson and author Angela Nissel as a loose musical collective in 1987, and evolved into an online community in 1999. In 2004, Questlove launched Okayplayer Records as a spin-off of the community, in partnership with Decon. After a near-decade hiatus, the label was rebooted in 2012 with Danny! as its flagship artist.\n\nThis community is made up of recording artists (who keep their official internet homes there), visitors to the site, and individuals who post on the site's message board, the most popular feature of the site.\n\nAll of the artists and staff, as well as those who post to the site's messageboard, are considered \"okayplayers,\" or \"OKPs\" for short. Okayplayer was one of the first online hubs through which fans could interact directly with their favorite artists. Okayplayer has been identified as an online community that allows people to bypass traditional media and network with each other. An example of such a collaboration fostered by the site is the Foreign Exchange project, with Little Brother's vocalist Phonte Coleman and Dutch producer named Nicolay meeting on Okayplayer, and making an album together by sending tracks and verses back and forth over the Internet. The album, \"Connected\", was released before the pair had met in real life.\n\nAccording to QuestLove, the site was originally a medium to chronicle the day-to-day life of his band, The Roots. However, it became a hub for urban music, politics, arts, and lifestyle. In addition to daily blog updates, the site featured popular messenger boards. Based in New York, Okayplayer eventually expanded into a label that produced live events.\n\nThe site also hosts affiliated specialists sites: the Revivalist for jazz, OkayAfrica for African music, LargeUp for reggae, and OkayFuture for electronic music.\n\nIn 2011, Okayplayer launched its sister site, Okayafrica, focused on African culture, politics, and music.\n\nOkayplayer organize regular tours and an annual Roots Picnic all day event.\n"}
{"id": "1945199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945199", "title": "Tamil cuisine", "text": "Tamil cuisine\n\nTamil cuisine is a culinary style originating in the southern Indian state Tamil Nadu and other parts of South Asia such as Sri Lanka. Vegetarian cuisine is popular among the Tamil people and has been so since ancient times. However, meats along with rice, legumes and lentils are also popular. Dairy products and tamarind are used to provide sour flavors. On special occasions, traditional Tamil dishes are served in a traditional manner, using banana leaves in place of utensils. After eating, the banana leaves are then used as a secondary food for cattle. A typical breakfast meal consists of idli or dosa with chutney. Lunch includes rice, sambar, curd, kuzhambu, and rasam.\n\nSappadu (a typical meal), along with other Tamil dishes are served on a banana leaf which adds flavor. Puddings such as payasam are eaten last. Coffee and tea are the staple drinks.\n\n\"Virundhu\" refers to the core elements of Tamil cuisine offered to the guests on special occasions such as festivals and marriage ceremony. Rice staples, tomato rice, Paruppu, sambar, rasam, poriyal and koottu are added with butter or curd to prepare pachadi. Dry and fresh fruits or vegetables are also used to prepare traditional cuisine.They serve salt, pickles, payasam, and avial. After the meal, a banana and betel leaf with areca nuts and limestone paste are used to promote digestion. Before eating traditional cuisine, people clean the banana leaf with water. It is used as a large dinning table sheet to serve food for guests and family members on which the food items are placed.\n\nEach area where Tamils have lived has developed its own distinct variant of the common dishes. The four divisions of ancient Tamilakam prepare their unique Tamil cuisine.\n\nThe cuisine of the Chola Nadu region specializes in several dishes such as sevai and other varieties associated with different sauces like chutney. The most common dishes are chidambaram and kumbakonam. The Tanjore region is one of the prominent producers of rice-based dishes like puliyodhari, sambhar sadam, birinji and amirtha podi sadam. Millet dishes like kutharai valli dosai are also prepared.\n\nThe Chettinad region and its adjoining areas such as Karaikudi have many vegetarians. Dishes like idiyappam, uthappam, paniyaram and non-vegetarian dishes are common dishes in this region. The Madurai region has its own unique dishes such as muttaiparotta, paruthipal, karidosai, and jigarthanda.\n\nKongunadu cuisine was originally prepared in rural areas. Oputtu and kola urundai are the main dishes. Thengai paal jaggery, ulundu kali, kachayam, arisimparupu sadam, Kelvaragu puttumavu, arisi puttumavu, paniyaram, kelvaragu pakoda, thengai barbi, kadalai urundai, ellu urundai and pori urundai are among other dishes prepared by Tamil people. They consume mutton, chicken, freshwater fishes and quail due to the area being landlocked. Arisimparupu sadam is a unique dish. Most common oils are sesame and ground nut oil.\nThe cuisine of this regions shares similarities with Telugu cuisine due to geographic proximity. Hot and spicy vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes are prepared. Idli, dosai, bhajji, koottu,murukku, vadacurry and chicken 65 are common dishes in this region.\n\n\nRice is the staple food of most Tamil people. It is generally used during lunch and sometimes dinner. \"Choru\" is served along with other food items such as sambar, poriyal, rasam, kootu and curd.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are the dry chutney powder varieties to be mixed with cooked plain rice and ghee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945201", "title": "Fairyland (band)", "text": "Fairyland (band)\n\nFairyland is a symphonic power metal band from France created by songwriters Philippe Giordana and Willdric Lievin in 1998.\n\nAfter going through several line-up changes in the 2000s, the band turned into a one-man musical project, when Giordana parted ways with the rest of the band in 2007. He subsequently released \"Score to a New Beginning\" in 2009 as Fairyland, with guest musicians and singers. In 2015 however, Fairyland became a band once again with a full line-up, including Lievin, returning for the first time since 2004.\n\nThe band was created in 1998 as \"Fantasia\" by keyboardist Philippe Giordana together with bassist/drummer Willdric Lievin. The two musicians shared the same passion for epic and symphonic Heavy Metal. Following the release of their first demo, \"Tribute to Universe\", their basic metal style began evolving into something more fantastic and symphonic, as in \"Realm of Wonders\".\nThrough various metal contacts, Fantasia enlisted guitarist Anthony Parker (Heavenly) and soon gave up looking for a label to enter Wizard Studio in Feb. 2002. During the recordings of their debut, the band began looking for a vocalist and they found Elisa C. Martin, already known for her work with the successful Spanish power metal band Dark Moor. Around that time, the band's name was changed to \"Fairyland\".\nWith their first full-length complete, they signed on with Denmark-based Intromental Management, and shortly thereafter secured a recording contract with the French label N.T.S. (now Replica Records).\n\n\"Of Wars in Osyrhia\" was released in April 2003. The response from media and fans enabled the band to tour with Sonata Arctica in France, as well as to perform in the Sweden Rock Festival in 2003.\nInternal band problems led to both Willdric Lievin and Elisa C. Martin leaving the band. The band continued on without them to finish the recordings for the new concept album \"The Fall of an Empire\", again composed by Philippe Giordana and Anthony Parker, who had gathered a new line-up composed of vocalist Max Leclerqc (formerly of Magic Kingdom), drummer Pierre-Emmanuel \"Piwee\" Desfray, and bassist Thomas \"Tom\" Cesario.\nThe unreleased album soon caught the attention of the Austrian-based label Napalm Records, who signed the band and released \"The Fall of an Empire\" in the fall of 2006, along with a re-release of \"Of Wars in Osyrhia\". A European tour with Kamelot and Leaves' Eyes soon followed.\nShortly after the tour that followed the album, Philippe and the rest of the band parted ways. As the sole composer of Fairyland material, finding a new line-up would not pose much of a problem for Philippe Giordana. Yet after working on the new material, he decided to take a completely different approach by enlisting instead the services of guest musicians for his latest release. The album \"Score to a New Beginning\" was completed in 2009, keeping the same musical style of its predecessors.\n\nIn 2015, Fairyland became a full band once again, with Giordana being rejoined by Fairyland co-creator Willdric Lievin, who had left the band in 2004, and by new members Francesco Cavalieri, Jean-Baptiste Pol, and Sylvain Cohen. The group immediately went on to work on their next album. On May 31, 2016, the first song from the album, \"Heralds Of The Green Lands\", was released on YouTube. In February 2018, they revealed the tracklist for their next album, \"Osyrhianta\", another concept album that will serve as a prequel to their original trilogy. On March 31, 2019, the band confirmed that the album was fully recorded and mastered, and would be released around November 2019. However on September 29, they stated that the band \"had to rearrange release dates with regards to parallel releases\", and would instead release \"Osyrhianta\" in early 2020.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945204", "title": "Live at the Witch Trials", "text": "Live at the Witch Trials\n\nLive at the Witch Trials is the debut studio album by The Fall. It was released on 16 March 1979, through record label Step-Forward. It is not, despite its title, a live album and was recorded in a studio in a single day and mixed by producer Bob Sargeant.\n\nThe album was recorded at Camden Sound Suite on 15 December 1978 and mixed by producer Bob Sargeant on the 16th. The group had been booked into the studio for five days but Mark E. Smith had fallen ill, and cancelled the first three days.\n\nSome of the songs date from earlier incarnations of the group and feature writing credits from former members Tony Friel and Una Baines. Lyrical subject matter includes a tirade against the music industry (\"Music Scene\"), low quality jobs (\"Industrial Estate\"), and drugs (\"No Xmas for John Quays\", \"Like to Blow\", \"Frightened\", \"Underground Medecin\"). \"Frightened\" was described by Dave McCullough in \"Sounds\" as \"a breathtaking, ominously culminating monster of a song\". \"Rebellious Jukebox\" was described by Pitchfork as \"one of the first self-aware Fall anthems\", with the title viewed as \"[summing] up The Fall's stance against prevailing trends\".\n\n\"Live at the Witch Trials\" was released on 16 March 1979, through record label Step-Forward. The US release of the album came with different artwork and removed \"Mother-Sister!\" and \"Industrial Estate\", replacing them with \"Various Times\", the B-side of the group's second single, \"It's the New Thing\". All subsequent editions have followed the original UK track listing.\n\nNo singles were taken from the album, a practice that would be commonplace for the group until 1986. By the time the album was released, drummer Karl Burns had left the band and guitarist Martin Bramah also quit shortly afterward to form Blue Orchids, leaving Mark E. Smith as the sole remaining founder member.\n\nThe album was available in its original form through the late 1980s, being reissued on vinyl, cassette and CD by I.R.S. Records in 1989. In 1997, Mark E. Smith's own Cog Sinister label issued a CD edition that was poorly mastered from a below-standard vinyl copy. However, in conjunction with Voiceprint, Cog Sinister reissued the album again in 2002 as \"Live at the Witch Trials +\", claiming to be remastered but was, in fact, simply a clone of the I.R.S. disc, and adding the tracks from the group's first two singles, \"Bingo Master's Breakout\" and \"It's the New Thing\". In 2004, Castle Music released a two-disc CD \"Expanded Deluxe Edition\" of the album, mastered from the original tapes and with a vastly expanded track listing. However, the Castle Music reissue used a vinyl source for the three \"Bingo Masters Break Out\" EP tracks, the original tapes having been lost.\n\nThe album was reissued on vinyl in 2016 on the Superior Viaduct label.\n\nThe album was given a generally positive reception from critics upon its release, with \"Record Mirror\" giving it a full five stars and describing the album as \"a rugged, concerned, attuned, rebellious jukebox\". \"Sounds\" reviewer Dave McCullough also gave it five stars, calling it \"an album of staggeringly rich, mature music, inner questioning hand in hand with rock and roll at its fiercest, its finest, its most honest, rock and roll at its naked, most stimulating prime.\" Robert Christgau gave it a B+ rating. \"Melody Maker\" was less impressed, being especially negative about the group's then-rhythm section of Marc Riley and Karl Burns.\n\nIn their retrospective review, \"Tiny Mix Tapes\" called it a \"fully-formed, instant-classic debut album\". \"Trouser Press\" viewed the band \"at once leaning towards punk's directness and charging headlong into poetic pretension\". Pitchfork gave the 2016 reissues \"Witch Trials\" and its follow-up, \"Dragnet\" 8.7/10. AllMusic gave the album four stars, with Ned Raggett calling it \"a downright pleasant listen\". \n\nThe album was included at number 6 in \"Billboard\"'s list \"The 10 Best Albums by The Fall: Critic's Picks\", with Geeta Dayal stating \"there were more ideas on this album than there are in some other bands’ entire discographies\".\n\n\n\nThat voice calling out the time on \"Music Scene\" (\"six minutes!\", \"six forty!\") was the group's driver - the son of the actor Peter Adamson who played Len Fairclough in \"Coronation Street\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945208", "title": "Burgundy (color)", "text": "Burgundy (color)\n\nBurgundy is a dark red or purple, or a dark reddish purple, not relating to any family of brown. It takes its name from the colour of Burgundy wine (from the Burgundy region of France, named after the ancient Germanic Burgundians). The French call this shade of red after a different wine region, \"Bordeaux\"; though in Quebec French, it is \"Bourgogne\" (). When referring to the color, \"burgundy\" is usually not capitalized.\n\nThe color burgundy is similar to other shades of dark red such as maroon, cordovan, and oxblood, but differs from each of these in subtle ways. For example, cordovan, with its origin in equine shoe-leather, has a slightly fairer, lighter brown color; whilst oxblood, typically describing leather clothing, has a much richer red and a little more blue. \n\nThe first recorded use of \"burgundy\" as a color name in English was in 1881. \n\nIn cosmetology, a brighter tone of burgundy called vivid burgundy is used for coloring hair.\n\nThe color \"old burgundy\" is a dark tone of burgundy.\nThe first recorded use of \"old burgundy\" as a color name in English was in 1926.\n"}
{"id": "1945214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945214", "title": "Panagyurishte", "text": "Panagyurishte\n\nPanagyurishte (, international transliteration \"Panagjurište\") is a town in Pazardzhik Province, Southern Bulgaria, situated in a small valley in the Sredna Gora mountains. It is 91 km east of Sofia, 43 km north of Pazardzhik. The town is the administrative centre of the homonymous Panagyurishte Municipality. As of December 2009, it has a population of 17,959 inhabitants.\nIn the Middle Ages there was a settlement near the modern town. In the course of the Bulgarian-Ottoman Wars large part the population was killed and the rest had to move to a new location. The survivors called themselves \"levents\" due to their bravery in the struggle with the invaders. \n\nWhen the Turks seized the village of Asenevtsi near Sliven which guarded the road to the capital Tarnovo, its population moved to Panagyurishte. Another wave of refugees came in the 15th century after rebellions in Albania (Debar, Prilep, Kostur and others). Even today the population uses language which is characteristic for both eastern and western Bulgarian dialects and the town is in the so-called Yat border. It was also known as \"Otlukköy\" during Ottoman rule.\n\nPanagyurishte is primarily known for being the center of the April Uprising against the Ottoman rule in Bulgaria in 1876. It was capital of the Fourth Revolutionary District which was the main centre of the rebellion. The uprising was bloodily suppressed after 10 days of declared freedom, and the town was burnt down and almost completely destroyed by the Ottoman Turks. Lady Strangford arrived from Britain later that year with relief for the people of Bulgaria following the massacres that followed the April Uprising. She built a hospital at Batak and eventually other hospitals were built at Radilovo, Panagiurishte, Karlovo, Petrich and here at Perushtitsa.\n\nPanagyurishte is overshadowed in tourism by nearby Koprivshtitsa, which has a much larger collection of restored Bulgarian Revival style houses. Like Koprivshtitsa, Panagyurishte has a picturesque location in the Sredna Gora mountains, and is one of the towns associated with the historic April Uprising in 1876. Panagyurishte also gained fame for the \"Panagyurishte gold\" treasure discovered there in 1949 and the Apriltsi National Memorial Complex erected in 1976 in honor of the 100th anniversary of the April Uprising. It is situated on the historic hill above the town known as Manyovo Bardo. It is also near the mineral water spas of Banya, and recreational facilities in Panagyurski koloni (Panagyur columns).\n\nAfter the Second World War Panagyurishte was transformed into a large industrial center. The Asarel Medet copper extracting and processing plant is by far the largest single employer in the municipality with over 2,500 workers and also the biggest plant in its kind in the Balkans. \"Opticoelectron\" is an optic producing plant, unique to the country (740 workers). Recently, a new similar plant, \"Optix\" was launched (370 workers), Micro-VIew Endoskopie Optik J.S.C. - is founded in 2002 as a private Bulgarian-German joint stock company in Panagyurishte-the company is specialized in production of optical components for endoscopic equipment with applications in medicine and technology. \nThere are two big textile plants: \"Ryton\" (880 employees) and \"Bultex\" (680 employees). There is also a small plastics factory, \"Bunai\" with some 190 workers and a number of smaller enterprises.\n\nThe town has two big Eastern Orthodox churches, \"St Georgi\" and \"St Bogoroditsa\", as well as several chapels. The type of architecture of \"Sv. Georgi\" with two symmetrical bell-towers can be rarely observed in the country. There are two museums: Historical Museum and Museum of Natural History. Although the town was severely destroyed by the Turks in 1876, there are several old houses which survived and have been reconstructed, including the House-Museums of Rayna Knyaginya and Marin Drinov. The Apriltsi Memorial Complex which commemorates the April Uprising dominates the sky-line of the town and can be seen from almost every neighbourhood. It was built on the top of a hill just above the central square and includes several granite compositions which encircle the main figure. It can be reached from the center by numerous stairs. There are two theatre buildings, the Old Theatre and the New Theatre. The spacious park is situated in the north-eastern part of Panagyurishte with an artificial lake, playgrounds and the Orcho Voivoda Stadium.\n\nThere are several places of interest in the vicinity of the town. The resort village Panagyurski kolonii, literally \"the colony of Panagyurishte\" is located at 15 km north of the town. It is very popular with the local population, as many of the citizens have summer houses there. There is a ski run and dense beech forests rich in different species of berries and mushrooms. At 6 km to the east is the famous Oborishte locality where the plan of the April uprising was discussed and accepted by delegates from all over the province. Today there is a monument there which is popular tourist attraction.\n\nThe two largest schools are the elementary \"Prof. Marin Drinov\" with more than 1,100 pupils and secondary \"Nesho Bonchev\". Other large schools include the Optical Technikal School, Mining Technical School, \"20th April\" elementary school, \"Sv. sv. Cyril and Metodius\" elementary school and others.\n\nA large regional hospital is located in the southernmost outskirts of the town on the western banks of the Luda Yana river. There is also a large polyclinic in the center as well as numerous private doctor and dentist cabinets.\n\nThe town is a center of the Panagyurishte municipality which includes 9 villages: Popintsi, Oborishte, Banya, Bata, Elshitsa, Levski, Panagyurski kolonii, Poibrene and Srebrinovo, as well as the town itself.\n\nThere are roads leading to the north (Panagyurski kolonii), south (Popintsi), west (Oborishte) and east (Strelcha). The road to Popintsi, and then Pazardzhik has been recently improved and expanded. The only railway leads to Strelcha and Plovdiv. Panagyurishte has bus connections to Sofia, Plovdiv and Pazardzhik, as well as nearby villages.\n\nOne frosty morning on 8 December 1949 three brothers – Pavel, Petko and Michail Deikovi – worked together in the region of \"Merul\" tile factory near Panagyurishte. At about ten o’clock in the morning, while processing a new layer of clay, they came across unusual glossy objects. With all of its magnificence a fabulous set of vessels glittered in front of the workers. When finally unearthed, it was found to consist of a phial and eight rhytons, one shaped like an amphora and the others like heads of women or animals. Dated to the turn of the fourth and third century BC, the find was sensational, not only for its weight in gold — over 6.146 kg of pure gold, but also for the originality of its forms. It is now a world-famous Thracian treasure and one of the most valuable possessions of the National Historical Museum.\n\nNotable natives include historian and philologist Marin Drinov (1838–1906), writer and literary critic Nesho Bonchev (1839–1878) and revolutionary Rayna Knyaginya (1856–1917).\n\nIn 1893 the Bulgarian writer Elin Pelin was enrolled in a school in Panagyurishte.\n\n\nPanagyurishte Nunatak on Greenwich Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Panagyurishte.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945215", "title": "A. J. Watson", "text": "A. J. Watson\n\nA. J. Watson (May 8, 1924 – May 12, 2014) was a car builder and chief mechanic from 1949 through 1984 in the Indianapolis 500, winning the race six times as a car builder. Rodger Ward won 18 races driving Watson cars.\n\nA native of southern California, Watson came to Indianapolis in 1948 but missed the race. He returned the following year with a home-built car that failed to qualify. For the next 11 years, his cars not only qualified but were leaders in many years.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1958 he was associated with the John Zink team, and from 1959 on with Bob Wilke. His first win as a car builder came in 1956 when Pat Flaherty drove the John Zink entry to victory in that year's Indy 500. Watson had won the previous year as a crew chief for Bob Sweikert. Watson's cars dominated the race through 1964. Although he continued entering cars for another two decades, he was never able to regain the commanding position of his heyday.\n\nIn 1964, with many teams following Lotus's example and moving to rear-engined \"funny cars\", Watson built a pair of cars based on Rolla Vollstedt's successful car. These worked reasonably well but could not reproduce the success he had with his front-engined \"roadsters\". He built monocoque rear-engined cars in 1966 and 1967 with ever-decreasing success.\n\nFrom 1969 until 1977, Watson ran Eagles and then built a small series of highly derivative new \"Watson\" cars in 1977, 1978 and again in 1982 based on Lightning and March designs before retiring. He is frequently listed on the Indy 500 entry sheet as the \"race strategist\" for PDM Racing, though his role with the team is largely honorary. He died on May 12, 2014 at the age of 90.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945220", "title": "Richard Chwedyk", "text": "Richard Chwedyk\n\nRichard Chwedyk (born 1955) is a science fiction author. In 2003, he won the 2002 Nebula Award for Best Novella for his story \"Brontë's Egg.\"\n\nChwedyk's first published story was \"Getting Along with Larga,\" which was the first winner of the ISFiC Writer's contest in 1986. In 1988, he won the contest again with his story \"A Man Makes a Machine,\" which went on to be published as Chwedyk's first professional sale in \"Amazing Stories\" in November, 1990.\n\nIn addition to writing fiction, Chwedyk has also published a number of poems and has coordinated poetry slams in Chicago, where he makes his home.\n\nIn 2000, Chwedyk oversaw the writer's workshop at Chicon 2000, the Worldcon, and has overseen several other writers workshops at science fiction conventions over the years, often running the workshop at Windycon.\n\nRichard Chwedyk is married to Chicago poet, Pamela Miller Chwedyk.\n\nIn 2009, he donated his archive to the department of Rare Books and Special Collections at Northern Illinois University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945221", "title": "Mason bee", "text": "Mason bee\n\nMason bee is a name now commonly used for species of bees in the genus Osmia, of the family Megachilidae. Mason bees are named for their habit of using mud or other \"masonry\" products in constructing their nests, which are made in naturally occurring gaps such as between cracks in stones or other small dark cavities. When available, some species preferentially use hollow stems or holes in wood made by wood-boring insects.\n\nSpecies of the genus include the orchard mason bee \"Osmia lignaria\", the blueberry bee \"O. ribifloris\", and the hornfaced bee \"O. cornifrons\". The former two are native to the Americas and the latter to eastern Asia, although \"O. lignaria\" and \"O. cornifrons\" have been moved from their native ranges for commercial purposes. The red mason bee, \"Osmia bicornis\", is found across the European continent. Over 300 species are found across the Northern Hemisphere. Most occur in temperate habitats within the Palearctic and Neartic zones, and are active from spring through late summer.\n\n\"Osmia\" species are frequently metallic green or blue, though many are blackish and at least one rust-red. Most have black ventral scopae which are difficult to notice unless laden with pollen. They have arolia between their claws, unlike \"Megachile\" or \"Anthidium\" species.\n\nHistorically, the term mason bee has also been used to refer to bees from a number of other genera under Megachilidae such as \"Chalicodoma\", most notably in \"The Mason-Bees\" by Jean-Henri Fabre and his translator Alexander Teixeira de Mattos in 1914.\n\nUnlike honey bees (\"Apis\") or bumblebees, \"Osmia\" species are solitary; every female is fertile and makes her own nest, and no worker bees for these species exist.\n\nWhen the bees emerge from their cocoons, the males exit first. The males typically remain near the nests waiting for the females, and some are known to actively extract females from their cocoons. When the females emerge, they mate with one or several males. The males soon die, and within a few days the females begin provisioning their nests.\n\n\"Osmia\" females typically nest in narrow gaps and naturally occurring tubular cavities. Commonly this means hollow twigs, but can be in abandoned nests of wood-boring beetles or carpenter bees, in snail shells, under bark, or in other small protected cavities. They do not excavate their own nests. The material used for the cell can be clay, mud, grit, or chewed plant tissue. The palearctic species \"O. avosetta\" is one of a few species known for lining the nest burrows with flower petals. A female might inspect several potential nests before settling in.\n\nWithin a few days of mating the female has selected a nest site and has begun to visit flowers to gather pollen and nectar for her nests; many trips are needed to complete a pollen/nectar provision mass. Once a provision mass is complete, the bee backs into the hole and lays an egg on top of the mass. Then, she creates a partition of \"mud\", which doubles as the back of the next cell. The process continues until she has filled the cavity. Female eggs are laid in the back of the nest, and male eggs towards the front.\n\nOnce a bee has finished with a nest, she plugs the entrance to the tube, and then may seek out another nest location.\n\nWithin weeks of hatching the larva has probably consumed all of its provisions and begins spinning a cocoon around itself and enters the pupal stage, and the adult matures either in the fall or winter, hibernating inside its insulatory cocoon. Most \"Osmia\" species are found in places where the temperature drops below 0 °C for long durations and they are well-adapted to cold winters; chilling seems to be a requirement for maturation. Some species of mason bees are semi-voltine, meaning that they have a two-year maturation cycle, with a full year (plus) spent as a larva.\n\nSolitary bees produce neither honey nor beeswax. They are immune from acarine and \"Varroa\" mites, but have their own unique parasites, pests, and diseases. The nesting habits of many Osmia lend themselves to easy cultivation, and a number of \"Osmia\" are commercially propagated in different parts of the world to improve pollination in fruit and nut production. Commercial pollinators include \"O. lignaria, O. bicornis, O. cornuta, O. cornifrons, O. ribifloris\", and \"O. californica\". They are used both as an alternative to and as an augmentation for European honey bees. Mason bees used for orchard and other agricultural applications are all readily attracted to nesting holes – reeds, paper tubes, nesting trays, or drilled blocks of wood; in their dormant season they can be transported as intact nests (tubes, blocks, etc.), or as loose cocoons. As is characteristic of solitary bees, \"Osmia\" are very docile and rarely sting when handled (only under distress such as when wet or squeezed), their sting is small and not painful, and their stinger is unbarbed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945225", "title": "Dusty Mangum", "text": "Dusty Mangum\n\nDustin Ross Mangum (born May 5, 1983) is a former placekicker for the University of Texas at Austin's college football team (The Texas Longhorns) from 2001 to 2004. Mangum, who began his college football career as a walk-on, is best known for capping UT's 2004–2005 season with a 37-yard game-winning field goal as time expired in the 2005 Rose Bowl versus No. 13 University of Michigan. The tipped kick that went in, allowed Texas to finish its season as one of the top 5 teams in the nation.\n\nAfter the game, according to The Daily Texan, President George W. Bush called UT football coach Mack Brown to congratulate him on the win, and to make sure he knew that he watched the entire game, right down to Mangum's last kick.\n\nAccording to news reports, just before Mangum's kick, Brown told the senior \"You're the luckiest human being in the world because your last kick at Texas will win the Rose Bowl.\" The kick made him an instant state celebrity — he appeared on radio and television programs, was honored by the Mesquite Independent School District, where he is from, and has appeared at autograph signings at Texas bookstores.\n\nMangum was also on hand at a celebration in the state capitol, along with UT officials, when the Texas Senate passed a resolution honoring the Texas football team for its Rose Bowl win.\n\nMangum achieved numerous other honors during his time at Texas, though he was not selected in the 2005 NFL Draft. Although Mangum was no longer with the Longhorns for their 2005 championship season, his last-second kick foreshadowed the Longhorns second trip to Pasadena, where a sprint by Vince Young into the end-zone in the final minute of play gave Texas back-to-back Rose Bowl wins.\n\n\n\nMangum enjoys singing and providing support for student government rallies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945227", "title": "I Got Rhythm", "text": "I Got Rhythm\n\n\"I Got Rhythm\" is a piece composed by George Gershwin with lyrics by Ira Gershwin and published in 1930, which became a jazz standard. Its chord progression, known as the \"rhythm changes\", is the foundation for many other popular jazz tunes such as Charlie Parker's and Dizzy Gillespie's bebop standard \"Anthropology (Thrivin' on a Riff)\".\n\nThe song came from the musical \"Girl Crazy\" which also includes two other hit songs, \"Embraceable You\" and \"But Not for Me\", and has been sung by many jazz singers since. It was originally written as a slow song for \"Treasure Girl\" (1928) and found another, faster setting in \"Girl Crazy\". Ethel Merman sang the song in the original Broadway production and Broadway lore holds that George Gershwin, after seeing her opening reviews, warned her never to take a singing lesson.\n\nThe piece was originally penned in the key of D major. The song melody uses four notes of the five-note pentatonic scale, first rising, then falling. A rhythmic interest in the song is that the tune keeps behind the main pulse, with the three \"I got...\" phrases syncopated, appearing one beat behind in the first bar, while the fourth phase \"Who could...\" rushes in to the song. The song's chorus is in a 34-bar AABA form. Its chord progression (although often reduced to a standard 32-bar structure, for the sake of improvised solos), is known as the \"rhythm changes\", and is the foundation for many other popular jazz tunes. The song was used as the theme in Gershwin's last concert piece for piano and orchestra, the \"Variations on \"I Got Rhythm\"\", written in 1934. The song has become symbolic of the Gershwins, of swing, and of the 1920s.\n\nAs usual, George Gershwin wrote the melody first and gave it to Ira to set, but Ira found it an unusually hard melody for which to create lyrics. He experimented for two weeks with the rhyme scheme he felt the music called for, sets of triple rhymes, but found that the heavy rhyming \"seemed at best to give a pleasant and jingly Mother Goose quality to a tune which should throw its weight around more.\" Finally he began to experiment with leaving most of the lines unrhymed. \"This approach felt stronger,\" he wrote, \"and I finally arrived at the present refrain, with only 'more-door' and 'mind him-find him' the rhymes.\" He added that this approach \"was a bit daring for me who usually depended on rhyme insurance.\"\n\nIra also wrote that although the phrase \"who could ask for anything more?\" is repeated four times in the song, he decided not to make it the title because \"somehow the first line of the refrain sounded more arresting and provocative.\"\n\nThe song was included in the Gershwin brothers' 1931 Broadway musical. \"Of Thee I Sing\".\n\nAn instrumental arrangement for piano and orchestra appears in the 1945 \"Hollywood Victory Caravan\".\n\nThe song is featured in the 1951 musical film \"An American in Paris\". Gene Kelly sang the song and tap-danced, while French-speaking children whom he had just taught a few words of English shouted the words \"I got\" each time they appeared in the lyrics. This version finished at #32 in AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema.\n\nIt is also featured in the film \"Mr. Holland's Opus\", during a scene in which students are trying out for a Gershwin revue.\n\nAlso featured in the movie \"My Girl\", during a dinner scene when the grandmother sang it, oblivious of the others.\n\nA complete list of notable singers who have recorded this song would take up several pages. The most popular versions are those of The Happenings (#3 on the US charts in 1967), Judy Garland, Ethel Merman, Ella Fitzgerald, and more recently, Jodi Benson.\n\nIt is a very popular jazz standard. Many songs use its chord progression, such as Duke Ellington's \"Cotton Tail\". Charlie Parker alone based many songs on its chord progression, e.g. \"Moose the Mooche\". Gary Larson referenced the song in the Far Side.\n\nIn 1939, \"I Got Rhythm\" was arranged and orchestrated by Bruce Chase for a premiere performance by the Kansas Philharmonic, now the Kansas City Symphony.\n\nA version of the song set to a disco beat was recorded by Ethel Merman for her \"Ethel Merman Disco Album\" in 1979.\n\nIn 1992 the show Crazy for You had it song by Jodi Benson.http://www.londontheatres.co.uk/novello-theatre/crazy-for-you/\n\nAnother version of the song was arranged for solo guitar by Ton Van Bergeyk. It appears on the album \"Black and Tan Fantasy\". Mike Oldfield and Wendy Roberts performed a version on Oldfield's \"Platinum album\".\n\nThe song was satirized in an episode of \"The Muppet Show\" where Rowlf and Fozzie attempt to perform it but Fozzie is unable to keep in tempo. To compensate Rowlf has him change the lyrics to \"I don't got Rhythm\".\n\nThe song has appeared in several film versions of \"Girl Crazy\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945240", "title": "Lexus GX", "text": "Lexus GX\n\nThe Lexus GX (Japanese: レクサス・GX, \"Rekusasu GX\") is a full-size luxury SUV sold in North American and Eurasian markets by Lexus, a luxury division of Toyota. The name GX stands for Grand Crossover. Lexus introduced the first generation, known as the GX 470 in 2002, and subsequently became the third SUV to enter the Lexus lineup. A five-speed automatic was always standard, as was a full-time four-wheel-drive system with low-range gearing. The 4.7-liter V8 engine in the GX 470 was the same as used on the larger LX 470. The firm next introduced the second generation model in 2009, badged GX 460 to reflect the switch to a 4.6-liter V8 engine. Lexus later released a lower displacement GX 400 in 2012 for the Chinese market, with a 4.0-liter V6 engine.\n\nAlthough Toyota Motor Corporation's (TMC) iconic Land Cruiser (LC) wearing the Toyota badge is available globally in both a full and mid-size versions, depending on where the other full-size LC is marketed it wears either the Toyota LC Prado or the LEXUS GX badge. There are a few important market-driven, market-exclusive options available for the Prado and the GX, such as the Prado having a diesel engine option, right-hand steering, rear door mounted spare tire, to name a few but essentially the GX series is the Toyota Land Cruiser Prado model rebadged with the LEXUS name plates and fitted with additional luxury trim. Both the GX and Prado share a common platform, mechanicals, and a great majority of bodywork, and therefore share common basic dimensions. Likewise, the interiors were much the same with the GX receiving further premium touches. Both versions employ body-on-frame construction (BOF), an electronically controlled five-speed automatic transmission, and permanent four-wheel drive with a center locking Torsen differential.\n\nIn the Lexus lineup, the GX is positioned between the RX crossover and the premium full-size, off-road capable LX SUV (the Lexus badged Land Cruiser). All GX production has occurred at the Tahara plant in Japan, alongside the Toyota Land Cruiser Prado and the export-minded Toyota 4Runner. Both generations of the GX have been heavily based on the Prado and 4Runner, with updated frontal styling to better integrate with the Lexus lineup. Elsewhere, the changes are less prominent and mainly restricted to minor trimmings, such as wheels and taillamp lenses inserts. The first generation interior largely mirrors that of the Toyota-badged version. The second generation interior has been further differentiated with fewer shared components.\n\nLexus introduced the GX 470 at the North American International Auto Show in January 2002 as a 2003 model, with sales commencing in November 2002. The GX development program began in 1999 following the J120 Toyota Land Cruiser Prado in 1997, with design work by Shoichi Fujiyoshi concluding in the first half of 2000. The suspension shared its layout with the Toyota 4Runner equipped with the rear air suspension, while adding Adaptive Variable Suspension (AVS) and Downhill Assist Control (DAC). AVS could adjust damper firmness continuously while DAC modulated descents down slopes. Power came from a 4.7-liter, 32-valve, four-cam \"2UZ-FE\" V8 engine originally rated at at 4,800 rpm and of torque at 3,400 rpm. Towing capacity was rated at for the 2003 model year. Midway through the 2004 model year, the GX received an upgraded towing capacity of with the addition of a much stronger frame-bolted tubular hitch. Ground clearance measured , with an approach angle of 30° and a departure angle of 29° raised (25° normal). The GX 470 carried a drag coefficient of .\n\nThe interior came equipped with two rows of seating, while an optional third row allowed up to eight passengers to be carried. However, the folding third row was tight with only of legroom. A Mark Levinson audio system along with a Rear Seat Entertainment System were available as options. A side-opening rear tailgate was standard.\n\nIn 2003, for the 2004 model year, the GX 470's transmission was upgraded to a sealed unit with no dipstick. An optional Kinetic Dynamic Suspension System (KDSS) became available as a late-year addition. KDSS freed and adjusted the vehicle's stabilizer bars for greater articulation allowing the wheels to move with less restriction over uneven terrain, and used front and rear hydraulic pressure-sensing valves and larger stabilizer bars to reduce body roll during on-road conditions. Safety upgrades for 2004 included a roll-sensing feature for the side curtain airbags, a tire pressure monitoring system, and an optional rear backup camera system.\n\nIn 2004, for the 2005 model year, the GX 470's engine gained with the addition of VVT-i for a total of . This allowed the SUV to be certified as an Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle II (ULEV II) in the U.S. Other upgrades included an enhanced navigation system, Bluetooth compatibility, and more voice commands. A Sport model joined the lineup, including the Kinetic Dynamic Suspension System and different styling such as smoked bezel headlamps, added chrome trim, and black birdseye maple wood.\n\nIn 2005, for the 2006 model year, changes in SAE engine testing procedures resulted in a slight drop in the amount of stated power for the V8 to , and Lexus Link telematics was offered in North America. For 2007, the GX 470 was largely unchanged, with upgrades for cabin electronics including a new generation navigation system, auxiliary input jack for devices like an iPod, DVD video playback when parked, and larger optional rear entertainment video screen.\n\nFinally, in 2007, for the 2008 model year, the GX 470 received styling updates, including a dark metallic grille, liquid graphite wheels, added exterior and interior chrome, revised turn signal lights, and added wood and body color options.\n\nThe Lexus GX has won various awards including \"Four Wheeler of the Year\" in 2003 and 2004 from \"Four Wheeler Magazine\", and \"Automobile Magazine\" All-Star for 2003 in the Mid-Size Sport-Utility category. J.D. Power and Associates named the GX 470 the highest ranked premium luxury SUV in initial quality in 2005, and Kelley Blue Book gave the GX 470 its Best Resale Value Award in 2006.\n\nThe GX 460 debuted in China at the Guangzhou International Automobile Exhibition in November 2009. The redesigned model continued with body-on-frame construction, full-time four-wheel drive, an electronically controlled hi-lo transfer case, and a Torsen center locking differential. The Kinetic Dynamic Suspension System (KDSS) became standard. Power came from a new 4.6-liter \"1UR-FE\" V8 engine producing and of torque, mated to a new six-speed automatic transmission. Fuel economy was improved over the prior generation, while maximum towing capacity was . The drag coefficient was reduced to . The rear wiper was hidden under the rear spoiler, and while the tailgate remained side-opening, a flip-up glass panel was added.\n\nThe interior added a power-folding, two-passenger third row which folded flat, allowing capacity for up to seven passengers, with the second row sliding or tilting for third row access. Because the third row was no longer removable and used additional space, cargo capacity declined. A toggle switch replaced the transfer case's floor mounted shift lever, and the gauge cluster added a steering wheel angle display for off-road situations. Similar to before, a Mark Levinson sound system and two-display Rear Seat Entertainment System (RSES) were optional, while three-zone climate control, semi-aniline leather, and heated second row seats and steering wheel were new options.\n\nLike its predecessor, Rear Adjustable Height Control (AHC) air suspension was offered on the GX 460 with an Adaptive Variable Suspension (AVS) system and Hill-start Assist Control (HAC). Additional electronic aids included the LX 570's Crawl Control system, Downhill Assist Control (DAC) and Active Traction Control (A-TRAC). The Torsen differential distributed a variable torque split when left unlocked, including a 40:60 (front:rear) ratio under normal driving conditions, a 30:70 ratio during cornering, and a 50:50 ratio when rear wheel slippage was detected.\n\nAdded safety features included whiplash-reducing active headrests and ten airbags, including front knee airbags and rear side torso airbags. New safety options include a Pre-Collision System, Driver Monitoring System, lane departure warning system and Lexus Enform with Safety Connect telematics. Optional cameras located at the rear door, rear-view mirror and passenger-side mirror provided views of the vehicle's sides. Low-beam HID headlamp projectors were offered with an Intelligent High Beam feature which automatically dimmed the high beams depending on traffic conditions and an Adaptive Front lighting System (AFS) that swiveled the headlamps in corners.\n\nOn May 28, 2012, Lexus China announced the market launch of the GX 400, which replaces the GX 460 in China. The engine option is now changed to the 4.0-liter \"1GR-FE\" V6 engine that outputs combined with a five-speed automatic transmission. Due to the power reduction, it takes 9.8 seconds for the GX 400 to accelerate from . Compared with the outgoing GX 460, most standard equipment on GX 400 remains the same. However, in November 2017, the GX 400 was discontinued in Chinese markets.\n\nOn April 13, 2010, \"Consumer Reports\" in the United States urged customers not to buy the 2010 model year GX 460, giving it a \"Don't buy, Safety Risk\" label, its first such vehicle rating since 2001, following the results of a \"lift-off oversteer\" emergency test. This label was lifted on May 7, 2010. In the high-speed test, the SUV was quickly turned with no pedal input, causing a sideways slide before the vehicle stability control (VSC) initiated a full stop. \"Consumer Reports\" said that the VSC acted too slowly, and if a wheel hit a curb or slid off the pavement, a rollover accident could occur. The shared-platform Toyota 4Runner passed the test, and while \"Consumer Reports\" said it knew of no actual incidents, it recommended a software fix. The same day, vehicle maker Toyota expressed concern, thanked the magazine, and temporarily suspended GX 460 sales. While noting that the SUV met all U.S. federal requirements, on April 16 Toyota confirmed that its testing had duplicated the results.\n\nOn April 19, 2010, a voluntary recall of the GX 460 was issued, along with the left-hand-drive Land Cruiser Prado, for a software update to fix the VSC response. With the software update in place, sales resumed on April 29. Vehicle stability control had been criticized by \"Wheels magazine\" for slow response speed on such models as the Toyota Kluger (known as the Highlander in North America), while \"Drive\" noted that VSC had also been said to intervene too soon. The \"Wall Street Journal\" pointed the lack of VSC a decade ago.\n\nIn September 2013, the GX received a first facelift with the Lexus spindle grille design, new LED headlamps and LED daytime running lights standard; LED foglamps are optional. In the US pricing has been reduced by $4,750.\n\nIn 2016, for the 2017 model year, the Lexus GX added second row captain chairs with the luxury package.\n\nIn 2019, for the 2020 model year, the GX received a second facelift with a redesigned, more angular spindle grille along with new triple-beam LED headlamps. An Off-Road package is also new, which consists of a 360 degree Panoramic View Monitor and Multi-Terrain Monitor with 4 Cameras, a transmission cooler, a fuel-tank protector along with Lexus' own Crawl Control and Multi-Terrain Select. Additionally, the interior gains new trim options, and safety features part of Safety System+ are now standard on all models.\nSales data for the Lexus GX are as follows, sourced from manufacturer yearly data:\n"}
{"id": "1945243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945243", "title": "Mikseri.net", "text": "Mikseri.net\n\nMikseri.net is a free Finnish music-sharing service created by Arto Aaltonen with the help of Miikka Koivuniemi. Independent musicians are allowed to upload their work on their accounts from which other users can download their music for free. Registered users can also review other artists' works. Tracks are uploaded to the site in mp3 format. Mikseri.net is much like the late mp3.com, but with the focus of services towards the musician community rather than consumers. Quite a few popular Finnish artists have launched their careers from mikseri.net; @junkmail, MC Pöly, Chorale and Steen1 to name a few.\n\nThe first official version of Mikseri.net was released in 27.05.2001 after half a year of developing. After the release of the second official version the service started to grow rapidly.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945247", "title": "Peter Moffatt", "text": "Peter Moffatt\n\nPeter Moffatt (15 April 1922 – 21 October 2007) was an English television director.\n\nHis work includes \"Crane\" (1963), \"All Creatures Great and Small\" (1978) and \"The Gentle Touch\" (1980). He also directed the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\" serials \"State of Decay\" (1980), \"The Visitation\" (1982), \"Mawdryn Undead\" (1983), \"The Five Doctors\" (1983) \"The Twin Dilemma\" (1984) and \"The Two Doctors\" (1985).\n\n"}
{"id": "1945266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945266", "title": "Regnum", "text": "Regnum\n\nRegnum may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1945275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945275", "title": "Wigner effect", "text": "Wigner effect\n\nThe Wigner effect (named for its discoverer, Eugene Wigner), also known as the discomposition effect or Wigner's release, is the dislocation of atoms in a solid caused by neutron radiation. \n\nAny solid can display the Wigner effect. The effect is of most concern in neutron moderators, such as graphite, intended to reduce the speed of fast neutrons, thereby turning them into thermal neutrons capable of sustaining a nuclear chain reaction involving uranium-235.\n\nTo create the Wigner effect, neutrons that collide with the atoms in a crystal structure must have enough energy to displace them from the lattice. This amount (threshold displacement energy) is approximately 25 eV. A neutron's energy can vary widely, but it is not uncommon to have energies up to and exceeding 10 MeV (10,000,000 eV) in the centre of a nuclear reactor. A neutron with a significant amount of energy will create a displacement cascade in a matrix via elastic collisions. For example, a 1 MeV neutron striking graphite will create 900 displacements; not all displacements will create defects, because some of the struck atoms will find and fill the vacancies that were either small pre-existing voids or vacancies newly formed by the other struck atoms.\n\nThe atoms that do not find a vacancy come to rest in non-ideal locations; that is, not along the symmetrical lines of the lattice. These atoms are referred to as interstitial atoms, or simply interstitials. An interstitial atom and its associated vacancy are known as a Frenkel defect. Because these atoms are not in the ideal location, they have an energy associated with them, much as a ball at the top of a hill has gravitational potential energy. This energy is referred to as \"Wigner energy\". When a large number of interstitials have accumulated, they pose a risk of releasing all of their energy suddenly, creating a rapid, very great increase in temperature. Sudden, unplanned increases in temperature can present a large risk for certain types of nuclear reactors with low operating temperatures; one such was the indirect cause of the Windscale fire. Accumulation of energy in irradiated graphite has been recorded as high as 2.7 kJ/g, but is typically much lower than this.\n\nDespite some reports, Wigner energy buildup had nothing to do with the cause of the Chernobyl disaster: this reactor, like all contemporary power reactors, operated at a high enough temperature to allow the displaced graphite structure to realign itself before any potential energy could be stored. Wigner energy may have played some part following the prompt critical neutron spike, when the accident entered the graphite fire phase of events.\n\nA buildup of Wigner energy can be relieved by heating the material. This process is known as annealing. In graphite this occurs at 250 °C.\n\nIn 2003, it was postulated that Wigner energy can be stored by the formation of metastable defect structures in graphite. Notably, the large energy release observed at 200–250 °C has been described in terms of a metastable interstitial-vacancy pair. The interstitial atom becomes trapped on the lip of the vacancy, and there is a barrier for it to recombine to give perfect graphite.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945279", "title": "Shaun McNally", "text": "Shaun McNally\n\nShaun McNally (born December 10, 1957, Derby, Connecticut) is an American activist and former Connecticut state legislator. He served in the Connecticut House of Representatives from 1987–1992, representing Norwich and Sprague.\n\nDuring his service in the state legislature, McNally served as House Chair the Planning and Development Committee. He also served as a member of the Finance, Commerce, Judiciary and Human Services committees.\n\nMcNally was staff member for former U.S. Representative Sam Gejdenson, from 1981–82, and staff on the Chris Dodd Senate campaign in 1980. In 2004, he ran unsuccessfully for Congress.\n\nFrom 1995-2003, he was Director of Public Affairs and Chief Internet Strategist for the Connecticut Business and Industry Association (CBIA), where he was responsible for small business and manufacturing sector public policy agenda development as well as member legislative advocacy. From 2008-09, McNally served as Executive Director of the Connecticut Early Childhood Alliance, a coalition of organizations advocating for high-quality early childhood education.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful campaign for the democratic nomination for US Congress CT-2, in 2005 McNally joined the USAID Mission in Iraq as Food Security Advisor for the Food for Peace Program. McNally later returned to Iraq as technical advisor and Deputy Chief of Party for the Local Governance Program (LGP3) (2009-2011) and later as technical advisor for the USAID-funded Government Strengthening Program (GSP) (2012-2013).\n\nCurrently, McNally serves as Chief of Party for the USAID Strengthening Somali Governance (SSG) program. From 2013-15, he led a parliamentary strengthening program in Armenia (SANAP). From 2011-12, he served as Chief of Party for the USAID/Afghanistan local governance strengthening program for the nine provinces of ISAF-North (RAMP-UP). From 2006-07, McNally was Country Director and Chief of Party for the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI) democracy and governance programs for Albania. The program worked with civil society groups, political parties, journalists, mayors and members of parliament, as well as supporting election monitoring.\n\nMcNally holds a B.A in political science from the University of Connecticut and a Master of Public Administration degree from Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. \n\nMcNally has one daughter. \n"}
{"id": "1945285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945285", "title": "Ascaris", "text": "Ascaris\n\nAscaris is a genus of parasitic nematode worms known as the \"small intestinal roundworms\", which is a type of parasitic worm. One species, \"Ascaris lumbricoides\", affects humans and causes the disease ascariasis. Another species, \"Ascaris suum\", typically infects pigs. \"Parascaris equorum\", the equine roundworm, is also commonly called an \"Ascarid\".\n\nTheir eggs are deposited in feces and soil. Plants with the eggs on them infect any organism that consumes them. \"A. lumbricoides\" is the largest intestinal roundworm and is the most common helminth infection of humans worldwide. Infestation can cause morbidity by compromising nutritional status, affecting cognitive processes, inducing tissue reactions such as granuloma to larval stages, and by causing intestinal obstruction, which can be fatal.\n\n\nThe body is long, cylindrical, fusiform (pointed at both the ends), body wall is composed of cuticle, epidermis and musculature. Presence of a false body pseudocoelom not lined by epithelium. Digestive system is complete. Respiration by simple diffusion. Nervous system consists of a nerve ring and many longitudinal nerve cords. Only sexual reproduction. Sexes are separate with sexual dimorphism. Males are usually shorter than females.\n\nAs part of the parasite defense strategy, \"Ascaris\" roundworms secrete a series of inhibitors to target digestive and immune-related host proteases, which include pepsin, trypsin, chymotrypsin/elastase, cathepsins, and metallocarboxypeptidases (MCPs).\n\"Ascaris\" species inhibit MCPs by releasing an enzyme known as \"Ascaris\" carboxypeptidase inhibitor (ACI). This enzyme binds to the active site of MCP and blocks the cleavage of its own proteins by the host MCP. Similarly, they inhibit trypsin by releasing the protein Ascaris Trypsin Inhibitor (pdb 1ATA,https://www.rcsb.org/structure/1ATA 1ATB)\n\n\"Ascaris\" has been present in humans for at least several thousand years, as evidenced by \"Ascaris\" eggs found in paleofeces and in the intestines of mummified humans.\n\n\"A. lumbricoides\" was originally called \"Lumbricus teres\" and was first described in detail by Edward Tyson in 1683. The genus \"Ascaris\" was originally described as the genus for \"Ascaris lumbricoides\" by Carl Linnaeus in 1758. The morphologically similar \"Ascaris suum\" was described from pigs by Johann August Ephraim Goeze in 1782.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945286", "title": "Lexus LX", "text": "Lexus LX\n\nThe is a full-size luxury SUV sold by Lexus, a luxury division of Toyota since January 1996 having entered manufacture in November 1995. Three generations have been produced, all based heavily on the long-running Toyota Land Cruiser SUVs. The first generation LX 450 started production in 1995 as Lexus' first entry into the SUV market. Its successor, the LX 470, premiered in 1998 and was manufactured until 2007. The latest, third-generation, LX 570 debuted at the New York International Auto Show in April 2007 as a complete redesign for the 2008 model year. The LX name stands for \"Luxury Crossover\". However, some Lexus importers use the backronymic name, \"Luxury Four Wheel Drive\".\n\nThe second and third generations had a V8 engine powertrain, a welded steel unibody shell combined with full-size steel ladder frame (body-on-frame construction), and seats for eight passengers (LX 470 and LX 570). The first generation LX 450, a mid-size SUV, had an inline-6 engine and seats for seven passengers. The second generation LX 470 shared exterior styling with the Land Cruiser Cygnus, sold in Japan. The LX is Lexus' largest and most expensive luxury SUV.\n\nRapidly developed in the mid-1990s as a result of threatening US trade sanctions on Japanese luxury cars, the LX 450 started production in November 1995 and was released to the US in January 1996 as a 1996 model; Canada received the LX from 1997. The LX 450 was Lexus's first SUV and was almost entirely based on the sixth generation Toyota Land Cruiser (J80). Differences lay in a restyled, more luxurious interior and softer suspension settings. The first LX 450 rolled off the production line in December 1995.\n\nThe LX 450 was powered by a 4.5-liter, twin-cam, four-valve inline-six engine that produced and of torque. Both front and rear axles were solid. Externally, the LX 450 was identical to the J80 series Land Cruiser, with the exception of the grille, side body cladding, and wheels. Side running boards give step-up access. The vehicle had additional sound-absorbing insulation.\n\nAmenities included leather seats and seating for seven passengers in three rows, the third row accessed by tilting the second row bench seat forward. The third row could be folded to the side and the second row folded down for further space. The vehicle was pre-wired for the Lexus remote telephone system, and had a remote entry key system. The three options consisted of a console-mounted 6-disc CD changer, electronic front and rear locking differentials, and a power moonroof. At the time of its sales debut in early 1996, the LX 450 was listed in the US at a suggested base price of $47,995, an approximately $7,000 premium over the Land Cruiser, with a base price of $40,678 in 1996.\n\nTargeted against luxury SUV competitors such as Range Rover, the LX 450 sold over 5,000 units in 1996 and over 9,000 units in 1997. At its launch it sold out its initial production allocation, resulting in a two-month wait list, surpassing initial expectations which had called for 4,000 units that year. It was brought to market as US buyers showed greater interest in large SUVs, which had grown popular because of their high driver's vantage point and truck-like characteristics. Lexus customer research revealed that one in six owners were purchasing large SUVs to add to their garages. An additional factor was the US-Japan trade war of the mid-1990s. The US government threatened to place 100 percent tariffs on all Japanese luxury import cars, but not including SUVs. The LX 450 was produced as a rebadged model (in contrast with other Lexus efforts which were independently or divergently developed from Toyota vehicles), giving a model that was exempt from the tariff. Ultimately a gentlemen's agreement was reached and the threatened tariffs did not materialize.\n\nThe LX 450 replaced the Land Cruiser in the Canadian market starting after 1996, reducing internal competition (big expensive SUVs have traditionally faced a difficult market in Canada) and avoiding the issue of selling a rebadged model (except for GM, Ford and Chrysler, rebadged models in Canada have not met with success). For a vehicle, the LX 450 was regarded by some critics as underpowered, leading to the shortening of its model cycle (despite sales increases) and replacement with a V8-powered successor.\n\nThe LX 450 was the top-ranked full-size SUV in J.D. Power and Associates' Initial Quality Survey, with the lowest number of problems during the first three months of ownership.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, work started on a Lexus variant of the Toyota Land Cruiser (J100), the LX (J100). The final design by Hiroya Kitazumi was approved in 1995, with updates by Kitazumi approved in 2001 and 2004. Testing was conducted from the mid-1990s till late 1997. In December 1997, the second generation LX 470 debuted at the Los Angeles Auto Show, going on sale in the second quarter of 1998. It shared the floor plan and most body panels with the equivalent Land Cruiser, and differed in its front appearance and had a more luxurious interior. Exterior design differences included a quad-headlamp forward fascia with larger grille and different wheels. It was powered by a LEV-certified 4.7-liter V8 engine, which initially produced , later upgraded to , then . The final torque value was . It was rated to tow with the tow package installed.\n\nThe front gained independent suspension, and the optional electronic locking front and rear differentials were dropped. Suspension included Adjustable Height Control (AHC) hydraulic suspension and Adaptive Variable Suspension (AVS). The AHC could raise the vehicle for off-roading and return to a normal driving height reducing the center of gravity and wind resistance. The lowest setting for when the vehicle was stopped allowed for easier entry, exit and loading. AVS alters shock absorber firmness in under 2.5 milliseconds at each wheel, individually selecting from a range of 64 settings depending on road conditions and driver input such as steering-wheel activity, braking and acceleration. The AVS system used a switch for the driver's preferences including \"normal\", \"comfort\" and \"sport\" modes.\n\nA DVD-based navigation system was offered starting in 2001, Nakamichi stereo with in-dash six-disc CD changer (discontinued after 2000 - Mark and Levinson was offered from 2001 up), electrochromic power folding side mirrors, and a smog sensor for the HVAC system were offered. For 2000 models, Vehicle Stability Control and brake assist were made standard, along with Toyota's new A-TRAC (Active Traction Control System). \n\nDuring 2002 for the 2003 model year, Lexus introduced minor tweaks to the exterior, a 5 speed transmission including larger standard 18-inch wheels, a new front bumper, etc. The interior was substantially overhauled, adopting the corresponding updates to the Land Cruiser's interior, and with Bluetooth and a backup camera now available. In the US, both were optional with the camera coupled with the navigation system, due to the shared screen. Lexus increased power from to . The updated engine now met CARB ULEV-II emission standards. Lexus added front row side torso airbags and side curtain airbags, electronic brakeforce distribution and rain-sensing windshield wipers as standard. An 11-speaker Mark Levinson premium sound system and a DVD Rear-Seat Entertainment System (RSES) were made optional. Other new features included Lexus Link, an emergency service similar to GM's Onstar, in North America.\n\nNight View infrared camera safety system was offered as an option in 2002, the world's first active automotive night vision system, projecting information on the windshield using a head-up display; the driver could vary brightness using a dimmer knob. The 2003 LX 470 came with Variable Gear Ratio Steering (VGRS) system, varying steering ratios from 12.4 to 1 to 18.0 to 1 (previously fixed at 19.8 to 1), allowing the driver to apply less steering input to maneuver in tight places such as parking lots. By changing the ratio on the highway, minor adjustments made by the driver would not create excessive vehicular movement.\n\nIn 2005 for the 2006 model year, a refresher included LED tail lamps, adding VVT-i to the engine and increasing its power to . During 2006, for the final model year, 2007, Lexus produced 400 \"Limited Edition\" LX 470s with Black Onyx paint, stone leather interior, and specialized badging and scuff plates.\n\nSeveral awards were made for the J100 series:\n\nOn April 4, 2007, Lexus debuted the 2008 model year LX 570 at the New York International Auto Show. It was a complete redesign, and the first version to be debuted before its expected Land Cruiser counterpart. The design by Shinichi Hiranaka was approved in 2004, who also did the design update approved in 2010 It has a new UL EV-II certified 5.7 L \"3UR-FE\" V8 engine. Power output is with of torque. The more powerful engine helps give an increased towing capacity of up to . The engine is tied to a six-speed sequential-shift automatic transmission with an all-new 4WD system which uses a Torsen center differential. Development began on both the Land Cruiser (J200) and Lexus LX equivalent in 2002. The final design was approved in 2004, with testing being conducted into early 2007 on development prototypes and late 2007 on pre-production models. The final design patent for the J200 series Lexus LX was filed on March 27, 2007.\n\nThe LX 570 is longer overall and wider, while retaining the same wheelbase. It loses the plastic lower body side cladding leaving the paint exposed. A third of the frame's body mass is made from high-tensile steel, along with the entire B-pillar, and all three crossmembers are hydroformed steel. Like the Toyota Tundra the tow hitch is integrated into the frame. The front suspension now uses double wishbones, replacing the torsion beam, which gives of suspension travel, while the rear continues to use a multi-link suspension with a solid rear axle for strength and durability. The LX platform has logged 240,000 test kilometers through subtropical forests, the Australian Outback and American deserts.\n\nThe LX 570 comes standard with 20-inch-wheels, a four-wheel electro-hydraulic suspension with an updated six-setting AHC system that can raise the vehicle by or lower it by from its normal ride height using a knob in the center console. The front suspension's air bag spring rates are variable, but not continuously like a fully active suspension arrangement. The AVS provides more immediate damper firmness adjustments that are diagonally cross-linked through a mechanical system using hydraulic fluid, similar to the 4Runner's X-REAS system.\n\nOther performance features include a Crawl Control (more advanced version of Downhill Assist Control) system that negotiates off-road obstacles in both forward and reverse at low speeds by automatically providing throttle and braking inputs for less experienced off-road drivers: an interior lever allows the driver to reduce speed. A multi-terrain anti-lock braking system gives shorter stopping distances on surfaces such as sand or gravel. Hill-start Assist Control (HAC) prevents rolling backwards on hills or slippery surfaces.\n\nThe interior includes amenities, standard and optional, featured in the 2007 LS 460, such as semi-aniline leather seats, four-zone climate control, a 19-speaker 450 Watt Mark Levinson surround-sound stereo system with hard-drive memory storage, a hard-drive-based navigation system, XM satellite radio with NavTraffic as standard, a two-piece power liftgate/tailgate and Lexus Intuitive Park Assist, sonar parking assistance. Other features include Bubinga wood trim (a form of African rosewood also used in private aircraft and high-quality instruments), a center console cooler for storage of cold drinks, power sliding rear seats, power third row seats, and a DVD rear-seat entertainment system.\n\nIt also has the updated Lexus fifth-generation hard-drive-based navigation system with an 8 inch high-resolution VGA display. Lexus' keyless SmartAccess with an ultra-thin \"smart card\" key is standard with 10 airbags including knee airbags for driver and front passenger and second row side torso airbags, and the Adaptive Front-lighting System (AFS) is standard, while the Pre-Collision System (PCS) and Dynamic Radar Cruise Control systems are options. Active front headrests debut this Lexus safety feature for the first time on an SUV in the U.S. A new Wide-view Front and Side Monitor system uses a camera mounted on the grille giving a 180-degree view in front and a camera mounted on the passenger side of the side mirror helps eliminate blind spots at low speeds useful in parking lots or off-road adventures. Night View was discontinued.\n\nIn 2009, the LX 570 received J.D. Power's top score in its Initial Quality Study.\n\nIn 2010 for the 2011 model year, Lexus introduced a mild facelift with a new front bumper, and for sports models a stick-on bodykit on the front and rear bumpers. The new front bumper gave the effect of the new Lexus \"spindle\" grille without redesigning any of the major bodywork components. This was the first year to have the heated steering wheel option.\n\nA more substantial facelift arrived in 2012 for the 2013 model year, characterized by a new grille, bumpers, headlamps, tail lamps lenses and miscellaneous trim changes such as new wheel designs.\n\nAnother facelift was unveiled in August 2015 at the US Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance. The update brought significant changes with an all-new interior, and the only exterior panels carried over were the doors and the roof.\n\nSales data, from manufacturer yearly data.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945289", "title": "Kingfield Stadium", "text": "Kingfield Stadium\n\nKingfield Stadium, also known as Laithwaite Community Stadium for sponsorship reasons, is the home of Woking F.C. in the Kingfield area of Woking, Surrey which has a capacity of 6,036 of which 2,500 are seated on grandstands.\n\nThe stadium has a number of structures, built at different times during its history.\n\nThe main stand, called the Leslie Gosden Stand, is the tallest structure on the ground. It has entirely covered seating. The stand was built in 1995 using financing from Woking Borough Council and represented the first of four phases of development.\n\nOpposite the Leslie Gosden Stand is the Kingfield Road End, which is a covered terrace. One side of the ground has two small seated stands and a small open terrace known as \"moaners' corner\". The other side is a long open terrace, called the Chris Lane Terrace, which is reserved for away fans when a match requires crowd segregation but can be used by anybody when there is no segregation in place. Above the Chris Lane Terrace there is a camera tower where the highlights are filmed from.\n\nThe record official attendance at the ground is 7,020 for the FA Amateur Cup match between Woking and Finchley in the 1957-58 season. Unofficial reports suggest as many as 8,100 were present when Woking played Charlton Athletic in the FA Cup 1st Round on November 27, 1926 but the official attendance that day is recorded as 5,593.\n\nAll-time highest attendance\n7,020 v Finchley, FA Amateur Cup.\n\nAverage attendance - Woking F.C.\n\nHayes & Yeading United shared the use of the stadium for three seasons; 2011–12, 2012–13 and 2013-14.\n\nAs well as hosting Woking F.C. games, matches have also been played at Kingfield by the English National Game XI and the England women's U17 team. The ground also hosted an FA Women's cup semi-final in 2014.\n\nFollowing the conclusion of the 2017–18 season, it was announced Sheerwater would ground-share for the 2018–19 and 2019–20 campaigns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945290", "title": "Isaac Delahaye", "text": "Isaac Delahaye\n\nIsaac Delahaye (born 9 January 1982) is a Belgian guitarist and composer, best known as the lead guitarist of Dutch symphonic metal band Epica since 2009. Prior to that he was lead guitarist in the Dutch death metal band God Dethroned. Delahaye replaced former guitarist Jens van der Valk in God Dethroned after van der Valk left in 2004. He joined the band after a request from drummer and longtime friend Ariën van Weesenbeek and after several meetings with van Weesenbeek and Henri Sattler, Delahaye was welcomed into the band on 29 June 2004. On 15 January 2009, the official announcement came that Isaac was no longer a part of God Dethroned. Soon afterwards, an announcement came from the band Epica that proclaimed Delahaye as their recently hired guitarist.\n\nDelahaye once used exclusively Jackson Guitars, his primary ones being a green Jackson Kelly and a black Jackson Kelly that have Seymour Duncan pickups with a Floyd Rose tremolo. More recently he has been using Ibanez Guitars, primarily his custom seven version of DN500K Darkstone, which he describes as an \"Integral part of the sound of Epica\". In an interview with Moshville Uk he states that he uses a Les Paul Black Beauty and en Epiphone custom for in the studio for solos, due to their thinner necks than the Darkstone. He also mentions that he uses a Maton 808 custom series TE acoustic. He uses Bogner amplifiers including the Uberschall and Shiva 25th Anniversary edition and in the studio mixes his guitar sound with an Axe FX II and sans amp. He and also has used Bogner and Vempire 2x12 Cabinets with V30 speakers.\n\nDelahaye was a member of the symphonic death metal band MaYaN from 2010–2013. He appeared on the album Quarterpast. He was replaced by Merel Bechtold as rhythm guitarist\n\nDelahaye incorporates legato, alternate picking, tremolo picking, tapping, and use of the whammy bar in his solos.\n\nIsaac has a Bachelor of music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945294", "title": "Dwarf wedgemussel", "text": "Dwarf wedgemussel\n\nThe dwarf wedgemussel (\"Alasmidonta heterodon\") is an endangered species of freshwater mussel, an aquatic bivalve mollusk in the family Unionidae, the river mussels.\n\nThis is a rare species found solely in North America's Atlantic coast streams and rivers of various sizes and moderate current.\n\nThe dwarf wedge mussel's current range extends from Maryland to North Carolina. The dwarf wedge mussel is federally listed as endangered and state-listed as endangered in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maryland, North Carolina, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Vermont.\n\nIt previously lived in New Brunswick, but it is locally extirpated in Canada since 1968. The Canadian Species at Risk Act listed the Dwarf Wedge Mussel in the List of Wildlife Species at Risk as being extirpated in Canada.\n\nThis mussel may be found in small creeks to deep rivers in stable habitats with substrates ranging from mixed sand, pebble and gravel, to clay and silty sand. In the southern portion of its range, it is often found buried under logs or root mats in shallow water (USFWS 1993), where in the northern portion of its range, it may be found in firm substrates of mixed sand, gravel or cobble, or embedded in clay banks in water depths of a few inches to greater than 20 feet (Fichtel and Smith 1995; Gabriel 1995; Gabriel 1996; Nedeau and Werle 2003; Nedeau 2004a, 2004b, 2006).\n\nThe Dwarf Wedgemussel is one of 24 freshwater mussel from North America that has two lateral teeth on the right valve and only one on the left side. The dwarf wedgemussel is a small mussel, whose shell size rarely exceeds 45 mm in length and 25 mm high. The trapezoidal-shaped shells are colored brown or yellowish-olive, with reddish brown or greenish rays in young or pale specimens. The nacre is bluish or silvery white, and is iridescent on the posterior.\n\nIts reproductive cycle is typical of other freshwater mussels, requiring a host fish on which its larvae (glochidia) parasitize and metamorphose into juvenile mussels. The dwarf wedgemussel is not a long-lived species as compared to other freshwater mussels; life expectancy is estimated at 10 to 12 years (Michaelson and Neves 1995).\n\nA number of fish species have been positively identified as hosts for the dwarf wedgemussel. Michaelson and Neves (1995) confirmed the tessellated darter (\"Etheostoma olmstedi\"), Johnny darter (\"Etheostoma nigrum\"), and mottled sculpin (\"Cottus bairdi\") as host fish for dwarf wedgemussels in the southern part of its range. Wicklow (\"in\" New Hampshire Wildlife Action Plan 2005) confirmed the slimy sculpin (. congatus\") and juvenile and parr of the Atlantic salmon (\"Salmo salar\") as host fish for dwarf wedgemussels in New Hampshire.\n\nThe dwarf wedgemussel is considered to be a long-term brooder. In general, dwarf wedgemussel glochidia may be released between March and June, with peak release times varying from south to north. Michaelson and Neves (1995) documented the reproductive cycle of the dwarf wedgemussel from North Carolina and observed that this species spawns in late summer, becomes gravid in September, and releases glochidia in April. Wicklow (\"in\" New Hampshire Wildlife Action Plan 2005) observed glochidia release beginning in March and continuing through June in the Ashuelot River in New Hampshire. In a study of dwarf wedgemussel reproduction in the Mill River, Massachusetts, McLain and Ross (2005) observed that most glochidia were released in April and May.\n\nReproductive output appears to be correlated with local population abundance. McLain and Ross (2005) documented that sites with the highest abundance of adult dwarf wedgemussels also demonstrated the highest proportion of gravid females, glochidial density, host infection, and density of juvenile mussels.\n\nAt one time, this species was recorded from 70 localities in 15 major drainages ranging from North Carolina to New Brunswick, Canada. Since the species was first listed as endangered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 1990 (55 FR 9447 9451), a number of new locations have been discovered and a number of known locations are possibly no longer extant. Based on preliminary information, the dwarf wedgemussel is currently found in 15 major drainages, comprising approximately 70 “sites” (one site may have multiple occurrences). At least 45 of these sites are based on less than five individuals or solely on spent shells. The only known occurrence in New Brunswick, Canada (Petticodiac River) appears to be historic; no live mussels or spent shells were found during a 1997 survey (Hanson 1998).\n\nThe mainstem of the Connecticut River in New Hampshire and Vermont is considered to have the largest remaining dwarf wedgemussel population, consisting of three distinct stretches of sporadically occupied habitat segmented by hydroelectric dams. It is estimated that there are hundreds of thousands of dwarf wedgemussels scattered within an approximate 75-mile stretch of the Connecticut River. The Ashuelot River in New Hampshire, the Farmington River in Connecticut, and the Neversink River in New York harbor large populations, but these number in the thousands only. The remaining populations from New Jersey south to North Carolina are estimated at a few individuals to a few hundred individuals.\n\nStrayer et al. (1996) speculated that many dwarf wedgemussel populations, particularly in the southern portion of the range, may be threatened by low densities, small ranges. and linear structure (i.e., an entire population in one stream with no possibility of refuge from catastrophes or stochastic events). Low-density populations may lead to a loss of productivity due to reproductive impediments (e.g., the distance between mussels being too great) or loss of genetic variability. The Mill River in Hatfield and Whately, Massachusetts is an example of a river with a dwarf wedgemussel population patchily distributed over an approximate 16-mile stretch. The most reproductively robust patch is limited to a small stretch (< 1 mile) making it extremely vulnerable to a catastrophic event. The remainder dwarf wedgemussels are sparsely scattered and may demonstrate a reduced capability to reproduce as indicated by McLain and Ross (2005).\n\nAgricultural run-off has been identified as a significant threat to dwarf wedgemussel populations in Massachusetts, Maryland, and North Carolina. In 2001, more than 25 dwarf wedgemussels and hundreds of other mussels (including state-listed species) were killed in the Mill River, Massachusetts, by waste run-off from a small farm.\n\nRecently, severe flooding in the Baltimore and Neversink Rivers in Pennsylvania and New York, respectively, resulted in the destruction of occupied habitat and loss of dwarf wedgemussels. Surveys conducted at two sites on the Neversink River below a dam in Cuddebackville, New York, derived abundance estimates ranging from 60 to 500 dwarf wedgemussels per site (Cole et al. 2004) prior to 2005. Severe flooding in the spring of 2005 scoured the river channel and deposited cobble in at least one of the sites previously surveyed. Resurveys in 2005 of the two sites conducted after the flood event detected one fresh dead dwarf wedgemussel and no live mussels (Cole and White 2006). Surveys in 2006 indicated that the dwarf wedgemussel population in the Neversink River was adversely affected by flood events, although some live mussels were detected.\n\nLittle riverine habitat adjacent to extant populations is protected other than by state shoreline protection regulations or local land use regulations. Development of adjacent uplands continues to be a significant and pervasive threat to southern populations. In summary, it appears that the populations in North Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland are declining as evidenced by low densities, lack of reproduction, or inability to relocate any dwarf wedgemussels in follow-up surveys. Populations in New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut appear to be stable, while the status of populations in the Delaware River watershed affected by the recent floods of 2005 is uncertain at this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945303", "title": "Roman dodecahedron", "text": "Roman dodecahedron\n\nA Roman dodecahedron or Gallo-Roman Dodecahedron is a small hollow object made of copper alloy which has been cast into a dodecahedral shape: twelve flat pentagonal faces, each face having a circular hole of varying diameter in the middle, the holes connecting to the hollow center. Roman dodecahedra date from the 2nd to 4th centuries AD.\n\nSince the first dodecahedron was found in 1739, at least 116 similar objects have been found from Wales to Hungary and Spain and to the east of Italy, with most found in Germany and France. Ranging from in size. A Roman icosahedron has also come to light after having long been misclassified as a dodecahedron. This icosahedron was excavated near Arloff in Germany and is currently on display in the Rheinisches Landesmuseum in Bonn.\n\nNo mention of them has been found in contemporary accounts or pictures of the time. Speculated uses include as a candlestick holder (wax was found inside two examples); dice; survey instruments for estimating distances to (or sizes of) distant objects; devices for determining the optimal sowing date for winter grain; gauges to calibrate water pipes or army standard bases. Use as a measuring instrument of any kind seems improbable since the dodecahedra were not standardised and come in many sizes and arrangements of their openings. It has also been suggested that they may have been religious artifacts, or even fortune-telling devices. This latter speculation is based on the fact that most of the examples have been found in Gallo-Roman sites. Several dodecahedra were found in coin hoards, providing evidence that their owners considered them valuable objects.\nThese artifacts have mainly been found in cold-climate areas of Roman habitation; leading some to speculate they may have been used as a knitting framework (\"cf.\" knitting Nancy). It has been suggested that the varying size of the openings might possibly correlate with the variety in finger sizes.\n\nSmaller dodecahedra with the same features (holes and knobs) and made from gold have been found in South-East Asia along the Maritime Silk Road. They have been used for decorative purposes and the earliest items appear to be from the Roman epoch. Examples include those uncovered in Óc Eo by Louis Malleret, who concluded that the objects represented Mediterranean influence on Funan by trade. Similar decorative gold dodecahedrons have been found in the Pyu city-states and Khao Sam Kaeo ().\n\n"}
{"id": "1945305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945305", "title": "Molala", "text": "Molala\n\nThe Molala (also Molale, Molalla, Molele) are a people of the Plateau culture area in the Oregon Cascades and central Oregon, United States. They are one of the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon, with 141 of the 882 members in the 1950s claiming Molala descent. The Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians also has Molalla representation among its confederation of Tribes and Bands. The Siletz Reservation was established in 1855, for the Coast, Willamette and Umpqua Tribes (Rogue River and Shasta Tribes soon after added). The Molalla are one of the Tribes who signed the 1855 Willamette Valley Treaty (aka Kalapuya, etc. Treaty).\n\nThe Molala language was a member of the Plateau Penutian family. It was previously considered a language isolate. Molala is now extinct.\n\nThe ancestral lands of the Molala people were located south of the Columbia River, with various areas occupied for seasonal resource exploitation. During the winter members of the nation resided in the vicinity of modern Tygh Valley. During the spring Molalas moved to a site along the Deschutes River near what is now Antelope. Stockpiles of fish would be gathered there, including the Sockeye salmon and Columbia River redband trout. Throughout the summer and autumn outside modern Wapinitia Molalas would dig for the tubers of camas and wapato, along with collecting regional berries.\n\nThe Molala traditionally occupied the western slopes of the Cascade Mountain range. Relocating to portions of the Willamette Valley, the Molala had to contend with groups of Cayuse warriors that occasionally attacked their settlements for slaves. During the last known Cayuse raid, likely in the late 1820s, a Molala nobleman was killed. A Clackamas man was used as an intermediary between local Molala soldiers and the Cayuse raiders to arrange for a second battle. The fighting was likely held at Minto Pass, and lasted for two days, the Molalas considering it a victory.\n\nIn 1848 Molala war chief Loshuk (Crooked Finger) headed 150 warriors (Molala, Klamath, Umpqua, Rogue, Atsugewi, Achomawi, Modoc) against the white men in the Willamette Valley, but they were ambushed near the Butte Creek, and their village on the Abiqua Creek shore was attacked. Crooked Finger and his warriors took part in the Cayuse War, as allies of their kinsmen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945316", "title": "Kilum-Ijim Forest", "text": "Kilum-Ijim Forest\n\nThe Kilum-Ijim Forest is an area of mountain rainforest in Cameroon's North-West Region. It is found on Mount Oku and the nearby Ijim Ridge in the Cameroon mountains, with Lake Oku lying in a crater in its center. It is the largest area of Afromontane forest left in West Africa. The area is an important one for biodiversity, including the endemic Bannerman's turaco and banded wattle-eye. The forest is the focus of a successful community conservation project, the Kilum-Ijim Forest Project, which works to protect the forest. The project is a collaboration between the Cameroon Ministry of the Environment and BirdLife International, and focuses on sustainable use of the forests, local management, working to benefit both the biodiversity and local development. The programme works so well that the boundaries of the forest, as mapped by satellite imagery, are expanding, and the success of the idea has led to another sister project in Cameroon, the Bamenda Highlands Forest Project.\n\nThe Kilum-Ijim Forest is an area of land which has extreme biodiversity, ranging from tropical rainforest to lake Biomes. To keep the rainforest sustainable and available for future use, control of areas of the Kilum Forest have been handed over to the locals to preserve and sustain. \n\n"}
{"id": "1945323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945323", "title": "Glenn Cockerill", "text": "Glenn Cockerill\n\nGlenn Cockerill (born 25 August 1959) is an English retired footballer who played more than 700 games in The Football League in a 22-year career. He was a skilled central midfielder renowned for his passing and shooting skills.\n\nCockerill began his career at non-league Louth United, and made his name in the professional game at Lincoln City. He also played for Swindon Town and Sheffield United before joining Southampton in October 1985. He left the Saints in December 1993, having made 358 appearances for the club in all competitions, and later spent three seasons at Leyton Orient, before finishing his career with spells at Fulham and Brentford.\n\nIn 2002, Cockerill was appointed manager of Conference side Woking. He spent five seasons as manager at Kingfield, before being relieved of his duties in March 2007. He is now semi-retired.\n\nIn August 2008 Brighton and Hove Albion Manager Micky Adams added Cockerill to his scouting network.\n\nOn 4 April 2010, he was appointed manager of Winchester City of the Wessex League although he remained in charge for only a few months, parting company with Winchester by mutual consent in September 2010.\n\nSouthampton\n\n"}
{"id": "1945324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945324", "title": "Station keeping", "text": "Station keeping\n\nStation keeping may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1945326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945326", "title": "Chris Ingram", "text": "Chris Ingram\n\nChris Ingram (born 9 June 1943) is a businessman, entrepreneur and art collector with strong benevolent links to Woking.\n\nChris Ingram is one of four children and the only son born to Thomas and Gladys Ingram. His father was a Police Inspector in the Surrey Constabulary which, at that time, involved many relocations around West Surrey.\n\nHe attended Woking Grammar School; having obtained six O'Levels of mediocre grades, he left sixth form abruptly after only six months to become a messenger boy at a London advertising agency.\n\nIngram started his advertising career in 1960, aged 16 at Pictorial Publicity. Six months later, after the agency was taken over by John Pearce and Ronnie Dickenson, Collett Dickenson Pearce (\"CPD\") was formed. CPD rapidly became world-famous for its creative advertising. The media department in which Ingram then worked as a junior was a service department to the main creative agency.\n\nIngram then moved between several advertising agencies (including Greenlys where he met his wife, Janet).\n\nIn 1964 he joined KMP, one of the hot agencies of the 1960s. The freedom and encouragement of the principals resulted in his becoming a board director aged 26 years. KMP was floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1969 and subsequently embarked on a hasty acquisition spree. At Ingram's prompting, the by-then group of ad agencies (KIMPHER) formed a stand-alone media company, 'The Media Department', in 1972, which was to be the forerunner of the modern media agency, splitting for the first time, the media and creative functions of the full-service advertising agency.\n\nThe KIMPHER Group was badly hit by the three-day week and Ingram left in 1976 to start Chris Ingram Associates (CIA). After a shaky start, when there was very limited demand for the concept of a specialist media agency, the company later gained traction and expanded rapidly through the 1980s. CIA floated on the Stock Exchange in 1989. A series of rapid acquisitions commenced in 1993 to create a European network of agencies reflecting the emerging 'Single Market'.\n\nDuring this period the idea of a stand-alone media company became gradually accepted as the norm. The \"Financial Times\"((')) analysis in 2000 of the previous decade showed that CIA was the world's best performing advertising stock of the 1990s.\n\nIngram was judged 'London Entrepreneur of the Year' in 2000 in the Ernst & Young awards and later, Business Services UK Winner.\n\nBy now CIA (with a holding company, Tempus) was employing 2,600 people in 67 offices across 29 countries with a turnover of $3 billion. However, the company was not truly global and in 1998 all the major agencies had decided to join the trend of the separation of creative from media, resulting in the appearance of much larger competitors in the market.\n\nMeantime, WPP was progressively increasing its stake in the publicly quoted Tempus, and by 2001 it was approaching 25%.\n\nThe board of Tempus took the covert decision to sell the company. After a period of courtship, Havas, which also had an incomplete global network, made a bid based on a multiple of 34 pre-tax profits. A battle ensued between WPP and Havas which ended abruptly following the terrorist attacks of 9/11. Havas withdrew immediately, leaving WPP's bid as the only one.\n\nA series of historic appeals was made by WPP, who claimed a material adverse change (called 'a MAC Attack' in the \"Financial Times\" at that time). After two appeals to the Stock Exchange, WPP was forced to follow through with its bid, netting £432 million cash for Tempus shareholders on 6 November 2001.\n\nIngram re-entered the advertising and marketing sector in 2003 with The Ingram Partnership, a strategic brand consultancy that was positioned to be \"the McKinsey of Marketing\" with a series of high-profile hirings. Despite achieving considerable publicity and client plaudits, the venture was not a success. Losses accumulated and Ingram closed the London office in 2007. He retained a 30% interest in the New York office and sold the Hong Kong office back to one of the founders.\n\nIn parallel with the launch of The Ingram Partnership, Ingram set up a very small investment fund, Genesis Investments, financed from the sale of CIA with his son Jonathan, to make eight to ten investments of approx £0.5m each in companies in the media sector.\n\nThe last investment was in Decision Technologies Limited (whose main brand is Consumer Choices), a price comparison site. At the same time Jonathan Ingram joined as COO. This company was judged to be No. 24 in the \"Sunday Times\" TechTrack100 of 2011.\n\nIngram set up Ingram Enterprise in 2007 to advise, support and invest in small businesses. These range from micro businesses in East Africa to emerging businesses in London and New York, whether start-ups or those transitioning from small to medium-sized.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2013 he was chairman of Sports Revolution, a UK-based sports media and marketing agency. In 2009, Ingram bought out the majority shareholder, Pi Capital. The business expanded rapidly to add consultancy and in-stadia digital media. In September 2012, Steve Lansdown (co-founder of Hargreaves Lansdown and owner of Bristol City Football Club), acquired a significant minority through his investment vehicle, STIG.\n\nIn 2014, Ingram became an Enterprise Fellow of The Prince's Trust\n\nAlthough not an alumnus, Ingram is closely involved with the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Faculty at London Business School where he is a major donor. Recently he has joined the Deloitte Institute of Innovation and Entrepreneurship at The School.\n\nIn its original guise as the Foundation for Entrepreneurial Management, Ingram was involved from the outset eventually served as Acting chairman. He provided the seed funding for a joint venture between the University of Arts and London Business School: The Centre for Creative Business. This was a HEFCE funded initiative to bring business skills to the creative industry. He served as chairman on this joint venture from 2007 to 2008 and was made an Honorary Fellow in 2007.\n\nIngram became Chairman of his boyhood club Woking F.C. in 2002, saving the club from administration. He still continues, as Chairman of the holding company, to try to secure Woking's long-term financial stability through redevelopment of the ground.\n\nIngram started to collect art seriously in 2000 and soon after that he chose to specialise in Modern British Art. It was after the sale of Tempus to WPP on 6 November 2001, that he was able to rapidly boost his collection.\n\nThe collection expanded into his office space at The Ingram Partnership (2003–2007) and when the company closed, the collection ended up in storage at Christies in Nine Elms. Coincidentally, Woking Borough Council asked him to help fund a new gallery and museum which prompted the idea to base the collection at a public place for the public's benefit.\n\nThe new gallery was named The Lightbox which won the Art Fund prize in 2008 and now houses the majority of the 450 piece Ingram Collection with a regular programme of free exhibitions. Ingram is keen that as many people as possible enjoy the collection and encourages an active loan programme, the key pieces of sculpture in The Ingram Collection were exhibited at Sotheby's in January 2011. A further 17 pieces were also loaned to the Royal College of Arts for their 175th Anniversary Show in October 2012.\n\nThe collection is now actively used in the community, helping schools, prisons and mental health organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945335", "title": "String (music)", "text": "String (music)\n\nA string is the vibrating element that produces sound in string instruments such as the guitar, harp, piano (piano wire), and members of the violin family. Strings are lengths of a flexible material that a musical instrument holds under tension so that they can vibrate freely, but controllably. Strings may be \"plain\", consisting only of a single material, like steel, nylon, or gut, or wound, having a \"core\" of one material and an overwinding of another. This is to make the string vibrate at the desired pitch, while maintaining a low profile and sufficient flexibility for playability. \n\nThe invention of wound strings, such as nylon covered in wound metal, was a crucial step in string instrument technology, because a metal-wound string can produce a lower pitch than a catgut string of similar thickness. This enabled stringed instruments to be made with less thick bass strings. On string instruments that the player plucks or bows directly (e.g., double bass), this enabled instrument makers to use thinner strings for the lowest-pitched strings, which made the lower-pitch strings easier to play. On stringed instruments in which the player presses a keyboard, causing a mechanism to strike the strings, such as a piano, this enabled piano builders to use shorter, thicker strings to produce the lowest-pitched bass notes, enabling the building of smaller upright pianos designed for small rooms and practice rooms.\n\nThe end of the string that mounts to the instrument's tuning mechanism (the part of the instrument that turns to tighten or loosen string tension) is usually plain. Depending on the instrument, the string's other, fixed end may have either a plain, loop, or ball end (a short brass cylinder) that attaches the string at the end opposite the tuning mechanism. When a ball or loop is used with a guitar, this ensures that the string stays fixed in the bridge of the guitar. When a ball or loop is used with a violin-family instrument, this keeps the string end fixed in the tailpiece. Fender Bullet strings have a larger cylinder for more stable tuning on guitars equipped with synchronized tremolo systems. Strings for some instruments may be wrapped with silk at the ends to protect the string. The color and pattern of the silk often identifies attributes of the string, such as manufacturer, size, intended pitch, etc.\n\nThere are several varieties of wound strings available.\n\nThe simplest wound strings are roundwound—with round wire wrapped in a tight spiral around either a round or hexagonal core. Such strings are usually simple to manufacture and the least expensive. They have several drawbacks, however: \n\nFlatwound strings also have either a round or hex core. However, the winding wire has a rounded square cross-section that has a shallower profile (in cross-section) when tightly wound. This makes for more comfortable playing, and decreased wear for frets and fretboards (this makes them a popular choice for fretless instruments). Squeaking sounds due to fingers sliding along the strings are also decreased significantly. Flatwound strings also have a longer playable life because of smaller grooves for dirt and oil to build up in.\n\nOn the other hand, flatwound strings sound less bright than roundwounds and tend to be harder to bend. Flatwounds also usually cost more than roundwounds because of less demand, less production, and higher overhead costs. Manufacturing is also more difficult, as precise alignment of the flat sides of the winding must be maintained (some rotation of the winding on roundwound strings is acceptable).\n\nHalfwound strings, ground wound strings, or pressure wound strings are a cross between roundwound and flatwound. Such strings are usually made by winding round wire around a round or hex core first, then polishing, grinding (thus the name, \"ground wound\") or pressing the exterior part of the winding until it is practically flat. This results in the flat, comfortable playing feel of flatwounds, along with less squeaking, with a brightness generally between roundwounds and flatwounds. The polishing process removes almost half of the winding wire's mass; thus, to compensate for it, manufacturers use winding wire of a heavier gauge. Because of the extra manufacturing process involved they are normally more expensive than roundwounds, but less than flatwounds. \n\nThere are two types, or shapes, of core wire typically used in wound strings.\n\nHexcore strings are composed of hexagonal core wire and a tight (usually round) winding. Hexcore string design prevents the winding from slipping around the core – which can occur with round core strings. This may improve tuning stability, flexibility, and reduce string breakage, compared to round core strings.\n\nRound core strings are composed of regular round core and a tight (usually round) winding. Round core is the traditional \"vintage\" way of manufacturing and results in a greater contact between the winding and the core of the string.\n\nBowed instrument strings, such as for the violin or cello, are usually described by tension rather than gauge. Fretted instruments (guitar, banjo, etc.) strings are usually described by \"gauge\"—the diameter of the string. The tone of a string depends partly on weight, and, therefore, on its diameter—its gauge. Usually, string manufacturers that don't describe strings by tension list string diameter in thousandths of an inch (0.001 in = 0.0254 mm). The larger the diameter, the heavier the string. Heavier strings require more tension for the same pitch and are, as a consequence, harder to press down to the fingerboard. A fretted instrument that is restrung with different string gauges may require adjustment to the string height above the frets (the \"action\") to maintain playing ease or keep the strings from buzzing against the frets. The action height of fretless instruments is also adjusted to suit the string gauge or material, as well as the intended playing style.\n\nSteel strings for six-string guitar usually come in sets of matched strings. Sets are usually referenced either by the gauge of the first string (e.g., 9), or by pair of first and last (e.g., 9–42); measurements in thousands of an inch are the \"de facto\" standard, regardless of whether Imperial units are used in a country. Some manufacturers may have slightly different gauge sequences; the sample data below comes from D'Addario string charts for regular, round-wound, nickel-plated strings.\n\nThe following table displays the gauges in inches:\n\nString gauge is subject to personal preferences of the musician, but acoustic guitars are typically strung with a heavier gauge than electric guitars. The need for projection due to lack of amplification is one of the main reasons for this.\n\nBass guitar strings are sometimes made for a particular scale length and come in short, medium, long and extra long (sometimes called super long) scale. Almost all bass guitar strings are made wound. Typical bass guitar strings come in the following gauges:\n\nSince the 20th century, with the advent of steel and synthetic core strings, most bowed instrument string makers market their strings by tension rather than by diameter. They typically make string sets in three tension levels:\"heavy\", \"medium\", and \"light\" (German \"stark\", \"mittel\", and \"weich\"). These tension levels are not standardized between manufacturers, and do not correlate to specific diameters. One brand's medium strings may have quite a different tension from another brand's medium. Based on available historical records, gut strings were sold before 1900 in a similar way.\n\nOn the other hand, modern gut core strings with metal winding, typically have been sold either ungauged for less expensive brands, or by specific gauge. The Gustav Pirazzi company in Germany introduced the Pirazzi meter (PM) measurement early in the 20th century. One PM equals .05 mm. For example, a 14 1/2 PM gauge string has is .725 mm in diameter. Pirazzi (now known as Pirastro) continues to sell its Oliv, Eudoxa, and Passione brand premium gut core strings by PM gauge. Each string is available in 5 or more discrete gauges. Manufacturers of traditional plain gut strings, often used in historically informed performance, sell their products by light/medium/heavy, by PM, by mm or some combination.\n\nSteel forms the core of most metal strings. Certain keyboard instruments (e.g., harpsichord) and the Gaelic harp use brass. Other natural materials, such as silk or gut—or synthetics such as nylon and kevlar are also used for string cores. (Steel used for strings, called music wire, is hardened and tempered.) Some violin E strings are gold-plated to improve tone quality.\n\nSteel or metal strings have become the foundation of strings for the electric guitar and bass. They have a nice, bright tone when compared to nylon string guitars. Their metal composition varies greatly, sometimes using many different alloys as plating. Much of the history about metal strings evolved through innovations with the piano. In fact, the first wound metal strings ever used were used in a piano. However, when it came to getting super small diameter strings with good elastic properties, the electric guitar took the metal string to the next level adapting it for the use of pickups.\n\nBecause of the higher tension of steel strings, steel strung guitars are more robustly made than 'classical' guitars, which use synthetic strings. Most jazz and folk string players prefer steel-core strings for their faster response, low cost, and tuning stability.\n\nNylon string, traditionally used for classical music, has a more mellow tone and the responsiveness of it can be enjoyed typically for folk but other styles of music use it as well (Willie Nelson performs on a nylon string guitar). Note that nylon strings don't work with magnetic pickups, which require ferrous strings that can interact with the magnetic field of the pickups to produce a signal. Nylon strings are made of a softer, less dense material and are under less tension than steel strings (about 50% less). This means they can be used on older guitars that can't support the tension of modern steel strings.\n\nCurrently, stranded nylon is one of the most popular materials for the cores of violin, viola, cello, and double bass strings. It's often sold under the trade name of \"Perlon\". Nylon guitar strings were first developed by Albert Augustine Strings in 1947.\n\nThe intestine, or gut, of sheep, cattle, and other animals (sometimes called \"catgut\", though cats were never used as a source for this material) is one of the first materials used to make musical strings. In fact, the Ancient Greek word for string, \"khordḗ,\" has \"gut\" as its original meaning.\n\nAnimal intestines are composed largely of elastomers, making them very flexible. But they are also extremely hygroscopic, which makes them susceptible to pitch fluctuation as a result of changing humidity. Exposure to moisture from the sweat of a musician's hands can cause plain (unwound) gut strings to fray and eventually break. This is not as much of a problem with wound gut strings, in which the gut core, being protected from contact with perspiration by the metal winding (and underlayer, if there is one), lasts a much longer time. Nonetheless, as such a gut string ages and continually responds to cyclic changes in temperature and humidity, the core becomes weak and brittle, and eventually breaks. Furthermore, all gut strings are vulnerable to going out of tune due to changes in \"atmospheric\" humidity.\n\nHowever, even after the introduction of metal and synthetic core materials, many musicians still prefer to use gut strings, believing that they provide a superior tone. Players associated with the period performance movement use wound and unwound gut strings as part of an effort to recreate the sound of music of the Classical, Baroque, and Renaissance periods, as listeners would have heard it at the time of composition.\n\nFor players of plucked instruments, Nylgut strings are a recently developed alternative to gut strings. They are made from a specialty nylon and purport to offer the same acoustic properties as gut strings without the tuning problems.\n\nFluoropolymer strings are available for classical guitar, harp, and ukulele. These strings are usually traded under descriptions like \"fluorocarbon\", \"carbon fiber\", or \"carbon\", which is scientifically incorrect.\n\nThe so-called \"Carbon\" material has a higher density than nylon, so that a nylon string can be replaced by a carbon string of smaller diameter. This improves the precision of higher fretted notes, and the resulting vibrational behaviour leads to a more brilliant sound with improved harmonics. In particular, classical guitarists who feel that a nylon G string sounds too dull can use strings that include a carbon G string.\n\nOther polymers, including polyetheretherketone and polybutylene terephthalate, have also been used.\n\nSilk was extensively used in China for traditional Chinese musical instruments until replaced by metal-nylon strings in the 1950s. Only purely silk strings used for the guqin are still produced, while some silver-wound silk strings are still available for classical guitars and ukuleles. The quality in ancient times was high enough that one brand was praised as 'ice strings' for their smoothness and translucent appearance.\n\nAluminum, silver, and chrome steel are common windings for bowed instruments like violin and viola, whereas acoustic guitar strings are usually wound with bronze and piano strings are usually wound with copper. To resist corrosion from sweat, aluminium may be used as a resistant alloy such as hydronalium. Classical guitar strings are typically nylon, with the basses being wound with either silver or bronze. Electric guitar strings are usually wound with nickel-plated steel; pure nickel and stainless steel are also used. Bass guitar strings are most commonly wound with stainless steel or nickel. Copper, gold, silver, and tungsten are used for some instruments. Silver and gold are more expensive, and are used for their resistance to corrosion and hypoallergenicity.\n\nSome \"historically-informed\" strings use an open metal winding with a \"barber pole\" appearance. This practice improves the acoustic performance of heavier gauge gut strings by adding mass and making the string thinner for its tension. Specimens of such open wound strings are known from the early 18th century, in a collection of artifacts from Antonio Stradivari. \"Silk and steel\" guitar strings are overwound steel strings with silk filaments under the winding.\n\nPhosphor bronze was introduced by D'Addario in the early 1970s. Phosphor bronze is said to keep their \"new\" sound longer than other strings. Small amounts of phosphorus and zinc are added to the bronze mixture. This makes the phosphor bronze slightly more corrosive resistant than 80/20 bronze.\n\n80/20 bronze strings are 80 percent copper and 20 percent zinc. The zinc also gives it a brighter tone, additional hardness and slows down the aging process. With additional string coating, they are preserved even more. Although, If some of the coating is applied poorly, the strings can lose their tone in just a matter of hours, and if left in high humidity can turn a hint of green because of the copper and corrode with the time. The name \"80/20 Bronze\" is a misnomer, since bronze is by definition an alloy of copper and tin. \"80/20 bronze\" strings would be more correctly referred to as brass.\n\nSome acoustic players use strings, wound with nickel-plated-steel, meant for electric guitar. The properties of the nickel-plated strings make it a good choice for flattop guitars with sound hole-mounted magnetic pickups.\n\nAll metal strings are susceptible to oxidation and corrosion. Wound strings commonly use metals such as brass or bronze in their winding. These two metals are very vulnerable to corrosion. The sebaceous gland in the player's skin produces oils that can be acidic. The oils, salts, and moisture from the player's fingers are the largest source of corrosion. The composition of the oil and the oxygen in the air also helps to oxidize and corrode the strings. In steel strings the oxygen reacts with the iron in the steel and it creates the rust. As a result, the string loses its brilliance over time. Water, another by-product of oxidation, increases the potential acid corrosion in oils. Wound strings, such as bronze acoustic strings, are very difficult to keep fresh sounding due to the lack of corrosion resistance. To help solve the corrosion problem strings are either metal plated or polymer coated. The polymer coating is claimed to reduce finger squeak and fret wear, and has better tuning capability. Some companies sell lubricating oils that slow down the oxidation process, increasing the string's life-span. These special lubricating oils are applied to the strings as a barrier to the air, to help slow the oxidation process.\n\nSome common types of metal plating on strings include tin, nickel, gold, and silver. Some metals such as gold and silver give the strings a different sound. \nAmong strings coated with a polymer, (polytetrafluoroethylene) Teflon is the most commonly used. Teflon is resistant to many corrosive agents such as: chlorine, acetic acid, sulfuric acid, and hydrochloric acid. On the microscopic level Teflon has very tightly packed polymeric chains, and these tightly packed chains create a slippery surface that not only helps keep the oil from the player's hands off the strings but makes them smooth to play as well. Ethylene tetrafluorothylene (ETFE) is another polymer that is sometimes used to coat strings. It is abrasion and cut resistant and has many characteristics similar to Teflon.\n\nSome musicians boil guitar or bass strings to rejuvenate them. The high temperature of the boiling water helps free the strings of oil, salt, and grime from the player's hands. When a string is played, very small metal shavings from fret wear may break off and lodge between the windings of the strings. Heating the strings can expand these particles and separate them from the windings. Some players use deionized water to boil strings, believing that mineral deposits in tap water may aid corrosion of the string core. After boiling, strings may have less elasticity and be more brittle, depending on the quality of the alloys involved. Putting the strings through a cycle in the dishwasher has also been known to work.\n\nA string vibrates in a complex harmonic pattern. Every time the player sets a string in motion, a specific set of frequencies resonate based on the harmonic series. The fundamental frequency is the lowest, and it is determined by the density, length and tension of the string. This is the frequency we identify as the pitch of the string. Above that frequency, overtones (or harmonics) are heard, each one getting quieter the higher it is. For example, if the fundamental pitch is 440 Hz (A above middle C), the overtones for an ideal string tuned to that pitch are 880 Hz, 1320 Hz, 1760 Hz, 2200 Hz, etc. The note names for those pitches would be A, A, E, A, C, etc. Due to the physical nature of the strings, however, the higher up the overtones go, the more out of tune (or \"false\") they are to the fundamental. This is an important consideration for piano tuners, who try to stretch the tuning across the piano to keep overtones more in tune as they go up the keyboard.\n\nIn a phenomenon called sympathetic vibration, a string seems to vibrate by itself. This happens when sound waves strike the string at a frequency close to the string's fundamental pitch or one of its overtones. The string is connected to this similar sound wave through the air, which picks up the vibrations of the sound waves at the same frequency, and in turn causes the string to vibrate on its own. When an outside source applies forced vibration that matches a string's natural frequency, the string vibrates.\n\nResonance can cause audio feedback. For example, in a setup with an acoustic guitar and a PA system, the speaker vibrates at the same natural frequency of a string on the guitar and can force it into vibrational motion. Audio feedback is often seen as an undesirable phenomenon with an acoustic guitar that is plugged into the PA system, because it causes a loud howling sound. However, with electric guitar, some guitarists in heavy metal music and psychedelic rock purposely create feedback by holding an electric guitar close to a powerful, loud guitar amplifier speaker cabinet, with the distortion turned up loud, creating unique high-pitched, sustained sounds. Jimi Hendrix and Brian May were notable users of electric guitar feedback.\n\nFor a typical high-E nylon string, the maximum transverse force is roughly 40 times greater than the maximum longitudinal force amplitude. However the longitudinal force increases with the square of the pulse amplitude, so the differences diminish with increasing amplitude. The elastic (Young's) modulus for steel is about 40 times greater than for nylon, and string tensions are about 50% greater, so the longitude and transverse force amplitudes are nearly equal.\n\nTuning a stringed instrument such as a guitar to pitch puts the strings under a large amount of strain, which indicates the amount of stress inside the string. Stress is relative to the stretch or elongation of the strings. As the string is tuned to a higher pitch, it gets longer and thinner. The instrument can go out of tune because if it has been stretched past its elastic limit, it will not recover its original tension. On a stress vs. strain curve, there is a linear region where stress and strain are related called Young's modulus. A newer set of strings will often be in a region on the stress vs. strain curve past the Young's modulus called the plastic region. In the plastic region, plastic deformation occurs—deformation the material cannot recover from. Thus, in the plastic region, the relationship is not linear (Young's modulus is no longer a constant). The elastic region is where elastic deformation is occurring, or deformation from where the string can recover. The linear (i.e. elastic) region is where musicians want to play their instrument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945341", "title": "Dative construction", "text": "Dative construction\n\nThe dative construction is a grammatical way of constructing a sentence, using the dative case. A sentence is also said to be in dative construction if the subject and the object (direct or indirect) can switch their places for a given verb, without altering the verb's structure (subject becoming the new object, and the object becoming the new subject). The latter case is not to be confused with the passive voice, where only the \"direct\" object of a sentence becomes the subject of the passive-voiced sentence, and the verb's structure also changes to convey the meaning of the passive voice. The dative construction tends to occur when the verb indicates a state rather than an action.\n\nIn German, the dative construction sometimes occurs with the verb \"sein\" (\"to be\"). Compare:\n\nThe first example implies that the speaker has a cold personality. The subject here (\"ich\", \"I\") is in the nominative case. The second construction is used when one wants to say \"I am (feeling) cold\" in German. While in English the subject of the sentence \"I am cold\" is \"I\", in German the subject of the sentence \"\"Mir ist kalt\"\" is \"kalt\" and \"mir\" (\"me\"-DATIVE) is the indirect object. The use of the nominative form equivalent to \"I\" is only possible with a different meaning: \"Ich bin kalt\"='I am cold (in personality)'. \"Mir\" behaves like a subject and can control infinitives:\n\n\"Mir war zu kalt um zur Kirche zu gehen\"\n\nme.DAT was too cold for to.the.Fem.D church to go.INFIN\n\n'I was too cold to go to church' (\"I\" go, not \"cold\")\n\nDative constructions are extremely common in Icelandic. Their use is similar to that of German, although perhaps somewhat more widespread. The following example is exactly the same as the German one given above:\n\nThe implication of the first example is the same as in German, that the speaker has a cold personality rather than feeling physically cold. Dative constructions appear in many fixed expressions such as this, such as \"mér er alveg sama\" (\"I don't care\", lit. \"to me it's completely the same\"), \"henni er annt um umhverfið\" (\"she cares about the environment\", lit. \"to her is dear about the environment\") and \"þú getur fengið nýjan síma þér að kostnaðarlausu\" (\"you can get a new phone free of charge\", lit. \"you can get a new phone to you at no cost\").\n\nPassive constructions in Icelandic also require the subject to be in the dative if the verb in question governs the dative, e.g. \"tímaáætluninni var breytt\" (\"the timetable was changed\"), \"skjölunum var eytt\" (\"the documents were deleted\") and \"framkvæmdum var frestað um tvær vikur\" (\"works were delayed by two weeks\"). Compare to passive constructions where the verb governs the accusative: \"búðin var opnuð á föstudaginn\" (\"the shop was opened on Friday\") and \"bréfið var sent fyrir hádegi\" (\"the letter was sent before noon\"). Verbs that govern the genitive behave in the same way as verbs governing the dative, e.g. \"þín verður saknað\" (\"you will be missed\").\n\nFinally, certain verbs require the subject to be in the dative. This is particularly common with verbs of emotion or opinion. For example:\n\nThis phenomenon is not only restricted to the dative case, some verbs require their subject to be in the accusative:\n\nIn all of the above instances, the verbs used in these constructions are in the third-person singular form.\n\nA number of verbs in Spanish employ a dative construction. Many of these verbs express psychological states; the most common one is \"gustar\", which is equivalent to English \"like\" (but syntactically functions like \"be pleasant to\"). The verb agrees with the formal/morphological subject, but the subject is usually placed after the verb instead of before, as usual. The dative construction requires a clitic pronoun; if the dative argument is a full noun phrase or needs to be explicitly stated, it is shown by a phrase with the preposition \"a\".\n\nOther verbs which show this pattern are \"apasionar\" (\"to be passionate about\"), \"antojarse\" (\"to have a feeling for\"), \"encantar\" (\"to adore\"), \"faltar\" (\"to be lacking\"), \"quedar\" (\"to fall\") and \"sobrar\" (\"to be left\").\n\nIn Serbo-Croatian (as in other Slavic languages), the dative construction is often used, mostly in the same manner as in German:\n\nliterally \"I am cold\", meaning \"I am a cold person\".\n\nliterally \"It is cold to me\", meaning \"I am (feeling) cold\".\nSome verbs, like \"nedostajati\" (\"lack\") use dative constructions:\n\nliterally \"Teeth to him lack\".\n\nThe dative construction is very common in Georgian. The dative construction of Georgian differs somewhat from German, in that the dative case agrees with a certain person marking on the verb. The dative construction occurs in the perfect (not perfective) tense of transitive verbs and in all the tenses of some verbs, such as \"to want\", \"to have\", \"to forget\" and \"to remember\". These verbs are also called \"indirect verbs\" by some generativists. Compare:\n\nIn Georgian, the -s suffix is the dative case marker. In the first sentence, \"bavshvebi\" (\"children\") is the subject and in the nominative case. \"Tsqals\" (\"water\") is the object and in the dative case (with the suffix -\"s\" attached). In the second sentence, however, the subject (children) is in the dative case (with -\"s\"), and the object (water) is in the nominative case. The verb in the imperfective and perfective sentences are conjugated in accordance with the subject of the sentence (regardless of the case of the subject); they are both third person plural. Perfect verbs also agree in part with their dative case subjects (in this case the -u- between da- and -leviat), but only have third person verb endings (singular form for all singular persons and ALSO first person plural; plural form for 2nd/3rd person plural). Therefore, \"I have drunk water\" would be:\n\nThe dative construction is also a separate class of verbs (Class IV) which have the semantics of experience, cognitive processes, and possession (all common DAT-construction predicates in languages which have them). An example of this can be given with the possessive verb \"kona\" (\"to have\"):\n\nIn all the tenses, the subject \"kals\" (\"woman\") is in the dative case, and the object \"tsigni\" (\"book\") is in the nominative case. Etymologically, the root is also found in the future forms of the copula 'be', making it very much like the Latin dative possession construction 'mihi est X'. Again, all singular persons have an agreeing proclitic pronoun on the verb, but a third person singular verb ending (-a or -s).\n\nThe genitive case is used in dative constructions. The \"dative genitive\" (\"datiivigenetiivi\") is no longer productive in Finnish language, and it is often replaced with other cases, except in frozen expressions, e.g. \"luojan kiitos\" (thanks to god).\n\nThe dative genitive is often used with verb infinitives.\n\nLatin uses a dative construction for indirect objects (\"dativus possessivus\").\nHungarian uses a similar construction to Latin for rendering possession without the verb \"to have\" which is missing from Hungarian.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945347", "title": "Link budget", "text": "Link budget\n\nA link budget is an accounting of all of the power gains and losses that a communication signal experiences in a telecommunication system; from a transmitter, through a medium (free space, cable, waveguide, fiber, etc.) to the receiver. It accounts for the attenuation of the transmitted signal due to propagation, as well as the antenna gains and feedline and other losses, as well as the amplification of the signal in the receiver or any repeaters it passes through. A link budget is a design aid, calculated during the design of a communication system to determine the received power, to ensure that the information is received intelligibly with an adequate signal-to-noise ratio. Randomly varying channel gains such as fading are taken into account by adding some margin depending on the anticipated severity of its effects. The amount of margin required can be reduced by the use of mitigating techniques such as antenna diversity or frequency hopping.\n\nA simple link budget equation looks like this:\n\nNote that decibels are logarithmic measurements, so adding decibels is equivalent to multiplying the actual numeric ratios.\n\nFor a line-of-sight radio system, the primary source of loss is the decrease of the signal power due to uniform propagation, proportional to the inverse square of the distance (geometric spreading).\n\n\nOften link budget equations are messy and complex, so standard practices have evolved to simplify the Friis transmission equation into the link budget equation. It includes the transmit and receive antenna gain, the free space path loss and additional losses and gains, assuming line of sight between the transmitter and receiver.\n\n\nIn practical situations (Deep Space Telecommunications, Weak signal DXing etc. ...) other sources of signal loss must also be accounted for\n\nIf the estimated received power is sufficiently large (typically relative to the receiver sensitivity), which may be dependent on the communications protocol in use, the link will be useful for sending data. The amount by which the received power exceeds receiver sensitivity is called the link margin.\n\nA link budget equation including all these effects, expressed logarithmically, might look like this:\n\nwhere:\n\nThe loss due to propagation between the transmitting and receiving antennas, often called the path loss, can be written in dimensionless form by normalizing the distance to the wavelength:\n\nWhen substituted into the link budget equation above, the result is the logarithmic form of the Friis transmission equation.\n\nIn some cases, it is convenient to consider the loss due to distance and wavelength separately, but in that case, it is important to keep track of which units are being used, as each choice involves a differing constant offset. Some examples are provided below.\n\nThese alternative forms can be derived by substituting wavelength with the ratio of propagation velocity (c, approximately 3×10^8 m/s) divided by frequency, and by inserting the proper conversion factors between km or miles and meters, and between MHz and (1/sec).\n\nBecause of building obstructions such as walls and ceilings, propagation losses indoors can be significantly higher. This occurs because of a combination of attenuation by walls and ceilings, and blockage due to equipment, furniture, and even people.\n\n\nExperience has shown that line-of-sight propagation holds only for about the first 3 meters. Beyond 3 meters propagation losses indoors can increase at up to 30 dB per 30 meters in dense office environments.\n\nThis is a good “rule-of-thumb”, in that it is conservative (it overstates path loss in most cases). Actual propagation losses may vary significantly depending on\nbuilding construction and layout.\n\nThe attenuation of the signal is highly dependent on the frequency of the signal.\n\nGuided media such as coaxial and twisted pair electrical cable, radio frequency waveguide and optical fiber have losses that are exponential with distance.\n\nThe path loss will be in terms of dB per unit distance.\n\nThis means that there is always a crossover distance beyond which the loss in a guided medium will exceed that of a line-of-sight path of the same\nlength.\n\nLong distance fiber-optic communication became practical only with the development of ultra-transparent glass fibers. A typical path loss for\nsingle mode fiber is 0.2 dB/km, \n\nfar lower than any other guided medium.\n\nLink budgets are important in Earth–Moon–Earth communications. As the albedo of the Moon is very low (maximally 12% but usually closer to 7%), and the path loss over the 770,000 kilometre return distance is extreme (around 250 to 310 dB depending on VHF-UHF band used, modulation format and Doppler shift effects), high power (more than 100 watts) and high-gain antennas (more than 20 dB) must be used. \nThe first amateur to achieve this utilized a 25m wide antenna he built at home.\nThe Voyager Program spacecraft have the highest known path loss (308 dB as of 2002) and lowest link budgets of any telecommunications circuit. The Deep Space Network has been able to maintain the link at a higher than expected bitrate through a series of improvements, such as increasing the antenna size from 64m to 70m for a 1.2 dB gain, and upgrading to low noise electronics for a 0.5 dB gain in 2000/2001. During the Neptune flyby, in addition to the 70-m antenna, two 34-m antennas and twenty-seven 25-m antennas were used to increase the gain by 5.6 dB, providing additional link margin to be used for a 4x increase in bitrate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945359", "title": "Final Destination 3", "text": "Final Destination 3\n\nFinal Destination 3 is a 2006 American supernatural horror film directed by James Wong. A standalone sequel to \"Final Destination 2\" (2003), it is the third installment in the \"Final Destination\" film series. Wong and Glen Morgan, who worked on the franchise's first film, wrote the screenplay. \"Final Destination 3\" stars Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Ryan Merriman, and takes place five years after the first film. Winstead plays Wendy Christensen, a high school graduate who has a premonition that a roller coaster she and her classmates are riding will derail. Although she saves some of them, Death begins hunting the survivors. Wendy realizes photographs she took at the amusement park contain clues about her classmates' death. With survivor and friend Kevin Fischer (Merriman), Wendy tries to use this knowledge to save the rest of them and ruin Death's scheme.\n\nThe film's development began shortly after the release of \"Final Destination 2\"; Jeffrey Reddick, creator of the franchise and a co-writer of the first two films, did not return for the third one. Unlike the second film, which was a direct sequel to the first, the producers envisioned \"Final Destination 3\" as a stand-alone film. The idea of featuring a roller coaster derailment as the opening-scene disaster came from New Line Cinema executive Richard Bryant. From the beginning, Wong and Morgan saw control as a major theme in the film. Casting began in March 2005 and concluded in April. Like the previous two installments, it was filmed in Vancouver, Canada. The first two weeks of the three-month shoot were spent filming the roller coaster's derailment.\n\nFollowing its premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre on February 2, 2006, the film was released in cinemas in the United States on February 10, 2006. The DVD, released on July 25, 2006, includes commentaries, documentaries, a deleted scene and an animated video. A special-edition DVD called \"Thrill Ride Edition\" includes a feature called \"Choose Their Fate\", which acts as an interactive film, allowing viewers to make decisions at specific points in the film that alter the course of the story.\n\n\"Final Destination 3\" received a mixed critical response. Some critics called the film formulaic and said it brought nothing new to the franchise, while others praised it for being enjoyable and fulfilling its audience's expectations. Two death scenes involving tanning beds and a nail gun, respectively, as well as Winstead's performance attracted positive comments from reviewers. The film was a financial success and, with box office receipts of nearly $118 million, the highest-grossing installment in the franchise at the time. A fourth film, \"The Final Destination\", was released in August 2009.\n\nHigh-school student Wendy Christensen visits an amusement park for a McKinley High senior-class field trip, along with her boyfriend Jason Wise, her best friend Carrie Dreyer, and Carrie's boyfriend Kevin Fischer. As they board the Devil's Flight roller coaster, Wendy has a premonition that the hydraulics securing the seat belts and coaster cars will fail during the ride, killing everyone on board. She panics and a fight breaks out, and ten people leave or are forced off the ride including herself, Kevin, best friends Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin, alumnus Frankie Cheeks, athlete Lewis Romero, goth couple - Ian McKinley and Erin Ulmer, and two yet-to-be identified girls. Moments later, the roller coaster derails and kills the remaining passengers, including Jason and Carrie.\n\nSeveral weeks later, Kevin tells Wendy about the explosion of Flight 180 and the subsequent deaths of the survivors, believing they may be in a similar situation. Wendy believes Kevin is mocking her and leaves, but later, Ashley and Ashlyn are burned to death after being trapped in malfunctioning tanning beds. Now convinced that Death is stalking them, Wendy and Kevin decide to save the remaining survivors, using omens hidden in photographs Wendy took on the night of the roller coaster crash.\n\nFrankie dies when a runaway truck hits Kevin’s car behind him in a drive-thru restaurant, causing the motor to fly out of the vehicle and slice the back of his head. The next day, they try to save Lewis at the gym, but he arrogantly dismisses them shortly before two weights crush his head. They find Ian and Erin working at a hardware store, and Wendy saves Ian from being impaled by falling wooden stakes, but Erin falls on a nail gun and is shot repeatedly through the head. After local police interrogate them, Wendy and Kevin leave the police station and decide to ensure their own safety after assuming that the next survivors on Death's list have died; a grief-stricken Ian stalks Wendy as she departs.\n\nWendy learns that her sister Julie and a friend also escaped the roller coaster crash, and she and Kevin rush to the 300th Anniversary McKinley Tri-Centennial Fair to save them. Kevin saves Julie from being impaled on a harrow, but an airborne flagpole impales Julie's friend Perry Malinowski moments later. Wendy saves Kevin from an exploding propane canister, and Ian, who has become unhinged and blames Wendy for Erin's death, confronts the trio. The unstable firework cannons fire at Wendy, but she ducks and they explode on a cherry picker that falls and crushes Ian in half, leading Wendy to believe she has cheated Death.\n\nFive months later, Wendy experiences more omens while riding on a subway train with her roommate Laura and her friend Sean. As Wendy is about to disembark, she sees Julie entering the train and decides to stay. She later notices Kevin sitting at the back. As the two of them are talking, Wendy receives another premonition of the train derailing and killing everyone on board, and she, Kevin, and Julie try to stop the train in vain. The screen then cuts to black followed by the sound of screeching metal.\n\nThree critical theories about the \"Final Destination\" franchise have been discussed in scholarly works. It has been framed as a postmodern horror franchise that, like the \"Scream\" franchise, self-consciously refers to the history of horror cinema and rewards viewers for their knowledge. Second, the films—particularly \"The Final Destination\" (2009) and \"Final Destination 5\" (2011)—have been examined for their visual effects. Third, the franchise has been criticized for being cynical and reductive. For example, film studies scholar Reynold Humphries dismisses the franchise as \"obscurantist nonsense whose only 'idea' is that death is an agency that has a 'plan' for each of us\".\n\nAccording to media studies scholar Eugenie Brinkema, \"Final Destination\" films are characterized by their move away from the typical horror antagonist and toward the certainty and inevitability of death. This makes them inconsistent with most other horror films, which require a monster. \"Final Destination\" films depart further from other horror films, even those aimed at teenagers, in that a family narrative is lacking, and there are no hauntings of any kind. As well, there is no sexuality—\"neither the pursuit of pleasure in the slasher convention of easy bodily access nor the monstrosity of sexual difference\". Brinkema argues the films are not about seeking pleasure like typical slasher films. Instead they are about the avoidance of pain and death; they are fundamentally \"bitter ... paranoid, and sad\" and display the inability of characters to feel pleasure. In these films, death becomes its own cause. The premonition of the roller coaster derailment in \"Final Destination 3\" is without context or cause. The avoidance of death by some characters grounds the necessity of their deaths, specifically the order in which they would have died on the roller coaster. Thus, \"Death's list\" or \"Death's design\" is realized. \"Final Destination 3\" spends as much time interpreting deaths as displaying them. Wendy's close analysis of photographs allows her to understand the deaths, but this is inevitably too late to save her friends. In the franchise's films, Brinkema says, \"one must closely read to survive (for a spell), and yet reading changes absolutely nothing at all\". Thus, the characters \"might as well\" have stayed on the roller coaster.\n\nIan Conrich, a film studies scholar, argues the series marks a key departure from slasher norms in that death itself becomes the villain. \"Final Destination\" films draw influences from slasher cinema but the franchise's action sequences, including \"Final Destination 3\" roller coaster derailment, draw from action and disaster cinema. For Conrich, the franchise marks a new slasher-film sub-genre. Because the deaths are extremely violent and excessive, any number can happen at once, and all of them are inevitable, he calls the films \"grand slashers\". Other grand slashers include the films in the \"Saw\" and \"Cube\" franchises.\n\nA notable feature of the \"Final Destination\" films is the threshold or tipping-point logic of characters' deaths. Conrich frames the complex death sequences in \"Final Destination\" films as \"death games, contraptions or puzzles in which there are only losers\". He compares the sequences to Rube Goldberg machines, the Grand Guignol, and the \"Mouse Trap\" board game. Brinkema selects the deaths of Ashley and Ashlyn from \"Final Destination 3\" as epitomizing the series' death sequences. The characters' deaths are brought about by \"a series of neutral gestures, a set of constraints that will ultimately lead to their conflagratory ends\"; these include the placing of a drink, a rifling-through of CDs, and an ill-chosen doorstop. The scene uses logics of temperature, color, and light to realize the characters' deaths, and to allow Wendy to recognize the threat they face. An example of the \"literal tipping point\" at which the characters can no longer escape occurs when a coat rack is knocked onto the sunbeds; it is blown by an air-conditioning unit that is activated by the increasing heat. Conrich identifies the roller coaster derailment as an example of the franchise's focus on mobility in death sequences. He argues that theme-park rides and horror cinema are mutually influential; the former draw from the frightening aspects of the latter, while the latter draw from the \"theatrics and kinetics\" of the former.\n\n\"Final Destination 3\" was originally the last part of a trilogy and had been in development since the release of \"Final Destination 2\". Franchise creator Jeffrey Reddick and one of the co-writers of the first two films did not return for the third installment. Director James Wong said that unlike the second film, which was closely tied to the first and continued its story, the producers always envisioned \"Final Destination 3\" as a stand-alone sequel featuring new characters. He said:[W]e really felt that the idea of \"Final Destination\", or the fact that Death can visit you and you can cheat death ... could happen to anyone.\" By not using characters from the first film the producers could use a new plot, with new characters who would be unaware what was happening to them and react accordingly.\n\nThe film's original title, \"Cheating Death: Final Destination 3\", changed during development. Craig Perry and Warren Zide's Zide/Perry Productions, and Wong and Morgan's own Hard Eight Pictures that co-produced \"Final Destination\" returned to produce \"Final Destination 3\" with Practical Pictures and Manitee Pictures. Initially, the film was to be filmed in 3D, but this was abandoned. Morgan said it was for financial reasons and because he believed fire and blood effects would not be shown properly through the red filters of anaglyph 3D systems.\n\nThe idea of using a roller coaster derailment as the opening-scene disaster came from New Line Cinema executive Richard Bryant and was not inspired by the Big Thunder Mountain Railroad incident from 2003 when a derailment occurred that crushed a rider. \"The Omen\" (1976) was the inspiration to depict death omens in photographs. Morgan said he searched the aisles of a store on Sunset Boulevard for days for inspiration for Erin's hardware-store death. Loss of control is a major theme he and Wong had envisioned for the film from the very beginning; both Wendy, who is afraid of losing control, and the roller coaster exemplify this. He said psychologists have confirmed one reason some people are afraid of riding a roller coaster is because they have no control over it and what happens to them.\n\nDuring the casting process, Wong sought actors who could portray the main characters as heroic individuals with realistic qualities. Perry echoed this sentiment, saying that for the Wendy and Kevin characters they looked for actors who \"had the charisma of movie stars, but weren't so ridiculously rarefied that you couldn't feel like you might know them\". They took great care casting the supporting characters who were considered as important to the film as the main characters.\n\nOn March 21, 2005, Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Ryan Merriman—co-stars of \"The Ring Two\" (2005)—were cast as Wendy Christensen and Kevin Fischer. Winstead, who had auditioned for the second \"Final Destination\" film, won the role because her portrayal of the character's emotion impressed Wong and Morgan. Wong said he had originally intended Wendy to be a \"perky blonde\" and reworked the character slightly after Winstead was selected. Wong believed the actors were right for their roles. He felt Winstead \"[brought] a kind of soulfulness to her role as Wendy\" and though her character \"is deeply affected by the accident\", her strength allows her to remain in control. Wong said when Merriman arrived to audition he was sure he was \"the right guy to play Kevin\". He described the character as \"the kind of guy you want to hang out with, your goofy best buddy, but also someone who could rise to the occasion and become a hero\".\n\nOn April 9, 2005, Kris Lemche and Alexz Johnson were cast as the goth couple Ian McKinley and Erin Ulmer. Johnson, who was starring in the Canadian television series \"Instant Star\" (2004–2008), had auditioned to play Wendy's sister Julie; that role later went to Amanda Crew, who originally auditioned to play Erin. Johnson said she wore a rocker jacket during her second reading and was in a bad mood. As she was leaving, the filmmakers called her back to read some of Erin's sarcastic dialogue in a scene. Johnson thought her dry sense of humor, which the filmmakers caught, helped her land the part. Of his role, Lemche said Ian \"spouts some interesting facts that seem to be just right there on the tips of his fingers\". He researched most of Ian's information and during read-throughs often asked Morgan about Ian's facts. Morgan wrote Lemche notes and gave him URLs to research the information Ian gives out.\n\nJesse Moss was cast as Wendy's boyfriend Jason Wise. Texas Battle played athlete Lewis Romero. Chelan Simmons took the role of Ashley Freund. Sam Easton portrayed school alumnus Frankie Cheeks. Gina Holden played Kevin's girlfriend and Wendy's best friend, Carrie Dreyer. Crystal Lowe joined the cast as student Ashlyn Halperin. Tony Todd, who appeared in the first two films, did not return as the mortician Bludworth but voiced the devil statue at the roller coaster and a subway conductor. Maggie Ma and Ecstasia Sanders played Julie's friends Perry Malinowski and Amber Regan, respectively.\n\nLike the first two installments of the franchise, \"Final Destination 3\" was filmed in Vancouver, Canada. The Corkscrew roller coaster at Vancouver's Playland was the Devil's Flight coaster depicted in the film. Winstead and Merriman said the filming took three months with the first two weeks were spent shooting the roller coaster derailment. The rest of the filming was done out of sequence. Filming wrapped in July, but viewers at early screenings reacted negatively to the ending. This led to the filming of a new ending sequence featuring a subway train derailment in November 2005.\n\nThe death scenes required varying degrees of 2D and 3D graphic enhancement. The roller coaster scene necessitated 144 visual-effect shots. Custom-designed coaster cars were built and modified for the script; most of the model was hand-built and computer-designed MEL scripts added specific elements. For the coaster-crash scenes, the actors were filmed performing in front of a green screen, to which a CGI background was added. Several of the roller coaster's cars were suspended with bungee cords to film the crash; the deaths required the use of CGI onscreen effects and each actor had a corresponding CGI double.\n\nMeteor Studios produced the roller coaster and subway crashes while Digital Dimension handled the post-premonition death scenes. The death of Ian McKinley, who is bisected by a cherry picker, proved especially challenging. A clean plate of the cherry picker falling was originally shot with a plate of Lemche acting crushed and falling to the ground with his bottom half in a partial green-screen suit. After combining those plates, Wong said \"he wanted more of a gruesome punch for the shot\". A standard CGI body of Lemche's height was used; several animation simulations of the body being crushed with a CGI object were filmed. The director chose the version he liked most. A new plate was then filmed with Lemche imitating the chosen animation and positioning his body at the end. Soho VFX created the scene where Ashley and Ashlyn are killed on tanning beds. It consisted of about 35 shots of CG skin, glass, fire, and smoke mixed with real fire and smoke. The subway crash in the film's epilogue used a CG environment reproducing the main aspects of the set.\n\nThe score for \"Final Destination 3\" was composed by Shirley Walker, who wrote the soundtracks of the series' previous installments. Score mixer Bobby Fernandez created a \"gore-o-meter\", measuring the violence of each death to ensure the score would match the scenes. \"Final Destination 3\" is the only film in the series without a commercially released soundtrack. Greek-American musician Tommy Lee provided a cover of The O'Jays 1972 song \"Love Train\", which was used in the film's closing credits. Lee enjoyed \"put[ting his] own darker spin on it for the movie\".\n\nSeveral months before the film's release, New Line Cinema set up a promotional website, which linked to another site where visitors could download mobile-phone ringtones and wallpapers related to the film. As a further means of promotion, a novelization written by Christa Faust was published by Black Flame a month before the film's release. \"Final Destination 3\" premiered at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood on February 1, 2006. During San Diego Comic-Con 2006, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, James Wong and Ryan Merriman attended a panel on July 22 to promote the DVD release of the film. They discussed the features of \"Choose Their Fate\" and the filming of new sequences.\n\n\"Final Destination 3\" opened on February 10, 2006, in 2,880 theaters in the United States and Canada. It earned $19,173,094 on its opening weekend with an average of $6,657 per theater. The film placed second domestically behind the remake of \"The Pink Panther\", which opened the same day and earned $20,220,412. \"Final Destination 3\" fell to fifth in its second weekend and seventh in its third, dropping off the top-ten list on its fourth weekend. Its last screening, in 135 theaters, occurred during its tenth weekend; the film finished at 37th place with $105,940. \"Final Destination 3\" total earnings were $54,098,051 at the domestic box office and $63,621,107 internationally, for a worldwide gross of $117,719,158. At the time of its release, the film was the most financially successful installment in the franchise; it retained this title until \"The Final Destination\" surpassed it in 2009 with a worldwide gross of $186,167,139.\n\nThe film was released as a 2-disc DVD on July 25, 2006 by New Line Cinema, in widescreen and full screen formats. Special features include an audio commentary, a deleted scene, three documentaries, the theatrical trailer, and an original animated video. Wong, Morgan and cinematographer Robert Mclachlan provide the audio commentary. The deleted scene is an extended version of Wendy and Kevin's discussion after they are questioned by the police. The first documentary, \"Dead Teenager Movie\", examines the history of slasher films. The second, \"Kill Shot: Making Final Destination 3\", focuses on the making of the film and includes interviews with the cast and crew. \"Severed Piece\", the third documentary, discusses the film's special effects, pyrotechnics, and gore effects. A seven-minute animated film, \"It's All Around You\", explains the various ways people can die. Special DVD editions labeled \"Thrill Ride Edition\" also include an optional feature called \"Choose Their Fate\", allowing viewers to make decisions at several points in the film. Most provide only minor alterations to the death scenes, but the first choice allows the viewer to stop Wendy, Kevin, Jason, and Carrie from boarding the roller coaster before the premonition, ending the film immediately. It was first released on Blu-ray disc on August 30, 2011 with all the extra features ported over from the DVD. \"Final Destination 3\" was released digitally on streaming platforms Amazon Video, Google Play, and Netflix.\n\n\"Final Destination 3\" received mixed reviews from critics. Review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 43% of 116 critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is five out of ten. According to the site's consensus \"[the film] is more of the same: gory and pointless, with nowhere new to go\". The film averaged 41 out of 100, based on 28 critics on Metacritic, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film a \"B+\" on a scale from A+ to F.\n\nSeveral critics described the story as formulaic compared to the previous installments; Roger Ebert wrote that the film's main issue was its predictability and lack of tension because it was \"clear to everyone who must die and in what order\". \"Variety\" compared the narrative negatively with the franchise's second installment, describing the third film as lacking intricacy. \"The New York Times\" similarly described the film as lacking the \"novelty of the first [or] the panache of the second\". \"TV Guide\" called the periods between characters' deaths \"dull\", highlighting one reason the film failed to match the formula set out in the previous installments. Other reviewers were more positive; IGN praised the story—Chris Carle wrote that the \"formula has been perfected rather than worn out\" by the third film. \"Empire\"s Kim Newman and \"The Guardian\" found the story enjoyable, but said \"Final Destination 3\" adhered primarily to the structure set out by the rest of the franchise.\n\nThe film's tone and death scenes were positively received by critics. Writing for \"ReelViews\", James Berardinelli described \"Final Destination 3\" as incorporating more humor compared to its predecessors and said it worked to the film's benefit. \"The Seattle Times\" agreed the film's humorous tone helped to elevate it and said fans of the franchise would enjoy the death sequences. Sarah Dobbs of \"Den of Geek!\" said the tone made \"Final Destination 3\" the high point of the franchise. She commended the film's style as a \"brightly coloured [and] slightly silly meditation on how we're all gonna die one day, so we might as well do it explosively\". The tanning bed and nail gun scenes were singled out as the best death sequences from the film and the franchise.\n\nCritics praised Winstead's performance. According to the BBC, \"… the real tragedy is that promising young actress Mary Elizabeth Winstead must endure this torture\". Berardinelli described her as delivering \"as competent a job as one could expect in these dire circumstances\". Felix Gonzalez, Jr. of DVD Reviews praised Winstead's and Merriman's performances as one of the few positive aspects of the film. Similarly, \"The Seattle Times\" praised Winstead for conveying Wendy's emotions. \"The Daily Telegraph\" also listed Wendy as one of the top 20 final girls in horror films and praised Winstead's performance for making Wendy a believable character.\n\n\"Final Destination 3\" was nominated at the 2006 Fangoria Chainsaw Awards for Highest Body Count, Line That Killed (Best One-Liner), Sickest FX (Best Special Effects) as well as Most Thrilling Killing (Best Death Scene) for Frankie's death. At the 2007 Saturn Awards it was nominated for Best Horror Film and the \"Thrill Ride Edition\" was nominated for Best DVD Special Edition Release.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945363", "title": "My Baby Don't Tolerate", "text": "My Baby Don't Tolerate\n\nMy Baby Don't Tolerate is an album recorded by Lyle Lovett and released in 2003.\n\nOn \"Tolerate\", Lovett favors his country side a bit more than his many other facets. While long-time fans were reportedly disappointed with the album's pop-flavored opening track \"Cute as a Bug\", many of the other songs demonstrated his strengths as a storyteller. Oddly, the album ends with two gospel songs with remarkably similar names, which some critics decried as an overly precious attempt at enforced quirkiness. Nonetheless, \"Tolerate\" garnered very positive responses and respectable sales figures.\n\n\"All compositions by Lyle Lovett except as indicated\"\n\n\nLovett was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category Best Male Country Vocal Performance for \"My Baby Don't Tolerate\" & \"In My Own Mind\".\n\n\"My Baby Don't Tolerate\" is Lovett's first album of original material since 1996's \"The Road to Ensenada\" as well as his first album released through Lost Highway Records.\n\nTwo tracks, \"The Truck Song\" and \"San Antonio Girl\", were previously released on the 2001 collection \"\".\n"}
{"id": "1945368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945368", "title": "Deacon White", "text": "Deacon White\n\nJames Laurie \"Deacon\" White (December 2, 1847 – July 7, 1939) was an American baseball player who was one of the principal stars during the first two decades of the sport's professional era. The outstanding catcher of the 1870s during baseball's barehanded period, he caught more games than any other player during the decade, and was a major figure on five consecutive championship teams from 1873 to 1877 – three in the National Association (NA), in which he played throughout its five-year existence from 1871 to 1875, and two in the National League (NL), which was formed as the first fully recognized major league in , partially as a result of White and three other stars moving from the powerhouse Boston Red Stockings to the Chicago White Stockings. Although he was already 28 when the NL was established, White played 15 seasons in the major leagues, completing a 23-year career at the top levels of the sport.\n\nIn 1871, White was the first batter to come to the plate in the National Association, the first professional baseball league. After compiling batting average over five NA seasons, he led the NL in runs batted in (RBI) in its first two seasons of play, and also led the league in batting (.387), slugging average, hits, triples and total bases in a brief shift to first base in 1877. For three years afterward, he joined his younger brother Will, a successful pitcher, with the Cincinnati Reds and Cincinnati Stars. In his mid-30s he became an effective third baseman when the toil of catching had become too great, and was a major force on the championship Detroit Wolverines team of , at age 39. Over the 20-year period of his career, White and had more RBI (988) than any player except Cap Anson. Upon his retirement, he was among baseball's all-time leaders in career games, at bats, hits and total bases. He ranked fourth in career total chances at third base, fifth in assists, and sixth in putouts and double plays. White was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2013.\n\nWhite was born in Caton, New York, the son of farmer Lester S. White (born ) and his wife Adeline (born ). The couple had at least eight children: Oscar Leroy (born ), James, Elmer Melville (born ), William (1854 – 1911), Phebe Davis (born ), Estelle (born ), George ( – after 1939) and Hattie (born ); they also adopted a girl named Phebe Maynard (born ) when they were in their fifties. White's ancestors likely immigrated to America during the Colonial period. His cousin Elmer White also played baseball professionally as James' teammate in 1871; in March 1872, Elmer was the first recorded professional baseball player to die.\n\nWhite learned baseball from a Union soldier who returned to his hometown after the Civil War in 1865. His pro career began in 1868 with the Cleveland Forest Citys club, at a time when no team was entirely composed of professional players. He earned the first hit in baseball's first fully professional league – a double off Bobby Mathews of the Fort Wayne Kekiongas in the first inning of the first game in National Association history on May 4, ; he also made the first catch. His long career allowed him to play with many of the legendary figures of 19th-century professional baseball; White played on the great National Association Boston Red Stockings teams of the early 1870s, and also played with Cap Anson and Al Spalding in Chicago, King Kelly in Cincinnati, Dan Brouthers in Buffalo, and Ned Hanlon and Sam Thompson in Detroit, as well as Jake Beckley and Pud Galvin in Pittsburgh.\n\nWhite led his league in batting average twice (including the NA in ), and in RBI three times (including the NA in ); not until 1953, when Roy Campanella topped the NL, would another catcher lead his league in RBI. White started out early enough to have played against the undefeated Cincinnati Red Stockings of , baseball's first all-professional team. He was considered the best barehanded catcher of his time, as well as one of the best third baseman during the second half of his career; his combined total of games caught in the NA and NL was eventually passed by Pop Snyder in . On May 16, White recorded 11 assists at third base, which remains the major league record for a nine-inning game although eight other players have since tied the mark. In the rough-and-tumble 19th-century baseball era, White was a nonsmoking, Bible-toting, church-going deacon.\n\nIn 1889, the contracts of White and teammate Jack Rowe were sold to the Pittsburgh Alleghenys, but the pair refused to report unless they were paid additional money, leading to a protracted dispute. Eventually the two men were paid, with White telling a reporter, \"We appreciate the money, but we ain't worth it. Rowe's arm is gone. I'm over 40 and my fielding ain't so good, though I can still hit some. But I will say this. No man is going to sell my carcass unless I get half.\" Complaints like this were part of the reason that the Players' League was formed in 1890.\n\nAccording to historian Lee Allen in \"The National League Story\" (1961), White believed that the earth is flat. He tried and failed to convince his teammates that they were living on a flat plane and not a globe; they ridiculed him. Then one asked to be convinced, and the Deacon gave him an argument suited to the hypothesis that the earth is not really turning. He convinced the teammate but the argument would not prove that the earth is not a sphere.\n\nWhite's playing career ended after the 1890 season. Over the 20-year period from 1871 to 1890, White and had more RBI (988) than any player except Cap Anson, and also ranked fourth in career games (1,560), at bats (6,624), hits (2,066) and total bases (2,595). He also ended his career ranking fourth in major league history in games (826) and total chances (3,016) at third base, fifth in assists (1,618), and sixth in putouts (954) and double plays (118).\n\nWhite managed the minor league club Elmira Gladiators of the New York–Pennsylvania League in 1891. He has been incorrectly credited with managing the McAlester Miners of the Oklahoma–Arkansas–Kansas League (1907) and the Tulsa Oilers of the Oklahoma–Kansas League (1908). Both teams were actually managed by Harry B. \"Deacon\" White.\n\nWhite married Marium Van Arsdale (born 1851 in Moravia, New York) on April 24, 1871. For much of his career, they lived on his farm in Corning, New York; they moved to Buffalo after he joined the Bisons in 1881. Their only child, Grace Hughson White, was born in Buffalo on September 8, 1882. The family moved to Detroit when White began playing for the Wolverines, but soon returned to Buffalo; by 1900 he was operating a successful livery stable there.\n\nSometime after 1900, the Whites sent Grace to Mendota College in Mendota, Illinois, beginning a family association with the Advent Christian school which would endure across multiple generations. By 1909, James and Marium had also moved to Mendota, where they became the head residents at Maple Hall, the young ladies' dormitory, until 1912. On August 15, 1912, Grace married fellow Mendota alumnus Roger A. Watkins at the dormitory; that year, the college had relocated fifty miles to the east, becoming Aurora College. Marium died on April 30, 1914 in Mendota; one of Aurora's students recalled of \"Ma\" White: \"She was of a cheery disposition, with a word and a smile for all; mingling with the girls as one of us; giving kindly counsel and encouragement. Her interest in each girl is expressed in her own words: 'I am only doing what I would like to have some one else do for my girl, if she were away from home.' Words cannot express our appreciation of such kind and personal interest.\" Roger and Grace Watkins continued to be involved with the college, and moved to Aurora in 1920; in 1927 Roger joined the college's board of directors, serving until 1971, all but the first two years also as the board's secretary. By 1930 Deacon White had remarried, and with his wife Alice moved into the Watkins home at 221 Calumet Avenue, next door to the college president.\n\nWhite died at age 91 in the early morning of July 7, 1939 at the Watkins' summer cottage at Rude Camp, the college's retreat on the Fox River in St. Charles Township; having been in good health, his death was attributed to a disastrous heat wave. He had been scheduled to be the principal guest of honor at Aurora's celebration of baseball's centennial the following day; the festivities instead featured a tribute to his memory. White had been greatly disappointed over not having been invited to the opening ceremonies to the Baseball Hall of Fame that summer, having been completely overlooked in the voting for inductees. His funeral was held at Aurora's Healy Chapel, and he was buried at Restland Cemetery in Mendota. He was survived by his second wife Alice, who had been staying in Winston-Salem, North Carolina at the time of his death, by his younger brother George, and by his daughter Grace (1882–1956) and her husband Roger (1888–1977).\n\nIn August 2008, White was named as one of ten former players who began their careers before 1943 to be considered by the Veterans Committee for induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2009; although he fell short in final voting, he received the most votes of any player whose career ended before 1940. In 2010, the Nineteenth Century Committee of the Society for American Baseball Research named White the year's Overlooked 19th Century Baseball Legend — a 19th-century player, manager, executive or other baseball personality not yet inducted into the Hall of Fame.\n\nOn December 3, 2012 the National Baseball Hall of Fame announced that he was elected to the Hall of Fame by the new Pre-Integration Era Committee (pre-1947 era), receiving 14 out of 16 votes; he and two others elected by the Committee were inducted on July 28, 2013, with his acceptance speech given by his great-grandson Jerry Watkins, the son of White's grandson Daniel. With over 166 years between his birth and date of induction, White is the oldest person ever inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945375", "title": "Ariën van Weesenbeek", "text": "Ariën van Weesenbeek\n\nAriën van Weesenbeek (born 17 May 1980 in Waalwijk) is a Dutch drummer who plays for the symphonic metal band Epica and the symphonic death metal band MaYaN, both created and led by guitarist Mark Jansen.\n\nVan Weesenbeek started as a 3-year-old smashing furniture with spoons and forks before discovering his dad's drum kit. Inspired by bands like Cream, he then took drum classes. He later joined a marching band and at the age of 15 started a band, Pandaemonium, and joined others such as Downslide & Conspiracy. He studied at the Conservatorium of Rotterdam where he met Isaac Delahaye who also joined God Dethroned.\n\nVan Weesenbeek joined God Dethroned in 2003. In 2007 he recorded the drumming parts for the Dutch symphonic metal band Epica's album \"The Divine Conspiracy\".\nOn 3 December 2007 Weesenbeek became a full-time member of Epica, taking the place of session drummer Koen Herfst.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945387", "title": "Renewal theory", "text": "Renewal theory\n\nRenewal theory is the branch of probability theory that generalizes compound Poisson process for arbitrary \"holding times\". Applications include calculating the best strategy for replacing worn-out machinery in a factory (example below) and comparing the long-term benefits of different insurance policies.\n\nThe renewal process is a generalization of the compound Poisson process. In essence, the Poisson process is a continuous-time Markov process on the positive integers (usually starting at zero) which has independent identically distributed \"holding times\" at each integer formula_1 (exponentially distributed) before advancing (with probability 1) to the next integer: formula_2. In a \"compound\" Poisson process, the jump size need not be from \"i\" to \"i\" + 1, but is a random variable, and those random variables are independent and identically distributed. The exponential distribution of the holding times must be a memoryless exponential distribution if the number of jumps in each time interval is to have a Poisson distribution with expected value proportional to the length of the interval.\n\nIn a renewal process, the holding times need not have a memoryless distribution; rather, the process loses its memory only when one holding period ends and the next begins. That means the conditional probability distribution of the future of the process, given the past, is the same every time such a \"renewal\" occurs, and thus does not depend on the past. However that the independence and identical distribution (IID) property of the holding times is retained.\n\nLet formula_3 be a sequence of positive independent identically distributed random variables such that\n\nWe refer to the random variable formula_5 as the \"formula_1-th\" \"holding time\".\n\nformula_7 is the expectation of formula_5.\n\nDefine for each \"n\" > 0 :\n\neach formula_10 is referred to as the \"formula_11-th\" \"jump time\" and the intervals\n\nbeing called \"renewal intervals\".\n\nThen formula_13 is given by random variable\n\nwhere formula_15 is the indicator function\n\nformula_13 represents \"the number of jumps that have occurred by time\" \"t\", and is called a renewal process.\n\nIf one considers events occurring at random times, one may choose to think of the \"holding times\" formula_18 as the random time elapsed between two consecutive events. For example, if the renewal process is modelling the numbers of breakdown of different machines, then the holding time represents the time between one machine breaking down before another one does.\n\nLet formula_19 be a sequence of IID random variables (\"rewards\") satisfying\n\nThen the random variable\n\nis called a renewal-reward process. Note that unlike the formula_5, each formula_23 may take negative values as well as positive values.\n\nThe random variable formula_24 depends on two sequences: the holding times formula_25 and the rewards\nformula_19 These two sequences need not be independent. In particular, formula_23 may be a function\nof formula_5.\n\nIn the context of the above interpretation of the holding times as the time between successive malfunctions of a machine, the \"rewards\" formula_29 (which in this case happen to be negative) may be viewed as the successive repair costs incurred as a result of the successive malfunctions.\n\nAn alternative analogy is that we have a magic goose which lays eggs at intervals (holding times) distributed as formula_5. Sometimes it lays golden eggs of random weight, and sometimes it lays toxic eggs (also of random weight) which require responsible (and costly) disposal. The \"rewards\" formula_23 are the successive (random) financial losses/gains resulting from successive eggs (\"i\" = 1,2,3...) and formula_24 records the total financial \"reward\" at time \"t\".\n\nWe define the renewal function as the expected value of the number of jumps observed up to some time formula_33:\n\nThe renewal function satisfies\n\nThe strong law of large numbers for renewal processes implies\n\nTo prove the elementary renewal theorem, it is sufficient to show that formula_37 is uniformly integrable.\n\nTo do this, consider some truncated renewal process where the holding times are defined by formula_38 where formula_39 is a point such that formula_40 which exists for all non-deterministic renewal processes. This new renewal process formula_41 is an upper bound on formula_42 and its renewals can only occur on the lattice formula_43. Furthermore, the number of renewals at each time is geometric with parameter formula_44. So we have\n\nWe define the reward function:\n\nThe reward function satisfies\n\nThe renewal function satisfies\n\nwhere formula_49 is the cumulative distribution function of formula_50 and formula_51 is the corresponding probability density function.\n\nformula_13 and formula_56 satisfy\n\nalmost surely.\n\nA curious feature of renewal processes is that if we wait some predetermined time \"t\" and then observe how large the renewal interval containing \"t\" is, we should expect it to be typically larger than a renewal interval of average size.\n\nMathematically the inspection paradox states: \"for any t > 0 the renewal interval containing t is stochastically larger than the first renewal interval.\" That is, for all \"x\" > 0 and for all \"t\" > 0:\n\nwhere \"F\" is the cumulative distribution function of the IID holding times \"S\".\n\nObserve that the last jump-time before \"t\" is formula_74; and that the renewal interval containing \"t\" is formula_75. Then\n\nsince both formula_77 and formula_78 are greater than or equal to formula_79 for all values of \"s\".\n\nThe superposition of independent renewal processes, or superimposed renewal process, is not generally a renewal process, but it can be described within a larger class of processes called the Markov-renewal processes. However, the cumulative distribution function of the first inter-event time in the superposition process is given by\n\nwhere \"R\"(\"t\") and \"α\" > 0 are the CDF of the inter-event times and the arrival rate of process \"k\".\n\nEric the entrepreneur has \"n\" machines, each having an operational lifetime uniformly distributed between zero and two years. Eric may let each machine run until it fails with replacement cost €2600; alternatively he may replace a machine at any time while it is still functional at a cost of €200.\n\nWhat is his optimal replacement policy?\n\nThe lifetime of the \"n\" machines can be modeled as \"n\" independent concurrent renewal-reward processes, so it is sufficient to consider the case \"n=1\". Denote this process by formula_81. The successive lifetimes \"S\" of the replacement machines are independent and identically distributed, so the optimal policy is the same for all replacement machines in the process.\n\nIf Eric decides at the start of a machine's life to replace it at time 0 < \"t\" < 2 but the machine happens to fail before that time then the lifetime \"S\" of the machine is uniformly distributed on [0, \"t\"] and thus has expectation 0.5\"t\". So the overall expected lifetime of the machine is:\n\nand the expected cost \"W\" per machine is:\n\nSo by the strong law of large numbers, his long-term average cost per unit time is:\n\nthen differentiating with respect to \"t\":\n\nthis implies that the turning points satisfy:\n\nand thus\n\nWe take the only solution \"t\" in [0, 2]: \"t\" = 2/3. This is indeed a minimum (and not a maximum) since the cost per unit time tends to infinity as \"t\" tends to zero, meaning that the cost is decreasing as \"t\" increases, until the point 2/3 where it starts to increase.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945403", "title": "Kjell Bækkelund", "text": "Kjell Bækkelund\n\nKjell Bækkelund (6 May 1930 – 13 May 2004) was a Norwegian classical pianist.\n\nBækkelund was born in Oslo, Norway. He was the son of Martin Bækkelund (1903–66) and Rallik Antonette Hansen (1904–94). He was a student at the Oslo Conservatory of Music from 1935 until 1944.\n\nBækkelund debuted as a prodigy in 1938 with the Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra at the age of eight. After the Second World War, he trained with Gottfrid Boon (1886-1981) in Stockholm. In 1953 Bækkelund won first prize in the Scandinavian Musicians' Festival held at Trondheim. That same year, he was granted the Harriet Cohen Memorial Music Award for young professional musicians of outstanding promise. Subsequently, he studied for three years with Ilona Kabos in London. He followed with study under the direction of German classical pianists, Hans Richter-Haaser and Wilhelm Kempff.\nFrom the beginning of the 1960s, he performed several worldwide concert tours with the main emphasis of his repertoire consisting of baroque and the classic-romantic music.\n"}
{"id": "1945406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945406", "title": "QBIK", "text": "QBIK\n\nQBIK is a Swedish football team from Karlstad. In 2005 they achieved promotion to the Damallsvenskan, which is the women's premier division. The team narrowly missed relegation with a 10th place, but was relegated in 2007 having finished in last 12th place. In 2016 they were relegated one more level down. The club was established in 1978.\n\nQBIK play their home games at Tingvalla Stadium in Karlstad.\n\nIn recent seasons QBIK have had the following average attendances:\n\n"}
{"id": "1945420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945420", "title": "Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement", "text": "Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement\n\nThe Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR) is a series of vehicles, based on a common chassis that vary by payload and mission requirements. The MTVR is a purpose-designed military vehicle, although a small number of vehicles have been sold commercially for specialized operations such as wildfire fighting.\n\nThere were originally four MTVR variants, this increasing to seven, and then nine variants (plus a sub-variant) as deliveries and development continued. A dedicated trailer and prototype/developmental MTVRs have also been produced.\n\nThe first MTVRs were delivered in late 1999. The MTVR is the U.S. Marines’ equivalent of the U.S. Army’s Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV). The Marines do not use the FMTV (with the exception of the FMTV-based HIMARS); the Army does not use the MTVR. The MTVR was designed and is manufactured by Oshkosh Defense.\n\nThe MTVR has its design origins in two U.S. military programs, the 5 ton Tactical Truck Replacement (5TTR) for the U.S. Army, and the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR) for the U.S. Marines. The aim of these programs was to upgrade and extend the service life of around 3,400 U.S. Army M939 series 5 ton trucks, and 8,100 U.S. Marines M809 and M939 series 5 ton trucks. Prototype and development contracts for both programs were awarded in 1996. The 5TTR program was subsequently halted, and the MTVR program evolved from an upgrade to a new-build requirement.\n\nOshkosh was awarded a multi-year MTVR production contract in February 1999. The first vehicles were scheduled for delivery by the end of 1999, and deliveries under the initial contract concluded during August 2005. The award initially allowed for up to 8,168 MTVRs (including options for 2,502) in four variants (MK23, MK25, MK27, MK28) to be ordered over five program years; 6,931 MTVRs were delivered, 6,393 to the Marines and 538 to the Navy (Seabees). The first MTVRs were fielded in July 2001. Three additional variants followed, the MK29, MK30 and MK36.\n\nUnder a separate contract, Oshkosh commenced production in July 2004 of a further MTVR variant, the MK37. Based on the MK27 and fitted with a rear-mounted Hiab materials handling crane rated at 10,000 lb at 10.5 ft maximum reach, the MK37 is a resupply vehicle for the U.S. Marines HIgh Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS). The companion trailer is designated MK38.\n\nOshkosh was awarded a second MTVR multi-year contract (FY05-FY10) in July 2004. This award initially covered only potential Foreign Military Sales (FMS), plus the continuing requirements of the U.S. Navy. Ultimately the U.S. Navy and Marines combined received >2,000 vehicles under this contract.\n\nIn 2005, the MK31 Medium Equipment Transporter (MET) tractor entered service with Seabees, and later in the year with the Marines.\n\nThe MK28C is a variant of the MK28. The MK28C (C - chassis) replaced Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) types, these based on a mix of tactical and commercial truck chassis and including: water distributor, 2,000 US gallon; fuel, 1,500 US gallon; field service; asphalt distributor; earth auger. Interchangeable commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) - or modified COTS - bodies are fitted to MK28C chassis as field circumstances dictate.\n\nAlso in 2005, Oshkosh was awarded a contract to re-manufacture an initial 27 MTVRs to new configuration and with a full new vehicle warranty.\n\nOn 16 May 2008 the 10,000th MTVR was completed. By late 2011 an estimated 11,135 MTVRs had been ordered, that figure including 9,221 for the USMC and 1,855 for the Navy.\n\nIn FY12 the third (and final) five-year multi-year MTVR contract was awarded to Oshkosh. The final known MTVR delivery order (US$67 m for 338 vehicles; 278 Marines, 60 Seabees) was placed in September 2012, and inclusive of this order 11,359 MTVRs were ordered by the US Marines', about 1900 of these for the Navy. Orders under the final contract could be placed until June 2016.\n\nIn conjunction with Pierce Manufacturing (an Oshkosh Corporation company), Oshkosh developed the MTVR MK23/25-based Hawk Extreme, a wildland firefighting water tender. This product has been sold commercially.\n\nAll production versions of the MTVR are based on the same 6×6 drive configuration and utilize a chassis constructed using bolted / huck-bolted, formed channel (9.75 × 3 × 0.38 in) made of heat-treated carbon manganese steel with a yield strength of 110,000 psi minimum. The engine is located under a forward fibreglass hood. The cab seats three and is of welded aluminium extrusion construction with adhesive bonded aluminium skins. The cab folds down to reduce overall height to 98 in and from mid-2007, production vehicles are armor-ready and have air-conditioning, revised cab mounts and upgraded cab suspension.\n\nWith the exception of the UK's Wheeled Tanker variants, all MTVRs are powered by a Caterpillar C-12, Advanced Diesel Engine Management (ADEM) III 11.9-litre six-cylinder diesel engine that develops 425 hp at 1,800 rpm and 1,550 ft-lb of torque at 1,200 rpm. When the central tire inflation system (CTIS) is set at 0 to 2 tons payload, engine power output is automatically reduced by around 20%. Driveline is completed by an Allison HD 4070P seven-speed automatic transmission, TC-541 torque converter and an Oshkosh 30000 Series single-speed transfer case. All-wheel drive is permanent and under highway driving conditions the torque split is 32% front, 68% rear.\n\nOshkosh TAK-4 independent coil spring suspension is fitted to the MTVR, this providing each front wheel with a total vertical travel of 16.0 in and a travel of 12.8 in on the rear axles. The front axle is rated at 16,000 lb, the second at 23,500 lb, the third at 25,400 lb. The MK36 wrecker and MK31 tractor variants have Hendrickson hydraulic suspension on the rear axles.\n\nStandard tires fitted to the MTVR are Michelin 1600 R20 XZL and with the exception of the MK36 wrecker variant, no spare is carried. Compensating for no spare is a runflat setting option on the CTIS. CTIS allows the driver to adjust tire pressures to suit both payload and terrain conditions, from the driving seat. The two-piece bolt-together steel wheel rims are fitted with beadlocks for extreme low-pressure operations and tires will remain seated at pressures down to 10 psi. In the event that any one tire should fail totally, a limp-home facility allows for a second axle suspension unit to be raised and secured.\n\nMobility parameters include a climatic operational range of -50°F to 125°F. The MTVR has a maximum speed of 65mph and on-road cruising range of 300mi. It can climb a 60% gradient and traverse a 40% side slope with its maximum cross-country load. It can ford 60in of water. Turning radius and approach, departure, and ramp breakover angles vary by variant.\n\nMTVR variants can be internally transported by C-5, C-17 and C-130 Hercules transport aircraft. The MK23 can be transported underslung by CH-53 helicopter.\n\nThe original MTVR trailer was designed and developed by Oshkosh to provide a matching trailer for the MTVR truck. Two prototype MTVR trailers were manufactured and tested between May 2000 and March 2001. In June 2005 the U.S. Marine Corps System Command (MARCORSYSCOM) awarded the Choctaw Manufacturing and Developing Corporation (CMDC) a $1.9 million Small Business Sole Source design and development contract for the MTVR Trailer. Oshkosh manufactures and supplies the associated trailers for the MK37 HIMARS resupply variant.\n\nOshkosh promotes the current MTVR armor packages as the MTVR Armor Systems (MAS). The current Standard MAS with Survivability Upgrade (MAS-SU) kit is available for a variety of models. The Reducible Height MAS (MAS-RH) is also available. Installation of armor requires a vehicle front axle and cab suspension mount upgrade, plus a revision to the cab roof gun mount. Air-conditioning is also fitted. From mid-2007 all production MTVRs have been armor ready, these modifications now forming part of the standard vehicle specification.\n\nDevelopment of a protection kit for the MTVR commenced in 2003, with the first production contract awarded in 2004 and calling for 920 baseline appliqué APKs for the cab, plus 460 modular armored rear troop carrier compartments. The cab and troop carrier kits, while complementary, are separate units and can be installed as such. A follow-on contract for 930 cab kits and 465 rear troop-carrier compartments was awarded in 2005. Two further contracts for a total of 293 cab kits were awarded in 2007. Oshkosh announced in August 2008 an initial contract award for height reducible armor kits for MVTRs. Around 2400 height reducible armor kits for MVTRs have been ordered. Additional awards for armor/protection-related upgrades have been made.\n\nA small arms fire and mine blast protection kit for the U.K. MoD's MTVR-fronted Wheeled Tanker fleet has been developed and fitted to vehicles used on overseas operations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945429", "title": "Auf Wiederseh'n, Sweetheart", "text": "Auf Wiederseh'n, Sweetheart\n\n\"Auf Wiedersehen\", or \"Auf Wiederseh'n, Sweetheart\", is a song written by German composer Eberhard Storch around 1950. Storch wrote the song in the hospital for his wife Maria as he was ill for a long time. It was originally sung in German by Rudi Schuricke and released on the 78 rpm record Polydor 48 374 H in 1950.\n\nThe English language lyrics were written by John Turner and Geoffrey Parsons. The best-known version of the song was recorded by English singer Vera Lynn. The story goes that Vera was on holiday in Switzerland and heard people singing the song in beer parlours, and when she got back she felt she had to record it, so found the music and had lyrics written.\n\nThe recording of the song by Vera Lynn, which featured accompaniment by Soldiers and Airmen of HM Forces and the Johnny Johnston Singers, was the first song recorded by a foreign artist to make number one on the U.S. \"Billboard\" charts, in 1952. Reaching the summit on the \"Billboard\" \"Best Sellers in Stores\" chart on July 12, the song spent nine weeks at No. 1 (as well as six weeks on the \"Most Played by Jockeys\" chart and four weeks on the \"Most Played in Jukeboxes\").\n\nIn reaching number-one, it would be almost six years before another British artist would top the U.S. pop chart; that song was Laurie London's \"He's Got the Whole World in His Hands,\" in April 1958. Additionally, the song's nine-week run at number one on the U.S. pop charts by a British act was a record that stood for 16 years, until The Beatles matched the longevity record (of nine weeks) in 1968 with \"Hey Jude.\" Currently, \"Auf Wiederseh'n Sweetheart\" is tied with \"Hey Jude\" for third amongst longest-running number-one songs by British artists on the \"Billboard\" pop charts, behind \"Candle in the Wind 1997\"/\"Something About the Way You Look Tonight\" by Elton John (14 weeks, 1997-1998) and \"We Found Love\" by Rihanna with Calvin Harris (10 weeks, 2011). In addition, for more than 12 years Lynn was the only female solo artist from the UK to have a number-one hit in the United States, a feat finally matched by \"Downtown\" by Petula Clark in January 1965.\n\nGreek singer Demis Roussos covered the song on his 1974 German-language album \"Auf Wiedersehn\". It was also released as a single (in 1974 on Philips Records). The recording was produced by Leo Leandros. \nThe song reached no. 6 in the Netherlands and no. 19 in Belgium (Flanders)\n\n7\" single Philips 6009 526 (1974, Austria, Belgium, Germany, etc.)\n7\" single RTB / Philips S 53796 (1974, Yugoslavia)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945431", "title": "Patulous Eustachian tube", "text": "Patulous Eustachian tube\n\nPatulous Eustachian tube (PET) is the name of a physical disorder where the Eustachian tube, which is normally closed, instead stays intermittently open. When this occurs, the person experiences autophony, the hearing of self-generated sounds. These sounds, such as one's own breathing, voice, and heartbeat, vibrate directly onto the ear drum and can create a \"bucket on the head\" effect. PET is a form of eustachian tube dysfunction (ETD), which is said to be present in about 1 percent of the general population.\n\nWith patulous Eustachian tube, variations in upper airway pressure associated with respiration are transmitted to the middle ear through the Eustachian tube. This causes an unpleasant fullness feeling in the middle ear and alters the auditory perception. Complaints seem to include muffled hearing and autophony. In addition, patulous Eustachian tube generally feels dry with no clogged feeling or sinus pressure.\n\nSome patients with this condition are disturbed by the perceived volume of their voice, causing them to speak very quietly. Their own voice may also sound lower to other people, because the trachea has more volume when the Eustachian tube is open. The patient may also sound as if they have congestion when speaking. Some sufferers may have difficulty in normal activities. They may also experience increased breathing rate, such as that brought on by physical activity. The increased activity not only increases the rate and force of pressure changes in the airway, which is therefore transmitted more forcefully into the middle ear, but also drives increased blood flow to peripheral muscles, compounding the problem by further depleting the Eustachian tube of extracellular fluid and increasing patency. The combination can lead to severe exacerbation of the symptoms. The urge to clear the ear is often mentioned.\n\nAutophonia (self-hearing from inside, strongly amplified) seems to be a common symptom to all PET patients. Unfortunately, its presence also reveals an advanced degree of patency, requiring in most cases surgical management. Other symptoms of PET, such as tinnitus, fullness and ear blockage, can also be reported by patients suffering from obstructive ET dysfunction. This differential diagnosis problem unfortunately leads to some surgeries proposed by well-intentioned but inexperienced ENT surgeons. Some of these surgeries may make things worse.\n\nAt the beginning, patients hear their own voice or its echo from inside. They describe it as being amplified and unpleasant. Patients frequently avoid speaking and retire in a rising solitude. Lying head down may help since it increases venous blood pressure and congestion of the mucosa.\n\nPatulous Eustachian tube is a physical disorder. The exact causes may vary depending on the person. Weight loss is a commonly cited cause of the disorder due to the nature of the Eustachian tube itself and is associated with approximately one-third of reported cases. Fatty tissues hold the tube closed most of the time in healthy individuals. When circumstances cause overall body fat to diminish, the tissue surrounding the Eustachian tube shrinks and this function is disrupted.\n\nActivities and substances which dehydrate the body have the same effect and are also possible causes of patulous Eustachian tube. Examples are stimulants (including caffeine) and exercise. Exercise may have a more short-term effect than caffeine or weight loss in this regard.\n\nPregnancy can also be a cause of patulous Eustachian tube due to the effects of pregnancy hormones on surface tension and mucus in the respiratory system.\n\nGranulomatosis with polyangiitis can also be a cause of this disorder. It is yet unknown why.\n\nPET can occur as a result of liquid residue in the Eustachian tube, after suffering a middle ear infection (otitis media).\n\nUpon examination of a suspected case of patulous Eustachian tube, a doctor can directly view the tympanic membrane with a light and observe that it vibrates with every breath taken by the patient. A tympanogram may also help with the diagnosis. Patulous Eustachian tube is likely if brisk inspiration causes a significant pressure shift.\n\nPatulous Eustachian tube is frequently misdiagnosed as standard congestion due to the similarity in symptoms and rarity of the disorder. Audiologists are more likely to recognize the disorder, usually with tympanometry or nasally delivered masking noise during a hearing assessment, which is highly sensitive to this condition.\n\nWhen misdiagnosis occurs, a decongestant medication is sometimes prescribed. This type of medication aggravates the condition, as the Eustachian tube relies on sticky fluids to keep closed and the drying effect of a decongestant would make it even more likely to remain open and cause symptoms. The misdiagnosed patient may also have tubes surgically inserted into the eardrum, which increases the risk of ear infection and will not alleviate patulous Eustachian tube. If these treatments are tried and failed, and the doctor is not aware of the actual condition, the symptoms may even be classified as psychological.\n\nIncidentally, patients who instead suffer from the even rarer condition of superior canal dehiscence are at risk for misdiagnosis of patulous Eustachian tube due to the similar autophony in both conditions.\n\nEstrogen nasal drops or saturated potassium iodide have been used to induce edema of the eustachian tube opening. Nasal medications containing diluted hydrochloric acid, chlorobutanol, and benzyl alcohol have been reported to be effective in some patients, with few side effects. Food and Drug Administration approval is still pending, however. Nasal sprays have also been a very effective temporary treatment for this disease, as well.\n\nIn extreme cases surgical intervention may attempt to restore the Eustachian tube tissues with fat, gel foam, or cartilage or scar it closed with cautery. These methods are not always successful. For example, there is the case of the early attempts at surgical correction involving the injections of tetrafluoroetheylene (Teflon) paste but, although this treatment was able to give transient relief, it was discontinued due to several deaths that resulted from inadvertent intracarotid injections.\n"}
{"id": "1945435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945435", "title": "Andre Kostelanetz", "text": "Andre Kostelanetz\n\nAndre Kostelanetz (; December 22, 1901 – January 13, 1980) was a Russian-born American popular orchestral music conductor and arranger who was one of the major exponents of popular orchestra music.\n\nAbram Naumovich Kostelyanetz was born in Saint Petersburg, Russia to a prominent Jewish family. He was a cousin of physicist Lew Kowarski.\n\nHis father, Nachman Yokhelevich (Naum Ignatyevich) Kostelyanetz, was active on the St. Petersburg stock exchange; his maternal grandfather, Aizik Yevelevich Dymshitz, was a wealthy merchant and industrialist, engaged in timber production. Kostelanetz escaped in 1922 after the Russian Revolution.\n\nHe arrived in the United States that year, and in the 1920s, conducted concerts for radio. In the 1930s, he began his own weekly show on CBS, \"Andre Kostelanetz Presents\". Kostelanetz was known for arranging and recording light classical music pieces for mass audiences, as well as orchestral versions of songs and Broadway show tunes. He made numerous recordings over the course of his career, which had sales of over 50 million. For many years, he conducted the New York Philharmonic in pops concerts and recordings, in which they were billed as Andre Kostelanetz and His Orchestra.\n\nKostelanetz may be best known to modern audiences for a series of easy listening instrumental albums on Columbia Records from the 1940s until 1980. Kostelanetz actually started making this music before there was a genre called \"easy listening\". He continued until after some of his contemporaries, including Mantovani, had stopped recording. Outside the United States, one of his best known works was an orchestral arrangement of the tune \"With a Song in my Heart\", which was the signature tune of a long-running BBC radio program, at first called \"Forces Favourites\", then \"Family Favourites\", and finally \"Two Way Family Favourites\".\n\nHe commissioned many works, including Aaron Copland's \"Lincoln Portrait\", Jerome Kern's \"Portrait of Mark Twain\", William Schuman's \"New England Triptych\", Paul Creston's \"Frontiers\", Ferde Grofé's \"Hudson River Suite\", Virgil Thomson's musical portraits of Fiorello La Guardia and Dorothy Thompson, Alan Hovhaness's \"Floating World\", and Ezra Laderman's \"Magic Prison\". William Walton dedicated his \"Capriccio burlesco\" to Kostelanetz, who conducted the first performance and made the first recording, both with the New York Philharmonic.\n\nHis last concert was \"A Night in Old Vienna\" with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra at that city's War Memorial Opera House on December 31, 1979.\n\nHis first wife was actress/singer Sarah Loy; they were married from 1923 to 1937, when the marriage was dissolved. He was then married to soprano Lily Pons from 1938 to 1958, when the marriage was dissolved. They owned a home in Palm Springs, California which was built in 1955. In 1960 he married Sara Gene Orcutt; the marriage lasted several years. All three unions were childless.\n\nHis brother, Boris Kostelanetz (1911–2006), was a prominent tax defense lawyer.\n\nAfter the December 31, 1979 concert with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra, Kostelanetz left for a vacation in Haiti. While in Haiti, Kostelanetz contracted pneumonia and died on January 13, 1980, aged 78.\n\nMany of the early LP releases were actually re-releases of albums released earlier on 78 rpm records. Musical Comedy Favorites, for example, was released as Volume 1 (album M-430) in late 1940 for songs 1 through 8, and Volume 2 (M-502) in 1941 for the remaining 8 songs on the second side of the LP.\n\nFour of Kostelanetz's albums made the Billboard Hot 200, no match for his Columbia easy listening rivals Ray Conniff and Percy Faith but typical of many of popular instrumental easy listening artists of the day whose audience did not buy their albums immediately upon release but bought them over the years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945436", "title": "List of people from Oklahoma", "text": "List of people from Oklahoma\n\nThe following are people who were either born, raised, or have lived for a significant period of time in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945439", "title": "Harold Whetstone Johnston", "text": "Harold Whetstone Johnston\n\nHarold Whetstone Johnston (1859–1912) was a classical historian and Professor of Latin at Indiana University, best known for writing \"The Private Life of the Romans\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945445", "title": "Star of the West", "text": "Star of the West\n\nStar of the West was an American civilian steamship that was launched in 1852 and scuttled by Confederate forces in 1863. In January 1861, the ship was hired by the government of the United States to transport military supplies and reinforcements to the U.S. military garrison of Fort Sumter. A battery on Morris Island, South Carolina manned by cadets from the South Carolina Military Academy (now The Citadel) fired upon the ship, effectively the first shots fired in the American Civil War.\n\nThe ship was later captured by Confederate forces, then used for several purposes including as a hospital ship and a blockade runner, and finally scuttled in defense of Vicksburg in 1863.\n\n\"Star of the West\" was a 1,172-ton steamship built by Jeremiah Simonson, of New York City for Cornelius Vanderbilt, and launched on June 17, 1852. Its length was and its beam , with wooden hullside paddle wheels and two masts. She started service between New York and San Juan de Nicaragua on October 20, 1852 and continued the service for Charles Morgan from July 1853 to March 1856. In June 1857, she started the New York-to-Aspinwall service for the U.S. Mail Steamship Company until September 1859, when it went onto the New York, Havana, New Orleans service. In January 1861, she was chartered to the War Department.\n\nOn January 9, 1861, weeks after South Carolina declared that it had seceded from the United States, but before other states had done so to form the Confederacy, \"Star of the West\" arrived at Charleston Harbor to resupply Major Robert Anderson's garrison at Fort Sumter. The ship was fired upon by cadets from the Citadel Academy and was hit three times by what were effectively the first shots of the American Civil War. Although \"Star of the West\" suffered no major damage, her captain, John McGowan, considered it to be too dangerous to continue and turned about to leave the harbor. The mission was abandoned, and \"Star of the West\" headed for her home port of New York Harbor.\n\nThe ship was then hired out of New York City as a troop transport for $1,000 a day under its master, Elisha Howes. \"Star of the West\" sailed for Texas to pick up seven companies of Union Army troops, assembled at Indianola. On April 18, 1861, while anchored off Pass Caballo bar leading into Matagorda Bay, the ship was captured by Colonel Earl Van Dorn and members of two Galveston militia units, the Wigfall Guards and the Island City Rifles. Two days later, the ship was taken to New Orleans, where Louisiana Governor Thomas Overton Moore changed its name to CSS \"St. Philip\". The old name persisted, however, and \"Star of the West\" served as a naval station and hospital ship until Admiral David Farragut captured New Orleans.\n\nStill under Confederate control, \"Star of the West\" escaped recapture when she was sent to transport gold, silver, and paper currency worth millions of dollars. After delivering that cargo to Vicksburg, she continued to Yazoo City, Mississippi. When federal Lieutenant Commander Watson Smith tried to lead two ironclads and five smaller vessels through the Yazoo Pass into the Tallahatchie River to attack Vicksburg from the rear, Confederate defenders hurriedly constructed Fort Pemberton, and Major General William W. Loring had \"Star of the West\" sunk broadside in the Tallahatchie near Greenwood to block the passage of the Union flotilla. In a skirmish on April 12, 1863, the Union forces suffered heavy casualties and were forced to withdraw.\n\nAfter the war, the owners of \"Star of the West\" collected $175,000 in damages from the U.S. government for the loss.\n\nThe Star of the West Medal is awarded annually to the \"best drilled cadet\" at The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina. In June 1893, The Citadel Superintendent, Colonel Asbury Coward, took the corps to Aiken, South Carolina, for their annual encampment and graduation exercises. The excellent military work of the cadets suggested to Dr. Benjamin H. Teague, a Confederate Veteran and a collector of Confederate relics, to present to the Citadel a medal for the winner of the Best Drilled Cadet competition. Among his many curios, Teague had a piece of oak from the Steam Ship \"Star of the West\". He sawed a small piece of this wood into the shape of a star and had it mounted on a gold medal. The recipient would wear the medal for one year and then pass it to the next recipient. The winner's names are inscribed on the \"Star of the West\" monument on the college grounds. However, the original medal with the wood has been lost to history.\n\nThe incident looms large in a novel by John Updike, \"Memories of the Ford Administration\" (1992). Although Updike's protagonist is trying (in the early 1990s) to write about the mid-1970s, he spent those years seeking to write a book about President Buchanan, and his mind keeps reverting to the 19th century and, among other incidents, the mission of the sloop to Fort Sumter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945462", "title": "Frank Rosenblatt", "text": "Frank Rosenblatt\n\nFrank Rosenblatt (July 11, 1928July 11, 1971) was an American psychologist notable in the field of artificial intelligence.\n\nRosenblatt was born in New Rochelle, New York as son of Dr. Frank and Katherine Rosenblatt. After graduating from The Bronx High School of Science in 1946, he attended Cornell University, where he obtained his A.B. in 1950 and his Ph.D. in 1956.\n\nHe then went to Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory in Buffalo, New York, where he was successively a research psychologist, senior psychologist, and head of the cognitive systems section. This is also where he conducted the early work on perceptrons, which culminated in the development and hardware construction of the Mark I Perceptron in 1960. This was essentially the first computer that could learn new skills by trial and error, using a type of neural network that simulates human thought processes.\n\nRosenblatt's research interests were exceptionally broad. In 1959 he went to Cornell's Ithaca campus as director of the Cognitive Systems Research Program and also as a lecturer in the Psychology Department. In 1966 he joined the Section of Neurobiology and Behavior within the newly formed Division of Biological Sciences, as associate professor. Also in 1966, he became fascinated with the transfer of learned behavior from trained to naive rats by the injection of brain extracts, a subject on which he would publish extensively in later years. \nIn 1970 he became field representative for the Graduate Field of Neurobiology and Behavior, and in 1971 he shared the acting chairmanship of the Section of Neurobiology and Behavior. Frank Rosenblatt died in July 1971 on his 43rd birthday, in a boating accident in Chesapeake Bay.\n\nRosenblatt was best known for the Perceptron, an electronic device which was constructed in accordance with biological principles and showed an ability to learn. Rosenblatt's perceptrons were initially simulated on an IBM 704 computer at Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory in 1957. When a triangle was held before the perceptron's eye, it would pick up the image and convey it along a random succession of lines to the response units, where the image was registered.\n\nHe developed and extended this approach in numerous papers and a book called \"Principles of Neurodynamics: Perceptrons and the Theory of Brain Mechanisms\", published by Spartan Books in 1962. He used it later as a textbook in his courses. He received international recognition for the Perceptron. The New York Times billed it as a revolution, with the headline “New Navy Device Learns By Doing”, and The New Yorker similarly admired the technological advancement.\n\nResearch on comparable devices was also being done in other places such as SRI, and many researchers had big expectations on what they could do. The initial excitement became somewhat reduced, though, when in 1969 Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert published the book “Perceptrons” with a mathematical proof about the limitations of two-layer feed-forward perceptrons as well as unproven claims about the difficulty of training multi-layer perceptrons. The book's only proven result—that linear functions cannot model non-linear ones—was trivial but the book had nevertheless a pronounced effect on research funding and, consequently, the community.\n\nAfter research on neural networks returned to the mainstream in the 1980s, new researchers started to study Rosenblatt's work again. This new wave of study on neural networks is interpreted by some researchers as being a contradiction of hypotheses presented in the book Perceptrons, and a confirmation of Rosenblatt's expectations.\n\nThe Mark I Perceptron, which is generally recognized as a forerunner to artificial intelligence, currently resides in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington D.C.\n\nAround the late 1960s, Rosenblatt began experiments within the Cornell Department of Entomology on the transfer of learned behavior via rat brain extracts. Rats were taught discrimination tasks such as Y-maze and two-lever Skinner box. Then their brains were extracted and injected into untrained rats that were subsequently tested in the discrimination tasks to determine whether or not there was behavior transfer from the trained to the untrained rats. Rosenblatt spent his last several years on this problem and showed convincingly that the initial reports of larger effects were wrong and that any memory transfer was at most very small.\n\nRosenblatt also had a serious research interest in astronomy and proposed a new technique to detect the presence of stellar satellites. He built an observatory on a hilltop behind his house in Brooktondale about 6 miles east of Ithaca. When construction on the observatory was completed, Rosenblatt began an intensive study on SETI (Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence).\n\nRosenblatt was very active in liberal politics. He worked in the McCarthy primary campaigns for president in New Hampshire and California in 1968 and in a series of Vietnam protest activities in Washington.\n\nThe Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the world's largest professional association dedicated to advancing technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity, named its annual award in honor of Frank Rosenblatt.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945467", "title": "Trio Töykeät", "text": "Trio Töykeät\n\nTrio Töykeät (founded in 1988) was a Finnish jazz trio. Their music ranges from humorous ragtimes to sentimental waltzes. Their playing style is often rhythmic, energetic and virtuosic. The group disbanded in 2008. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945469", "title": "Michael J. Garanzini", "text": "Michael J. Garanzini\n\nMichael J. Garanzini, S.J. (born September 24, 1948 in Saint Louis, Missouri) is an American priest of the Society of Jesus religious order of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States. From 2001 until 2015, Garanzini served as the twenty-third President of Loyola University Chicago in Chicago, Illinois, a member of the twenty-eight institution Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities.\n\nGaranzini graduated from Saint Louis University with a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in 1971, the same year that he entered the Society of Jesus. After spending years around the country and in Rome during his training and early years as a Jesuit, Garanzini received a doctorate in psychology and religion in 1986 from the University of California, Berkeley. Later that year, he returned to Saint Louis University, teaching as an associate professor of psychology and later serving as academic vice president. Garanzini was invited to Fordham University to serve as a visiting professor of counseling in 1998, and went on to work at Georgetown University until his presidency at Loyola. He has also taught at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome and at Regis College (now Regis University) in Denver.\n\nGaranzini is the author of \"The Attachment Cycle: An Object Relations Approach to the Healing Ministries\" (1988), \"Meeting the Needs of Dysfunctional Families\" (1993), \"Child-Centered Schools: An Educator's Guide to Family Dysfunction\" (1995), and articles in numerous journals.\n\nGaranzini is member of the Fairfield University Board of Trustees.\n\nOn July 1, 2015 Garanzini accepted appointment to the Chicago Board of Education.\n\nDuring Garanzini's tenure as president of Loyola University Chicago, he has brought the University out of debt in a few years. He has also initiated construction projects on both of Loyola's city campuses. The building work has benefitted from donations of alumni and others.\n\nIn 2015, Garanzini announced his intention to step down after fourteen years of leading Loyola. He will remain as chancellor, an advisory role to the president focused on matters of mission and institutional advancement.\n\nGaranzini was inducted as a laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the state's highest honor) by the governor of Illinois in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945470", "title": "Margaret Ringenberg", "text": "Margaret Ringenberg\n\nMargaret Ringenberg (née Ray; June 17, 1921, Fort Wayne, Indiana – July 28, 2008, Oshkosh, Wisconsin) was an American aviator, who had logged more than 40,000 hours of flying time during her career.\n\nShe became interested in flying as an eight-year-old when she saw a barnstormer land in a field near her family's farm. She trained at a flight training school and had her first solo flight in 1941 as a 19-year-old. Ringenberg began her aviation career in 1943 during World War II when she became a ferry pilot with the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP). Although WASP pilots were not allowed to fly combat missions, they served grueling, often dangerous duties, such as ferrying, test flying, and target towing. The WASP corps was disbanded at the end of 1944. Ringenberg went on to become a flight instructor in 1945 and flew as a commercial pilot and instructor for the rest of her life. After the war, she answered phones at an airport.\n\nShe began racing airplanes in the 1950s. She raced in every Powder Puff Derby from 1957 to 1977, every Air Race Classic since 1977, the Grand Prix and the Denver Mile High and many others, garnering over 150 trophies for her accomplishments. She completed the Round-the-World Air Race in 1994 at age 72, and in March 2001 at the age of 79 she flew in a race from London to Sydney.\n\nIn 1999, she received the NAA Elder Statesman in Aviation Award in a presentation ceremony in Washington, DC.\n\nMargaret Ringenberg was married to banker Morris Ringenberg in 1946. He preceded her in death in 2003. They had two children and five grandchildren. All of her children have flown with her in races and all have been in the winner's circle with her to receive trophies.\n\nTom Brokaw devoted a chapter to Margaret Ringenberg in his book \"The Greatest Generation\". During an interview with Brokaw she said, “I started out flying because I wanted to be a stewardess—you call them flight attendants nowadays—and I thought ‘what if the pilot gets sick or needs help? I don’t know the first thing about airplanes’ and that's where I found my challenge. I never intended to solo or be a pilot. I found it was wonderful.” Following her death, Brokaw said, in a telephone interview \"Margaret was one of my favorites\".\n\nRingenberg's autobiography \"Girls Can’t Be Pilots,\" written with Jane L. Roth was published by Daedalus Press in 1998. (). It was illustrated with several photos from her career both as a WASP and as an air racer.\n\nRingenberg died in her sleep of natural causes on July 28, 2008 while attending the Experimental Aircraft Association annual airshow. She was representing the WASPs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945475", "title": "Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto", "text": "Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto\n\nPolytechnic of Porto - School of Engineering (ISEP) is a public polytechnic higher learning and research engineering institute, located in the city of Porto, Portugal. ISEP is divided in 8 departments, with an emphasis on applied science and technology.\n\nISEP was founded by the minister Fontes Pereira de Melo in 1852 as \"Escola Industrial do Porto\" (Porto School of Industry) to support the industrialization of Portugal, and some time later upgraded to \"Instituto Industrial do Porto\" (Porto Institute of Industry). Since 1989, was grouped with other schools in the Polytechnic Institute of Porto. Its motto is \"Saber Fazer\" — \"Know-how\".\n\nToday, ISEP is one of the biggest and best known engineering schools in Portugal, with well over 6000 students and 500 faculty members. It has research facilities for real-time systems, artificial intelligence, knowledge based systems, and decision support systems, some of them internationally recognized as leading R&D centers (e.g. GECAD, CISTER, LSA) as accredited by the \"Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia\" of the Portuguese Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education.\n\nThe institution has had several names and different roles since its foundation in 1852:\n\nISEP's campus spans approximately 50,000 square meters in \"Pólo Universitário\", near São João Hospital. Dormitories and some of student life facilities are located outside the campus, but almost all classes are held on campus. ISEP campus was initially located in the central Porto and moved to current one in the 1960s.\n\nISEP is divided into different schools within its campus:\n\nFollowing the Bologna Process, higher education study plans are divided into 1st cycle BSc (3 years), 2nd cycle MSc (2 years).\n\nBSc\n\nMSc\n\n() EUR-ACE certification completed, () EUR-ACE certification ongoing.\n() US ABET-EAC accredited program\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945479", "title": "Sheila Burnford", "text": "Sheila Burnford\n\nSheila Philip Cochrane Burnford née Every (11 May 1918 – 20 April 1984) was a British Canadian writer.\n\nBorn in Scotland and brought up in various parts of the United Kingdom, she attended St. George's School, Edinburgh, and Harrogate Ladies College. She also attended schools in France and Germany. In 1941 she married Dr. David Burnford, with whom she had three children. During World War II she worked as a volunteer ambulance driver. In 1951 she emigrated to Canada, settling in Port Arthur, Ontario.\n\nBurnford is best remembered for \"The Incredible Journey\", published by Hodder & Stoughton with illustrations by Carl Burger in 1960. The story of three animal pets traveling in the wilderness won the Canadian Library Association Book of the Year for Children Award in 1963 and the ALA Aurianne Award in 1963 as the best book on animal life written for children ages 8–14. It is marketed for children but Burnford has stated that it was not intended as a children's book. It was a modest success commercially and became a bestseller after release of the 1963 Disney film, \"The Incredible Journey\" (which was remade in 1993 as \"\"). Another book, \"Bel Ria\", about a dog's survival in wartime, was based on her own experiences as an ambulance driver.\n\nBurnford later wrote other books on Canadian topics, including \"One Woman's Arctic\" (1973) about her two summers in Pond Inlet, Nunavut on Baffin Island with Susan Ross. She traveled by komatik, a traditional Inuit dog sled, assisted in archaeological excavation, having to thaw the land inch by inch, ate everything offered to her, and saw the migration of the narwhals.\n\nShe died of cancer in the village of Bucklers Hard in Hampshire at the age of 65.\n\n\nLibrary of Congress and WorldCat library records do not clearly show any other works published as books (six, as of 2018). WorldCat records show four of Burnford's books published in the US as Atlantic Monthly Press books, then an imprint of Little, Brown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945495", "title": "Montgomery County Community College", "text": "Montgomery County Community College\n\nMontgomery County Community College (MCCC, Montco, or MC3) is a public community college in Blue Bell in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. MCCC also has two satellite campuses, West campus in Pottstown and Culinary Arts Institute in Lansdale. MCCC is accredited by the Commission of Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools.\n\nThe college was founded in 1964 and offered classes from its campus in Conshohocken. In 1972, the school relocated to its current location in Blue Bell.\n\nThe Central Campus sits on 186 acres in Blue Bell.\n\nThe Pottstown campus includes the North Hall, a facility with classrooms, a computer lab and an art gallery. The building was formerly a knitting mill, brewery, and shoe polish factory until its renovation in 2006. It is connected to the South Hall by an underpass that had been filled in since the early 1920s.\n\nLocated in Blue Bell, the Municipal Police Academy is a licensed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.\n\nLocated in Towamencin Township, the Culinary Arts Institute was opened in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945504", "title": "Bigos", "text": "Bigos\n\nBigos (; , ', or бігус, ', , , ), often translated into English as hunter's stew, is a Polish dish of chopped meat of various kinds stewed with sauerkraut and shredded fresh cabbage. It is served hot and can be enriched with vegetables, spices or wine.\n\nOriginally from Poland, the dish also became traditional in Belarusian, Ukrainian and Lithuanian cuisine, as these eastern regions were once part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nThe Polish word ' is probably of German origin, but its exact etymology is disputed. According to the Polish loanword dictionary edited by Elżbieta Sobol, it may derive from German ', meaning \"doused\" or \"basted\". Jerzy Bralczyk similarly derives the word from archaic German ', \"sauce\". Aleksander Brückner has proposed German ', \"piece of lead\", as a possible source, referring to a tradition of divining from strangely shaped flakes of molten lead dropped into water. Maria Dembińska rejects this etymology as \"doubtless erroneous\", suggesting instead either archaic German ', \"to chop\", or old German ' (' in modern German), meaning \"mugwort\" (\"Artemisia vulgaris\"), a herb that was popular in medieval cuisine. Andrzej Bańkowski also points to Italian ', or \"pot for cooking soup\", as a possible derivation via German.\n\nThe principal ingredients of ' are assorted kinds of meat chopped into bite-sized chunks and a mixture of sauerkraut (pickled cabbage) and shredded fresh white cabbage. The meats may include pork (ham, shoulder, bacon, ribs, loin, etc.), beef and veal, poultry (chicken, duck, goose, turkey) and game, as well as charcuterie, especially various kinds of ', or Polish smoked sausage. The variety of meats is considered essential for good \"; its preparation may be a good occasion to clean out one's freezer and use up leftovers from other meat dishes. Some of the meats may be roasted before being diced together with other cuts of meat and braised in lard or vegetable oil.\nThe sauerkraut is often rinsed and drained before being chopped and mixed with shredded fresh cabbage. The proportion depends on the sauerkraut's maturity – the longer it has cured, the more sour it tastes, calling for more fresh cabbage to balance the flavor. Traditionally, cabbage was pickled in fall, so \" made at that time could be made with only half-cured sauerkraut, but by early spring, the sauerkraut had to be combined in equal parts with fresh cabbage. The mixture is precooked in a small amount of water before being mixed with the braised meat and left to simmer for several hours. Ideally, the stew should thicken through evaporation alone, but flour, roux, crumbled rye bread or a grated raw potato may be added to it to take up excess moisture.\n\nOther ingredients often added to ' include onions, diced and browned in lard together with the meat, and dried forest mushrooms that are precooked separately in boiling water. The stew is usually seasoned with salt, black peppercorns, allspice, juniper berries and bay leaves. Some recipes also call for caraway, cloves, garlic, marjoram, mustard seeds, nutmeg, paprika and thyme. The tart flavor of sauerkraut may be enhanced by adding some dry red wine or beet sour (fermented beetroot juice that is also a traditional ingredient of borscht), which may impart a reddish hue to the stew. ' is often slightly sweetened with sugar, honey, raisins, prunes or plum butter known in Polish as \".\nTraditionally, ' is stewed in a cauldron over an open fire or in a large pot on a stove, but it may also be prepared in an electric slow cooker. The contents should be stirred from time to time, to prevent scorching, which may impart a bitter taste to the entire batch. ' is considered best after it has been repeatedly refrigerated and reheated to allow the flavors to fuse.\n\nThe flexible and forgiving recipe for \" allows a great number of variants, often simply using what ingredients are at hand. It is often claimed that there are as many recipes as there are cooks in Poland.\n\nIn the region of Greater Poland, ' typically contains tomato paste and is seasoned with garlic and marjoram. Kuyavian ' is often made from red cabbage as well as white. In Silesia, it is usually mixed with ' or ', that is, small plain boiled dumplings made from unleavened dough that contains flour and mashed potatoes. A variant which contains julienned apples, preferably with a winey tart taste, such as Antonovka, is known as Lithuanian \" and is typical for the territory of the erstwhile Grand Duchy of Lithuania (now Belarus and Lithuania).\n\nIn ', or \"hunter's '\", at least part of the meat comes from game, such as wild boar, venison or hare. It is usually seasoned with juniper berries, which help neutralize off-flavors that may be found in the meat of wild animals.\n\nAs a dish that does not spoil quickly and only gets tastier with each reheating, ' has been traditionally used as a provision for travellers and campers or consumed at outdoor events, such as a hunt or a carnival sleigh ride known in Polish as '. It may be also eaten indoor, for breakfast, supper or as a hot starter served before soup at a dinner party. It is commonly found on the menus of milk bars, pubs and bistros throughout Poland. \" is particularly associated with major Catholic holidays, such as Christmas and Easter, as it can be prepared in ample quantities beforehand and only reheated on the holiday itself and the following days.\n\nThe stew is typically dished up with rye bread or boiled potatoes. \nIn a fancier setting, it may be served in stoneware bowls, puff pastry shells or bread bowls. ', especially when enjoyed outdoor, is traditionally paired with shots of chilled vodka, either clear or flavored. Varieties of flavored vodka that match well with ' include ' (bison grass), ' (juniper), ' (wormwood), ' (various herbs) and \" (oak-aged). If served at home or in a restaurant, the stew may be washed down with beer, red wine or Riesling.\n\nAccording to Polish food historian Maria Dembińska, ' may derive from a medieval dish known in Latin as ', or \"mixture\". It was made from various vegetables, such as cabbage, chard and onions, that were chopped or shredded, layered inside an earthenware three-legged Dutch oven and braised or baked. A remnant of this old procedure may be found in a ' recipe, in which bacon and cabbage are arranged in layers, from the 19th-century Russian cookbook, \"A Gift to Young Housewives\" by Elena Molokhovets. Similar, layered dishes of medieval origin exist in other European cuisines; they include the Italian ' (known in 16th-century Poland under the Polonized name, ') and the Alsatian ' (also known as '), made from cabbage, leftover meats and fruits. They are reminiscent of a rustic Polish casserole, known in various regions as ', etc. It is traditionally made from sliced or diced potatoes, onions, carrots, sausages and bacon arranged in layers inside a cast-iron cauldron greased with lard and lined with cabbage leaves, which is placed in bonfire embers for baking.\nThe word \"'\" is not attested before the 17th century. At that time, it referred to any dish of finely chopped components, usually meat or fish – but no cabbage – doused generously with melted butter and heavily seasoned with sour, sweet and spicy ingredients. , head chef to Prince , who consistently used the diminutive form ', included several recipes for it in his ' (\"A Collection of Dishes\"), the first cookbook published originally in Polish, in 1682. They include ' prepared with chopped capon, hazel grouse, carp, pike, and crawfish with beef marrow. Seasonings that appear in most of these recipes include onions, wine vinegar, lemon or lime juice, verjuice, sorrel, sugar, raisins, black pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and cumin. A manuscript recipe collection from the family court, dating back to ca. 1686, contains instructions for cooking ' of roast beef, fried fish and even chopped ' (thin pancakes). ' (\"The Perfect Cook\"), a cookbook published by Wojciech Wielądko in 1783, contains recipes for beef, veal, wether mutton, oyster, as well as root vegetable ' (the latter was a mixture of carrots, parsnip, rutabaga and celeriac).\n\n' made entirely of meat and exotic spices was affordable only to the affluent Polish nobility. The 18th century saw the development of a poor man's version of the dish, known as ', or \"rascal's '\", in which vinegar and lemon juice were replaced with cheaper sauerkraut as the source of tartness. Sauerkraut and cabbage also acted as a filler allowing to reduce the amount of meat in the dish. Rascal's ' became common during the reign of King Augustus III of Poland (r. 1734–1763). Over the course of the 19th century, its rise in popularity continued as the proportion of meat decreased in favor of sauerkraut, eventually superseding all other kinds of \" and losing the disparaging epithet in the process.\n\n\" is considered a Polish national dish, which, according to American food historian William Woys Weaver, \"has been romanticized in poetry, discussed in its most minute details in all sorts of literary contexts, and never made in small quantities.\"\n\nThe most famous literary monument to ' can be found in ', a mock-heroic poem venerated as the Polish national epic, extolling the country life of Polish noblemen in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, written by Adam Mickiewicz in 1834. It describes a group of men out in the woods, enjoying the stew of \"wondrous taste, colour and marvellous smell\" after a successful bear hunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945510", "title": "Ansco Panda", "text": "Ansco Panda\n\nThe Ansco Panda was a simple child's box camera made by the Ansco camera corporation of Binghamton, New York in the 1950s. Its appearance is quite similar to the Kodak Baby Brownie and was designed to compete directly with it. The camera features a black plastic body with cream accents around the lenses, a cream colored wind knob and a TLR style viewing lens above the taking lens. Images are composed via a waist level viewfinder and taken by means of a traditional Ansco red shutter trigger button depressed by the right index finger.\nThe camera produces 12 square photographs on a single roll of 620 format film (Ansco No. 20 film). Focal length of the camera is 60 mm and it has an f/16 lens. Focus is fixed and objects from about 6' to infinity are in focus.\n"}
{"id": "1945544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945544", "title": "Paul Ricard", "text": "Paul Ricard\n\nPaul Louis Marius Ricard (; July 9, 1909 – November 7, 1997) was a French industrialist and creator of an eponymous pastis brand which merged in 1975 with its competitor Pernod to create Pernod Ricard. Ricard was also an environmentalist and the developer of two Mediterranean islands, as well as the builder of the Circuit Paul Ricard in Le Castellet.\n\nRicard was born in Sainte-Marthe, part of the 14th arrondissement of the city of Marseille, to a family of wine merchants. Ricard married Marie-Therese Thiers in 1937, with whom he had two sons and three daughters.\n\nAfter studying at the Lycée Thiers in Marseille, Ricard was discouraged from an early passion for painting by his father, who made him join the family wine business.\n\nAs a young man Ricard was introduced to the alcoholic beverage pastis by an old shepherd. Pastis, an anise flavored liqueur and apéritif, had been banned with other aniseed based spirits during the First World War, accused of undermining the French war effort. In a still in his bedroom Ricard experimented with creating a more refined version, using, among other things, star anise, fennel seeds, liquorice and Provençal herbs. Ricard's precise pastis recipe has never been disclosed and remains a secret.\n\nRicard was prepared for the lifting of the prohibition on milder forms of aniseed spirits in 1932, and quickly overtook established companies like Pernod. Absinthe, another aniseed drink, remained prohibited. Ricard sold his pastis as the \"authentic pastis of Marseilles\". Ricard's eponymous company was created in 1939. The previous year Ricard had sold more than 2.4 million liters of his pastis.\n\nPastis was banned again in the Second World War, banned as \"contrary to the values\" of Vichy France, the collaborationist regime. During the war Ricard retreated to the Camargue region, where he experimented with rice farming. Using his distiller skills he created an alcoholic substitute for petrol for the French Resistance using plums and cherries.\n\nRicard resumed business following the end of the war. In 1952 Charles Pasqua was hired as a travelling salesman and later rose to be marketing director for Ricard. Pasqua later twice became Minister of the Interior under Prime Ministers Jacques Chirac and Édouard Balladur.\n\nA portion of the profits each year was converted into shares and distributed to the workers. In 1962 Ricard was floated on the French stock exchange, the Bourse. The flotation enriched many older employees of the company.\n\nProtesting French government interference in his business, Ricard resigned from the daily running of his company in 1968. Following his resignation the business prospered under the stewardship of his son, Patrick. The company merged with their great rival, Pernod, in 1975, becoming known as Pernod Ricard. By the 1990s Ricard was the most widely sold French alcoholic drink; it was sold in 140 countries. At the time of Ricard's death Pernod Ricard was the third largest global spirits company.\n\nA trained artist, Ricard deployed his artistic skills in the Ricard brand's blue and yellow design, inspired by the sky and the sun of his native Marseille.\n\nAdvertising of aniseed based drinks was made illegal in 1951; an exception to the advertising ban was the material sent to distributors, displays in drinking establishments and designs on delivery vans. In his autobiography Ricard wrote that ban turned out to be a \"secret advantage which obliged us to exercise our imagination...\".\n\nRicard designed a jug to hold ice and water for mixing with pastis in 1935; it helped promote the brand with French consumers. Ricard produced much more drinking ephemera featuring the Ricard brand including decanters, glasses, ashtrays, clocks and playing cards. The Ricard Museum of Advertising Objects was later founded by Ricard on the island of Bendor.\n\nRicard recognised the effective use of sport sponsorship as a marketing tool for his pastis brand. Ricard was the first commercial sponsor of the Tour de France in 1948. Pickup-trucks on the Tour displayed the Ricard colours, and the company provided free music concerts along the route. In 1970 Ricard built the Circuit Paul Ricard, a race track near the village of Le Castellet in the department of Var in southern France. The circuit hosted 14 editions of the Formula One French Grand Prix between 1971 and 1990, as well as the Bol d'Or and the French motorcycle Grand Prix. After a ten-year absence from the calendar, the French Grand Prix returned at the Circuit Paul Ricard in 2018. The Le Castellet Airport was also built alongside the circuit.\n\nIn 1950 Ricard was the producer of one of the first French colour films, \"La maison du printemps\". He published an autobiography, \"La Passion de Créer\" in 1983.\n\nRicard purchased two islands in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of Var in the 1950s. The uninhabited island of Bendor near Bandol was bought by Ricard in 1950, and the Embiez island near Six-Fours-les-Plages was bought in 1958.\n\nOn Bendor Ricard established the Universal Exposition of Wines and Spirits in 1966, which aimed to create a \"complete and permanent encyclopaedia of wine and spirits\". Ricard also created the Museum of Ricard Advertising Objects on the island.\n\nAppalled by \"red mud\" discharged into the Mediterranean Sea, Ricard campaigned against industrial pollution, and in 1966 founded the Observatoire de la Mer, which later became the Paul Ricard Oceanographic Institute. The institute is based on Embiez, it carries out research and raises public awareness of marine issues. An aquarium is open to visitors at the institute.\n\nIn retirement Ricard painted and acted as mayor of Signes from 1980 to 1988, a small town near the racing circuit that bears his name. Ricard died in Signes in 1997 at the age of 88. He was buried on Embiez; his grave faces the Mediterranean Sea.\n"}
{"id": "1945547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945547", "title": "George Woolf", "text": "George Woolf\n\nGeorge Monroe Woolf (May 31, 1910 – January 4, 1946), nicknamed \"The Iceman\", was a Canadian-born thoroughbred race horse jockey. An annual jockey's award given by the United States Jockeys' Guild is named in his honor. He became known for riding the people's champion Seabiscuit to victories in 1938.\n\nAfter his early death resulting from a racing accident, Woolf was inducted into newly founded honorary institutions: the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame, Canada's Sports Hall of Fame and the Canadian Horse Racing Hall of Fame.\n\nWoolf was born on a ranch in Cardston, Alberta to horse people - his mother had been a trick rider in a circus and his father rode in rodeos. Woolf learned to ride horses as a child and as a teenager he rode in horse races and competed in rodeo events in Alberta and Montana.\n\nGeorge's mother, Rosina Parker, was born in Wales, and his maternal grandmother was from England. His father, Frank Henry Woolf, was a Utah pioneer born before 1869 and an Alberta pioneer coming to Canada before 1890. His paternal grandfather Absalom Woolf and great-grandfather J.A. Woolf were Mormon pioneers, both settlers of Cache Valley, Utah. Absalom Woolf was a soldier in the Utah militia serving in the Walkara Indian War and also the Utah War.\n\nWoolf's ancestor, Peter Woolf, was an early settler of New York, immigrating from Germany.\n\nOn the Newell and Olmstead side of his family, Woolf was related to the fur trapper and mountain man Robert \"Doc\" Newell, and related as well to Charles O. Card, the founder of the town of Cardston, Alberta.\n\nWoolf's rodeo and horse training associates included the Bascom brothers - Raymond, Melvin, Earl and Weldon Bascom.\n\nHe began racing thoroughbreds professionally in 1928 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He also raced in Tijuana, Mexico before going to Arcadia, California, where he made his permanent home.\n\nUsing Santa Anita Park as his home base, Woolf became one of the premier jockeys of his era; he was known by fellow jockeys and fans as \"The Iceman\". He earned the nickname for displaying the patience in waiting for the right time to have his horse make a move in a race, as well as his calm attitude before major races, when he could take a nap while other jockeys nervously paced about.\n\nWhile establishing himself as one of America's leading jockeys, he was diagnosed with what is now known as type 1 diabetes. Only a few years earlier, before the discovery of insulin, such a diagnosis would have been fatal. Because of his condition, and the nature of diabetes management in the 1930s and 1940s, Woolf had to regulate his weight to avoid rapid dieting. His racing success allowed him to accept only a few mounts each week, riding only 150–200 races each year compared to as many as a thousand rides other jockeys might undertake, and for years he maintained top physical condition. Despite his limited number of races and a relatively short career, Woolf won ninety-seven major stakes races around the United States, including the Hollywood Gold Cup Stakes, the American Derby and the Belmont Futurity Stakes three years running.\n\nHe made history in 1935 when he rode Azucar to victory in the first $100,000 horse race, the Santa Anita Handicap, defeating such greats as Equipoise and Twenty Grand. Woolf finished second twice at the Kentucky Derby and won the 1936 Preakness Stakes. \n\nHe is remembered for his tactical performance in the 1938 match race when he rode Seabiscuit to victory over the heavily favored U.S. Triple Crown champion, War Admiral, in the Pimlico Special at Baltimore, based on advice from his friend, Seabiscuit's injured regular jockey Red Pollard. When asked which was the best racehorse he had ever ridden, Woolf answered immediately, \"Seabiscuit\".\n\nDuring the running of the fourth race at Santa Anita Park on January 3, 1946, Woolf fell from his horse, Please Me, as he rounded the clubhouse turn. Suffering from a concussion, he was taken to the hospital, where he died the following day. The jockeys in the race and the track stewards reported that they had not witnessed any incident during the race to have caused such a fall. Most observers think his diabetic condition may have resulted in his suffering a dizzy spell or fainting.\n\nWoolf was buried at the Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery in The Great Mausoleum, Gardenia Terrace, the Sanctuary of Providence, Mausoleum Crypt 9707 in Glendale, California. Western singing star Gene Autry sang at his funeral service.\n\nThe death at age 35 of one of the country's best and most respected jockeys, and a favorite of fans, led to the creation of the George Woolf Memorial Jockey Award. During his career (1928–1946), Woolf had 3,784 mounts, 721 wins (19.1%), 589 seconds and 468 thirds, finishing in the money 46% of the time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945561", "title": "Brent Shaw", "text": "Brent Shaw\n\nBrent Donald Shaw (born May 27, 1947) is a Canadian historian and the current Andrew Fleming West Professor of Classics at Princeton University. His principal contributions center on the regional history of the Roman world with special emphasis on the African provinces of the Roman Empire, the demographic and social history of the Roman family, and problems of violence and social order.\n\nShaw received his B.A. and M.A. from the University of Alberta in 1968 and 1971 respectively. He later acquired his Ph.D. from Cambridge University in 1978, completing his dissertation research on pastoral nomadism and state regulation under the supervision of Joyce Reynolds.\n\nAfter an initial post at the University of Birmingham, Shaw taught at the University of Lethbridge in western Canada from 1977–1996, spending a fellowship year at the Institute for Advanced Study in 1994, and two years as a visiting professor at Princeton University in 1989 and 1995. Shaw then took up a professorship at the University of Pennsylvania in 1996, which he held until taking up the Andrew Fleming West professorship of Classics at Princeton University in 2004. In 2012, Shaw was elected a resident member of the American Philosophical Society.\n\nShaw has written extensively on problems of violence in establishing conditions of peace and order throughout the Roman world, in particular on bandits and brigands, and on sectarian violence. In a series of articles published through the 1980s and 1990s, Shaw provided a novel interpretation of the phenomenon of banditry and of the relationship of autonomy and violence to sustaining state power and force, drawing on Josephus, and engaging critically with the work of British Marxist Eric Hobsbawm. Shaw later shifted his focus to understanding how early Christians produced sectarian or religious violence by the popularization of images of ideological enemies, and through the mobilization of sentiment using both the idea and the practice of martyrdom. His book on the subject, \"Sacred Violence\", was awarded the Wallace K. Ferguson Prize of the Canadian Historical Association for best book in history for 2011, and the PROSE Award for best book in Classics and Ancient History of 2011.\nShaw has also made significant contributions to the understanding of the economic and political integration of North Africa into the Roman Empire, exploring the problem of urbanization, and the economic role of pastoral nomads, as part of this process of integration. More broadly, Shaw has used historical contexts to explore how economic actions relate to ways in which human populations develop modes of thinking. In \"Bringing in the Sheaves\", Shaw explores the relationship between the reaping of cereal crops in the Roman Empire and the ways in which people began thinking about death and vengeance in their social relations.\n\nShaw has also brought his historical knowledge to a wider audience through publications in \"History Today\", \"The New Republic\", the \"New Left Review\", and \"The New York Review of Books\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945566", "title": "Street Hassle", "text": "Street Hassle\n\nStreet Hassle is the eighth solo studio album by American musician Lou Reed, released in February 1978 by Arista Records. Richard Robinson and Reed produced the album. It is the first commercially released pop album to employ binaural recording technology. \"Street Hassle\" combines live concert tapes (with overdubs) and studio recordings.\n\nAll of the songs on \"Street Hassle\" were written by Reed, including \"Real Good Time Together\", a track that dates back to his days as a member of the Velvet Underground. The studio tracks were recorded in New York City, while the live recordings were made in Munich and Ludwigshafen, West Germany. Unlike most live albums, the audience is completely muted from the mix during the concert recordings.\n\nBruce Springsteen contributed uncredited spoken vocals during the \"Slipaway\" section of \"Street Hassle\", alluding to his own \"Born to Run\" album in the final line \"Tramps like us, we were born to pay.\" At the time, the singer was enduring a three-year forced hiatus from releasing any of his own work due to legal disputes with his former manager, although he was in the process of writing and recording music for his forthcoming album \"Darkness on the Edge of Town\", to be released in June 1978. Springsteen was not credited for his performance in the liner notes to \"Street Hassle\", possibly due to his ongoing legal battles.\n\nThe recording of \"Street Hassle\" was notable in that Reed and his co-producer chose to employ an experimental microphone placement technique called binaural recording. In binaural recording, two microphones are placed in the studio in an attempt to mimic the stereo sound of actually being in the room with the performers/instruments. In the case of the recording sessions and concerts that composed \"Street Hassle\", engineers used a mannequin head with a microphone implanted in each ear. Binaural recordings are generally only effective when the user listens to the album through headphones, and do not generally translate correctly through stereo speakers.\nReed's particular binaural recording system was developed by Manfred Schunke of the German company Delta Acoustics; Schunke is credited as an engineer on \"Street Hassle\". Reed would continue to use the binaural recording style on two more releases: the 1978 concert album \"\" and the 1979 studio album \"The Bells\".\n\nAs was common on early Reed solo albums, \"Street Hassle\" contained a song originally written during Reed's days in the Velvet Underground—in this case, \"Real Good Time Together,\" which had been previously released in 1974 on \"\". \"Dirt\" is allegedly about his ex-manager, Dennis Katz.\n\nAllMusic has written that \"the title cut, a three-movement poetic tone poem about life on the New York streets, is one of the most audacious and deeply moving moments of Reed's solo career.\" Biographer Anthony DeCurtis describes the album as being largely motivated by and representative of the end of Reed's three-year relationship with Rachel Humphreys, a trans woman who is believed to have died of AIDS in 1990 and been buried in a Potter's Field on Hart Island in the Bronx. DeCurtis summarizes the title track as “something of a requiem for Reed and Rachel’s relationship.” In a 1979 article for \"Rolling Stone\", Mikal Gilmore refers to Rachel as the \"raison d'être\" for the album as a whole.\n\n\"Street Hassle\" was met with mostly positive reviews, such as from \"Rolling Stone\", which called the album \"brilliant\" and \"a confession of failure that becomes a stunning, incandescent triumph—the best solo album Lou Reed has ever done.\" Robert Christgau of \"The Village Voice\", however, gave the album a lukewarm reception, observing that \"despite the strength of much of the material,\" he found the album's \"production muddled, its cynicism uninteresting, [and] its self-reference self-serving.\" In a retrospective review, AllMusic noted that while \"time has magnified its flaws,\" \"Street Hassle\" was \"still among the most powerful and compelling albums [Reed] released during the 1970s, and too personal and affecting to ignore.\"\n\nAll tracks written by Lou Reed.\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nAdapted from the \"Street Hassle\" liner notes.\n\nProduction\n\n"}
{"id": "1945567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945567", "title": "Khmu language", "text": "Khmu language\n\nKhmu is the language of the Khmu people of the northern Laos region. It is also spoken in adjacent areas of Vietnam, Thailand and China. Khmu lends its name to the Khmuic branch of the Austroasiatic language family, the latter of which also includes Khmer and Vietnamese. Within Austroasiatic, Khmu is often cited as being most closely related to the Palaungic and Khasic languages. The name \"Khmu\" can also be seen romanized as Kmhmu, Khmu', Kammu, or Khamuk in various publications or alternatively referred to by the name of a local dialect.\n\n As a minority language with no standardizing influence, many dialects have evolved. Dialects differ primarily in consonant inventory, existence of register, and the degree to which the language has been influenced by the surrounding national language(s). Dialects are, for the most part, mutually intelligible; however communication can be difficult between speakers of geographically distant dialects.\n\nThe dialects of Khmu can be broadly categorized into two groups, Western Khmu and Eastern Khmu.\n\n\nSuwilai Premsrirat (2002) reports the following locations and dialects of Kmhmu' in Laos, Vietnam, China, and Thailand.\n\n\nThe consonant inventory ofKmhmu' is shown in the table below. The phonemes in the colored cells are particular to the dialects of Eastern Khmu. The phoneme /f/, present in dialects of both Eastern and Western Kmhmu', is a result of borrowings from the surrounding Tai languages.\n\nThe vowels of Kmhmu' show little variation across the dialects with all varieties having 19 monophthongs and three diphthongs (, and ).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945572", "title": "List of drugs: D", "text": "List of drugs: D\n"}
{"id": "1945577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945577", "title": "Sigaction", "text": "Sigaction\n\nIn computing, codice_1 is a function API defined by POSIX to give the programmer access to what should be a program's behavior when receiving specific OS signals.\n\nIn Unix-like operating systems, one means of inter-process communication is through signals. When an executing unit (process or thread) receives a signal from the OS, it should react in some way defined by the datasheet and the conventional meaning of this signal (i.e. by dumping its data, stopping execution, synchronizing something...).\n\nThe codice_2 system call is used to declare the behavior of the program should it receive one particular non-system-reserved signal. This is done by giving along with the system call a structure containing, among others, a function pointer to the signal handling routine. Some predefined signals (such as codice_3) have locked behavior that is handled by the system and cannot be overridden by such system calls.\n\nThe POSIX standard requires that the sigaction structure be defined as below in the <signal.h> header file and it should contain at least the following fields:\n\nstruct sigaction {\n\nImplementations are free to define additional, possibly non-portable fields. The sa_handler member specifies the address of a function to be called when the process receives the signal. The signal number is passed as an integer argument to this function. The sa_mask member specifies additional signals to be blocked during the execution of signal handler. sa_mask must be initialized with sigemptyset(3). The sa_flags member specifies some additional flags. sa_sigaction is an alternate signal handler with different set of parameters. Only one signal handler must be specified, either sa_handler or sa_sigaction. If it is desired to use sa_sigaction instead of sa_handler, SA_SIGINFO flag must be set.\n\nThe codice_2 function provides an interface for reliable signals in replacement of the unreliable and deprecated codice_4 function. Signal handlers installed by the codice_4 interface will be uninstalled immediately prior to execution of the handler. Permanent handlers must therefore be reinstalled by a call to codice_4 during the handler's execution, causing unreliability in the event a signal of the same type is received during the handler's execution but before the reinstall. Handlers installed by the codice_2 interface can be installed permanently and a custom set of signals can be blocked during the execution of the handler. These signals will be unblocked immediately following the normal termination of the handler (but not in the event of an abnormal termination such as a C++ exception throw.)\n\nIn C++, the codice_10 programming structure may be (depending on host platforms) based on signalling. To codice_11 signals translated into C++ exceptions, special compiler switches may be necessary on some platforms such as codice_12 for GCC and the Intel C Compiler.\n\n\n\nvoid sigchld_handler(int, siginfo_t*, void*);\n\nsig_atomic_t nexitedchlds = 0;\n\nint\nmain(int argc, char *argv[])\n\nvoid\nsigchld_handler(int signo, siginfo_t *sinfo, void *context)\n"}
{"id": "1945584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945584", "title": "José Juan Tablada", "text": "José Juan Tablada\n\nJosé Juan Tablada (April 3, 1871 – August 2, 1945) was a Mexican poet, art critic and, for a brief period, diplomat. A pioneer of oriental studies, and champion of Mexican art, he spent a good portion of his life outside his country. As a poet, his work spans from the fin-de-siècle style to avant-garde experimentalism; he was especially an early haiku pioneer.\n\nTablada was born in Mexico City and at first worked for the national railways. In 1890, aged 19, he began contributing to magazines and newspapers as a journalist, essayist and poet. In 1894 his rhythmic and intricate poem \"Onix\" brought him renown. \"Florilegio\", his first collection of poetry, was published in 1899 and established him as one of Mexico's pioneer 'modernists', although at that period such writing approximated the style of the French decadent movement.\n\nFrom early on, he became interested in Japanese aesthetics and travelled to Japan for some months in 1900. This left its influence on his work and culminated in a book on the artist Hiroshige (1914) and a general work, \"En el país del sol\" (In the land of the sun, 1919). The latter was made up of a selection of his articles on Japanese subjects over the years, in particular those arising from his 1900 visit. In addition he had brought back a large collection of ukiyo-e prints that are now in the National Library of Mexico.\n\nDuring the turmoil of the Mexican Revolution, Tablada spent time in Paris and then in New York City until he was appointed a cultural secretary in the Foreign Service in 1918, serving in Bogotá, Caracas, and Quito. Unable to adapt to the altitude of the last, he resigned and thereafter spent much of his time in New York until 1935. There he ran a bookshop and founded the magazine \"Mexican Art and Life\". At this period he was championing Mexican art, being among the first to draw attention to the art of the Pre-Columbian period, but also supporting the modernist painters José Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera.\n\nAfter his return to Mexico, he published a partial autobiography, \"La feria de la vida\" (1937), and was elected a member of the Mexican Literary Academy in 1941. He was appointed Vice-Consul for New York in 1945 but died soon after his arrival there. Later his remains were repatriated and buried in the Rotunda of Illustrious Persons on November 5, 1946.\n\nTablada is recognized as among the originators of modern Mexican poetry and is credited with the introduction of haiku to his country. His collection \"Un dia\" (1919) contains 38 ‘synthetic poems’ and has been described as “the first book of original haiku written by a poet outside Japan”. It was followed by a collection of calligrams, \"Li-Po y otros poemas\" (1920), and in 1922 by \"El jarro de flores\", containing a further 68 haiku. His haiku are distinguished by their aesthetic quality, as for example in\nand by their humour:\n\nIn 1921 his friend the composer Edgard Varèse incorporated an earlier piece by Tablada, \"La Cruz del Sur\", in his \"Offrandes\" (1921), and two years later dedicated his \"Hyperprism\" to the poet. After Tablada's death, Luis Sandi set ten of his haiku for voice and piano (\"Diez hai-kais para canto y piano\", 1947).\n\nMost details are taken from the biography of the poet at the Free University of Mexico, Faculty of Philosophy and Literature\n\n"}
{"id": "1945586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945586", "title": "Christine Pountney", "text": "Christine Pountney\n\nChristine Pountney (born 1971) is a Canadian author. She has published three novels, and has written for \"The Guardian\", the \"New York Times Magazine\", the \"Walrus\", \"Brick Magazine\", and \"Nuvo\".\n\nBorn in Vancouver, British Columbia, Pountney grew up in Montreal, Quebec. She graduated with an MA in Creative Writing from the University of East Anglia in 1997. She lives in Toronto with Michael Winter, and their son, Leo. She teaches creative writing at the University of Toronto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945597", "title": "List of awards and nominations received by Madonna", "text": "List of awards and nominations received by Madonna\n\nMadonna is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. Born in Bay City, Michigan, on August 16, 1958, and raised in Rochester Hills, Michigan, she moved to New York City in 1978, for a career in modern dance. After performing as a member of the pop musical groups Breakfast Club and Emmy, she released her self-titled debut album, \"Madonna\" in 1983, by Sire Records. She received a Best New Artist nomination at the 1984 MTV Video Music Awards (VMA) for the song \"Borderline\". \"Madonna\" was followed by a series of hit singles from her studio albums \"Like a Virgin\" (1984) and \"True Blue\" (1986) which gave her global recognition. Madonna became a pop icon for pushing the boundaries of lyrical content in popular music and imagery in her music videos, which became a fixture on MTV. In 1985, she received a number of VMA nominations for her music videos and two nominations in the Best Female Pop Vocal Performance category of the Grammy Awards. \"Billboard\" magazine listed her as the \"Top Pop Artist\" for 1985, as well as the \"Top Pop Singles Artist\" for the next two years.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1990, Madonna won a number of awards at the VMAs for the music videos of her songs \"Like a Prayer\", \"Express Yourself\" and \"Vogue\". MTV also honored her as the \"Artist of the Decade\" in 1989. In 1990, the Hollywood Walk of Fame committee decided to award Madonna with a star on the Hollywood Boulevard sidewalk, but she showed no interest in accepting the recognition. The Blond Ambition World Tour won the award for Most Creative Stage Production at the 1990 Pollstar Concert Industry Awards; it was also nominated in the Major Tour of the Year category. Alongside her music awards, Madonna was honored for her charitable works in helping cure AIDS, by the AIDS Project Los Angeles (APLA) and American Foundation for AIDS Research (AmfAR). In 1992, Madonna won her first Grammy Award in the category of Best Long Form Music Video, for the video album of the Blond Ambition Tour. The video release of her 1990 compilation album, \"The Immaculate Collection\", also won the Best Long Form Video award at the VMAs.\n\nIn 1996, Madonna played the starring role in the film, \"Evita\", for which she won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy. Madonna's seventh studio album, \"Ray of Light\" (1998), became one of her most critically acclaimed releases, and won her a number of Grammy Awards, while being nominated for the Album of the Year. It also won her the VMA for Video of the Year for the title track. From 2001 to 2008, Madonna embarked on four worldwide concert tours—Drowned World (2001), Re-Invention (2004), Confessions (2006) and Sticky & Sweet (2008)—which received a total of eight nominations at the Pollstar Concert Industry Awards, but won only one award for the Confessions Tour in 2006, in the category of Most Creative Stage Production. The Brit Awards have nominated Madonna in 12 categories, and in 2006 she won the International Female Solo Artist award, for her 10th studio album, \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\". In 2007, Madonna won another Grammy Award in the Best Long Form Music Video category, for the live release of the Confessions Tour.\n\nMadonna is ranked by the Recording Industry Association of America as the best-selling female rock artist of the 20th century and the second top-selling female artist in the United States, with 64.5 million certified albums. She has sold more than 300 million records worldwide and is recognized as the best-selling female recording artist of all time by \"Guinness World Records\". Madonna has won 20 VMAs from a total of 68 nominations, second highest number of accolades in the history of the award. She is the first female artist to receive the lifetime achievement Video Vanguard Award. In 2008, she was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, as one of the best-known and most influential artists, producers, and other people who have in some major way influenced the music industry.\n\nThe AIDS Project Los Angeles (APLA) is a nonprofit organization, dedicated to improving the lives of people affected by HIV disease, reducing the incidence of HIV infection, and advocating for fair and effective usage of HIV-related public policy. Madonna was honored with the Commitment to Life Award for her contribution to the organization.\n\nThe Amadeus Austrian Music Awards is the annual awards ceremony for excellence in the Austrian music industry. Madonna has won one time from two nominations in 2006.\n\nThe American Foundation for AIDS Research (AmfAR) is an international non-profit organization dedicated to the support of AIDS research, HIV prevention, treatment education, and the advocacy of sound AIDS-related public policy. Madonna was honored with the foundation's Award of Courage in 1991, for her charitable works to fight against AIDS.\n\nThe American Moviegoers Awards are held annually by Moviefone, an American-based movie listing and information service. Madonna won Best Actress award for her role in \"Evita\" (1996).\n\nThe American Music Awards is an annual awards ceremony created by Dick Clark in 1973. Madonna has been nominated eighteen times and has won three awards.\n\nThe AOL TV Viewer Awards is an award show held by America Online Inc. (AOL), with the winners selected by the audience for their favorite shows, performers and moments on television. Madonna won \"Best TV Concert\" award in 2002 for her broadcast, \"Madonna Live! – Drowned World Tour 2001\", on HBO.\n\nThe Arion Music Awards (2002–07) was the official music industry award ceremony in Greece, organized by the IFPI Greece. Madonna has won a total of four awards.\n\nThe ASCAP Awards are held by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers.\n\nThe annual ASCAP Film and Television Music Awards honors the songwriters and publishers of the most performed soundtrack songs. Madonna has won four awards.\n\nThe annual ASCAP Pop Music Awards honors the songwriters and publishers of the most performed pop songs. Madonna has won six awards.\n\nThe annual ASCAP Rhythm & Soul Music Awards honors songwriters and publishers of top R&B/Hip-hop, rap, reggae and dance music. Madonna has won four awards.\n\nThe Billboard.com Mid-Year Music Awards are held by \"Billboard\" to recognize the most favorite artists, songs, albums and performances of the first half of year. Winners are selected through a poll in \"Billboard\" official website. Madonna has won four awards.\n\nThe Billboard Music Awards are sponsored by \"Billboard\" magazine to honor artists based on \"Billboard\" Year-End Charts. The award ceremony was held from 1990 to 2007, until its reintroduction in 2011. Before and after that time span, winners have been announced by \"Billboard\", both in the press and as part of their year-end issue. According to \"Billboard\", Madonna has won five awards.\n\nThe Music of the '80s Poll was held by \"Billboard\" magazine in early 1990 to recognize the top music artists during the 1980s decade. Madonna was awarded as Pop Artist of the Decade and Dance Artist of the Decade, while her 1985 hit \"Into the Groove\" won Dance Single of the Decade.\n\nThe Billboard Music Video Awards are sponsored by \"Billboard\" magazine to honor artists and their music videos. Madonna has won two awards.\n\nThe Billboard Touring Awards were established by \"Billboard\" magazine in 2004, to honor the concert industry's top artists and professionals for the year, based on the Billboard Boxscore chart, which tabulates the top-grossing tour as per reports from retailers. Madonna has won four awards from a total of eight nominations.\n\nEstablished in 2007, \"Billboard\" Women in Music recognizes influential female artists and music executives who have made significant contributions to the business and who, through their work and continued success, inspire generations of women to take on increasing responsibilities within the field. Madonna has been honored once.\n!scope=\"row\"|2016\n\nThe Blockbuster Entertainment Awards was a film awards ceremony, founded by Blockbuster Inc. In 1998, Madonna was nominated for Favorite Actress by her role in \"Evita\".\n!scope=\"row\"|1998\n\nThe Bravo Otto Awards are held by \"Bravo\" magazine, the largest teen magazine within the German-language sphere, to honor top performers in film, music, television and sport. Madonna has won seven awards.\n\nBreakTudo Awards (commonly abbreviated as a BTDAs) is a Brazilian award that takes place every year in Brazil. The awards honor the year's biggest achievements in music, film, television, Brazilian internet and more, voting takes place over the internet.\n\nThe Brit Awards are the British Phonographic Industry's annual pop music awards. Madonna has been nominated twelve times and won two awards, Best International Female in 2001 and International Female Solo Artist in 2006.\n\nThe British LGBT Awards celebrate the UK's most loved LGBT personalities, innovators and companies, dubbed the \"Gay Oscars\" by the press. Madonna has received one nomination.\n!\n!scope=\"row\"|2017\n\nThe CableACE Award was an award that was given from 1978 to 1997 to honor excellence in American cable television programming. Madonna received one nomination in 1994 for the broadcast on HBO, \"\".\n\nThe Danish Music Awards (Dansk Grammy, before 2001) is a music award ceremony presented by IFPI Denmark since 1989. Madonna has won four awards.\n\nThe Echo Awards is a major music ceremony in Germany, based on artists' sales of the previous year. Madonna has won three awards.\n\nThe Edison Award is an annual Dutch music prize awarded for outstanding achievements in the music industry. Madonna has won two awards.\n\nThe Elle Style Awards is hosted annually by \"Elle\" magazine. Madonna has won one award, the Style Icon Award, in 2007.\n\nEmma-gaala (\"Emma Awards\") is hosted annually by Musiikkituottajat, Finnish music industry federation, to recognize achievements in Finnish music industry. The Award for Foreign Artist of the Year was introduced in 2009 and Madonna was nominated that year.\n\nThe Fryderyk is an annual award ceremony in Poland, presented by the Związek Producentów Audio Video, the IFPI Poland, since 1994. Madonna has won one award, Best Foreign Album, for \"Ray of Light\" (1998).\n\nDelivered since 1991, the GAFFA Awards are a Danish award that rewards popular music by the magazine of the same name.\n\nSince 1999, the Gaygalan Awards are a Swedish accolade presented by the \"QX\" magazine. Madonna has received one award from one nomination.\n\nThe GLAAD Media Awards are presented annually by the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation in a ceremony held in New York City. In 1991, Madonna received the GLAAD Excellence in Media Award, presented to public figures in media and entertainment who, through their work, have increased the visibility and understanding of the LGBT community. She received the second Advocate for Change award in 2019.\n\nThe Golden Apple Awards have been presented annually since 1941 by the Hollywood Women's Press Club to entertainers, in recognition of their behavior, rather than performance. Madonna won the Sour Apple Award, given to actors for being rude or difficult, at the 52nd annual ceremony at the Beverly Hilton Hotel, Beverly Hills, California in 1992.\n\nThe Golden Globe Awards are awarded annually by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. Madonna has been nominated seven times, both as an actress and as a songwriter. She has won two awards, Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for her role in \"Evita\" (1996) and Best Original Song for \"Masterpiece\" from \"W.E.\" (2012).\n\nThe Golden Raspberry Awards are awarded in recognition of the worst in film. Madonna has been nominated sixteen times, both as an actress and as a songwriter. She has won nine awards, including five Golden Raspberry Awards for Worst Actress and two Golden Raspberry Awards for Worst Supporting Actress, making her the actress with the most Razzies ever.\n\nThe Grammy Awards are awarded annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Madonna has won seven awards from twenty-eight nominations.\n\nThe \"Guinness World Records\" is a reference book published annually, containing a collection of world records, both human achievements and the extremes of the natural world. Madonna currently hold 16 Guinness world records.\nThe Hollywood Walk of Fame is a sidewalk along Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street in Hollywood, California, with more than 2,000 five-pointed stars to honor artists for their achievement in the entertainment industry. Madonna was selected for the honor in 1990 but she showed no interest and the invitation has now expired. Walk of Fame spokeswoman Ana Martinez-Holler stated that in order to receive a star, Madonna would have to be \"resubmitted for a nomination,\" adding, \"since she is not interested, I highly doubt that she will give a nominator the permission to do so.\"\n\nThe Hong Kong Top Sales Music Awards is an annual award ceremony held by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry Hong Kong (IFPIHK) since 2001 to honor every year best-selling music artists. Madonna has won three awards for Top Ten Best Selling Foreign Albums of the Year.\n\nThe Hungarian Music Awards (Golden Giraffe Awards, before 2004) is an annual award ceremony held by the Hungarian music industry association Mahasz since 1992. Madonna has won two awards from six nominations.\n\nThe International Dance Music Awards was established in 1985. It is a part of the Winter Music Conference, a weeklong electronic music event held annually. Madonna has won eleven awards.\n\nThe International Rock Awards (1989–91) was a music award ceremony broadcast on ABC Television, to honor the top musicians in the genre of rock music; Madonna won two awards.\n\nThe Ivor Novello Awards is a music ceremony for songwriting and composing, presented annually by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors. Madonna has won two awards from five nominations.\n\nThe Japan Gold Disc Awards is a music award ceremony, held annually by the Recording Industry Association of Japan. Madonna has won 17 awards, including the Artist of the Year award five times, more than any other artist.\n\nThe Juno Awards is a music ceremony in Canada, presented annually by the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Madonna has received eight nominations and won two of them, International Album of the Year for \"True Blue\" (1986) and Best Selling International Single for \"Vogue\" (1990).\n\nThe Lumières Award is a French film award presented by the Académie des Lumières. Madonna won \"Best Use of AR in a Live Broadcast\" in 2020 for her at \"Billboard\" Music Awards 2019.\n\nLunas del Auditorio are sponsored by The National Auditorium in Mexico to honor the best live shows in the country. Madonna has won two awards from a total of three nominations.\n\nThe Meteor Music Awards was an award bestowed upon to the best in music in Ireland. Madonna received one nomination in the Best Live Performance Visiting Act category in 2005.\n\nIn 1989, Madonna was awarded the Artist of the Decade by a poll of MTV viewers in recognizing her achievement during the 1980s. Biographer J. Randy Taraborrelli documented that fellow pop star Michael Jackson had become jealous when Madonna received that honor. He telephoned his attorney John Braca to complain that Madonna did not deserve such an honor. He said, \"See, it makes me look bad. I'm the artist of the decade. Did she outsell \"Thriller\"?\" In response to his client's agitation, Branca suggested that they approach MTV with the idea of a fictional award they could give to Jackson. They decided to name it as Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Artist of the Decade Award. Jackson liked the introduction of the award, and commented, \"That'll sure teach that heifer\", referring to Madonna.\n\nThe MTV Australia Awards are held annually by MTV Australia since 2005, to honor the best acts in the music video medium both from Australia and overseas. Madonna has received six nominations.\n\nMTV Asia Awards was the Asian version of the Video Music Awards. Madonna received one nomination in 2006.\n\nThe MTV Europe Music Awards are held annually by MTV Networks Europe since 1994. Madonna has won four awards out of nineteen nominations.\n\nLos Premios MTV Latinoamérica or VMALA's was the Latin American version of the Video Music Awards. Madonna has been nominated for a total of 5 times.\n\nThe MTV Millennial Awards also known as MTVMiAw or MTV MA are awards created by MTV Latin America that reward the best of the Millennial Generation as well as rewarding music and films and the best of the digital world.\n\nThe MTV Movie Awards is a film awards show presented annually on MTV. Madonna has received four nominations.\n\nThe MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) is an award show by the cable network MTV to honor the top music videos of the year. It was first held at the end of the summer of 1984, and originally was an alternative to the Grammy Award in the video category. Madonna has won twenty awards from a total of sixty-eight nominations, second most win in the history of the award. She is also the first female artist to receive the lifetime achievement Video Vanguard Award.\n\nThe MTV Video Music Awards Japan are the Japanese version of the MTV Video Music Awards. Madonna has been nominated for a total of 9 times.\n\nThe TRL Awards were established in 2003 to honor the best artists and guest appearances on the MTV's program Total Request Live (TRL). Madonna won the Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006 for her impact to other musicians over the course of her career.\n\nThe Much Music Video Awards is an annual award show presented by the Canadian music video channel MuchMusic to honor the year's best music videos. Madonna has won one award from four nominations.\n\n\"Musician\" (1976–99) was a monthly magazine that covered news and information about American popular music. Madonna was given the Artist of the Decade award by the magazine in 1989.\n\nThe NetSounds Awards are presented by \"NME\" magazine to honor the online music industry. Madonna has won Best Music Web Event for the webcast of her concert at the Brixton Academy in London, for promoting her eighth studio album, \"Music\" (2000).\n\nThe Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards is an annual awards show that honors the year's biggest television, movie and music acts, as voted by viewers of American children's channel Nickelodeon. The award initially started as The Big Ballot in 1987, before being renamed as Kids' Choice Awards from 1988 onwards. Madonna has received two awards for Favorite Female Vocalist and one nomination for Favorite Song From a Movie.\n\nThe NME Awards are an annual music awards show founded by the music magazine \"NME\". Madonna has won two awards.\n\nThe NRJ Music Awards is a major music ceremony in France, held annually by the radio station NRJ in partnership with the television network TF1. Since the show was created in 2000, Madonna has won four awards.\n\nThe Online Music Awards were set up in 2000 by the \"Music Week\" group to acknowledge the efforts and creativity of musicians in the online world, and the creativity of music industry designers and programmers. Madonna has won the Top Live Online Music Event award, for the webcast of her concert at the Brixton Academy in London.\n\nThe Orville H. Gibson Awards, named after the luthier who founded the Gibson Guitar Corporation, recognize guitar players for their artistic accomplishments and to \"honor musicians who reflect the spirit of Orville H. Gibson and his belief in quality, prestige and innovation\". In 2002, Madonna was nominated for Les Paul Horizon Award, which honors the most promising up-and-coming guitarist.\n\nThe People's Choice Awards is an awards show recognizing the people and the work of popular culture. The show has been held annually since 1975 on CBS and is produced by Procter & Gamble. Madonna has won two awards for Favorite Female Musical Performer in 1986 and 1987 and the special award Favorite Music Icon in 2016.\n\nThe Pollstar Concert Industry Awards is an annual award ceremony to honor artists and professionals in the concert industry. Madonna has been nominated fourteen times, winning Most Creative Stage Production twice.\n\nThe Porin Award is a Croatian music award founded by the Croatian Phonographic Association, Croatian Musicians Union, Croatian Radiotelevision and Croatian Composers' Society. Madonna has won two awards.\n\nThe Premios Amigo is a music award ceremony in Spain, presented annually by Productores de Música de España since 1997. Madonna has won one award from two nominations.\n\nThe Premios Oye! (Premio Nacional a la Música Grabada) awards are presented annually since 2002 by the Academia Nacional de la Música en México for outstanding achievements in the Mexican recording industry. Madonna has won two awards from five nominations.\n\nThe Q Awards is an annual UK music awards show run by the music magazine \"Q\". Madonna has been nominated two times.\n\nThe Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) is a trust that represents the recording industry distributors in the United States. On November 10, 1999, Madonna was honored as the Top Selling Female Rock Artist of the 20th century for selling more albums than any other female artist in the rock category during the century.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame is a museum located on the shores of Lake Erie in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, United States, dedicated to the recording history of some of the best-known and most influential artists, producers, and other people who have influenced the music industry. Madonna was inducted into the Hall of Fame on March 10, 2008.\n\nThe Rockbjörnen is a music award ceremony in Sweden, established in 1979 by the \"Aftonbladet\", one of the largest newspapers in Nordic countries. Madonna has won a total of six awards.\n\nThe Saturn Awards are awarded annually by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films. Madonna was nominated in the Best Actress category for her role as Breathless Mahoney in the film \"Dick Tracy\" (1990).\n\nThe Smash Hits Poll Winners Party (1988–2005) was an awards ceremony held annually by British magazine \"Smash Hits\", and broadcast on BBC One. Madonna has won six awards in the Best Female Solo Singer and Most Fanciable Female categories.\n\nThe Songwriters Hall of Fame is an arm of the National Academy of Popular Music. It was founded in 1969 by songwriter Johnny Mercer and music publishers Abe Olman and Howie Richmond. According to their official website, the academy \"honors those whose work represents a spectrum of the most beloved songs from the world's popular music songbook\". Madonna has been nominated for being inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame twice, for the 2014, 2016 and 2017 ceremonies.\n\nThe Space Shower Music Video Awards are an annual set of music awards sponsored by Space Shower TV in Japan. Madonna won the Best International Video for \"Hung Up\" in 2006.\n\nThe TEC Awards is an annual program to honor technically innovative products as well as companies and individuals who have excelled in sound for television, film, recordings and concerts. Madonna has won one award from four nominations.\n\nThe Telegatto was an Italian television award sponsored by the weekly magazine \"TV Sorrisi e Canzoni\" and aired on Canale 5. Madonna won Best International Artist in 1992.\n\nThe Theatregoers' Choice Award is organized by leading theater website Whatsonstage.com and honors the performers and productions of British theater with emphasis on London's West End. Madonna has won Theater Event of the Year for her role on the London West End theatre version of the play \"Up for Grabs\".\n\nThe Urban Music Awards — Latin American is a music awards ceremony sponsored by Ministry of Culture in Colombia and Los 40 to recognize the urban music in Latin American. Madonna received a nomination in the first edition.\n\nThe UK Music Hall of Fame is an awards ceremony to honor musicians, of any nationality, for their lifetime contributions to music in the United Kingdom. In 2004, Madonna was inducted into the Hall of Fame as one of the founding members, along with The Beatles, Elvis Presley, Bob Marley and U2.\n\nThe UK Music Video Awards is an annual celebration of creativity, technical excellence and innovation in music video and moving image for music.\n\nThe VH1 Do Something! Awards honor people who have brought forward a social issue. Madonna has won one award for her documentary film \"I Am Because We Are\".\n\nThe VH1 Fashion Awards honor every year the most fashionable musicians, designers and models. Madonna has won five awards.\n\n were an annual awards ceremony, organised by VIVA Germany. Madonna has won one award.\n\nZD Awards is Russia's oldest hit parade in field of popular music. Since 2003 it is presented in a ceremony in concert halls. It’s considered one of the major Russian music awards.\n\nThe Wembley Arena Square of Fame is located in front of the Wembley Arena, London, England. It features a strictly limited selection of bronze handprints of iconic and historic entertainment and sporting celebrities, in honor of their outstanding achievement. Madonna became the first act to receive that honor.\n\nThe World Music Awards is an international awards show founded in 1989 under the High Patronage of Albert II, Prince of Monaco and is based in Monte Carlo. Awards are presented to the World's best-selling Artists in the various categories and to the best-selling Artists from each major territory. Sales figures are provided by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). Madonna has received eight nominations in eight different categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945600", "title": "Vincients Wood", "text": "Vincients Wood\n\nVincients Wood is a small nature reserve, a area of semi-natural broadleaved woodland on the western edge of the town of Chippenham, Wiltshire, England.\nOn the west side of Vincients Wood is a small grass strip and then the A350 bypass; other than that the wood is surrounded by housing. The Moss Mead housing estate is on the north side, past a long, narrow strip of grass named the Long Dragon Piece and some willow pollards; to the east are Awdry Close and Brinkworth Close, and to the south are Turpin Way and Brittain Close.\n\nThe hazel bushes that grow beneath the oaks were regularly cut in the past, a tradition known as coppicing. The cut wood was used for building fences and provided fuel. Periodic removal of selected trees creates sunny glades. Combined with the coppicing, this benefits wildlife by letting the sunlight in and creating ideal conditions for many animals, birds, insects and plants.\n\nVincients Wood is divided into two unequal parts by a medieval woodbank and ditch stretching its entire width. The southern section of the wood is older than the larger northern section – so much so that it is considered to be ancient woodland. The wood is maintained by the Wiltshire Wildlife Trust, who have owned it since 1990 and manage the reserve along with volunteers. A footpath through the wood circles most of the reserve for approximately one mile, and there are multiple entrances and exits into the wood. A welcome sign, created by the Trust in conjunction with the Countryside Commission (now the Countryside Agency), is posted at the north-by-northwest entrance and states that a Nature Trail leaflet is available.\n\nThe woodland is a reserve intended to protect many species of wildlife, plants and fungi. Visitors are encouraged to keep to the main paths, not to drop litter, and leave the flowers for others to enjoy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945604", "title": "Air Products &amp; Chemicals", "text": "Air Products &amp; Chemicals\n\nAir Products and Chemicals, Inc. is an American international corporation whose principal business is selling gases and chemicals for industrial uses. Air Products' headquarters is in Allentown, Pennsylvania, in the Lehigh Valley region of Pennsylvania, in the United States. Air Products is the Lehigh Valley's third largest employer, after Lehigh Valley Hospital and St. Luke's Hospital. Leonard P. Pool founded the company in 1940. Its French subsidiary, headquartered in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, was the site of a terrorist attack on June 26, 2015. Air Product's current CEO and Chairman is Sefi Ghasemi.\n\nOn September 17, 2015 Air Products announced its intent to spin off its Materials Technologies business. This new stand alone company has been renamed Versum Materials.\n\nAir Products serves customers in technology, energy, healthcare, food and industrial markets worldwide with atmospheric industrial gases (mainly oxygen, nitrogen, argon, hydrogen and carbon dioxide), process and specialty gases, performance materials and chemical intermediates.\n\nAir Products produces semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, natural gas liquefaction (LNG) technology and equipment, epoxy additives, gas cabinets, advanced coatings and adhesives. It is also noted as addressing the hydrogen fuel cell economy through hydrogen fueling stations as well as its personal care chemicals business.\n\nAir Products also provided the liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen fuel for the Space Shuttle External Tank. Air Products has had a working relationship with NASA for 50 years and has supplied the liquid hydrogen used for every Space Shuttle launch and the Mercury and Apollo missions.\nIn 2013, Air Products' high purity BIP (built-in purifier) argon was used to determine a more accurate value for the Boltzmann Constant.\n\nIn 2010, Air Products was awarded the Rushlight Hydrogen and Fuel Cells industry award for the Series 10 hydrogen fuelling station. The Rushlight Awards celebrate the leading environmental technologies and innovations by organizations throughout the UK and Ireland. The purpose is to promote what is happening in the world of hydrogen and fuel cells to the public and enable further development and funding to be granted toward reducing carbon emissions.\nOn January 15, 2004, Air Products (NYSE: APD) was named a Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes (CIIs) Leader, ranking 17th out of the 300 largest US companies evaluated for their climate-related innovation and carbon management programs. Air Products is currently working on several preeminent carbon capture and storage demonstration projects around the world.\n\nAir Products was included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index as one of the best performing sustainable companies for 2008/11. Only the top 20 percent of the 600 largest companies largest North American companies are selected for the DJSI North America Index.\n\nIn 2001, Air Products Received an Award of Merit from the WateReuse Association for Outstanding Water Conservation Efforts for conserving of drinking water annually by converting to recycled water for the cooling process at the Santa Clara, California, manufacturing facility. The award was presented during the 25th Annual WateReuse Symposium. WRA recognizes projects that have advanced the acceptance of water reuse through education, sound science, and technology using reclamation, recycling, reuse, or desalination for the benefit of the public and the environment.\n\nOn March 4, 2010, Corporate Responsibility Magazine named Air Products to its 100 Best Corporate Citizens List.\n"}
{"id": "1945610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945610", "title": "Kłobuck", "text": "Kłobuck\n\nKłobuck () is a town in Poland, with 12,934 inhabitants (2019). Located in the Silesian Voivodeship, about 15 km northwest of Częstochowa, it is the capital of Kłobuck County. Historically, Kłobuck belongs to Lesser Poland, and is located in its extreme northwestern corner, near the border with two other Polish historical provinces – Greater Poland, and Silesia. Kłobuck is part of urban agglomeration of Częstochowa. The town lies among the hills of Lesser Poland Upland. Most of Kłobuck lies 240 to 260 metres above sea level, and the highest point within town's limits is \"Dębowa Góra\" (284 metres). Kłobuck has the area of 47 km, with forests taking up 20%.\n\nIn the past, the name of the town was spelled in many different ways – Kłobucko, Kłobuczko, Kłobuczek. Current name has been used since the late 19th century, and it most probably comes from ancient Polish word \"kłobuk\", which is a type of headgear. Another explanation is that kłobuk means “top”, or “summit”, and at the time of its location, the town was on the top of Lesser Poland, as its most extreme northwestern urban centre.\n\nKłobuck was granted town rights in 1339, during the reign of King Casimir III the Great. At that time, it was located along the busy merchant road from Lesser Poland to Greater Poland. Further north, near Wieluń, the road split into two directions – northwest to Poznań, and southwest to Wrocław. According to Jan Długosz, who himself was a canon at Kłobuck, the local St Martin and Margaret Church was built in 1144. Kłobuck was a major local trade center well before receiving its official status as a town. It had a number of artisans, and in 1658 it became the seat of a starosta. As a result of The Deluge and accordingly because of the increase of levies paid to Jasna Góra monastery, the city began to deteriorate. For hundreds of centuries, until 1793 (see Partitions of Poland), the town belonged to Lelów County of Kraków Voivodeship. Annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia, it briefly was part of New Silesia. In 1807 Kłobuck was incorporated into the Duchy of Warsaw, sharing its fate in the Russian Empire. Between 1870–1917 Kłobuck was a village, upon order of Tsarist authorities.\n\nIn the Second Polish Republic, Kłobuck belonged to Częstochowa County of Kielce Voivodeship. In May 1939, National Defence Battalion “Kłobuck” was formed here. On September 1, 1939, the Battle of Mokra took place 5 kilometres north of Kłobuck. During World War II, the town was incorporated into the Third Reich, as part of the County of Blachownia (German: \"Landkreis Blachstädt\"), Upper Silesia Province. Most of Kłobuck's 2,000 Jews were murdered in the Holocaust.\n\nIn the immediate postwar period, Kłobuck returned to Kielce Voivodeship, but in 1950, together with Częstochowa, it was moved to Katowice Voivodeship. In 1952, Kłobuck County was created, and in 1975–1999, the town belonged to Częstochowa Voivodeship. After the war, Kłobuck quickly developed in the 1950s and 1960s, when several heavy industry enterprises were opened, and iron ore deposits were found.\n\nKłobuck is located on the border of two mesoregions: Wieluń Upland and Krzepice Slip, which form a part of Wieluń-Woźniki Upland. Kłobuck is located by the Biała Oksza river and Czarna Oksza river.\n\nThe city is located on a hilly fragment of Woźniki-Wieluń Upland. The highest point within the town's limits is Dębowa Góra – 284 meters above the sea level.\n\nKłobuck has an area of 47,46 km². About 71% of the area is used for agricultural purposes (mostly for arable farming and grazing). About 20% of the town's area is forested, whilst 9% of the land is covered by houses, industrial estates and infrastructure such as roads.\n\nDębowa Góra nature reserve is located within the town's limits, 2 km from the town centre. This nature reserve gives special protection to the remains of primeval oak and hornbeam forests. Most of the forests within Kłobuck's limits are a part of the Kłobuck forest district (Nadleśnictwo Kłobuck). There are no big natural bodies of water within the town's limits. The Zakrzew reservoir is located on the border of Rybno village and Kłobuck.\n\n\nMain road connections from the Kłobuck include connection with Wieluń (to the north-west) and Częstochowa (to the south-east) via the National Road . Kłobuck also has a rail station, along Polish Coal Trunk-Line, which since 2006 has been used freight trains only.\n\nSee twin towns of Gmina Kłobuck.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945613", "title": "Matthew 3:3", "text": "Matthew 3:3\n\nMatthew 3:3 is the third verse of the third chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse occurs in the section introducing John the Baptist. This verse links John The Baptist to messianic prophecies.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 3:3.\n\nThe quote in question comes from . It originally was part of the description of the escape from the Babylonian Captivity. This same verse is quoted in and . In Mark it is preceded by two other Old Testament quotes, Matthew moves these to . All three use the Septuagint version of Isaiah with one slight rewording. Where Isaiah has \"make straight paths for God\" becomes \"make straight paths for him\". \n\nThe author of Matthew does not introduce this quote with his standard \"so it might be fulfilled\" construction. Gundry argues that this was because while a figure like John the Baptist could complete a prophecy, only Jesus could fulfill them.\n\nHill notes that there are two main ways of punctuating this verse, which give somewhat different meanings. Traditionally the start of the quote was left as one phrase reading \"the voice of one crying in the wilderness...\" Based on the original Hebrew most modern scholars feel it should be two phrases reading \"the voice of one crying: \"In the wilderness...\" This second punctuation makes the link between John the [Baptist] and Isaiah somewhat less direct.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945618", "title": "Lena Philipsson", "text": "Lena Philipsson\n\nMaria Magdalena \"Lena\" Philipsson (also known as Lena Ph; born 19 January 1966) is a Swedish singer, songwriter and media personality. She represented Sweden in the 2004 Eurovision Song Contest, finishing fifth.\n\nPhilipsson was born in Vetlanda, Sweden. She participated in the Swedish \"New Faces\" in 1982. Her career started with the single \"Boy/You Open My Eyes\" in 1984 and with her entries at Melodifestivalen in 1986, 1987 and 1988. In 1987, she released the song 'Aquarius 99', a duet with the Russian composer Igor Nikolaev. In 1989, she had great success with the album \"My Name\", which included top hits \"Standing In My Rain\", \"Why,\" and \"Leave A Light\". In 1991, she recorded a concept album and show about a female secret agent, 'Agent 006'. In the early 1990s, her fame increased in Sweden, and she continued to release albums until 1997. In 2001, she had a stage comeback; the \"Lena Philipsson Show\" was sold out for two and a half years around Sweden. In 2004, she returned after a seven-year hiatus from the album charts.\n\nIn 2004, she entered Melodifestivalen for the fourth time as a solo artist, with \"Det gör ont\". She made it through the semifinal process and emerged as the winner on 20 March 2004, going on to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 with the translated English language version \"It Hurts\". The song, composed by Thomas Eriksson, combined up-tempo and disco themes. Philipsson's stage appearance caused much controversy in the Swedish press and media because her performance, in a short fuchsia pink dress and high heels, consisted of dancing with the microphone stand in a fashion similar to Aerosmith's Steven Tyler.\n\nDespite being the third favourite to win the competition, she finished in joint 5th place. The album, \"Det gör ont en stund på natten men inget på dan\", went gold in nine days, with \"Det gör ont\" as its lead single. It also spawned the singles \"Delirium\", \"Lena Anthem\" and \"På gatan där jag bor\".\n\nThe Swedish radio show \"Tracks\" voted her best female artist, best Swedish artist, and artist of the year for 2004, and \"Det gör ont\" was voted best song.\n\nShe released her new album \"Jag ångrar ingenting\" in 2005. After one day in the Swedish shops, it had sold over 30,000 copies. A one-hour TV special featuring new songs as well as old hits and some interviews aired in November the same year. In January 2006, Philipsson announced she was to host the 2006 Melodifestivalen. Because Melodifestivalen is a family show, her appearance as host was met with some controversy due to numerous jokes considered inappropriate for the audience.\n\nIn early 2007, she released her new version of her greatest hits, \"Lena 20 år\". The album included hits from all her albums except \"Fantasy.\" Also included was a new song \"Jag måste skynda mig på\". Lena and Orup set up their own show on China Teatern in Stockholm at the same time as the album release. The show was a critical and public success. Over 113,000 saw it in 2007, and there was a new premiere of the show in Gothenburg in early 2008. After its success in Stockholm and Goteborg, the show Lena+Orup went on tour across Sweden late 2008. At the same time, Lena and Orup recorded a duet album called \"Dubbel\", released in November.\n\nAlthough she sewed her own stage clothes during her early career, she has said that she no longer has the time. In the early 1990s, she was one of three pop stars who were portrayed on stamps in Sweden; the others were Roxette and Jerry Williams. In the 1980s, she sang a duet on TV with American singer Michael Bolton.\n\nPhilipsson has participated in Melodifestivalen, the Swedish pre-selection for the Eurovision Song Contest six times: four times as a performer and twice as a songwriter.\n\n\nChart placings below are from Sverigetopplistan, the official Swedish top 60 singles and top 60 albums charts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945628", "title": "Ruby, Don't Take Your Love to Town", "text": "Ruby, Don't Take Your Love to Town\n\n\"Ruby, Don't Take Your Love to Town\" is a song written by Mel Tillis about a paralyzed veteran who either lies helplessly in bed or sits helplessly in his wheelchair as his wife \"paints [herself] up\" to go out for the evening without him; he believes she is going in search of a lover, and as he hears the door slam behind her, he pleads for her to reconsider. A line in the song about a \"crazy Asian war\" and the time of the song's release led to the assumption the song was about a veteran of the Vietnam War—though this was never stated in the lyrics—although Tillis stated that the song was about a veteran of World War II.\n\n\"Ruby\" was first recorded by Waylon Jennings in 1966. Johnny Darrell reached number nine on the country charts with the song in 1967, and Kenny Rogers and The First Edition released it in 1969.\n\nIn 1969, after the success Kenny Rogers and The First Edition had enjoyed with the hits \"Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In)\" and \"But You Know I Love You,\" Rogers wanted to take his group more into a country music direction. They recorded their version of the song, with Rogers singing the lead, in a single take. The record was a major hit for them. It made number 1 in the UK \"New Musical Express\" chart (although number 2 on the official UK Singles Chart) staying in the top 20 for 15 weeks and selling over a million copies by the end of 1970. In the United States it reached number six on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 39 on the country chart.\n\nIn 1977, now performing solo after the First Edition disbanded in early 1976, Rogers made re-recordings of this, and a number of other First Edition hits, for his 1977 greatest hits package \"Ten Years of Gold.\" (It was later issued in the UK as \"The Kenny Rogers Singles Album.\") \"Ten Years of Gold\" topped the US country charts under that title, and as \"The Kenny Rogers Singles Album,\" it was just as successful in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe song has been recorded many times by various artists. The Statler Brothers covered it on their 1967 album, \"Big Country Hits\". Other artists who have recorded versions include Bobby Bare, Dale Hawkins, Waylon Jennings, George Jones, Jerry Reed, Roger Miller, Cake, The Killers, Sort Sol, Leonard Nimoy and the German band Wolfsheim.\n\nSeveral foreign-language versions have been recorded: Greek singer Nana Mouskouri recorded a French version entitled \"Ruby, garde ton cœur ici\" for her 1970 album \"Dans le soleil et dans le vent\"; Gerhard Wendland recorded a German version \"Ruby, schau einmal über'n Zaun\" in 1970; Pavel Bobek, Czech country singer, recorded \"Oh Ruby, nechtěj mi lásku brát\" in 1981; Gary Holton and Casino Steel's English-language version was a number one hit in Norway at the beginning of 1982. French singer Eddy Mitchell recorded a French version entitled \"Ruby tu reviens au pays\" for his 1974 album \"Rocking in Nashville\".\n\nAn answer song to \"Ruby,\" entitled \"Billy, I've Got to Go to Town,\" was released in 1969 by Geraldine Stevens, who had previously recorded successfully under the name Dodie Stevens. Sung to the same melody with an arrangement quite similar to the First Edition version, \"Billy\" peaked at number 117 pop, number 57 country. It reached number 83 in Canada. In Stevens's song, Ruby affirms her love for her disabled husband, who is named \"Billy\" in her song whereas in \"Ruby,\" he is not named. She pleads in turn for her man to have faith in her fidelity and her commitment to him even in his paralyzed condition.\n\nIn 1972, Bobby Womack released the album \"Understanding\", which included the song \"Ruby Dean.\" The lyrics and melody are similar to \"Ruby, Don't Take Your Love to Town\" but the story is told from the perspective of Ruby's son. The son urges his mother to respect his father and to stop seeing other men. In the original song, no children between the couple are ever mentioned.\n\nThe song is featured prominently in the 1971 West German film \"Rio das Mortes\" directed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder.\n\nThe song is also quoted repeatedly by Sully, the protagonist of Richard Russo's 1993 novel \"Nobody's Fool\".\n\nA \"social commentary\" video consisting solely of a camera panning back and forth in a bedroom while the song played was shown at the end of a \"Huntley-Brinkley Report\" during 1969. Chet Huntley set up the video by linking it to the controversial Vietnam War and the sacrifices made by U.S. servicemen and their families. Chet Huntley and David Brinkley paused after the video and then signed off in their usual fashion.\n"}
{"id": "1945631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945631", "title": "Dune (soundtrack)", "text": "Dune (soundtrack)\n\nDune is an original soundtrack album for the 1984 film \"Dune\". Most of the album was composed by the rock band Toto—their first and only film score—but one track was contributed by Brian Eno. The soundtrack album was first released in November 1984. An extended version with an altered track listing was released in 1997. Both versions are currently out of print on traditional media such as CD but with the increasing popularity of download and streaming services, have gained improved exposure through such channels as iTunes and Spotify.\n\nThe instrumental soundtrack was recorded by the band (minus lead singer Fergie Frederiksen), accompanied by the Vienna Symphony Orchestra and the Vienna Volksoper Choir, conducted by Marty Paich, father of Toto keyboardist David Paich. \"Prophecy Theme\" was composed for the movie by Brian Eno, who is rumored to have composed an entire earlier \"Dune\" soundtrack, although only \"Prophecy Theme\" and some incidental background music survived in the final film version.\n\nThe first release of the soundtrack contained select cues in their original film order, plus two pieces of dialogue from the movie that served as bookends for two tracks (\"Prologue\" and \"The Floating Fat Man (The Baron)\"). This first issue was released by Polydor Records. The album includes an alternative take of the \"Main Title\", that had not been used in the film.\n\nAn extended version containing additional cues was released in 1997 on PEG Records, an independent label division of Polygram. On this issue multiple tracks had mastering problems which resulted in audible distortion in the form of a 'wobbling' effect. Furthermore, many cues (particularly in the second half of the expanded CD) were mislabeled and placed out of film order. The album includes the film version of the \"Main Title\", and an original demo of the main title music.\n\nThere are several differences between the music on the two soundtrack albums and that heard in the film. For example, the end title theme, \"Take My Hand\", is heard on the soundtrack CDs minus the orchestration heard in the final film mix. The version of \"Robot Fight\" on the original soundtrack is heard in the theatrical version, while the version on the expanded CD is only heard in the extended \"Alan Smithee\" TV version of the film. The cues \"Riding The Sandworm\" (from the expanded CD) and \"Dune (Desert Theme)\", \"Prelude (Take My Hand)\", \"Paul Kills Feyd\" and \"Final Dream\" (from both soundtrack issues) are not heard in the movie, and are replaced by either repeated or alternate cues. However, the television version does restore \"Paul Kills Feyd\" in its original place in the movie, and \"Dune (Desert Theme)\", which was intended as the end title music, is replaced by \"Take My Hand.\"\n\n\n\nCatalogue: (CD) Columbia 8237702, (CD) Polydor 823770-2, (LP) Polydor 8237701, (CD) Polygram International 823770\n\n"}
{"id": "1945645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945645", "title": "Practice-based research network", "text": "Practice-based research network\n\nA practice-based research network (PBRN) is a group of practices devoted principally to the care of patients and affiliated for the purpose of examining the health care processes that occur in practices. PBRNs are characterized by an organizational framework that transcends a single practice or study. They provide a \"laboratory\" for studying broad populations of patients and care providers in community-based settings.\n\nBefore there were research institutes or networks of practices, there were individual practitioners who studied their patients' problems with scientific rigor. Among these were five general practitioners who have been recognized for their seminal work during the past 125 years. They are James Mackenzie, Will Pickles, John Fry, F.J.A. Huygen and Curtis G. Hames. Each of these pioneers demonstrated that important new knowledge could be discovered by practicing family physicians. And this is far from an accepted principle in the United States. These doctors all wondered about their patients' problems and they developed a means of gathering and recording data on their patients.\n\nEach of these research pioneers provide inspiration for the development of practice-based, primary care research networks because each demonstrated that important new knowledge could be discovered by the practicing family doctor. They each wondered about their patients, developed means of gathering and recording data, and found collaborators and support from their staff and local communities. Unfortunately, they practiced in an era that was over-committed to specialism. Research focused on molecular mechanisms of disease. The rush to specialization by the medical community and the linking of research to specialists resulted in decades of neglect of primary care and virtually no recognition of the need to investigate care in the primary care setting.\nInstead, the common wisdom viewed primary care practices as relatively boring places that could be potential sites of application of the fruits of research done elsewhere in research laboratories, hospitals and institutes.\n\nAmong the early regional networks started in the 1970s were the Family Medicine Information System in Colorado (FMIS) and the Cooperative Information Project. These regional networks learned from each other and succeeded in conducting studies focused on what was happening in primary care. They attracted funding from medical schools, national philanthropic foundations and federal programs such as Health for Underserved Rural Areas. As the 1970s closed, these early networks enjoyed sufficient success to stimulate debate about the next steps in the context of the microcomputer's development. Among them was a small group convened by Gene Farley in Denver in 1978 to consider establishing a national sentinel practice system. It was this idea that lead to the Ambulatory Sentinel Practice Network and provided in retrospect what appears to have been a nidus for the establishment of primary care PBRNs in the United States.\n\nPBRNs are feasible and that represent a useful infrastructure for the scientific discovery of family practice and primary care. Experience to date points out the great advantages enjoyed by those with enduring, core financial support—such as the Dutch with their early national commitment to primary care and their willingness to invest in primary care research. It is also obvious that these networks require collaboration, cooperation and a spirit of sharing and trust.\n\nThese networks are now at once both a place and a concept. As a place, they are a laboratory for surveillance and research. As a concept, they express the still unmet need for practicing primary care clinicians to accept responsibility to improve frontline clinical care by understanding what is happening in their practices. Successes to date have been sufficient to incite the Institute of Medicine's 1994 committee studying the future of primary care to recommend support to stabilize and expand practice-based primary care research networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945650", "title": "Dive bar", "text": "Dive bar\n\nDive bar is a colloquial American term for a disreputable bar or pub. It may also refer to a neighborhood bar where local residents gather to drink and socialize.\n\nIndividual bars may be considered to be disreputable, sinister, of poor upkeep, or even a detriment to the community. This was especially true in the past:\n\nA 1961 dictionary defined a \"dive\" as \"a disreputable resort for drinking or entertainment\". In an article in its August 2010 issue, \"Playboy\" magazine described a dive bar as:\n\nThe \"Shorter Oxford English Dictionary\" indicates that in the United States in the 1880s the term referred to an illegal drinking den or other place of ill repute, especially one located in a basement. This usage later became obsolete.\n\nOne of the most popular shows on the Food Network is called \"Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives\" in which host Guy Fieri visits such places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945651", "title": "Gideon's Daughter", "text": "Gideon's Daughter\n\nGideon's Daughter is the second of two linked BBC television dramas written and directed by Stephen Poliakoff.\n\nProduced independently for the BBC by Talkback Thames and starring Bill Nighy, Miranda Richardson, and Emily Blunt, it aired in the UK on BBC One on 26 February 2006 and in the US on BBC America a month later. It was shown across Australia on ABC1 on 2 November 2008. The first of the dramas, \"Friends and Crocodiles\", had been broadcast the previous month, with the character of Sneath (Robert Lindsay) appearing in both and acting as the narrator of \"Gideon's Daughter\". The mini series was watched by 10.2 million viewers.\n\nNighy and Blunt received Golden Globe Awards for their performances. The production won a Peabody Award in April 2007.\n\nWilliam Sneath dictates his latest book to a hired secretary. Exploring themes of love, loss, parenthood, and the cult of celebrity, \"Gideon's Daughter\" is set against the backdrop of New Labour's rise to power, the death of Princess Diana, and the ill-advised development of the Millennium Dome.\n\nSneath's friend Gideon is a hotshot publicist and a widower, driven to the edge of a nervous breakdown by his daughter Natasha's emotional detachment from him. She resents him for repeatedly cheating on her mother, going so far as to call his mistress as her mother lay dying of cancer. To put distance between them, she at first plans to do volunteer work in South America or (her father's preferred choice) to study at the University of Edinburgh.\n\nStella is mourning the death of her young son, killed while riding his bike on public roads for the first time. Afraid of sleep, and desperate to escape her sense of bereavement, she works the night shift in a supermarket where she raises guinea pigs in the back. She meets Gideon when her ex-husband tries to accost one of Gideon's clients, a New Labour minister, about the government's lack of response to the unsafe traffic conditions that caused their son's death. Soon after the chance meeting, the two find themselves developing an emotional bond, brought together by a shared sense of grief and loss.\n\nStella convinces Gideon to try reaching out to Natasha before she leaves, but Natasha reacts angrily to Gideon's overtures and Stella's presence. Gideon's work suffers as he becomes even more detached from the disastrous Dome project, which winds up pushing it forward as his clients mistake his detachment for genius. Gideon eventually suffers a breakdown, but is helped through it by Natasha, who has warmed up to Stella and accepted that Gideon has changed. Sneath relates that during a huge party for his friends and clients, Gideon – as well as Natasha and Stella – essentially disappeared. However, Sneath caught a glimpse of Natasha on the streets of London many months later and she looked radiant, which he took as a sign that Gideon had mended his relationship with her and had stayed with Stella.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945658", "title": "List of drugs: E", "text": "List of drugs: E\n"}
{"id": "1945670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945670", "title": "Sound transmission class", "text": "Sound transmission class\n\nSound Transmission Class (or STC) is an integer rating of how well a building partition attenuates airborne sound. In the US, it is widely used to rate interior partitions, ceilings, floors, doors, windows and exterior wall configurations. Outside the US, the Sound Reduction Index (SRI) ISO index is used. The STC rating very roughly reflects the decibel reduction of noise that a partition can provide. The STC is useful for evaluating annoyance due to speech sounds, but not music or machinery noise as these sources contain more low frequency energy than speech.\n\nThere are many ways to improve the sound transmission class of a partition, though the two most basic principles are adding mass and increasing the overall thickness. In general, the sound transmission class of a double leaf wall (e.g. two 4\"-thick brick walls separated by a 2\" airspace) is greater than a single wall of equivalent mass (e.g. homogeneous 8\" brick wall).\n\nThe STC or sound transmission class is a single number method of rating how well wall partitions reduce sound transmission. The STC provides a standardized way to compare products such as doors and windows made by competing manufacturers. A higher number indicates better sound than a lower number. The STC is a standardized theoretical measurement provided by ASTM E413 and E90 with the Field sound transmission class provided by ASTM E336-97 annex a1.\n\nSound Isolation and Sound Insulation are used interchangeably, though the term \"Insulation\" is preferred outside the US. The term \"sound proofing\" is typically avoided in architectural acoustics as it is a misnomer and connotes inaudibility.\n\nThrough research, acousticians have developed tables that pair a given STC rating with a subjective experience. The table below is used to determine the degree of sound isolation provided by typical multi-family construction. Generally, a difference of one or two STC points between similar constructions is subjectively insignificant.\nTables like the one above are highly dependent on the background noise levels in the receiving room: the louder the background noise, the greater the perceived sound isolation.\n\nPrior to the STC rating, the sound isolation performance of a partition was measured and reported as the average transmission loss of over the frequency range 128 to 4096 Hz or 256 to 1021 Hz. This method is valuable at comparing homogeneous partitions that follow the mass law, but can be misleading when comparing complex or multi-leaf walls.\n\nIn 1961, the ASTM International Standards Organization adopted E90-61T, which served as the basis for the STC method used today. The STC standard curve is based on European studies of multi-family residential construction, and closely resembles the sound isolation performance of a 9\"-thick brick wall.\n\nThe STC number is derived from sound attenuation values tested at sixteen standard frequencies from 125 Hz to 4000 Hz. These Transmission Loss values are then plotted on a sound pressure level graph and the resulting curve is compared to a standard reference contour provided by the ASTM.\n\nSound isolation metrics, such as the STC, are measured in specially-isolated and designed laboratory test chambers. There are nearly infinite field conditions that will affect sound isolation on site when designing building partitions and enclosures.\n\nSound travels through both the air and structure, and both paths must be considered when designing sound isolating walls and ceilings. To eliminate air borne sound all air paths between the areas must be eliminated. This is achieved by making seams airtight and closing all sound leaks. To eliminate structure-borne noise one must create isolation systems that reduce mechanical connections between those structures.\n\nAdding mass to a partition reduces the transmission of sound. This is often achieved by adding additional layers of gypsum. It is preferable to have non symmetrical leaves, for example with different thickness gypsum. The effect of adding multiple layers of gypsum wallboard to a frame also varies depending on the framing type and configuration. Doubling the mass of a partition does not double the STC, as the STC is calculated from a non-linear decibel sound transmission loss measurement. So, whereas installing an additional layer of gypsum wallboard to a light-gauge (25-ga. or lighter) steel stud partition will result in about a 5 STC-point increase, doing the same on single wood or single heavy-gauge steel will result in only 2 to 3 additional STC points. Adding a second additional layer (to the already 3-layer system) does not result in as drastic an STC change as the first additional layer. The effect of additional gypsum wallboard layers on double- and staggered-stud partitions is similar to that of light-gauge steel partitions.\n\nDue to increased mass, poured concrete and concrete blocks typically achieve higher STC values (in the mid STC 40s to the mid STC 50s) than equally thick framed walls. However the additional weight, added complexity of construction, and poor thermal insulation tend to limit masonry wall partitions as a viable sound isolation solution in many building construction projects.\n\nIn recent years, gypsum board manufacturers have started to offer lightweight drywall board: Normal weight gypsum has a nominal density of 43pcf and lightweight drywall has a nominal density of 36pcf. This does not have a large effect on the STC rating, though lightweight gypsum can significantly degrade the low frequency performance of a partition as compared to normal weight gypsum.\n\nSound absorption entails turning acoustical energy into some other form of energy, usually heat.\n\nAdding absorptive materials to the interior surfaces of rooms, for example fabric-faced fiberglass panels and thick curtains, will result in a decrease of reverberated sound energy within the room. However, absorptive interior surface treatments of this kind do not significantly improve the sound transmission class. Installing absorptive insulation, for example fiberglass batts and blow-in cellulose, into the wall or ceiling cavities does increase the sound transmission class significantly. The presence of insulation in single 2x4 wood stud framing spaced 16\" (406 mm) on-center results in only a few STC points. This is because a wall with 2x4 wood stud framing spaced 16\" develops significant resonances which are not mitigated by the cavity insulation. In contrast, adding standard fiberglass insulation to an otherwise empty cavity in light-gauge (25-gauge or lighter) steel stud partitions can result in a nearly 10 STC-point improvement.\n\nOther studies have shown that fibrous insulation materials, such as glassfiber or mineral wool, can increase the STC by 5 to 8 points.\n\nThe effect of stiffness on sound isolation can relate to either the material stiffness of the sound isolating material or the stiffness caused by framing methods.\n\nStructurally decoupling the gypsum wallboard panels from the partition framing can result in a large increase in sound isolation when installed correctly. Examples of structural decoupling in building construction include resilient channels, sound isolation clips and hat channels, and staggered- or double-stud framing. The STC results of decoupling in wall and ceiling assemblies varies significantly depending on the framing type, air cavity volume, and decoupling material type. Great care must be taken in each type of decoupled partition construction, as any fastener that becomes mechanically (rigidly) coupled to the framing can short-circuit the decoupling and result in drastically lower sound isolation results.\n\nWhen two leaves are rigidly tied or coupled by a stud, the sound isolation of the system depends on the stiffness of the stud. Light-gauge (25-gauge or lighter) provides better sound isolation than 16-20-gauge steel, and noticeably better performance than wood studs. When heavy gauge steel or wood studs are spaced 16\" on center, additional resonances form which further lower the sound isolation performance of a partition. For typical gypsum stud walls, this resonance occurs in the 100–160 Hz region and is thought to be a hybrid of the mass-air-mass resonance and a bending mode resonance caused when a plate is closely supported by stiff members.\n\nSingle metal stud partitions are more effective than single wood stud partitions, and have been shown to increase the STC rating by up to 10 points. However, there is little difference between metal and wood studs when used in double stud partitions. Double stud partitions have a higher STC than single stud.\n\nIn certain assemblies, increasing the stud spacing from 16 to 24 inches increases the STC rating by 2 to 3 points.\n\nThough the terms sound absorption and damping are often interchangeable when discussing room acoustics, acousticians define these as two distinct properties of sound-isolating walls.\n\nSeveral gypsum manufacturers offer specialty products which use constrained layer damping, which is a form viscous damping. Damping generally increase the sound isolation of partitions, particularly at mid-and-high frequencies.\n\nDamping is also used to improve the sound isolation performance of glazing assemblies. Laminated glazing, which consists of a Polyvinyl butyral (or PVB) inter-layer, performs better acoustically than a non-laminated glass of equivalent thickness.\n\nAll holes and gaps should be filled and the enclosure hermetically sealed for sound isolation to be effective. The table below illustrates sound proofing test results from a wall partition that has a theoretical maximum loss of 40 dB from one room to the next and a partition area of 10 meters squared. Even small open gaps and holes in the partition have a disproportionate reduction in sound proofing. A 5% opening in the partition, which offers unrestricted sound transmission from one room to the next, caused the transmission loss to reduces from 40 dB to 13 dB. A 0.1% open area will reduce the transmission loss from 40 dB to 30 dB, which is typical of walls where caulking has not been applied effectively Partitions that are inadequately sealed and contain back-to-back electrical boxes, untreated recessed lighting and unsealed pipes offer flanking paths for sound and significant leakage.\n\nAcoustic joint tapes and caulking have been used to improve sound isolation since the early 1930s. Although the applications of tapes was largely limited to defense and industrial applications such as naval vessels and aircraft in the past, recent research has proven the effectiveness of sealing gaps and thereby improving the sound isolation performance of a partition.\n\nBuilding codes typically allow for a 5-point tolerance between the lab-tested and field-measured STC rating; however, studies have shown that even in well-built and sealed installations the difference between the lab and field rating is highly dependent on the type of assembly.\n\nBy nature, the STC rating is derived from lab testing under ideal conditions. There are other versions of the STC rating to account for real-world conditions.\n\nThe net sound isolation performance of a wall containing multiple sound isolating elements such as doors, windows, etc.\n\nThe sound isolation performance of a wall measured in the field, normalized to account for different room finishes (i.e. compare the same wall measured in a bare living room and an acoustically dry recording booth).\n\nThe sound isolation performance of a specific elements in a wall, as measured in the field. This can be useful for measuring walls with doors, when you are interested in removing the influence of the door on the measured field STC.\n\nThe sound isolation performance of doors when measured according to ASTM E2964 – 19.\n\nSection 1207 of International Building Code 2006 states that separation between dwelling units and public and service areas must achieve STC 50 (STC 45 if field tested) for both airborne and structure-borne. However, not all jurisdictions use the IBC 2006 for their building or municipal code. In jurisdictions where IBC 2006 is used, this requirement may not apply to all dwelling units.\n\nInterior walls with 1 sheet of 1/2″ (13 mm) gypsum wallboard (drywall) on either side of 2x4 (90 mm) wood studs spaced 16\" (406 mm) on-center with no fiberglass insulation filling each stud cavity have an STC of about 33. When asked to rate their acoustical performance, people often describe these walls as \"paper thin.\" They offer little in the way of privacy. Double stud partition walls are typically constructed with varying gypsum wallboard panel layers attached to both sides of double 2x4 (90 mm) wood studs spaced 16\" (406 mm) on-center and separated by a 1\" (25 mm) airspace. These walls vary in sound isolation performance from the mid STC-40s into the high STC-60s depending on the presence of insulation and the gypsum wallboard type and quantity. Commercial buildings are typically constructed using steel studs of varying widths, gauges, and on-center spacings. Each of these framing characteristics have an effect on the sound isolation of the partition to varying degrees.\n\nThere are several commercially available software which predict the STC ratings of partitions using a combination of theoretical models and empirically-derived lab data. These programs can predict STC ratings within several points of a tested partition and are an approximation at best.\n\nThe Outdoor–Indoor Transmission Class (OITC) is a standard used for indicating the rate of sound transmission from outdoor noise sources into a building. It is based on the ASTM E-1332 Standard Classification for Rating Outdoor-Indoor Sound Attenuation. Unlike the STC, which is based on a noise spectrum targeting speech sounds, OITC uses a source noise spectrum that considers frequencies down to 80 Hz (aircraft/rail/truck traffic) and is weighted more to lower frequencies. The OITC value is typically used to rate, evaluate, and select exterior glazing assemblies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945682", "title": "Francis Leddy", "text": "Francis Leddy\n\nJohn Francis Leddy, (April 16, 1911 – September 17, 1998) was a Canadian academic and President of the University of Windsor from 1964 to 1978.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, Ontario, he received a B.A. in honours Latin and French from the University of Saskatchewan in 1930 and an M.A. in Latin from the University of Saskatchewan in 1931. After attending the University of Chicago, doing graduate work in Latin and Greek from 1932 to 1933, he was elected a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University (Exeter College), where he studied Ancient History, graduating Bachelor of Letters (B.Litt.) in 1935 and Doctor of Philosophy (D.Phil.) in 1938.\n\nFrom 1936 until 1961, he taught Classics at the University of Saskatchewan. In 1946 he became Professor of Classics and Head of the Classics Department. From 1949 to 1964, he was also Dean of the College of Arts and Science, and from 1961 to 1964 Vice President (Academic). In 1964, he was appointed President of the University of Windsor, holding that position until his retirement in 1978. In his honour the University of Windsor central library is named the \"Leddy Library\". He also received many honorary degrees during his lifetime.\n\nLeddy was also instrumental in establishing Canada's version(s) of the Peace Corps. In June 1961 at a Conference at McGill University Leddy along with Louis Perinbam, Keith Spicer, Guy Arnold established the organization Canadian University Service Overseas (CUSO) which sent young volunteers overseas to work on community development projects. Due to his work with CUSO, Leddy was chosen by Prime Minister Lester B Pearson in 1965 to establish the Company of Young Canadians, which was also dubbed as Canada's version of the Peace Corps, even though its volunteers remained at home in Canada to work among disenfranchised communities (urban inner cities, First Nations reserves).\n\nIn 1972, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada, the centrepiece of Canada's honours system which recognizes a lifetime of achievement and merit of a high degree, especially in service to Canada or to humanity at large.\n\nIn 1938, he married Kathleen Beatrice White. They had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945687", "title": "Stefan Rahmstorf", "text": "Stefan Rahmstorf\n\nStefan Rahmstorf (born 22 February 1960) is a German oceanographer and climatologist. Since 2000, he has been a Professor of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University. He received his Ph.D. in oceanography from Victoria University of Wellington (1990). His work focuses on the role of ocean currents in climate change. He was one of the lead authors of the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report.\n\nRahmstorf is a co-founder of the blog Real Climate, which has been described by Nature as one of the top-5 science blogs in 2006, and included among the 15 best environmental websites by Time in 2008. He also co-founded the German blog \"KlimaLounge\". \"KlimaLounge\" won the 3rd prize of the science blog award of 2013. He is a frequent contributor of articles on climate and climate change/global warming in the popular press, some of which are internationally syndicated via Project Syndicate. He writes a regular column in the German environmental magazine \"Zeo2\", and has published the children's science book \"Wolken, Wind und Wetter\" (\"Clouds, Wind, and Weather\") on weather and climate. The book was selected as \"Environmental Book of the Month\" for January 2012 by the \"Deutsche Umweltstiftung\". In addition, it was later voted \"Environmental Book of the Year 2012\".\n\nRahmstorf has commented on climate change and climate policy on TV and radio. He was portrayed as one of the world's 10 leading climate scientists by the Financial Times in 2009. The ARD presented a portrait of Rahmstorf in their prime news magazine Tagesthemen when he received the \"Deutscher Umweltmedienpreis\" (\"German Environmental Media Award\") in 2007.\n\nThe University of Flensburg found that among all climate scientists from Germany, Rahmstorf published the largest number of studies which ranked amongst the most-cited in the scientific literature during the years 1994–2013. Rahmstorf was from 2004 till 2013 a member of the German Advisory Council on Global Change (WBGU).\n\n\nAn overview of Rahmstorf's publications can be found at his Google Scholar profile.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945714", "title": "Principality of Beloozero", "text": "Principality of Beloozero\n\nPrincipality of Beloozero or Beloozero Duchy () was a Russian principality or duchy, which flourished between the 13th and 15th centuries in the Russian North. In terms of the current administrative division of Russia, the principality was located in the west of Vologda Oblast, around and south of Lake Beloye (White Lake, ).\n\nThe principality was detached from the Principality of Rostov in 1238. The town of Beloozero (today's Belozersk) became its capital. Prince Gleb was the first prince of Beloozero (ca. 1238–1278). He increased his standing enormously by marrying Sartaq's daughter. The later rulers of Beloozero could claim a descent from Genghis Khan through this marriage. During Gleb's reign, the duchy's territory embraced the basin of White Lake, the lower streams of the Sheksna River, and Lake Kubenskoye.\n\nThe duchy had lost its former significance by the early 14th century. In the first half of the 14th century, Ivan Kalita, the Grand Prince of Moscow, was already appointing \"namestniks\" of Beloozero who administered the principality instead of the princes.\n\nIn 1389, it was subjugated by Muscovy. Dmitry Donskoy, the Grand Prince of Moscow, handed the principality out to his son Andrey Dmitriyevich. In the end of the 14th century, two influential monasteries were founded at the lands belonging to the principality: Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery in 1397 and Ferapontov Monastery in 1398. The creation was supported by the Moscow princes who considered the foundation of the monasteries as an avenue of the influence of Moscow in the North.\n\nIn 1486, the principality, which at the time was a part of the united Principality of Beloozero and Vereya, was formally incorporated into the Grand Duchy of Moscow. Numerous descendants of the ruling Rurikid princes moved to Moscow and continue in a male line to the present. The Belosselsky-Belozersky family was the most notable among them.\n"}
{"id": "1945715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945715", "title": "Callianthe darwinii", "text": "Callianthe darwinii\n\nCallianthe darwinii is a shrub typically growing 2 m tall, native to Brazil (South America). The flowers are pink.\n\nCallianthe darwinii is a popular ornamental plant in hot regions with a humid climate.\n"}
{"id": "1945721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945721", "title": "Philip Rahv", "text": "Philip Rahv\n\nPhilip Rahv (March 10, 1908 in Kupin, Ukraine – December 22, 1973 in Cambridge, Massachusetts) was an American literary critic and essayist. In 1933 he and William Phillips co-founded \"Partisan Review\", one of the most influential literary periodicals in the first half of the twentieth century. Initially affiliated with the Communist Party and adhering to their agenda of proletarian literature, Rahv went on to publish a broad spectrum of modern writers in the pages of his magazine. He was one of the first to introduce Kafka to American readers.\n\nHe was born to a Jewish family in Kupin, Ukraine, part of the Russian-occupied region of Galicia. The family escaped and spent two years in Vienna, where Philip attended the gymnasium. He was born under the name Fevel Greenberg. He made his way to Providence, Rhode Island, with his father and two brothers, Selig and David. He lived for a time in Palestine where his mother chose to live, and worked as a teacher of Hebrew, in Portland, Oregon from 1928 to 1931. He wrote at first under the name Philip Rann. Then came the modification to \"Rahv,\" which appeared in an essay he published in 1932.\n\nIn 1933 Rahv joined the American Communist Party. \"Partisan Review\" broke with the Soviet line in 1937 in the wake of the Moscow Trials and maintained an ongoing feud with Stalinist Popular Front advocates such as Granville Hicks of \"New Masses.\" He was officially expelled as a Trotzkyite by the American Communist Party on October 1, 1937. Rahv taught at Brandeis University in his later years and died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1973.\n\nPhilip Rahv's writing career began during the Depression. It reflected the prevailing literary currents of Marxism and the rise of proletarian literature. In search of a collective ideology, he and others of his generation rejected the formalism and social disengagement of the great writers of the twenties. An exception was T. S. Eliot, whose intellectual depth and historic sense Rahv continued to admire, Eliot's increasingly reactionary politics and traditional religiosity notwithstanding. Because Rahv believed the creative contradictions within a writer are the greatest measure of his achievement, he welcomed the opportunity to reconcile Eliot's conservative views with revolutionary ones that his writing also contained.\nRahv's literary influence arose from his role as editor, author, and reviewer for \"Partisan Review\" and other magazines including \"The New York Review of Books\". From the start of his writing career he articulated his key literary values: the need for a synthesis between European and American artistic traditions and between literary modernism and radicalism; the importance of the Marxist dialectic to effectuate such syntheses; the value of cosmopolitanism to promote a broad understanding of the world and the leading ideas of the writer's times; the rejection of parochial ideas based on region, nation, or ethnicity. In one of his most often quoted essays, \"Paleface and Redskin,\" he identified two opposing currents: upper-class palefaces such as Henry James and Nathaniel Hawthorne and uncultured redfaces such as Walt Whitman and Mark Twain. The result was a dichotomy between consciousness and experience and between symbolism and naturalism. Rahv deplored the dichotomy, looking to the future for the kind of synthesis achieved by such European writers as Marcel Proust and Thomas Mann.\n\nRahv reached the height of his literary influence editing and writing for \"Partisan Review\" in the late 1930s. His influence continued through the 1940s with his writings on a wide range of European and American authors, most notably Henry James, whose reputation he contributed to reviving. With the rightward turn of politics in the 1950s, however, he retreated from his earlier literary and political prominence. He played little role in \"Partisan Review\" in this era, publishing essays in other publications, most notably \"The New York Review of Books\". In the 1960s his brief enthusiasm for the New Left was followed by disillusionment. He never finished his final project, a book on Dostoyevsky.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945722", "title": "Cecil Roth", "text": "Cecil Roth\n\nDr. Cecil Roth (5 March 1899 – 21 June 1970), was a British Jewish historian.\n\nRoth was born in Dalston, London, on 5 March 1899. His parents were Etty and Joseph Roth, and Cecil was the youngest of their four sons. In childhood, Cecil received a traditional Jewish religious education, including studying Hebrew, with Jacob Mann. He went to school at City of London School. He fought in the First World War, seeing active duty in France in 1918.\n\nAt University, Roth studied history at Merton College, Oxford. He took a first-class BA in modern history in 1922, and a D.Phil. in 1924. His first published work, based on his thesis, was \"The Last Florentine Republic (1527-1530)\", published in 1925. Roth was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in the same year and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1941.\n\nIn 1928 he married Irene Rosalind Davis and lived off freelance writing until returning to Oxford as Reader in Post-Biblical Jewish Studies from 1939 to 1964.\n\nThe couple were enthusiastic collectors of Judaism-related manuscripts and \"objets d'art\", selling substantial collections of the former to the Brotherton Library of the University of Leeds in 1961, and of the latter to the Beth Tzedec Synagogue Museum in Toronto.\n\nOn his retirement from Oxford in 1964, at the invitation of Joseph H. Lookstein, Roth became a visiting professor at Bar-Ilan University, Israel, moving to Jerusalem. However, within a month of his arrival he was attacked in a publication by one Rabbi Bromberg for allegedly arguing that Moses never existed — when in fact he had noted others' scepticism about Moses' existence and argued that Moses had in fact lived. The accusation prompted a scandal, and Roth suffered a heart attack in November 1964. Roth's wife Irene attributed the heart attack partly to stress of migrating, and partly to the stress of the accusations. Roth stood down from his position at the University early in 1965, citing ill health. He went on to hold a position at the City University of New York (1966–1969) while working as general editor of the \"Encyclopaedia Judaica\", dying in post shortly after the first edition of the encyclopaedia was completed.\n\nRoth died, aged 71, on 21 June 1970 in Jerusalem.\n\nHe was editor in chief of \"Encyclopaedia Judaica\" from 1965 until his death.\n\nHis works number over 600 items, including: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945729", "title": "1958 Manitoba general election", "text": "1958 Manitoba general election\n\nThe 1958 Manitoba general election was held on June 16, 1958 to elect Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThis election was the first in Manitoba after a comprehensive electoral redistribution in 1956. The redistribution saw the city of Winnipeg abandon its three four-member districts and adopt 20 single-member constituencies, to gain increased representation in the legislature. As well the other districts in the province had dropped the Alternative Voting system and simply used the plurality first past the post system from here on.\n\nIt resulted in a minority victory for the Progressive Conservative Party under the leadership of Dufferin Roblin. Roblin's Tories won twenty-six seats, while Premier Douglas Campbell's Liberal-Progressives were reduced to second-place status with nineteen. The social democratic Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) held the balance of power with eleven seats, and independent Stephen Juba was also elected in Winnipeg. Both Social Credit and the Labour Progressive Party lost their legislative representation.\n\nAfter the election, the Liberal-Progressives attempted to form a coalition with the CCF to remain in power. The CCF rejected this offer, and allowed Roblin's Tories to form government, ending 36 years of Progressive and Liberal-Progressive led governments in Manitoba. Although the Progressive Conservatives had been part of a coalition government with the Liberal-Progressives from 1940 to 1950, this was the first time since 1915 that they had formed an administration on their own.\n\nThis minority parliament proved unstable, and Roblin's government was defeated in the legislature in early 1959. Manitobans returned to the polls shortly thereafter.\n\nParty key:\n\n(x) denotes incumbent.\n\nArthur:\n\nAssiniboia:\n\nBirtle-Russell:\n\nBrandon:\n\nBrokenhead:\n\nBurrows:\n\nCarillon:\n\nChurchill:\n\nDauphin:\n\nDufferin:\n\nElmwood:\n\nEmerson:\n\nEthelbert Plains:\n\nFisher:\n\nFlin Flon:\n\nFort Garry:\n\nFort Rouge:\n\nGimli:\n\nGladstone:\n\nHamiota:\n\nInkster:\n\nKildonan:\n\nLac Du Bonnet:\n\nLakeside:\n\nLa Verendrye:\n\nLogan:\n\nMinnedosa:\n\nMorris:\n\nOsborne:\n\nPembina:\n\nPortage la Prairie:\n\nRadisson:\n\nRhineland:\n\nRiver Heights:\n\nRoblin:\n\nRock Lake:\n\nRockwood-Iberville:\n\nRupertsland:\n\nSt. Boniface:\n\nSt. George:\n\nSt. James:\n\nSt. Johns:\n\nSt. Matthews:\n\nSt. Vital:\n\nSte. Rose:\n\nSelkirk:\n\nSeven Oaks:\n\nSouris-Lansdowne:\n\nSpringfield:\n\nSwan River:\n\nThe Pas:\n\nTurtle Mountain:\n\nVirden:\n\nWellington:\n\nWinnipeg Centre:\n\nWolseley:\n"}
{"id": "1945730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945730", "title": "Launch loop", "text": "Launch loop\n\nA launch loop or Lofstrom loop is a proposed system for launching objects into orbit using a moving cable-like system situated inside a sheath attached to the Earth at two ends and suspended above the atmosphere in the middle. The design concept was published by Keith Lofstrom and describes an active structure maglev cable transport system that would be around 2,000 km (1,240 mi) long and maintained at an altitude of up to 80 km (50 mi). A launch loop would be held up at this altitude by the momentum of a belt that circulates around the structure. This circulation, in effect, transfers the weight of the structure onto a pair of magnetic bearings, one at each end, which support it.\n\nLaunch loops are intended to achieve non-rocket spacelaunch of vehicles weighing 5 metric tons by electromagnetically accelerating them so that they are projected into Earth orbit or even beyond. This would be achieved by the flat part of the cable which forms an acceleration track above the atmosphere.\n\nThe system is designed to be suitable for launching humans for space tourism, space exploration and space colonization, and provides a relatively low 3\"g\" acceleration.\n\nLaunch loops were described by Keith Lofstrom in November 1981 Reader's Forum of the American Astronautical Society News Letter, and in the August 1982 L5 News.\n\nIn 1982, Paul Birch published a series of papers in \"Journal of the British Interplanetary Society\" which described orbital rings and described a form which he called Partial Orbital Ring System (PORS).\nThe launch loop idea was worked on in more detail around 1983–1985 by Lofstrom. It is a fleshed-out version of PORS specifically arranged to form a mag-lev acceleration track suitable for launching humans into space; but whereas the orbital ring used superconducting magnetic levitation, launch loops use electromagnetic suspension (EMS).\n\nA launch loop is proposed to be a structure 2,000 km long and 80 km high. The loop runs along at 80 km above the earth for 2000 km then descends to earth before looping back on itself rising back to 80 km above the earth to follow the reverse path then looping back to the starting point. The loop would be in the form of a tube, known as the \"sheath\". Floating within the sheath is another continuous tube, known as the \"rotor\" which is a sort of belt or chain. The rotor is an iron tube approximately 5 cm (2 inches) in diameter, moving around the loop at 14 km/s (31,000 miles per hour).\n\nWhen at rest, the loop is at ground level. The rotor is then accelerated up to speed. As the rotor speed increases, it curves to form an arc. The structure is held up by the force from the rotor, which attempts to follow a parabolic trajectory. The ground anchors force it to go parallel to the earth upon reaching the height of 80 kilometers.\nOnce raised, the structure requires continuous power to overcome the energy dissipated. Additional energy would be needed to power any vehicles that are launched.\n\nTo launch, vehicles are raised up on an 'elevator' cable that hangs down from the West station loading dock at 80 km, and placed on the track. The payload applies a magnetic field which generates eddy currents in the fast-moving rotor. This both lifts the payload away from the cable, as well as pulls the payload along with 3\"g\" (30 m/s²) acceleration. The payload then rides the rotor until it reaches the required orbital velocity, and leaves the track.\n\nIf a stable or circular orbit is needed, once the payload reaches the highest part of its trajectory then an on-board rocket engine (\"kick motor\") or other means is needed to circularize the trajectory to the appropriate Earth orbit.\n\nThe eddy current technique is compact, lightweight and powerful, but inefficient. With each launch the rotor temperature increases by 80 kelvins due to power dissipation. If launches are spaced too close together, the rotor temperature can approach 770 °C (1043 K), at which point the iron rotor loses its ferromagnetic properties and rotor containment is lost.\n\nClosed orbits with a perigee of 80 km quite quickly decay and re-enter, but in addition to such orbits, a launch loop by itself would also be capable of directly injecting payloads into escape orbits, gravity assist trajectories past the Moon, and other non closed orbits such as close to the Trojan points.\n\nTo access circular orbits using a launch loop a relatively small 'kick motor' would need to be launched with the payload which would fire at apogee and would circularise the orbit. For GEO insertion this would need to provide a delta-v of about 1.6 km/s, for LEO to circularise at 500 km would require a delta-v of just 120 m/s. Conventional rockets require delta-vs of roughly 14 and 10 km/s to reach GEO and LEO respectively.\n\nLaunch loops in Lofstrom's design are placed close to the equator and can only directly access equatorial orbits. However other orbital planes might be reached via high altitude plane changes, lunar perturbations or aerodynamic techniques.\n\nLaunch rate capacity of a launch loop is ultimately limited by the temperature and cooling rate of the rotor to 80 per hour, but that would require a 17 GW power station; a more modest 500 MW power station is sufficient for 35 launches per day.\n\nFor a launch loop to be economically viable it would require customers with sufficiently large payload launch requirements.\n\nLofstrom estimates that an initial loop costing roughly $10 billion with a one-year payback could launch 40,000 metric tons per year, and cut launch costs to $300/kg. For $30 billion, with a larger power generation capacity, the loop would be capable of launching 6 million metric tons per year, and given a five-year payback period, the costs for accessing space with a launch loop could be as low as $3/kg.\n\nCompared to space elevators, no new high-tensile strength materials have to be developed, since the structure resists Earth's gravity by supporting its own weight with the kinetic energy of the moving loop, and not by tensile strength.\n\nLofstrom's launch loops are expected to launch at high rates (many launches per hour, independent of weather), and are not inherently polluting. Rockets create pollution such as nitrates in their exhausts due to high exhaust temperature, and can create greenhouse gases depending on propellant choices. Launch loops as a form of electric propulsion can be clean, and can be run on geothermal, nuclear, wind, solar or any other power source, even intermittent ones, as the system has huge built-in power storage capacity.\n\nUnlike space elevators which would have to travel through the Van Allen belts over several days, launch loop passengers can be launched to low earth orbit, which is below the belts, or through them in a few hours. This would be a similar situation to that faced by the Apollo astronauts, who had radiation doses about 0.5% of what the space elevator would give.\n\nUnlike space elevators which are subjected to the risks of space debris and meteorites along their whole length, launch loops are to be situated at an altitude where orbits are unstable due to air drag. Since debris does not persist, it only has one chance to impact the structure. Whereas the collapse period of space elevators is expected to be of the order of years, damage or collapse of loops in this way is expected to be rare. In addition, launch loops themselves are not a significant source of space debris, even in an accident. All debris generated has a perigee that intersects the atmosphere or is at escape velocity.\n\nLaunch loops are intended for human transportation, to give a safe 3\"g\" acceleration which the vast majority of people would be capable of tolerating well, and would be a much faster way of reaching space than space elevators.\n\nLaunch loops would be quiet in operation, and would not cause any sound pollution, unlike rockets.\n\nFinally, their low payload costs are compatible with large-scale commercial space tourism and even space colonisation.\n\nA running loop would have an extremely large amount of energy in its linear momentum. While the magnetic suspension system would be highly redundant, with failures of small sections having essentially no effect, if a major failure did occur the energy in the loop (1.5×10 joules or 1.5 petajoules) would approach the same total energy release as a nuclear bomb explosion (350 kilotons of TNT equivalent), although not emitting nuclear radiation.\n\nWhile this is a large amount of energy, it is unlikely that this would destroy much of the structure due to its very large size, and because most of the energy would be deliberately dumped at preselected places when the failure is detected. Steps might need to be taken to lower the cable down from 80 km altitude with minimal damage, such as by the use of parachutes.\n\nTherefore, for safety and astrodynamic reasons, launch loops are intended to be installed over an ocean near the equator, well away from habitation.\n\nThe published design of a launch loop requires electronic control of the magnetic levitation to minimize power dissipation and to stabilize the otherwise under-damped cable.\n\nThe two main points of instability are the turnaround sections and the cable.\n\nThe turnaround sections are potentially unstable, since movement of the rotor away from the magnets gives reduced magnetic attraction, whereas movements closer gives increased attraction. In either case, instability occurs. This problem is routinely solved with existing servo control systems that vary the strength of the magnets. Although servo reliability is a potential issue, at the high speed of the rotor, very many consecutive sections would need to fail for the rotor containment to be lost.\n\nThe cable sections also share this potential issue, although the forces are much lower. However, an additional instability is present in that the cable/sheath/rotor may undergo meandering modes (similar to a Lariat chain) that grow in amplitude without limit. Lofstrom believes that this instability also can be controlled in real time by servo mechanisms, although this has never been attempted.\n\nIn works by Alexander Bolonkin it is suggested that Lofstrom's project has many non-solved problems and that it is very far from a current technology. For example, the Lofstrom project has expansion joints between 1.5 meter iron plates. Their speeds (under gravitation, friction) can be different and Bolonkin claims that they could wedge in the tube; and the force and friction in the ground 28 km diameter turnaround sections are gigantic. In 2008, Bolonkin proposed a simple rotated close-loop cable to launch the space apparatus in a way suitable for current technology.\n\nAnother project, the space cable, is a smaller design by John Knapman that is intended for launch assist for conventional rockets and suborbital tourism. The space cable design uses discrete bolts rather than a continuous rotor, as with the launch loop architecture. John Knapman has also mathematically shown that the meander instability can be tamed.\n\nThe skyhook is another launch system concept. Skyhook could be either rotating or non-rotating. The non-rotating skyhook hangs from a low Earth orbit down to just above the Earth's atmosphere (skyhook cable is not attached to Earth). The rotating skyhook changes this design to decrease the speed of the lower end; the entire cable rotates around its center of gravity. The advantage of this is an even greater velocity reduction for the launch vehicle flying to the bottom end of the rotating skyhook which makes for an even larger payload and a lower launch cost. The two disadvantages of this are: the greatly reduced time available for the arriving launch vehicle to hook up at the lower end of the rotating skyhook (approximately 3 to 5 seconds), and the lack of choice regarding the destination orbit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1945737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945737", "title": "Expansion team", "text": "Expansion team\n\nAn expansion team is a new team in a sports league, usually from a city that has not hosted a team in that league before, formed with the intention of satisfying the demand for a local team from a population in a new area. Sporting leagues also hope that the expansion of their competition will grow the popularity of the sport generally. The term is most commonly used in reference to the North American major professional sports leagues but is applied to sports leagues in other countries with a closed franchise system of league membership. The term refers to the expansion of the sport into new areas. The addition of an expansion team sometimes results in the payment of an expansion fee to the league by the new team and an expansion draft to populate the new roster.\n\nIn North America, expansion often takes place in response to population growth and geographic shifts of population. Such demographic change results in financial opportunities to engage with the new market as consumers of sports demand local teams to support. Major League Baseball (MLB) was limited to 16 teams located north and east of St. Louis, Missouri for the first half of the 20th century. During that time, the United States population doubled and expanded to the south and west. Rival interests explored the possibility of forming a rival league in the untapped markets. To forestall that possibility, one of the measures that MLB took was to expand by four teams in 1961 and 1962. Over the past four decades, MLB expanded further, to its current 30-team membership. In the context of MLB, the term \"expansion team\" is also used to refer to any of the 14 teams enfranchised in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nLeagues that are new and/or financially struggling may also admit large numbers of expansion teams so that the existing franchises can pocket more revenue from expansion fees. Indoor American football leagues are notorious for doing so: the leagues can double the number of teams and have many new teams fail within a year or two. Major League Soccer, after spending most of its first decade of existence with relatively stable membership and struggling finances, adopted a policy of continuous expansion beginning in 2005, a policy that the league as of 2017 has no intention of stopping.\n\nWhen an expansion team begins play, it is generally stocked with less talented free agents, inexperienced players, and veterans nearing retirement. Additionally, prospective owners may face expensive fees to the league as well as high startup costs such as stadiums and facilities. The team is also at a disadvantage in that it has not been together as a team as long as its opponents and thus lacks the cohesiveness other teams have built over years. As a result, most expansion teams are known for their poor play during their first seasons. Expansion teams must also compete with any expansion rivals for available talent, a common problem since leagues often expand by two or four teams in one season. \n\nExpansion teams are not necessarily doomed to mediocrity, however, as most leagues have policies which promote parity, such as drafts and salary caps, which give some expansion teams the opportunity to win championships only a few years after their first season. In Major League Baseball (MLB) The Arizona Diamondbacks won the 2001 World Series in their fourth season, and the Florida Marlins won the 1997 World Series in their fifth season. In the NBA, The Milwaukee Bucks won the 1971 NBA Finals in their third year of existence, greatly helped by drafting Kareem Abdul-Jabbar in the 1969 draft and acquiring Oscar Robertson from the Cincinnati Royals before the 1970-71 season began. In the NHL, the Florida Panthers made the Stanley Cup Finals in their third season even though, like MLB, the league then had no salary cap. The NHL's Vegas Golden Knights quickly emerged as one of the NHL's best teams in its first season, thanks to a generous expansion draft, ultimately advancing to the Stanley Cup Finals. \n\nThe National Football League (NFL), despite being considered the most generous in its revenue sharing and the strictest with its salary cap, has had far more difficulty bringing expansion teams up to par with their more established brethren. Of the six teams to have been added to the NFL since the AFL–NFL merger, the fastest turnaround between an inaugural season and the team's first Super Bowl victory was 27 seasons (the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, established in 1976, won Super Bowl XXXVII in the 2002 season); none of the four teams to hold expansion drafts since 1995 have ever won that contest, with only one, the Carolina Panthers (who reached the game in their 9th and 21st seasons of existence) playing in the game. In , the Panthers and Jacksonville Jaguars each made it to their respective conference championship games in their second season in the league. \n\nExpansion teams are usually considered as such in their first season and sometimes in their second season, but especially for purists, Major League Baseball teams can be considered \"expansion teams\" indefinitely. A team that moves to another location and/or changes its name is not an expansion team. If it moves, it is known as a \"relocated team\", and if the name changes, the team is known as a \"renamed team\". In response to a negative attitude that some fans have towards relocated teams, there have recently been instances where relocating clubs change their identity completely; name, colors, and mascot; but because the roster is the same and the league does not expand as a result, they are not regarded as expansion teams. One exception is the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL): when the Cleveland Browns moved to Baltimore, an agreement was reached for which the trademark and history of the pre-1996 Cleveland Browns remained in that city and was claimed by the post-1999 Browns when the league placed a new franchise there, even though the personnel and roster had moved to Baltimore to become the Ravens. Another exception is the New Orleans Pelicans, who were previously known as the New Orleans Hornets after relocating to New Orleans from Charlotte, N.C., in 2002. After the 2012 sale of the Hornets, new owner Tom Benson changed the name, colors, and mascot from Hornets to Pelicans. The Charlotte Hornets segment of the franchise's history was sold to the then-Charlotte Bobcats (themselves formerly considered a 2004 expansion team) and the 2002 New Orleans Hornets are now officially regarded as an expansion team.\n\nCities and regions with large populations that lack a team are generally regarded to be the best candidates for new teams. In rugby league, the United Kingdom-based Rugby Football League's Super League has added teams from France and Wales to cover a great demographic spread. The operator of Super League, England's Rugby Football League, has also added teams to the lower levels of its league pyramid, specifically the Championship and League 1, from both France and Wales, and most recently Canada. In rugby union, the competition originally known as the Celtic League and now as Pro14, which began with sides only from the Celtic nations of Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, has added teams from Italy and more recently South Africa. The U.S.-based NFL has been laying groundwork for a potential franchise in the UK, with a target date some time in the early to mid-2020s.\n\nThe National League had an eight-team lineup established in 1900, mirrored by the eight charter franchises of the American League in 1901. This list enumerates franchises added since this \"Classic Eight\" era.\n\nEight charter franchises of the NBA (founded in 1950 via merger of the BAA and NBL) are still active.\n\nOnly extant teams are listed. Two charter franchises, the Chicago Cardinals (now the Arizona Cardinals) and Decatur Staleys (now the Chicago Bears), are still active.\n\n\nTwo teams from the AFL of the 1960s were expansion teams in that league. Both joined the AFL after the merger with the NFL was agreed to, but before it was finalized.\n\nOnly one charter franchise, the Montreal Canadiens, is still active.\nThe Canadiens, Maple Leafs, Bruins, Blackhawks, Red Wings, and Rangers are referred to as the \"Original Six\"; while they were not all charter members of the league, they predated the expansion of the NHL starting in the 1960s and 70s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAFL Women's, launched in 2017, is operated by the Australian Football League, with all teams fielded by AFL clubs. The first expansion occurred prior to the 2019 season, with a second expansion set for the 2020 season.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe League of Legends Championship Series (LCS) and the League of Legends European Championship (LEC) initially fielded teams from eight organizations when they began operations in 2013; both leagues expanded to a total of ten teams in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1945739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945739", "title": "Orbital ring", "text": "Orbital ring\n\nAn orbital ring is a concept of an enormous artificial ring placed around the Earth that rotates at an angular rate that is faster than the rotation of the Earth.\n\nThe structure is intended to be used as a space station or as a planetary vehicle for very high speed transportation or space launch.\n\nThe original orbital ring concept is related to the space fountain, space elevator and launch loop.\n\nIn the 1870s Nikola Tesla, while recovering from malaria, conceived a number of inventions including a ring around the equator, although he did not include detailed calculations. As recounted in his autobiography \"My Inventions\" (1919):\nA simple unsupported hoop about a planet (or a star) is unstable: it would crash into the central body if left unattended. The orbital ring concept requires a method of stabilizing the ring.\n\nA more detailed description of the concept was proposed and analyzed by Paul Birch in 1982, proposing a massive ring that would encircle the globe in low orbit, from which cables hang down to the earth's surface.\n\nIn 1982 the Belarusian inventor Anatoly Yunitskiy also proposed an electromagnetic track encircling the Earth, which he called \"by wheel into space\" (later, \"String Transportation System\"). When the velocity of the string exceeds 10 km/sec, centrifugal forces detach the string from the Earth's surface and lift the ring into space.\n\nAndrew Meulenberg and his students, from 2008 to 2011, presented and published a number of papers based on types and applications of low-Earth-orbital rings as man's \"stepping-stones-to-space\". An overview mentions four applications of orbital rings.\n\nPaul Birch published a series of three articles in the \"Journal of the British Interplanetary Society\" in 1982 that laid out the mathematical basis of ring systems.\n\nIn the simplest design of an orbital ring system, a rotating cable or possibly an inflatable space structure is placed in a low Earth orbit above the equator. Not in orbit, but riding on this ring, supported electromagnetically on superconducting magnets, are ring stations that stay in one place above some designated point on Earth. Hanging down from these ring stations are short space elevators made from cables with high-tensile-strength-to-mass-ratio materials.\n\nAlthough this simple model would work best above the equator, Paul Birch calculated that since the ring station can be used to accelerate the orbital ring eastwards as well as hold the tether, it is therefore possible to deliberately cause the orbital ring to precess around the Earth instead of staying fixed in space while the Earth rotates beneath it. By precessing the ring once every 24 hours, the Orbital Ring will hover above any meridian selected on the surface of the Earth. The cables which dangle from the ring are now geostationary without having to reach geostationary altitude or without having to be placed into the equatorial plane. This means that using the Orbital Ring concept, one or many pairs of Stations can be positioned above \"any\" points on Earth desired or can be moved everywhere on the globe. Thus, any point on Earth can be served by a space elevator. Also a whole network of orbital rings can be built, which, by crossing over the poles, could cover the whole planet and be capable of taking over most of freight and passenger transport. By an array of elevators and several geostationary ring stations, asteroid or Moon material can be received and gently put down where land fills are needed. The electric energy generated in the process would pay for the system expansion and ultimately could pave the way for a solar-system-wide terraforming- and astroengineering-activity on a sound economical basis.\n\nIf built by launching the necessary materials from Earth, the cost for the system estimated by Birch in 1980s money was around $31 billion (for a \"bootstrap\" system intended to expand to 1000 times its initial size over the following year, which would otherwise cost 31 trillion dollars) if launched using Shuttle-derived hardware, whereas it could fall to $15 billion with space-based manufacturing, assuming a large orbital manufacturing facility is available to provide the initial 180,000 tonnes of steel, aluminium, and slag at a low cost, and even lower with orbital rings around the Moon. The system's cost per kilogram to place payloads in orbit would be around $0.05.\n\nThe simplest type would be a circular orbital ring in LEO.\n\nTwo other types were also defined by Paul Birch:\n\nIn addition, he proposed the concept of \"supramundane worlds\" such as supra-jovian and supra-stellar \"planets\". These are artificial planets that would be supported by a grid of orbital rings that would be positioned above a planet, supergiant or even a star.\n\nIn the close of Arthur C. Clarke's \"Fountains of Paradise\" (1979), a reference is made to an orbital ring that is attached in the distant future to the space elevator that is the basis of the novel.\n\nArthur C. Clarke's \"\" (1997) features an orbital ring held aloft by four enormous inhabitable towers (assumed successors to space elevators) at the Equator.\n\nThe manga \"Battle Angel Alita\" (1990-1995) prominently features a slightly deteriorated orbital ring.\n\nOrbital rings are used extensively in the collaborative fiction worldbuilding website \"Orion's Arm\".\n\nThe third part of Neal Stephenson's book \"Seveneves\" has an orbital ring around a moon-less earth.\n\nIn the movie \"Starship Troopers\", an orbital ring is shown encircling the Moon.\n\nThe second iteration of the anime series \"Tekkaman\" features a complete ring, though abandoned and in disrepair due to war, and without surface tethers.\n\nThe anime series \"Kiddy Grade\" also uses orbital rings as a launch and docking bay for spaceships. These rings are connected to large towers extending from the planets surface.\n\nThe anime \"Mobile Suit Gundam 00\" also prominently features an orbital ring, which consists primarily of linked solar panels. The ring is connected to earth via three space elevators. This ring effectively provides near unlimited power to earth. Later in the series the ring also shows space stations mounted on its surface.\n\nThe opening battle of \"\"'s Season 6 pilot takes place on some form of ring-shaped orbital space station surrounding the planet of Ringo Vinda.\n\nIn the \"Warhammer 40,000\" universe, Mars has a large orbital ring called the Ring of Iron. It is primarily used as a shipyard for interstellar craft. It is the largest man made structure in the galaxy. The planet Medusa also has such a ring, called Telstarax, hailing from the Dark Age of Technology, but it is largely plundered and wrecked.\n\nThe game \"X3 Terran Conflict\" features a free-floating orbital ring around the Earth, which is shattered by an explosion and subsequently de-orbited in \"\"\n\nIn the game \"Xenoblade Chronicles 2\" there is a giant tree that has grown around the base of an Orbital Ring.\n\n\n"}
