{"id": "2018008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018008", "title": "Ropes course", "text": "Ropes course\n\nA ropes course is a challenging outdoor personal development and team building activity which usually consists of high and/or low elements. Low elements take place on the ground or above the ground. High elements are usually constructed in trees or made of utility poles and require a belay for safety.\n\nRopes courses are referred to using several different names, including Challenge Courses, Ropes Challenge Courses, Teams Course, and Low Ropes, as well as more idiosyncratic names such as the Challenging Outdoor Personal Experience (Project COPE) course (used by the Boy Scouts of America).\n\nAn Aerial Adventure Park (or \"European-Style\" Adventure Park, Tree-Top Adventure course) has a more recreational purpose.\n\nOther related terms include obstacle courses, assault courses and commando courses, although these terms also have slightly different meanings, often more associated with military training than with education and training for the general public.\n\nIt is unclear where and when the first ropes course was created. Obstacle courses have been used by the military to train soldiers as far back as the ancient Greeks. Those courses, however, were primarily used for the training of extremely fit individuals and not necessarily aimed at the development of unremarkable persons as is common practice on ropes courses today. The use of belay and risk management systems on such courses was limited or often non-existent.\n\nMany practitioners cite Georges Hébert as the originator of the \"modern\" ropes course. A French naval officer in the early 1900s, Hébert developed his own method of physical education, apparatus, and principles to train in what he called the “Natural Method,” which included the development of physical, moral, and “virile” qualities in an outdoor environment. Drawing from his naval background, Hébert patterned some of his obstacles on obstacles found on the decks of ships. “Hébertism” grew during and between the World Wars, becoming the standard for physical education training for the French military. Many ropes courses and challenge course programs in French Canada and Europe are still known as Hébertism courses today.\n\nMarble, Colorado, the site of the first Colorado Outward Bound course, has been cited as the location of the first ropes course in the US, although this is highly unlikely. Patterned after a military obstacle course and similar to the course in use at the Outward Bound school in Aberdyfi, Wales, the course was constructed of hemp ropes. Belay systems were minimal or non-existent.\n\nRopes courses were adapted for use in an education setting by Project Adventure, Inc. in Hamilton, Massachusetts in 1971. The first course built at the school still stands and is in use today.\n\nSince the 1980s, ropes course sophistication has evolved considerably. Modern ropes courses incorporate sophisticated belay and safety systems using wire rope, friction devices, and climbing harnesses to manage what before were unmanaged risks. Recent technological advances in pole hardware and climbing equipment along with industry-accepted installation and design practices have greatly reduced the risk to end users and to the natural environment. Modern courses make use of a variety of materials other than trees, including utility poles and steel structures.\n\nA recent trend of themed courses has created a whole new genre of challenge course aimed at recreational pay-to-play users. New, mobile high ropes courses (originally designed by Jim Liggett of Ropes Courses, Inc.) and climbing walls built on flat bed trucks have made challenge courses more readily available to the public for recreational purposes and are generating increased publicity.\nAdventure Parks with a more recreational-orientation are booming in Europe and awake a great interest in the US and around the globe. They are usually designed for a larger volume of visitors. They do not follow a specific educational concept, but see the individual, physical and mental challenge as a predominantly recreational activity. Neither climbing techniques nor special/specific physical fitness experience are necessary. Typical slogans are: Have fun, Test your Courage and Overcome your Own Fears.\nIn an Adventure Park, the participants independently run a variety of trails of increasing difficulty levels. Each trail consists of several poles or trees that are connected by different acrobatic elements.\n\nA high course can be a pre-fabricated, professionally installed course, built of utility poles, cables, and bolts, or it can be a course that is hand-built in a wooded area, where ropes and wire are attached to different trees.\n\nRopes courses can be described as static, dynamic, vertical, and M-Belay. With a static course, participants are attached to an upper wire, belay cable, with lanyards (ropes and carabiners) for safety. If the participant dangles, they will be caught by the wire. Advantages of a static course include needing fewer facilitators, being able to get more participants up on the course at one time, and allowing participants to do multiple elements without having to be lowered and climb back up after each. On a dynamic course, participants are connected to a rope, which someone on the ground will be holding onto and belaying the participant on the course. Participants on a dynamic course remain on a belay the entire time: climbing up to the element, doing the activity, and being lowered to the ground after. A vertical course is very similar to dynamic, except that the element is the climb up. Vertical courses can be: vertical obstacle courses with hanging logs, ladders, and tires or alpine towers with their unique hour-glass shape of activities. The M-Belay is the most complicated of the two, and involves two separate belays. Otherwise, it is very similar to a dynamic course.\n\nUsually participants must sign a waiver before being allowed to participate on the course, because of the high risk of injury. Some participants may have a hard time completing the course due to its height and the physical challenge. Courses usually range from 25 feet through 50 feet tall, though some elements can reach upwards of 150 feet plus (as in the redwoods and some jungle courses). In order to climb up onto the course participants usually must climb, such as by using a cargo net or Jacob's Ladder, which could be made of rope, or an artificial climbing wall.\n\nLow ropes courses consist of a series of real and imaginary obstacles designed to challenge groups and individuals to work together to accomplish a task. The classification of low ropes courses can be further broken into several types of activities:\nRopes course advocates claim that they meet a number of educational, developmental, and recreational goals. High ropes course and climbing programs generally focus on personal achievements and ask participants to confront their personal fears and anxieties. Challenges may be physical and/or emotional. In certain cases, high element programs involve the development and mastery of technical skills to manage rope belay systems used to secure other climbers as they move through the course. In such cases, outcomes often include exploring the fundamentals of trust, craftsmanship, and coaching. Programs using low ropes course elements or group initiatives are most often designed to explore group interaction, problem-solving, and leadership. Some of the commonly claimed outcomes include enhancement of cooperation, decision making, self confidence, positive risk-taking, social cohesion, trust, self esteem, leadership, goal setting, and teamwork. In addition to these commonly cited benefits, a study published in 2000 in the Journal of Leisure Research found that ropes courses also demonstrate higher-level outcomes, including increases in effectiveness and efficiency, building relationships, developing understanding, setting goals, brainstorming ideas and task accomplishment.\n\nThe British Royal Marines have an extremely difficult ropes course dubbed the 'Tarzan Assault Course'. To pass the Commando Course, recruits must complete this and other arduous tests consecutively under a strict time limit.\n\nDespite the rapid development of ropes course programming during the latter part of the 20th century and the increasing sophistication and professionalism in ropes course construction, there remains a lack of clear scientific consensus about the many claimed psychosocial training benefits of ropes course participation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018016", "title": "Charlie King (politician)", "text": "Charlie King (politician)\n\nCharlie King is an American attorney, politician, and civic leader in New York City.\n\nAfter graduating from the Ethical Culture Fieldston School, King earned a bachelor's degree from Brown University in 1981, and a Juris Doctor from the New York University Law School in 1987.\n\nKing served as the chairman of the Democratic County Committee in New York County. King was a volunteer attorney for the Mollen Commission in the early-1990s, and was a member of the Election Monitoring Committee in South Africa when Nelson Mandela was elected president in 1994.\n\nIn 1999, he was appointed by President Bill Clinton as the regional director for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for New York and New Jersey, serving in this post until 2001.\n\nKing served as the acting Executive Director for National Action Network, Al Sharpton's not-for-profit organization from April 2007 to April 2009. King also represented the witnesses connected to the killing of Sean Bell by the New York City Police Department.\n\nIn April 2010, King was appointed executive director of the New York State Democratic Committee. King stepped down from the post to work as a lobbyist at Mercury Public Affairs, a political strategy and consulting firm with offices in Washington, D.C., New York City, Albany, New York, and Sacramento, California.\n\nKing is also a frequent host and guest on \"Keepin' It Real with Al Sharpton\". He remains a staunch ally of Governor Andrew Cuomo.\n\nIn 1998, King ran for the Democratic nomination for Lieutenant Governor of New York and finished second behind Brighton Town Supervisor Sandra Frankel.\n\nIn 2002, King again sought New York's Lieutenant Governorship as the running mate of former HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo. He and Cuomo dropped out of the race before the primary and endorsed the ticket of State Comptroller Carl McCall and businessman Dennis Mehiel. The Cuomo–King ticket appeared on the 2002 general election ballot as the nominees of the Liberal Party and received less than 50,000 votes, thereby costing the Party its automatic ballot status.\n\nIn 2006, King sought New York's Attorney General's office. Andrew Cuomo eventually won the election. King also faced former New York City Public Advocate Mark J. Green, former U.S. Attorney Denise O'Donnell and former White House Staff Secretary Sean Patrick Maloney in the primary. King dropped out a week before the primary election and endorsed Cuomo. He then went on to serve on Cuomo's Transition Team as chair of the Civil Rights Committee.\n"}
{"id": "2018023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018023", "title": "Equine exertional rhabdomyolysis", "text": "Equine exertional rhabdomyolysis\n\nEquine exertional rhabdomyolysis (ER, also known as tying up, azoturia, or Monday morning disease) is a syndrome that damages the muscle tissue in horses. It is usually due to overfeeding a horse carbohydrates and appears to have a genetic link.\n\nBeyond a highly probable hereditary factor, there does not seem to be a single cause that triggers ER in horses. Exercise is seen in every case, but exercise is always accompanied by another factor. It is likely that several factors must act together in order to cause an ER attack.\n\nOther possible factors include:\n\nThe more factors that are present, the greater the likelihood that the horse will develop ER. However, the most common cause of ER is an imbalance between the animal's diet and his workload, especially when he has a high-grain diet.\n\nER occurs when there is an inadequate flow of blood to the muscles of an exercising horse. The muscle cells, lacking in oxygen, begin to function anaerobically to produce the needed ATP. The anaerobic work creates a buildup of waste products, acid, and heat. This subsequently alters the cell by preventing the cell's enzymes from functioning and the myofilaments from efficiently contracting. The cell membranes may then be damaged if the horse is forced to continue work, which allows muscle enzymes and myoglobin to leak into the bloodstream.\n\nThe body builds up a store of glycogen from converted carbohydrates in muscle cells. Glycogen, a fuel used by muscles for energy, is depleted during work and restocked when a horse rests. Oxygen-carrying blood metabolizes glycogen, but the blood can not flow fast enough to metabolise the excess stored glycogen. The glycogen that is not metabolized aerobically (by the oxygenated blood) must then be metabolized anaerobically, which then creates the cell waste products and heat, and ER has begun. A horse on a high-grain diet with little work collects more glycogen in its muscles than it can use efficiently when exercise begins, which is why horses on a high-grain diet are more likely to develop ER.\n\nProper conditioning can help prevent ER, as it promotes the growth of capillaries in muscles and the number of enzymes used for energy production in muscle cells. However, improvement in these areas can take several weeks. Thus, ER is more common in horses that are only worked sporadically or lightly, and in horses just beginning an exercise regimen.\n\nA common misconception is that ER is caused by the buildup of lactic acid. Lactate is \"not\" a waste product for a cell, but a fuel, used when the cell's oxygen supply is insufficient. Lactate does not damage a cell, but is rather a byproduct of the true cause of cell damage: inadequate blood supply and altered cell function. Lactate naturally builds up in an exercising horse without harming the muscle cells, and is metabolized within an hour afterwards.\n\nThe pain is caused by the inadequate blood flow to the muscle tissue, the inflammation from the resulting cell damage, and the release of cell contents. Muscle spasms, caused by the lack of blood to the muscle tissue, are also painful.\n\nA horse developing ER will usually begin showing signs right after the beginning of exercise, although for mild cases, signs may not be seen until after the horse is cooled out. Signs include reluctance to move, stiffness or shortened gait when the animal is forced to move, and muscle spasms or cramps, with hard, painful muscles (especially the hindquarters) when palpated. If an observer is unfamiliar with ER, initial symptoms may appear to be tiredness or perhaps lameness but the condition is far more complex.\n\nSigns of a severe bout of ER may include: reluctance to move, sweating, elevated heart and respiratory rates as a result of the pain, anxious expression, shifting of weight from side to side, standing hunched and tense, passing reddish-brown urine, dehydration, shock, and inability to rise. Usually there is a correlation between how long it takes the signs to be seen and how severe the bout of ER is, with the more severe bouts of ER displaying signs right after work has begun.\n\nIf signs of ER are seen, the horse should not be moved. Movement can cause further muscle damage. If the animal is far from the barn, it is best to trailer him back rather than move him.\n\nAfter a bout of ER, blood levels of CPK and AST rise.\n\nThe horse should receive several days of NSAIDs, rest, and grain or pellets should be withheld. To improve blood flow to the muscles and help to with muscle spasms, heat therapy and Equine Massage may be beneficial, as well as hand-walking if the horse is comfortable walking. Turn-out in a pasture or paddock will encourage movement. A horse should be moving normally within 12–36 hours after the attack.\n\nA horse may need fluids, especially if its urine is colored, the horse is receiving NSAIDs, or if he is dehydrated. Fluids will increase the production of urine that will in turn help flush out the excess, and potentially damaging, myoglobin from the kidneys and will reduce NSAID-produced kidney damage. Fluids should be administered until the urine is clear, which usually takes from a few hours to a few days.\n\nVasodilators, such as acepromazine, can help improve blood flow to the muscles. However, the owner should only give acepromazine if it is prescribed by the horse's veterinarian, as it can lower the animal's blood pressure and can cause collapse in a severely dehydrated horse. The human drug dantrolene is sometimes given to alleviate the muscle spasms and prevent further degeneration of muscle tissue.\n\nVitamin E is an anti-oxidant, and so may help prevent further cell degeneration in the affected muscles. However, vitamin E products must be used with caution if they also contain selenium.\n\nBicarbonate will not help offset any lactic acid in the bloodstream, as lactic acid generally only accumulates in the affected muscles.\n\nExcept to get a horse to his stall, a horse showing signs of severe ER should not be moved until he is comfortable enough to do so eagerly. This may take several days. After this point, it is important to either hand-walk the horse a few times each day, or provide him with a few hours of turnout in a pasture or paddock.\n\nA horse may be returned to work after it is no longer showing signs of ER, and is no longer on NSAIDs—which can hide signs of another bout of ER. If NSAIDs are needed to keep the horse comfortable, or if the horse is reluctant to continue work, the animal is not yet ready for a return to his regular training program. Blood tests should reveal that the horse's CPK concentration and AST levels are normal before the horse is returned to work.\n\nTo begin bringing the horse back, he should be exercised at the walk and trot for 10–15 minutes at least once every day. This regimen will gradually be increased as the horse becomes more willing. For a moderate or severe bout of ER, it may take 4–6 weeks to return to the regular program. It is important not to push the horse more than he is ready or a relapse may occur. A second bout of ER is usually more severe than the first, not only taking the horse out of training for a longer time, but possibly causing permanent muscle damage.\n\nGrain is gradually reintroduced as exercise resumes, but grain can contribute to the development of ER.\n\nFor mild to moderate cases of ER, the prognosis is excellent, with the horse successfully returning to its former level of competition. However, if the vet's recommendations for preventing ER are not followed, ER may likely recur.\n\nHorses who experience a severe case of ER (the muscle degeneration is significant) are less likely to return to their previous level of competition, as fibrosis may have occurred, which would result in loss of muscle function. The prognosis is guarded for these horses.\n\nReducing any extra energy in a horse's diet is essential to maintaining a horse that has experienced ER. Decreasing carbohydrates and increasing the daily intake of hay or pasture can usually accomplish this. Grain may need to be cut out altogether and replaced by a substitute, such as vegetable oil, to meet the individual energy needs of the horse.\n\nGrain should be reduced or removed from a horse's ration on days when he cannot be worked.\n\nProper conditioning is very important in preventing ER. Beginning with a base of long, slow distance work will ensure that the horse has a foundation before proceeding on to more strenuous work. The horse should always have a 10-minute warm-up at the walk and trot before more strenuous work is begun, and should always have a proper cool down of 10 minutes.\n\nIt is best that a horse receive exercise every day, or possibly twice a day, to prevent the recurrence of ER. If possible, avoid breaks in the horse's exercise schedule. Training, riding, driving, longeing, or turnout are all suitable.\n\nDaily pasture turnout is ideal for horses likely to suffer from ER, as it provides exercise and adds roughage to the animal's diet.\n\nAs with any supplements and drugs, it is best to confer with a veterinarian as to the recommended dosages. Some drugs are not allowed in competition and may need to be withheld a few days before.\n\nAdding potassium and salt to the diet may be beneficial to horses that suffer from recurrent bouts of ER. Horses in hard training may need a vitamin E supplement, as their requirements are higher than horses in more moderate work. The horse may also be deficient in selenium, and need a feed in supplement. Selenium can be dangerous if overfed, so it is best to have a blood test to confirm that the horse is in need of supplemental selenium.\n\nThyroid hormone supplementation is often beneficial for horses with low thyroid activity (only do so if the horse has been diagnosed with hypothyroidism).\n\nOther drugs that have been used with success include phenytoin, dantrolene, and dimethylglycine.\n\nBicarbonate and NSAIDs are of no use in preventing ER.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018034", "title": "Faschingsschwank aus Wien", "text": "Faschingsschwank aus Wien\n\nFaschingsschwank aus Wien (\"Carnival Scenes from Vienna\" or \"Carnival Jest from Vienna\"), Op. 26, is a solo piano work by Robert Schumann. He began composition of the work in 1839 in Vienna. He wrote the first four movements in Vienna, and the last on his return to Leipzig.\n\nEric Sams has noted that the word \"Faschingsschwank\" contains the letters ASCH SCHA in that order of appearance, and that Schumann used these notes in sequence as melodic material for this work. Robert Morgan has noted Schumann's use of Ludwig van Beethoven's Op. 26 as a model in this work, and also Schumann's use of musical symmetry. David Neumeyer has noted the similarity of the first section to the \"Valse Noble\", Op. 77, No. 7 (D. 969) of Franz Schubert.\n\nThe work is in five movements:\n\nMarked (\") (very lively), this is the longest and one of the more virtuosic movements, notable for its innovative rhythms and its brief quote of \"La Marseillaise.\" Of all the pieces of \"Faschingsschwank\", this one is the least single-minded in its structure, introducing entirely new themes occasionally, only to be brought back repeatedly to two repeated motifs from the beginning. The piece comes to a crashing close with almost dissonant septuplet arpeggios.\nProbably the least virtuosic of the works, taking only a page of music. Despite its shortness and apparent ease, this is undoubtedly the saddest piece in the set. Despite the fact that most of the work is in G minor, the final measure brings a resolution into G major.\nMuch as the title suggests, this work is a playful respite between two somber movements. A syncopated rhythm, with a melody based almost entirely on notes of the major chord, keeps the movement light and bouncing throughout, with the possible exception of the last run, a progression of octaves into a quick and bright cadence. \nThe Intermezzo is marked by its flowing sound, created by keeping a steady stream of right-hand notes in the background, interspersed with melody notes. The piece, almost entirely based on transpositions, appears difficult at first due to its speed (some musicologists have remarked that Schumann's metronome was calibrated such that it went faster than it should have, due to extreme tempi such as this one). While the background notes in the right hand do indeed move extremely fast, the melody is more singing. The background notes are mostly suited to the shape and position of the hand, despite a few leaps of the melody; in the end, the left hand takes a modified, E-flat major version of the E-flat minor melody, under the right hand. The work is a melancholy and emotionally charged display of a pianist's capability to convey feeling.\nThe \"extremely lively\" Finale begins with triumphant announcements in B-flat octaves, interspersed with brilliant moving thirds. This section is the second longest, lasting about half the length of the first movement. The patterns seen in the Finale are somewhat reminiscent of Beethoven's compositional style, using a melody that moves in both hands, while both hands also play unchanging notes beneath the melody. The energetic runs of the final bars bring the set to a dramatic close.\n\nThe \"Faschingsschwank aus Wien\" has been recorded many times, including outstanding live performances by Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli in 1957 and Sviatoslav Richter in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018035", "title": "Gaius Memmius (tribune)", "text": "Gaius Memmius (tribune)\n\nGaius Memmius (died December 100 BC) was a Roman politician and senator who was murdered by Gaius Servilius Glaucia during the disturbances that rocked Rome during the violent uprising and suppression of Lucius Appuleius Saturninus.\n\nGaius Memmius was a member of the Plebeian \"gens Memmia\". He was elected Plebeian Tribune in 111 BC, and was instrumental in relaunching the Jugurthine War after Jugurtha’s surrender in 111 BC. During his tribunate, he accused the consul Lucius Calpurnius Bestia, the senator Marcus Aemilius Scaurus and other aristocrats of accepting bribes from King Jugurtha. He summoned Jugurtha to appear in Rome, and promised him safe conduct in order that he may be questioned, but when Jugurtha arrived, Memmius was prevented from questioning the king by his colleague Gaius Baebius, whom Jugurtha bribed to impose his veto.\n\nIt is speculated that Memmius served as Praetor in 104 BC, and this was followed by the proconsular governorship of Macedonia in 103 BC. Then in the following year (102 BC), Marcus Aemilius Scaurus prosecuted Memmius with the charge of extortion. Memmius was found not guilty of all charges.\n\nIn 100 BC, Memmius was a candidate for the consulship of the following year (99 BC), but was slain in a riot on the election day, stirred up by his rival the praetor Gaius Servilius Glaucia. It has been speculated that, primarily due to Cicero describing him as \"consul designatus\", Memmius was actually elected Consul in the disrupted elections of 99 BC, and was killed after his successful candidature was announced in the Roman Forum.\n\nSallust refers to Memmius as \"a man fiercely hostile to the power of the nobles\" and states that he gave speeches whipping up the \"plebs\", urging them not to accept the behaviour of the nobles. Sallust describes him as an orator, but Cicero had a poor opinion of him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018037", "title": "Jeanne Thérèse du Han", "text": "Jeanne Thérèse du Han\n\nJeanne Thérèse du Han de Martigny (30 October 1707 in Lunéville – 7 May 1748 in Nancy) was born and baptized the same day in Lunéville, in the duchy of Lorraine, now part of France. She was the daughter of Philippe-Louis du Han, comte de Martigny (1678–1733) and his wife Catherine Françoise de Roquefeuil de Puydebar (c.1680 – 1764). The Du Han de Martigny were an important noble family of Lorraine, with estates in the north of the duchy.\n\nLouis-Philippe held posts as conseiller d'état, Chamberlain and Grand Veneur under Duke Léopold I, and his daughters were among the court beauties. In 1731, Jeanne-Thérèse was maid of honour to the Dowager Duchess and Regent of Lorraine, Léopold's widow.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the War of the Austrian Succession, Granville Elliott spent most of his time away fighting.\n\nJeanne Thérèse and her husband Granville appear regularly in the Madame de Graffigny correspondence.\n\nShe married Granville Elliott on 15 March 1735, in Mannheim, but the couple lived in Lorraine after their marriage, where they had one daughter and six sons:\n\n\nJeanne Thérèse died in Nancy on 7 July 1748 and was buried two days later in the nave of the Notre-Dame church in Nancy. Her body was reburied when the church was demolished in 1790.\n\nBecause Granville returned to Britain and remarried, he published a will for Jeanne Therese at London.\n"}
{"id": "2018052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018052", "title": "Benjamin Hutto", "text": "Benjamin Hutto\n\nW. Benjamin Hutto (October 4, 1947 – September 29, 2015) was an American musician who specialized in writing, producing, and directing choral music. He served as Director of Choral Activities and Director of Performing Arts at St. Albans School for Boys and the National Cathedral School for Girls in Washington D.C. He was also Director of Music and Organist at St. John's Episcopal Church, Lafayette Square.\n\nHutto was born in Charleston, South Carolina, in 1947. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree (English) from Emory, then studied at Westminster Choir College, and at the Royal School of Church Music in England. In 1989 he completed the Education for Ministry Program at the School of Theology through the . In 1998 he was named a Fellow of the Royal School of Church Music. In 2013 he was awarded the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters (honoris causa) from Virginia Theological Seminary.\n\nHe served as President of the Association of Anglican Musicians (1988-1989) and the Royal School of Church Music in America (1999-2006). He served as instructor and director of choral music at the Porter-Gaud School (Charleston) from 1969-1985. Simultaneously, he was Organist and Choirmaster at the (Episcopal) Cathedral of St. Luke and St. Paul. He was a co-founder of the organ recital series for Piccolo Spoleto, part of the Spoleto Festival USA. From 1985-1999, he was Organist and Choirmaster at Christ Church (Episcopal) in Charlotte. From 1999 until his death, he was Director of Choral Activities and Director of Performing Arts at St. Albans School for Boys and National Cathedral School for Girls in Washington, DC. From 2009 until his death, he also served as Director of Music Ministry and Organist at historic St. John's Church, Lafayette Square, in Washington, the \"Church of the Presidents.\" He served as Dean of both the Charleston (SC) and the Charlotte (NC) Chapters of the American Guild of Organists.\n\nAs a choral conductor, Hutto has presented children's choir workshops and served on panels for regional and national conferences for numerous professional educational and music organizations. During his time in Washington, his school choirs and young singers appeared on National Public Radio, with the Cathedral Choral Society, the Choral Arts Society of Washington, the Washington Master Chorale, and the Juilliard Orchestra, at performances in the Kennedy Center, and on national television. His singers toured from coast to coast in the United States and internationally to Australia, South Africa, Chile and Argentina. He conducted workshops and summer courses for the Royal School of Church Music in many parts of the United States, as well as in Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and South Africa.\n\nHutto held memberships in Sigma Chi social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa university leadership society, the American Guild of Organists, the Association of Anglican Musicians, the Royal School of Church Music, and the Cosmos Club.\n\nHutto wrote several Anglican chants for \"The Hymnal 1982\" and has several published anthems.\n\nOn the September 11, 2015, episode of the Late Show with Stephen Colbert, Stephen Colbert apologized to Hutto, his choir teacher at the Porter-Gaud School, for being a poor student.\n\nHe died of gallbladder cancer on 29 September 2015.\n\nHutto was a past president of the Royal School of Church Music in North America. He was the Director of Performing Arts at St. Albans School and National Cathedral School, and Director of Music Ministry and Organist at St. John's Church, Lafayette Square. He was named a Fellow of the Royal School of Church Music in 1998, and awarded the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters (honoris causa) by Virginia Theological Seminary in 2013. He composed a number of works which have been included in the 1982 Hymnal of the Episcopal Church, and he has several published anthems.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018055", "title": "Jets'n'Guns", "text": "Jets'n'Guns\n\nJets'n'Guns is a 2D, side-scrolling shoot 'em up computer game released in late 2004 for Microsoft Windows by Czech studio RakeInGrass software. In April 2006, a version for Mac OS X was released. In December 2006 an expansion, Jets'n'Guns Gold, was released. A version for Linux has been developed by Linux Game Publishing.\n\nBetween levels, players are given the option to buy upgrades for their ship. Some of the most vital upgrades are for maneuverability, speed, health/armor and cooling. They can also give their ship a new paint job for free. Another item is the \"Atarix\", which gives players a chance to unlock crates found when they destroy transport ships during a mission. There are several upgrades that boost the ship's defense and provide slow armor regeneration, such as shields and nanomachines. Other upgrades give players bounties for killing certain enemies, and bonuses for mass killings of enemy troops. There are also upgrades that allow players to customize up to five different weapon profiles, which can be switched mid-game, or allow players to change the angle of their weapons to adapt to changing strategic situations.\n\nAs the game progresses, more weapons and items are made available. The fighter the player starts with only has slots for two front weapons and rather limited ship upgrades. The \"TMIG-226\" has slots for one bombing system, one missile system, three front weapons, and one rear weapon. Some weapons can only be used in the front or rear slots. There is a large variety of weapons, ranging from flamethrowers to electro-balls to acid guns. Most weapons can be upgraded after they are bought. This may enhance power, projectile velocity, rate of fire, or the nature of the attack itself. When viewing the status of an individual weapon, meters are shown that indicate its power, heat generation and speed ratings.\n\nMost weapons give off heat when fired, indicated by a heating gauge. This heat dissipates when firing ceases. If the needle passes the orange and then red zones of the gauge the ship overheats, and it will be unable to fire until the needle passes back behind the orange zone. This makes upgrading the cooling system essential. With an improved cooling system, the ship will take longer to overheat, and will cool down faster. Missiles and bombs do not generate heat. The rate of fire for missiles is determined by their upgrade level. Bombs are the only weapons that have a limit pertaining to how many can be fired at any given time. Each bomb that is dropped uses up a portion of a slowly replenishing 'bomb meter'; the amount used by each bomb decreases with upgrades.\n\nIn Jets'n'Guns, the player starts out as a freelancer, contracted to drive out a gang of criminals from a sector of space. Soon, the player is contacted by their old commanding officer from a previous war, Col. Troubleman, who is based aboard the United Space Ship \"Impotence\". He explains that Xoxx, the evil dictator, has appeared again and has kidnapped a scientist, Professor Von Hamburger. The professor was developing a gigantic quantum cannon, which he intended to use for peaceful purposes. Xoxx, however, wants the cannon because it could, theoretically, destroy the entire universe with a single shot. Erecta Von Hamburger, the professor's daughter, also contacts the player, but she is mainly concerned with the rescue of her father.\n\nThe player first has to steal a better fighter, the \"TMIG-226\", from the heavily guarded FeX labs. The player then has to rendezvous with the USS \"Impotence\", and is only just saved from destruction by pirates by a well-timed volley of torpedoes from the \"Impotence\". The majority of the following missions involve assaults on Xoxx's forces and attempts to ascertain the locations of the professor and the quantum cannon.\n\nEventually, after many battles against Xoxx's forces and hench-beings, the player rescues the professor. Soon after, the location of the completed cannon, the Lord Chaos Mk 1, is discovered. However, when the player defeats Xoxx, Xoxx escapes in a \"backup time washing machine\", his parting message revealing that it is too late to stop the cannon firing. The universe is destroyed, leaving the player's ship flying in a field of rocky debris as the credits roll. Eventually,\n\n\nThe developers have stated they were heavily inspired by the games \"Tyrian 2000\", \"Project-X\" and \"Walker\". As in Tyrian, players earn money by destroying enemies and picking up bonuses in each level. In-between levels, players can purchase weapons and devices for their ship, and upgrade them, provided they have enough money.\n\nHowever, \"Jets'n'Guns\" is more complex than \"Tyrian\" in this respect. There are many more weapons to choose from, a greater variety of devices to purchase and more ways to upgrade the player's ship. Also, unlike in Tyrian, where a player could get through most, if not all of the game using the weapons available at the start of the game (with upgrades and new ship systems), in JnG the player is forced to experiment with their weapons in order to be successful. The game has no \"lives\", so the player can keep attempting a level until they beat it.\n\nAccording to the developers, one of the reasons they chose to do a side scroller, as opposed to a vertical scroller, was so they could put in lots of visual humour. Players can expect to see, among other things, spacefighters with knives strapped to them and various humorous signs. They can also expect most of the weapons in the weapon shop have advertising posters, emblazoned with messages such as \"Ultimate destructive power!\" or \"As seen on TV!\". Also, cultural references are scattered throughout the game, both in the equipment and the actual levels.\n\nIn November 2012 Rake in Grass applied to Steam Greenlight system to add Jets'n'Guns Gold to Steam. A year later the game was accepted, with a scheduled release on 5 February 2014.\n\nThe soundtrack was composed and performed by Machinae Supremacy. The band created over 50 minutes of original music for the game in a variety of styles. The band provides downloads on their site containing the game soundtrack – however the song \"Hero\" is available separately — in MP3 and Ogg format.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018068", "title": "The Homer They Fall", "text": "The Homer They Fall\n\n\"The Homer They Fall\" is the third episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 10, 1996. After Homer realizes he has a bizarre medical condition that renders him unable to be knocked out, Moe Szyslak convinces him to start a career as a boxer and allow the bartender to manage him. The episode was written by Jonathan Collier and directed by Mark Kirkland. It guest stars Michael Buffer as himself and Paul Winfield as Lucius Sweet.\n\nDuring the Simpsons' visit to a high-tech gadget store, Bart buys a gimmicky utility belt. When he shows it off at school the next day, Dolph, Jimbo and Kearney beat him up and take it. To get the belt back, Homer confronts their fathers at Moe's Tavern; they beat him up but find that they cannot knock him down, even after breaking a pool cue over his head.\n\nAfter seeing Homer's ability to absorb physical punishment, Moe suggests that he take up boxing and allow Moe — himself a former boxer — to manage and train him. Marge insists that Homer have a full medical checkup first. Dr. Hibbert discovers that the layer of fluid around Homer's brain is thicker than normal, allowing him to withstand powerful blows to the head. Discovering that Homer is too weak and out of shape to inflict any damage by punching, Moe suggests that he let his opponents exhaust themselves trying to knock him out, then push them down to the canvas for an easy win.\n\nHomer prevails in his first fights against several homeless men, eventually rising to the top of the Springfield Hobo Boxing Association and attracting the attention of Lucius Sweet, Moe's former boxing manager. Lucius tells Moe that current heavyweight champion Drederick Tatum is about to be released from prison and wants a comeback fight, preferably against Homer. Moe knows that Tatum is far too strong and fit for Homer to tire out, but the lure of fame and fortune makes him agree to the fight. He promises Lucius that Homer will last at least three rounds. Moe quickly wins Homer over by feigning confidence in his fighting skills.\n\nHomer ignores Marge's pleas to withdraw from the fight, which is wildly hyped by the media. On the night of the event, Moe falsely promises Marge that he will throw in the towel if Homer appears to be in any danger. Tatum's first punch is strong enough to leave Homer badly dazed, and Marge urges him to start fighting back. Homer's punch completely misses Tatum, who hammers his head and prepares to deliver a punch that will either knock him out or kill him. Just before he can land the blow, Moe swoops in using a paramotor stolen from the Fan Man and airlifts Homer out of the ring while the audience boos loudly.\n\nOutside the arena, Marge thanks Moe for saving Homer. Tatum expresses his respect for Marge and Homer's love. Lucius berates Moe for failing to deliver even one round of boxing, but pays him $100,000 anyway. Moe flies off with the paramotor to help people around the world, much to Fan Man's chagrin.\n\nThe episode was written by Jonathan Collier, who is a huge boxing fan. Knowing that the people on the internet would \"give them grief\", the writers went to a lot of effort to explain how Homer would be able to challenge for the Heavyweight Title. A lot of the scenes involving Homer fighting hobos were pitched by John Swartzwelder. Lucius Sweet is a parody of boxing promoter Don King, and is voiced by Paul Winfield, who had previously played King in HBO's 1995 biopic \"Tyson\". In the script, Sweet was described as \"A Don King type who looks and sounds exactly like Don King\". The similarity is even pointed out by Homer with the line, \"He is exactly as rich and as famous as Don King – and he looks just like him, too!\" King was asked to guest star, but turned the part down. Drederick Tatum is a parody of Mike Tyson. The name came from George Meyer, who went to high school with a boy named Drederick Timmins, which Meyer thought was a cool name. Tatum having done time in prison is a reference to the fact that, at the time of the episode's production, Tyson had just recently been released from prison after serving three years for rape. Homer is at one point referred to as \"The Southern Dandy\" as a reference to the old-time boxers and wrestlers who had similar nicknames.\n\nIn preparation for this episode, Mark Kirkland watched several boxing films and is satisfied with how it turned out. Whenever designing rooms, Kirkland tries to show a bare lightbulb because he feels that it makes things more depressing. In the scene in Moe's office, there is a brief shot of a poster advertising \"Szyslak Vs. Oakley\" and \"Kirkland Vs. Silverman\", referring to then-executive producer Bill Oakley and \"The Simpsons\" directors Mark Kirkland and David Silverman. The scene where Tatum is walking to the ring surrounded by shady characters is based on a real life photo of Tyson.\n\nThe fathers of Jimbo, Dolph and Kearney make their first and only appearances in the history of the show.\n\nThe episode opens with a parody of \"Bonanza\". The montage of Homer fighting various hobos was based on a similar montage in \"Raging Bull\". The music is inspired by \"The Flower Duet\" from the opera \"Lakmé\" by Léo Delibes. During the montage, there is a brief parody of the George Bellows painting \"Dempsey and Firpo\". The \"Fan Man\" is based on James Miller, a man famous for parachuting into arenas during big events. Homer's walk-out music is \"Why Can't We Be Friends?\" by War and Tatum's is \"Time 4 Sum Aksion\" by Redman, which was also used by Tyson for his first fight after his release from prison. The song heard over the end credits is a rendition of Barbra Streisand's \"People\", sung by Sally Stevens.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"The Homer They Fall\" finished 29th in ratings for the week of November 4–10, 1996, with a Nielsen rating of 10.0, equivalent to approximately 9.7 million viewing households. It was the second highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-Files\".\n\nIn response to the season fourteen episode \"Barting Over\", which is about skateboarding, Raju Mudhar of the \"Toronto Star\" listed what he thought were \"excellent\" episodes of \"The Simpsons\" and scenes also related to sports. He included \"The Homer They Fall\", writing that Drederick Tatum is \"a thinly veiled Mike Tyson parody who's made cameos over the years\". \n\nSimilarly, in 2004 ESPN.com released a list of the Top 100 Simpsons sport moments, ranking the entire episode at #2, saying, \"Greatest sports introduction ever: In the Tatum fight, Homer is introduced as the Brick Hithouse (and is also known as the Southern Dandy), and his walk-to-the-ring music is 'Why Can't We Be Friends?'\". Drederick Tatum was placed at the eighteenth spot on the list. Conversely, the authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, called it \"the dullest, one-joke episode of the entire series\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2018072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018072", "title": "Bryan Cave", "text": "Bryan Cave\n\nBryan Cave Leighton Paisner LLP is an international law firm with 25 offices worldwide, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, United States.\n\nIn 2018, Bryan Cave merged with Berwin Leighton Paisner to create Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner LLP. The new firm is led by co-chairs Lisa Mayhew and Steve Baumer.\n\nFounded in 1873 as King, Phillips & Stewart in downtown St. Louis. Pendleton Taylor Bryan joined the firm in 1911, followed by Rhodes Cave in 1917.\n\nIn 2002, Bryan Cave acquired New York-based Robinson, Silverman, Pearce, Aronsohn, and Berman LLP, bringing the headcount of the combined firms up to over 800 lawyers.\n\nThe firm established an office in southern Illinois in 2004 to assist clients with class-action, product liability and commercial litigation matters in Madison and St. Clair Counties in Illinois.\n\nIn 2005 Bryan Cave lost its Riyadh and Dubai offices to the Houston-based mega-firm Fulbright & Jaworski, but retained its office in Kuwait. The Kuwait office however soon closed as well.\n\nIn 2007 offices were opened in Hamburg and Milan, followed by San Francisco and Paris in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, Bryan Cave and Atlanta-based Powell Goldstein merged, creating an expanded firm with new offices in Atlanta, Charlotte, and Dallas.\n\nAt the beginning of 2012, Bryan Cave merged with Holme Roberts & Owen (HRO), a law firm based in Denver, Colorado with over 210 attorneys.\n\nBryan Cave also established an office in Frankfurt, Germany in 2012, to be integrated with the firm's already established Hamburg office.\n\nIn 2018, Bryan Cave merged with the London firm of Berwin Leighton Paisner.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018074", "title": "Write once read many", "text": "Write once read many\n\nWrite once read many (WORM) describes a data storage device in which information, once written, cannot be modified. This write protection affords the assurance that the data cannot be tampered with once it is written to the device.\n\nOn ordinary (non-WORM) data storage devices, the number of times data can be modified is limited only by the lifespan of the device, as modification involves physical changes that may cause wear to the device. The \"read many\" aspect is unremarkable, as modern storage devices permit unlimited reading of data once written.\n\nWORM drives preceded the invention of the CD-R and DVD-R. An example was the IBM 3363. These drives typically used a disk in a cartridge, with an ablative optical layer that could be written to only once, and were often used in places like libraries that needed to store large amounts of data. Interfaces to connect these to PCs also existed.\n\nPunched cards and paper tape are obsolete WORM media. Although any unpunched area of the medium could be punched after the first write of the medium, doing so was virtually never useful. Read-only memory (ROM) is also a WORM medium. Such memory may contain the instructions to a computer to read the operating system from another storage device such as a hard disk. The non-technical end-user, however, cannot write the ROM even once, but considers it part of the unchangeable computing platform.\n\nWORM was utilized for Broker-dealer records within the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nThe CD-R and DVD-R optical disks for computers are common WORM devices. On these disks, no region of the disk can be recorded a second time. However, these disks often use a file system based on ISO 9660 that permits additional files, and even revised versions of a file by the same name, to be recorded in a different region of the disk. To the user of the disk, the disk appears to allow additions and revisions until all the disk space is used.\n\nThe SD card and microSD card spec allows for multiple forms of write-protection. The most common form, only available when using a full-size SD card, provides a \"mechanical write protect switch\" which allows the user to advise the host computer that the user wants the device to be treated as read-only. This does not protect the data on the card if the host is compromised. Another option is to set the WORM function into the firmware of the memory card so it will always run on WORM card mode by default. By using this option, it will not require to trigger an external software trigger to enable WORM card function.\n\nMultiple vendors beginning in the early 2000s developed Magnetic WORM devices. These archival grade storage devices utilize a variation of RAID and magnetic storage technologies to secure data from unauthorized alteration or modification at both the hardware and software levels. As the cost of magnetic (and solid state) storage has decreased, so has the cost for these archival storage technologies. These technologies are almost always integrated directly to a content/document management system that manages retention schedules and access controls, along with document level history.\n\nThere are multiple vendors providing Magnetic Storage technologies including NetApp, EMC Centera, KOM Networks, and others. In 2013, GreenTec-USA, Inc. developed WORM hard disk drives in capacities of 3 TB and greater. Prevention of rewrite is done at the physical disk level and cannot be modified or overridden by the attached computer.\n\nsoftWORM is a new generation of WORM solutions based on providing durability features through cryptographic techniques and algorithms implemented in the software. The representative of this solution class is the SDOC\n\nIn recent years there has been a renewed interest in WORM based on organic components, such as or other polymers such as PVK or PCz. Organic WORM devices, considered organic memory, could be used as memory elements for low-power RFID tags.\n"}
{"id": "2018079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018079", "title": "Athens College", "text": "Athens College\n\nAthens College (; formally Hellenic-American Educational Foundation (HAEF)) is a co-educational private preparatory school in Psychiko, Greece, a suburb of Athens, part of the Hellenic-American Educational Foundation (Ελληνοαμερικανικό Εκπαιδευτικό Ίδρυμα) which also includes Psychico College, although both schools are usually referred to as \"Athens College\". It was established in 1925 to bring the best of both Greek and American educational systems to Greece and is considered one of the top schools in the country. The school's founders and big donors were Emmanuel Benakis, namesake of the Benaki Museum of Athens, as well as the school's main building, and Stephanos Deltas. Instruction is in both Greek and English. The school boasts a long list of successful alumni in politics, business, and the arts. Admission at either the 1st, 4th, 7th or 10th grade is very selective. The school is often referred to as a power hub, due to its numerous influential alumni who remain closely connected after graduation.\n\nThe 3,000 students are divided among Athens and Psychico College, each of which includes a Kindergarten, an Elementary School, a middle school, and an upper school. The upper school of Psychico College also offers students interested in studies abroad the International Baccalaureate programme. In addition the adult education program enrolls 2,000 students.\n\nApproximately 98% of its graduates go on to university, half of them abroad.\n\nAthens College is known for hosting an annual school fair (Panigiri), which raises money for charity and attracts people from all around Athens and other schools.\n\nAthens College has a long tradition in oratory/rhetoric competitions. Starting with the Three Hierarch speech competition in 10th grade and 25 March speech competition in 11th grade, the school's oratory competitions apex with the two Senior Speech competitions, Delta and Howland. The Howland prize is given to the one student who excels in public speaking in the Greek Language and the Delta Prize is given to the student whose English speech is selected first among his peers for both its content and its delivery. Both competitions include the approximately 400 students of each graduating class and have semi-finals and finals with different judging committees usually composed of people from the realm of education, diplomacy, and politics. The winners of the two competitions deliver their speeches at Commencement in July, in front of thousands of attendees.\n\nAthens College has a great tradition in mathematics competitions. The school's students are prepared in the school's Mathematics Club. Many of the school's representatives over the past few years have succeeded in national and international competitions. Also notable are the school's distinctions in competitions such as AMC 8, AMC 10 and AIME. The school's Drama Club has begun a tradition the last years by earning numerous prizes, distinctions and awards in national and regional tournaments.\n\nAthens College's library is one of the largest school libraries in Europe and was the first in Greece to have all its books electronically cataloged. The sporting facilities of Athens College include a gym, two football pitches (one gravel), seven outdoor basketball courts, four outdoor tennis courts, an indoor swimming pool, a track & field court, and an indoor sports center with facilities for squash, table tennis, gymnastics, volleyball, martial arts, and other events.\n\nAthens College is incorporated in both Greece and the State of New York and is a not-for-profit, tax-exempt organization. Furthermore, very important for the school's spirit and an indication of its special status is its scholarship program (funded by the parents associations and the alumni club SAKA) which has given numerous students from all socioeconomic layers the opportunity to study there.\n\nAthens College was established in 1925 by a group of enlightened Greeks (Emmanuel Benakis and Stephanos Delta among them) with the support of American philhellenes, including Dr. Bert Hodge, Director of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens.\n\nThe Founders’ vision, which in fact was translated into reality even in the earliest years of the school’s existence, revolved around the creation of a school which fostered the \"harmonious development of students’ intellectual, ethical and physical capabilities, especially character\" by enhancing the existing educational system with \"modern educational methods which took into account the Greek nation’s history, traditions, culture and specific needs.\"\n\nThe Founding Committee of Athens College, which became its board of directors, was organized in May 1924. Its members were Epaminondas Charilaos, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Bert Hodge Hill, Director of the American School of Classical Studies, Stephanos Delta, retired businessman and treasurer of the Refugee Settlement Commission, Stavros Papadakis, YMCA. secretary, Emmanuel Benakis, retired businessman, former Minister and former Mayor of Athens, Petros Calligas, former Minister, Harold Jacquith, Director of the Near East Relief, Nicolas Kyriakides, shipowner. Later, Emmanuel Benakis who has been a major donator for the College, was named emeritus member and was replaced at the Committee by his son Antonios.\n\nThe institution has been officially recognized with the title \"Hellenic-American Educational Foundation\". The courses began in October 1925 with 15 pupils (it was a school for boys). A building was rented at Androu Street for $215 per month, and Emmanuel Benakis and Stephanos Delta covered the first expenses (£2000). The first Headmaster of the College was the Englishman F. Stroud Read. The American Homer Davis, former teacher at Robert College of Constantinople, had in charge the English Department. Stephanos Delta provided for some years the needed funds for the operation of the School.\n\nIn 1926 the Greek-American Evripides Kehayas, president of Standard Commercial Tobacco Co., offered $100,000 to the College. In January 1927, a \"Board of Trustees of Athens College in Greece\" was founded at New York. The same year, Emmanuel Benakis offered to the College another $100,000 to buy land at Psychico, suburbs of Athens. Later, Benakis and Delta offered a huge supplement of $500,000. Other Greek personalities, as Eleftherios Venizelos, provided more funds. A new building began to be constructed in March 1927.\nAthens College begun its operation at the new building, called Benaki Hall, in autumn 1928, with 270 pupils, 91 being boarders. President of the College from 1927 was Dr. Henry Dewing. The official opening of Benaki Hall and of the Kehayas aisle took place in May 1929. In June of the same year, graduated the first five pupils.\n\nDuring the academic year 1930–31, the number of the pupils reached 351, and the number of professors 44 (9 were Americans, the rest of them Greek). A seventh year was then added to the six-year Gymnasium. This supplementary year will be a particularity of Athens College.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the College had many economic difficulties, and new collects were then organized. With money from various sponsors, new buildings have been constructed, the library has been founded as well a scholarship fund.\nHomer Davis, who was Acting Director of the College after the departure of Dewing in 1930, was named its President in 1932. He will keep this charge until 1960, and will be Acting President in 1964–65. The Greek co-directors during those years, were Michael Michaelides-Nouaros (1925–27), Demetrius Georgakis (1927–36), Emmanuel Troulinos (1936–62), Constantine Lalopoulos (1962–73) and Sofocles Markianos (1973–78).\n\nThe first school-laboratories have been organized in Athens College during the 1930s, by professor of physics Panos Mavromatis. Four rooms have been provided for laboratories of physics, of chemistry, of biology and of geology. The experimental teaching has been from then a main educational policy of the College. From Athens College graduated many eminent Greek scientists, artists and politicians. This College has been an institution preparing Greek students to enter English and U.S. universities.\n\nIn 1974, after the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, Athens College accepted 30 Greek Cypriot refugees into the College Boarding Department and gave them full scholarships.\n\nAthens College (and its sister school, Psychico College, founded in 1980) is owned by the Hellenic-American Educational Foundation, a non-profit organization with facilities located in Psychico (Middle and High Schools and the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program) and Kantza in eastern Attica (two elementary schools: Bodossakio and Latsio).\n\nWhen it first began, in October 1925, Athens College occupied a rented building on 18 Androu Street in the heart of Athens. The school moved to Psychico in 1929. That same year, the Benaki Hall was dedicated by Eleftherios Venizelos, then Greece’s Prime Minister and an ardent supporter of the school. In his speech during the dedication ceremony, Venizelos made some memorable remarks:\n\n\"... Private schools are where the greatest and most successful innovations may flourish: loosely supervised by the State and complying with broad State guidelines, private schools enjoy the freedom which public schools lack and, therefore, may achieve great progress. This is the kind of progress we expect Athens College to achieve. This is my judgment of the significance of the College.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018081", "title": "Barrel Fever", "text": "Barrel Fever\n\nBarrel Fever and Other Stories is a 1994 collection of short stories and essays by David Sedaris. The book is divided into two sections. The first section consists of short fiction and the second half contains autobiographical essays. The most famous of the essays is \"SantaLand Diaries\", the essay that made Sedaris famous when he read it on National Public Radio in 1992. The essay tells of his experiences working as an elf at Macy's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018092", "title": "Hugh Montgomerie, 12th Earl of Eglinton", "text": "Hugh Montgomerie, 12th Earl of Eglinton\n\nHugh Montgomerie, 12th Earl of Eglinton KT (5 November 1739 – 14 December 1819) was a Scottish peer, politician, and composer.\n\nMontgomerie was styled Lord Montgomerie from 1769, and sat as a Member of Parliament for Ayrshire off and on from 1780 to 1796. \nThat year he became Lord Lieutenant of Ayrshire, which post he held until his death. In 1798, having previously succeeded to the earldom through his third cousin, he was elected a representative peer and moved to the House of Lords. On 15 February 1806, he was created Baron Ardrossan in the Peerage of the United Kingdom, enabling him to sit the Lords in his own right.\nHe was made a Knight of the Thistle in 1814.\n\nAs large ships were unable to reach Glasgow due to silting of the River Clyde, Montgomerie promoted and partially funded the Glasgow, Paisley and Ardrossan Canal. \nHowever funds ran out and the canal was only constructed from Glasgow to Johnstone via Paisley.\nThe Glasgow terminus of the canal was at Port Eglinton. Though the wharf is now filled in, the neighbouring Eglinton Street still bears his name. Preparatory work on the canal from the new harbour created at Ardrossan was used as the basis for Glasgow Street, which is the main thoroughfare of the town.\n\nMontgomerie was an amateur composer and cellist. His best known work is the dance tune \"Ayrshire Lasses\", and other composers dedicated works to him, including Thomas Arne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018101", "title": "Rudolf Anderson", "text": "Rudolf Anderson\n\nRudolf Anderson Jr. (September 15, 1927 – October 27, 1962), was a pilot and commissioned officer in the United States Air Force and the first recipient of the Air Force Cross, the U.S. Air Force's second-highest award for heroism. The only fatality by enemy fire during the Cuban Missile Crisis, Anderson died when his U-2 reconnaissance aircraft was shot down over Cuba.\n\nBorn and raised in Greenville, South Carolina, Anderson earned the rank of Eagle Scout from Boy Scout Troop 19. He graduated from Greenville High School and earned a bachelor's degree from Clemson University in 1948 as a member of Air Force ROTC Detachment 770.\n\nCommissioned as a Second Lieutenant, Anderson completed Primary and Advanced pilot training and received his U.S. Air Force aeronautical rating as a pilot. He began his operational career flying RF-86 Sabres and earned two Distinguished Flying Crosses for reconnaissance missions during the Korean War. After qualifying on the U-2 on September 3, 1957, \"he became the 4080th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing's top U-2 pilot with over one thousand hours, making him a vital part of the United States' reconnaissance operation over Cuba in late October of 1962.\"\n\nOriginally flown by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the Lockheed U-2 high-altitude reconnaissance missions over Cuba were taken over by the Air Force on October 14, 1962, using CIA U-2 aircraft that were repainted with USAF insignia. Anderson was part of the 4028th Strategic Reconnaissance Weather Squadron, 4080th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing, headquartered at Laughlin Air Force Base, Texas. On October 15, when CIA analysts studied reconnaissance film from the first 4080th overflight, they found SS-4 medium-range ballistic missiles. These pictures triggered the Cuban Missile Crisis.\n\nOn October 27, Anderson took off in a U-2F (AF Serial Number \"56-6676\", former CIA Article 343) from a forward operating location at McCoy Air Force Base in Orlando, Florida. A few hours into his mission, he was shot down by a Soviet-supplied S-75 Dvina (NATO designation SA-2 Guideline) surface-to-air missile near Banes, Cuba. \"The loss of the U-2 over Banes was probably caused by intercept by an SA-2 from the Banes site, or pilot hypoxia, with the former appearing more likely on the basis of present information,\" stated a CIA document dated 0200 hrs, October 28, 1962. Anderson was killed when shrapnel from the exploding proximity warhead punctured his pressure suit, causing it to decompress at high altitude.\n\nOn October 31, Acting United Nations Secretary-General U Thant returned from a visit with Premier Fidel Castro and announced that Anderson was dead. His body was released by Cuba on Sunday, November 4, and he was buried in his hometown two days later.\n\nBy order of President John F. Kennedy, Anderson was posthumously awarded the first Air Force Cross, as well as the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal, the Purple Heart, and the Cheney Award. On July 26, 2011, Anderson was inducted into the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Distinguished Alumni in a ceremony at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, officiated by Lieutenant General Allen G. Peck, Commander, Air University.\n\nAlthough Anderson was the only combat death of the crisis, three reconnaissance-variant Boeing RB-47 Stratojets of the 55th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing crashed between September 27 and November 11, 1962, killing a total of 11 crewmembers. Seven more airmen died when a Boeing C-135B Stratolifter delivering ammunition to Naval Base Guantanamo Bay stalled and crashed on approach on October 23.\n\nAnderson's awards and decorations include:\n\nThe President of the United States of America, authorized by Title 10, Section 8742, United States Code, takes pride in presenting the Air Force Cross (Posthumously) to Major Rudolf Anderson Jr., United States Air Force, for extraordinary heroism in connection with military operations against an armed enemy while serving as Pilot of a U-2 airplane with the 4080th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing, Strategic Air Command (SAC), from 15 October 1962 to 27 October 1962. During this period of great national crisis, Major Anderson, flying an unescorted, unarmed aircraft, lost his life while participating in one of several aerial reconnaissance missions over Cuba. While executing these aerial missions, Major Anderson made photographs which provided the United States government with conclusive evidence of the introduction of long-range offensive missiles into Cuba and which materially assisted our leaders in charting the nation's military and diplomatic course. Through his extraordinary heroism, superb airmanship, and aggressiveness in the face of the enemy, Major Anderson reflected the highest credit upon himself and the United States Air Force.\n\nAfter the Cuban Missile Crisis ended, Anderson's body was returned to the United States and interred in Greenville on November 6 at Woodlawn Memorial Park.\n\nA memorial to Anderson was erected in 1963 at Cleveland Park in Greenville. No surplus U-2 aircraft were available at the time, so an F-86 Sabre like the ones he flew in Korea was used instead: North American YF-86H-1-NA Sabre, AF Ser. No. \"52-1976\".\n\nThe memorial was redesigned, and it was rededicated on October 27, 2012, the 50th anniversary of Anderson's death.\nThe auditorium for the 47th Operations Group at Laughlin AFB, Texas, is named in his honor.\n\nThe Maj. Rudolf Anderson Jr. Squadron of the Arnold Air Society at Clemson University is named in his honor.\n\nSome of the wreckage of Major Anderson's aircraft is on display in three museums in Cuba. One of the engine intakes is at the Museo de la Lucha contra Bandidos in Trinidad. The engine and portion of the tail assembly from the U-2F is at the Museum of the Revolution in Havana. The right wing, a portion of the tail assembly, and front landing gear are at the Fortaleza de San Carlos de la Cabaña, or La Cabaña, Havana. The two latter groups of parts were previously displayed at the Museo del Aire, Havana.\n\nThe shoot down of Anderson's U-2 reconnaissance flight over Cuba is featured in the 2000 film \"Thirteen Days\"; actor Charles Esten plays the role of Anderson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018105", "title": "List of songs recorded by &quot;Weird Al&quot; Yankovic", "text": "List of songs recorded by &quot;Weird Al&quot; Yankovic\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic is a multi-Grammy Award-winning American musician, satirist, parodist, accordionist, director, and television producer.\n\nHe is known in particular for humorous songs which make fun of popular culture or parody specific songs by contemporary musical acts, or both. His works have earned him three gold and five platinum records in the U.S.\n\nYankovic has written hundreds of songs over his entire career; however, listed below are the tracks that have appeared on his commercially released albums. These include his fourteen studio albums and seven compilation albums.\n\n\n\nEach song's listing states the album or albums on which it appears, and whether the song is an original or a parody. Some songs are \"style parodies\", in which Yankovic emulates the general sound of a group without directly parodying one of their songs. These are listed as \"Original, in the style of . ... \"\n\n\nSome episodes of \"The Weird Al Show\" contained songs that were not released on studio albums.\n\nThis is a list of songs Yankovic has written and/or performed, but have not been commercially released.\n\nYankovic's official website has the following note:\n\nBecause Yankovic is arguably the most successful parody artist, songs posted to file sharing networks are often misattributed to him due to their humorous subject matter. Much to the disdain of Yankovic, this includes songs that are racist, sexually explicit, or otherwise offensive. A young listener who had heard several of these offensive tracks by way of a file sharing service confronted Yankovic online, threatening a boycott due to his supposedly explicit lyrics.\n\nYankovic cites these misattributions as \"his real beef with P2P sites\":\n\nA list of songs \"not\" by Yankovic can be found at The Not Al List. Alternatively, a list of all commercially released songs recorded by Yankovic can be found on his website.\n\n\nThe style parody artists for \"Straight Outta Lynwood\" are thanked in the \"Special thanks to ...\" page of the album's booklet.\n"}
{"id": "2018117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018117", "title": "Frankenfish", "text": "Frankenfish\n\nFrankenfish is a 2004 American horror film dealing with genetically engineered fish in the bayou. Filmed in Baldwin County, Alabama, \"Frankenfish\" was based on the snakehead fish incident in a Crofton, Maryland, pond. It is one of three movies based on the incident, the others being \"Snakehead Terror\" and \"Swarm of the Snakehead\".\n\nMedical examiner Sam Rivers and biologist Mary Callahan travel into the bayou to investigate the mysterious death of a fisherman. Having grown up in the area, Sam is comfortable in his surroundings while Mary is not. They find Elmer noodling for catfish in the swamp canals. With Elmer, Sam and Mary travel upriver to the fishing community. They meet Gloria, the wife of the deceased fisherman. Gloria's daughter Eliza and her semi-boyfriend Dan also live in the house. Gloria explains that a strange boat washed upriver three months ago after a hurricane and strange things have happened since.\n\nSam and Mary find a large fishing boat along the bank of a canal. They explore the interior while Elmer waits in the boat outside. They discover the remains of the crew in the hold. Upset, Mary clumsily knocks Elmer from the boat and something drags him down. Sam and Mary flee in the boat, unaware that they have triggered a homing signal on the ship. On the mainland, a team relays the information to their employer, a wealthy bounty hunter.\n\nLater on that night Roland hears noises while on the roof of his houseboat. He leans over the edge and a frankenfish leaps up and decapitates him. His wife Bobbi attempts to escape the houseboat on a small boat but the fish flips her out and kills her. Frightened, the group tries to flee in boats but the fish destroys them. Trying to come with a plan to escape Sam tries to get over to Roland and Bobbi's house to try and start it up to escape but it turns out that the houseboat is inoperable. On a neighboring stilt house, Ricardo baits a large hook using an entire catfish and manages to land one of the frankenfish. Nearly as big as a full-grown man, the fish can breathe air and hops forward biting at Ricardo's legs. Ricardo manages to kill it with a shotgun blast to the head. In vengeance, he tears out its heart and barbecues it. As he takes his first bite a second frankenfish leaps from the water and devours him.\n\nWhile everyone panics, Mary declares she has an idea on how to get off the boathouse. Before she can explain, she is killed in an explosion. A fire propels a propane tank into the boathouse causing an explosion that sends Eliza into the water. Sam dives in and rescues her. Simultaneously, a frankenfish leaps from the water and bites off Gloria's legs. The fish have begun attacking the boathouses, punching holes in them to make them sink.\n\nThe bounty hunter and his crew arrive and the fish attack them too. Knocked out of the boat, they swim quickly to the safety of the sinking stilt houses. The hunter explains that the fish are genetically engineered snakeheads. Sam, Eliza, and Dan have no choice but to join the hunter in pursuing the fish.\n\nThe crew follows a trail of blood back to the fish's den. The hunter forces Sam at gunpoint to enter first. Sam flees the den as behind him a larger frankenfish kills two hunters. Dan, Sam, and Eliza quickly leave on the fan boat, chased by the frankenfish. Dan falls from the boat during the chase but scrambles up a mudbank. Realizing they cannot outrace the monster, Sam drives the fan boat up a stand of tree stumps and knocks off the protective lining of the fan. Unable to slow its momentum, the frankenfish launches into the whirling blades to its death. Sam and Eliza kiss and go back the way they came to get Dan. However, Dan is trapped in the mud as dozens of baby frankenfish attack him.\n\n\"Frankenfish\" was released on DVD and VHS on October 26, 2004.\n\nJames Mudge of Beyond Hollywood wrote that the film, as judged by its peers, was \"a surprising success\". Jon Condit of Dread Central rated it 3.5/5 stars and wrote, \"It is what it is and it’s better at being it than most of the recent offerings similar to it.\" Dennis Prince of DVD Verdict wrote that the film is a retread but has good gore effects. In a 2018 retrospective review, Glenn Cochrane of ScreenRealm wrote that although the film's visual effects are severely dated, it still offers a fun time for viewers with \"a penchant for cheesy B movie creature features.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2018124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018124", "title": "The Quest of Ki", "text": "The Quest of Ki\n\nThe story of \"The Quest of Ki\" is actually a prequel to the original Tower of Druaga. It occurs shortly after the demon Druaga has stolen the Blue Crystal Rod and taken it to his tower. The goddess Ishtar sends the priestess Ki to the tower in order to retrieve it. The game then follows her doomed quest to the top of the tower, and leads directly into the story of the original game.\n\nThe game is a side-scrolling platformer with one hundred levels. In each level, the player's goal is to pick up a key and open the door leading to the next area. Various enemies, including slimes, ghosts, and wizards, appear on each floor, and any contact with them results in death.\n\nKi has no weapons, and thus can not damage or defeat any of the enemies. Her only abilities are to dash and jump. As long as the player holds the jump button down, Ki can rise indefinitely into the air. However, contact with the ceiling or dashing against a wall will cause her to drop to the ground and become stunned for several seconds. This mechanic of floating and getting stunned from bumping against the walls or ceiling is similar to the 1983 Atari vector arcade game, \"Major Havoc\".\n\nMany of the levels consist of puzzles in which the player must carefully regulate the height and direction of Ki's jumps. Each stage in the game contains one or more treasure chests, which hold various items. Although many of the items bestow helpful abilities, the effects only last for the floor on which they were found.\n\nAfter completing the game, players can gain access to forty bonus stages. These stages contain cameos from the \"Pac-Man\" ghosts and the enemies from \"Dig Dug\".\n\n\"GameCenter CX\", a Japanese TV program that used the game in one of challenges during the final episode of the 7th season and the first episode of the 8th season.\n"}
{"id": "2018145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018145", "title": "Capita", "text": "Capita\n\nCapita plc (), commonly known as Capita, is an international business process outsourcing and professional services company headquartered in London.\n\nIt is the largest business process outsourcing and professional services company in the UK, with an overall market share of 29% in 2016, and has clients in central government, local government and the private sector. It also has a property and infrastructure consultancy division which is the fourth largest multidisciplinary consultancy in the UK. Roughly half of its turnover comes from the private sector and half from the public sector. Whilst UK-focused, Capita also has operations across Europe, Africa and Asia.\n\nCapita is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.\n\nCapita was formed in 1984 as a division of the non-profit CIPFA (Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy). In 1987 it became an independent company with 33 staff as a result of a management buy-out, led by Rod Aldridge, and was first listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1991.\n\nIn March 2006, Executive Chairman Rod Aldridge resigned in the aftermath of claims that contracts awarded to the Group were influenced by his loan of £1 million to the Labour Party. Aldridge resigned saying that he denied the claims, but to avoid any lingering doubts about it, he was leaving the company. Aldridge had overseen the company's growth from a small company in 1987 to a FTSE 100 member in 2006. He was replaced by his longtime associate Paul Pindar.\n\nIn February 2007, a Capita office in Victoria, London was subject to a letter bomb attack. One person was injured.\n\nOn 2 October 2009, one of Capita's businesses (Capita Financial Group) announced plans to move some of its operations from London to Leeds.\n\nOn 1 July 2011, Capita acquired Ventura, a customer contact specialist for a cash consideration of £65 million.\nOn 28 February 2013, Capita bought the Fire Service College from the Department for Communities and Local Government for £10 million.\n\nIn 2014 Pindar stepped down as chief executive. He was replaced by Andy Parker.\n\nThe company acquired Avocis, a German call centre business, in 2015, Orange Bus, a specialist digital interaction agency, in 2016 and NYS Corporate events and travel agency in 2017.\n\nIn October 2017, the company announced that former Amec Foster Wheeler CEO Jonathan Lewis would take over as CEO from 1 December 2017 following departure of Andy Parker. After completing an initial assessment, on 31 January 2018 Lewis announced a profits warning, dividend suspension, a £700m rights issue, cost cutting and a disposals programme, as net debts were predicted to hit £1.15bn and a pensions deficit reached £381m. The announcement knocked 47% off Capita's shares, reducing its market value by over £1.1bn. The share price slide continued the following day, losing a further 13%. On 3 April 2018, Capita shares fell 6% to a 20-year low after British Airways decided to retain in-house operation of two UK call centres rather than award contracts to run them to Capita.\nOn 23 April 2018, Capita launched a cash call to raise £701m and reported a £513m loss for the previous financial year. On 1 August 2018, Capita announced its profits in the six months to 30 June had dropped to £80.5m (from £195m in the same period in 2017), while revenues were down 4% to £1.98bn; the company's shares fell almost 9% after markets opened, to 148p a share.\n\nFollowing Lewis's appointment, the company embarked on a \"multi-year strategy\" to turnaround the company. In May 2019 the company became the first FTSE 250 company in 30 years to appoint rank-and-file workers to its board. Lyndsay Browne, a chartered accountant and finance manager, and Joseph Murphy, a project manager in the real estate division, beat competition from other internal candidates to become the first worker's representatives on the Capita board.\n\nIn September 2019 the company announced that it was re-branding as a \"purpose-led\" living wage employer, changing its logo for the first time in 13 years. The company said that from April 2020 it will pay all 40,000 of its employees an independently verified \"real living wage.\" This will involve a pay rise for almost 6,000 employees. The rates, which are set at the basic income needed to cover the real cost of living, are overseen by the Living Wage Commission.\n\nIn July 2019 the company announced that it was launching a consultancy arm. The new division will employ around 1,000 consultants and compete with the likes of Accenture, Deloitte and KPMG.\n\nCapita entered the healthcare recruitment market during May 2011 through acquisition of Team24, a healthcare recruitment specialist - extending the services they offer within the recruitment industry.\n\nIn 2006 Capita Financial Administrators (CFA) was fined £300,000 by the Financial Services Authority for having poor anti-fraud controls. The division provides administration services for third parties and the Capita Group.\n\nCapita also intended to enter into the legal services market and entered into a funding arrangement with the Law Firm Optima Legal Services Limited which saw them, in the period between May 2006 to the end of 2009 invest a total of £36,700,000 by way of investment loans into Optima. As part of the funding arrangement Capita Group had the option of acquiring the shares of Optima Legal Services for the nominal sum of £1 upon the full implementation of the Legal Services Act 2007 which would make ownership of law firms by the likes of Capita possible. It is thought that such Alternative Business Structures (\"ABS\") could be lawful around October 2011. However, on 9 August 2010 it was reported that the Solicitors Regulatory Authority (\"SRA\") had found that the arrangement breached its rules in that it effectively amounted to an ABS. As a consequence, Optima Legal Services Lead Litigation and Property Partners, Philip Robinson and Anthony Ruane respectively were both severely reprimanded by the SRA for what was found to be professional misconduct and only narrowly avoided referral to the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal and Adrian Lamb, former CEO of Optima Legal Services Limited, left the business in June 2010.\n\nIn 1998, Capita won the contract to run Constructionline, the newly created Public-Private Partnership owned by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS). In January 2015, Capita acquired Constructionline outright from BIS for £35m. Three years later, on 31 January 2018, Capita announced it wanted to sell Constructionline as part of a transformation programme including disposal of non-core assets and cost cutting. In June 2018, it was reported that Constructionline had been sold to private equity investor Warburg Pincus for £160m.\n\nIn June 2014 it was reported that at least five of eight Liverpool NHS Trusts which had contracted their payroll and recruitment to Capita in 2012 were withdrawing because of concerns about the quality of the service provided. Several NHS trusts contracted with the company for human resources services. West London Mental Health NHS Trust cancelled their contract in September 2014 after the company proved \"unable to meet acceptable 'time to hire' targets\", particularly for nurses. At the same time Alder Hey Children's NHS Foundation Trust and Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital NHS Foundation Trust terminated their contracts.\n\nIn November Mersey Care Trust revealed that \"information governance issues\" had been uncovered when the services were taken back in-house. Details of staff at other Merseyside trusts were sent to Liverpool Community Health Trust’s HR department.\n\nThe company was awarded a 4-year contract to become sole provider of administrative services including payment administration, management of medical records and eligibility lists of practitioners for GPs, opticians and dentists across the UK by NHS England in June 2015. In July 2016 it was reported that there was \"a large backlog of unprocessed correspondence relating to patients\". It was earlier reported that the company was unable to deal \"effectively\" with the movement of paper records between practices.\n\nIn 2015, an undercover Daily Telegraph investigation showed that in some cases locum agencies, Medicare and Team24 owned by Capita were charging some hospitals higher fees than others and giving false company details. The agencies were charging up to 49% of the fee. Health secretary Jeremy Hunt criticised agencies who sought \"big profits\" at the expense of the NHS and taxpayers and promised to \"reduce the margins rip-off agencies are able to generate.\"\n\nThe company established Primary Care Support England in September 2015, replacing former regional services provided by each local health authority. The new service was described as shambolic by the Local Optical Committee Support Unit and the Optical Confederation. A deal was negotiated to enable optician practices to claim interest, administrative costs and bank charges on late payments of General Ophthalmic Services fees by Capita. In August 2016 a survey of GPs found 85% were missing records of recently registered patients, 65% had experienced shortages of clinical supplies or delays in deliveries, and 32% had suffered from missed or delayed payments. Delays in the payment of GP trainees' salaries were also reported. The situation was repeated in October 2017 with \"The Guardian\" reporting that \"hundreds\" of trainee GPs had not been paid. Capita was unable to say how many were affected in what the Cameron fund - a GP hardship charity - blamed on \"another botched privatisation.\" Inadequacies by Capita may have put patients at risk. The National Audit Office maintains almost 90 women were told incorrectly they were no longer in the cervical screening programme. Patients could have been at risk due to trouble with the 'performers list' a list of NHS dentists, GP's and opticians. \"The failure to update performers lists may have compromised patient safety in cases where practitioners should have been removed,\" the report authors maintained. Roughly 1,000 dentists, doctors and opticians could not work in 2016 due to delays processing new applications. Further failures included a backlog of 500,000 patient registration letters, failure to deliver medical supplies, and patients' medical records being lost or delayed.\n\nIn March 2019 Simon Stevens announced that the cervical screening programme administration they had been running would be brought back in house.\n\n\nIn 2014, Capita were awarded the contract to introduce postcodes to the Republic of Ireland. The Irish communications minister has welcomed the implementation saying that the Irish code is the first in the world to be unique to each individual address. The scheme was launched in July 2015.\n\nThe emergency services have expressed concern that the new system may lead to responders having difficulty getting to incidents. Further, the Irish Data Protection Authority has raised concerns over the design of the code as information about individuals will be made more accessible. Liam Duggan, CEO of Capita Ireland stated at a Government enquiry in 2014 that they had thoroughly tested the new system for unsuitable words and even used a game of Scrabble for this purpose.\n\nThe project is generally running to programme and budget: roll out, which was originally planned to start in March 2015, will now take place in \"mid-2015\" and the cost, which was originally budgeted at €25 million has increased to €27 million.\n\nCapita Group has not been received well by the public and in the media. It has gained the nickname \"Crapita\", particularly from the coverage in the satirical and current affairs magazine \"Private Eye\", which routinely documents the company's many failures and setbacks in the public sector.\n\nPindar himself has attracted criticism for complaining about being called a 'fat cat', due to his a £770,000 per annum salary and ownership of an Aston Martin DB9. \"It really takes the biscuit—especially when you consider his workers are fighting for a rise equivalent to just four pints of milk a week\", said a workers' representative. The average Capita employee salary at the time was £28,000 per year.\n\nIt was revealed in January 2013 that Capita was embroiled in a scandal over misinforming people that they had to leave the UK as they had no valid visa. One such person was, in fact, the holder of a UK passport.\n\nIn 2014, a leak to \"The Guardian\" revealed that the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) had to send civil servants in to help the company process personal independence payments for the seriously ill and the disabled. \"Waiting times for assessment,\" the newspaper noted, \"have been so long that in some cases people with terminal conditions have died before receiving a penny.\"\n\nThe 2015 sale of a government research operation charged with overlooking food safety to Capita has been criticized by Tim Lang, an advisor to the UK government and the WHO on food safety issues. Arguing that a for-profit operation will be under pressure to ignore low-paying projects vital to public safety and the environment, he indicates that there is no profit in public research concerning food and biodiversity or food and pesticide residues, and predicts \"commercial concerns will skew Fera's priorities\"\n\nFormer Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron questioned how Atos and Capita could have been paid over £500m from taxpayers money for assessing fitness to work as 61% who appealed won their appeals. Farron stated, \"This adds to the suspicion that these companies are just driven by a profit motive, and the incentive is to get the assessments done, but not necessarily to get the assessments right. They are the ugly face of business.\"\n\nCapita has also been criticised for several issues involving army recruitment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018152", "title": "Don't Tread on Me (album)", "text": "Don't Tread on Me (album)\n\nDon't Tread on Me is the eighth studio album by 311, which was released on August 16, 2005. The first single, \"Don't Tread on Me\", was released to radio on July 26, 2005. It peaked at #2 on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Tracks and #1 on the R&R Panel Alternative chart. The second single, \"Speak Easy\", was released on November 22, 2005 and a third \"Frolic Room\", was released on June 13, 2006.\n\n\"Don't Tread on Me\" debuted and peaked at #5 on the \"Billboard\" 200, selling 91,000 copies in its first week of release. Despite the success of the leadoff single, the album, like its predecessor Evolver, has yet to receive an RIAA certification.\n\nThis is the third 311 album recorded in 311's recording studio The Hive in North Hollywood, California.\n\nCredits adapted from album’s liner notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018159", "title": "They Sure Don't Make Basketball Shorts Like They Used To", "text": "They Sure Don't Make Basketball Shorts Like They Used To\n\nThey Sure Don't Make Basketball Shorts Like They Used To is a 1998 self-released album produced by American rock\nband Hoobustank, now known as Hoobastank. It is significantly different from \"modern\" Hoobastank as its songs fit more into the genre of funk metal rather than post-grunge, especially through extensive use of a saxophone. A few tracks, notably \"Naked Jock Man\", contain rapped vocals as well. A music video for Earthsick was filmed and was directed by Avi Roffman. The samples on tracks 1, 6, and 10 are from a live special hosted by comedian Thomas F. Wilson.\n\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2018182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018182", "title": "Gnorm Gnat", "text": "Gnorm Gnat\n\nGnorm Gnat was an American gag-a-day comic strip by Jim Davis based on fictional insects, with the primary focus on a gnat named Gnorm. The strip appeared in \"The Pendleton Times\" in Pendleton, Indiana (and would be the only newspaper to publish the strip) from 1972 to 1975, but failure to take the character to mainstream success led Davis to instead create the comic strip \"Garfield\". Mike Peters, the cartoonist for \"Mother Goose and Grimm\", has said that \"Gnorm Gnat\" is now a part of \"cartoon folklore\" as a failure that paved the way for major success.\n\nDavis developed the idea for the strip while assisting cartoonist Tom Ryan on his \"Tumbleweeds strip.\" Davis saw the possibilities for gags with insect characters, and the strip was adopted by \"The Pendleton Times\" starting in early 1972. However, Davis also approached syndicates to publish \"Gnorm Gnat\" and was rejected. According to writers Mark Acey and Scott Nickel, Davis would receive rejections for \"Gnorm Gnat\" for years. \"I thought bugs were funny, and nobody else did\", Davis would later tell the press.\n\nDavis also recounted that one editor had advised him that \"Your art is good, your gags are great, but bugs—nobody can relate to bugs!\" Davis took the advice to heart and then turned to \"Garfield\". Some in the media have also reported that Davis had become \"bored with the strip.\" Another reporter suggested that the notion that no one can relate to insects has been disproved by some jokes in the comic strip \"The Far Side\" by Gary Larson.\n\nFor years, it was believed that last-ever published strip of \"Gnorm Gnat\" was Gnorm Gnat meeting his demise by being stepped on by the foot of a human, Monty Python-style. This was later debunked after a Google Drive document containing many editions of \"The Pendleton Times\" that included Gnorm Gnat comics was uploaded in 2019, with the actual final strip (published on Christmas Day 1975) just having the protagonist thank the fans who stuck with the strips while standing next to the message Merry Christmas with Gnorm saying \"Thanks, Pendleton.\" The document also contained some strips for Davis' next work, \"Jon\", a prototype to what would become \"Garfield\", which debuted in the \"Times\" on January 8, 1976, two weeks after \"Gnorm Gnat\" ended (it was renamed \"Garfield\" on August 1, 1977).\n\n\"Garfield\" would later become accepted for national distribution by United Feature Syndicate in 1978 (the strip ended its run in the \"Times\" on March 2, and made its national debut on June 19 that year) and became a worldwide success. In 1992, one \"Garfield\" book called \"Garfield Takes His Licks\" referred to Gnorm as an in-joke. \"Gnorm Gnat\" was listed as #2 among the \"Top Ten Comic Strips Jim Davis Tried Before \"Garfield\"\", being placed behind \"Garfield the Toaster\" and above \"Milt the Incontinent Hamster.\" In 1997, one \"Garfield\" comic strip featured a fly talking to a spider; Davis alluded to \"Gnorm Gnat\" by commenting that, \"After nearly 30 years, I finally got a bug strip published\".\n\nHowever, Davis's fellow-cartoonist Mike Peters looked back on \"Gnorm Gnat\" in an unfavorable way. Peters claimed, \"We can always be thankful that Jim's first strip never made it... \"Gnorm Gnat\" has gone down in cartoon folklore as a most fortunate failure. Can you imagine a bright orange gnat on every car window? A great, huge gnat for the Thanksgiving Day Parade. A big fat gnat saying 'I hate Tuesdays.'\"\n\nThe characters of \"Gnorm Gnat\" were meant to be presented in a \"simple, humorous style\" of appearance. Davis displays the characters and describes them in the book \"20 Years & Still Kicking!: Garfield's Twentieth Anniversary Collection.\"\n"}
{"id": "2018186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018186", "title": "Nazareth Inscription", "text": "Nazareth Inscription\n\nThe Nazareth Inscription or Nazareth decree is a marble tablet inscribed in Greek with an edict from an unnamed Caesar ordering capital punishment for anyone caught disturbing graves or tombs. It is dated on the basis of epigraphy to the first half of the 1st century AD. Its provenance is unknown, but a French collector acquired the stone from Nazareth. It is now in the collections of the Louvre.\n\nThe text is read by scholars in the context of Roman law pertaining to exhumation and reburial, mentioned also by Pliny. The inscription had formerly been of interest to some authors for its indirect relationship to the historicity of Jesus, even though the text contains no reference to Jesus of Nazareth. A 2020 study of the marble's isotopes showed that the tablet came from a quarry in the Greek island of Kos, meaning that it is highly unlikely that it has any relationship to Jesus, and it may instead have been inscribed as a reaction to the desecration of the grave of the Kos tyrant Nikias circa 20 BCE. \n\nThe marble tablet measures 24 by 15 inches, with the koine Greek inscription appearing in fourteen lines. It was acquired in 1878 by Wilhelm Fröhner (1834–1925), and sent from Nazareth to Paris. Fröhner entered the item in his manuscript inventory with the note \"Dalle de marbre envoyé de Nazareth en 1878.\" Though indicating that the marble was sent from Nazareth, the note does not state that it was discovered there. Nazareth was a significant antiquities market in the 1870s, as was Jerusalem, and may have been \"nothing more than … a shipping center\" for the item. Since 1925 it has been in the Bibliothèque nationale, Paris, displayed in the Cabinet des Médailles.\n\nThe inscription, with a facsimile, was published in 1930 by Franz Cumont, who had been alerted to it by Rostovtseff.\n\nThe Greek used in the inscription is relatively poor. Clyde E. Billington provides the following English translation:\nIt is my decision [concerning] graves and tombs—whoever has made them for the religious observances of parents, or children, or household members—that these remain undisturbed forever. But if anyone legally charges that another person has destroyed, or has in any manner extracted those who have been buried, or has moved with wicked intent those who have been buried to other places, committing a crime against them, or has moved sepulcher-sealing stones, against such a person, I order that a judicial tribunal be created, just as [is done] concerning the gods in human religious observances, even more so will it be obligatory to treat with honor those who have been entombed. You are absolutely not to allow anyone to move [those who have been entombed]. But if [someone does], I wish that [violator] to suffer capital punishment under the title of tomb-breaker.\n\n\"Violatio sepulchri\" ('tomb violation') was a crime under Roman law, as noted by Cicero (d. 43 BC). The Nazareth Inscription prescribes the death penalty for the offense. A tomb at which funeral rites had been duly performed became a \"locus religiosus\", belonging to the divine rather than to the human realm. Roman Imperial tombstones are often inscribed with a curse \"(defixio)\" against anyone who desecrates the grave.\n\nScholars have analysed the language and style of the Nazareth inscription and attempted to date it. It has been discussed in the context of tomb-robbery in antiquity. \n\nFrancis de Zulueta dates the inscription, based on the style of lettering, to between 50 B.C. and A.D. 50, but most likely around the turn of the era. As the text uses the plural form \"gods\", Zulueta concluded it most likely came from the Hellenized district of the Decapolis. Like Zulueta, J. Spencer Kennard, Jr. noted that the reference to \"Caesar\" indicated that \"the inscription must have been derived from somewhere in Samaria or Decapolis; Galilee was ruled by a client-prince until the reign of Claudius\".\n\nIt was once of interest to historians of the New Testament. Some authors, citing the inscription's supposed Galilean origin, interpreted it as Imperial Rome's clear reaction to the empty tomb of Jesus and specifically as an edict of Claudius, who reigned AD 41-54. If the inscription was originally set up in Galilee, it can date no earlier than 44, the year Roman rule was imposed there.\n\nHowever, the 2020 isotope study of the marble published in the Journal of Archaeological Science clarified the origin of the tablet and points to another interpretation. The scientists took a sample from the back of the tablet, and used laser ablation to help determine the isotope ratio of the stone. The enrichment of carbon 13 and depletion of Oxygen 18 allowed a confident identification of the source of the marble as the upper quarry in the island of Kos. The team proposed that the edict was issued by Augustus after the desecration of the tomb of the Kos tyrant Nikias.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018187", "title": "Lagoon-A-Beach", "text": "Lagoon-A-Beach\n\nLagoon-A-Beach is a water park that is situated inside the Lagoon Amusement Park located in Farmington, Utah. Lagoon-A-Beach currently has ten water slides that fall into three main categories: tube slides, body slides, and drop slides. Its name is a play on Laguna Beach.\n\nThese slides must be ridden with an inner tube. The inner tubes available at Ruby's tubes can be rented for five dollars a day and when returned, will be given a coupon for a 32 oz. drinks and drunks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018214", "title": "Southwick Cartularies", "text": "Southwick Cartularies\n\nThe Southwick Cartularies was an early 13th-century chronicle which listed the wealthiest people in England at the time. The chronicle also contained the first ever reference to the city of Portsmouth.\n"}
{"id": "2018221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018221", "title": "The Church at Auvers", "text": "The Church at Auvers\n\nThe Church at Auvers is an oil painting created by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh in June 1890 which now hangs in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris, France.\n\nThe actual church is in Place de l'Eglise, Auvers-sur-Oise, France, north-west of Paris.\n\n\"The Church at Auvers\" — along with other canvases such as \"The Town Hall at Auvers\" and several drawing of small houses with thatched roofs — is reminiscent of scenes from his Nuenen period. A certain nostalgia for the north had already been apparent in his last weeks in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence: in a letter written a couple of weeks before his departure, he wrote \"While I was ill I nevertheless did some little canvases from memory which you will see later, memories of the North.\"\n\nHe specifically refers to similar work done back at Nuenen when he describes this painting in a letter to his sister Wilhelmina on 5 June 1890:\n\nThe \"simple deep blue\" was also used in \"Portrait of Adeline Ravoux\", painted in the same short period in Auvers-sur-Oise.\n\nThe foreground of \"The Church at Auvers\" is brightly lit by the sun, but the church itself sits in its own shadow, and \"neither reflects nor emanates any light of its own.\" After Van Gogh had been dismissed from the evangelical career he had hoped to continue in the Borinage, Belgium, he wrote to his brother Theo from Cuesmes in July 1880, and quoted Shakespeare's image from \"Henry IV, Part 1\" of the dark emptiness inside a church to symbolize \"empty and unenlightened preaching\": \"Their God is like the God of Shakespeare's drunken Falstaff, 'the inside of a church'\"\n\nThe motif of diverging paths also appears in his painting \"Wheat Field with Crows.\"\n\n\"The Church at Auvers\" plays a prominent role in \"Vincent and the Doctor\", the tenth episode of the fifth series of the revived science-fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\" in 2010, although the scenes at the church were filmed at Llandaff Cathedral in Wales. In this episode the painting depicts a strange, griffin-esque creature (called a krafayis) at a window of the church, which signifies to the show's time-travelling protagonist, the Doctor, that something evil was lurking in Auvers-sur-Oise in June 1890. Only when van Gogh himself, played by Tony Curran, defeats the creature at the church, does the painting revert to its original, unaltered, state. The krafayis is later revealed to have been blind, with blindness to the colors and shapes of the world and sky (as Vincent saw them) being a recurring theme of the episode.\n"}
{"id": "2018243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018243", "title": "Mountain pine beetle", "text": "Mountain pine beetle\n\nThe mountain pine beetle (\"Dendroctonus ponderosae\") is a species of bark beetle native to the forests of western North America from Mexico to central British Columbia. It has a hard black exoskeleton, and measures approximately 5 mm, about the size of a grain of rice.\n\nIn western North America, the current outbreak of the mountain pine beetle and its microbial associates has destroyed wide areas of lodgepole pine forest, including more than 16 million of the 55 million hectares of forest in British Columbia. The current outbreak in the Rocky Mountain National Park began in 1996 and has caused the destruction of millions of acres of ponderosa and lodgepole pine trees in Colorado. According to an annual assessment by the state's forest service, 264,000 acres of trees in Colorado were infested by the mountain pine beetle at the beginning of 2013. This was much smaller than the 1.15 million acres that were affected in 2008 because the beetle has already killed off most of the vulnerable trees (Ward).\n\nMountain pine beetles inhabit ponderosa, whitebark, lodgepole, Scots, jack pine, and limber pine trees. Normally, these insects play an important role in the life of a forest, attacking old or weakened trees, and speeding development of a younger forest. However, unusually hot, dry summers and mild winters throughout the region during the last few years, along with forests filled with mature lodgepole pine, have led to an unprecedented epidemic.\n\nIt may be the largest forest insect blight ever seen in North America., monocultural replanting, and a century of forest fire suppression have contributed to the size and severity of the outbreak, and the outbreak itself may, with similar infestations, have significant effects on the capability of northern forests to remove greenhouse gas (CO) from the atmosphere.\n\nBecause of its impact on forestry, the transcriptome<ref name=\"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/09651748\"></ref> and the genome<ref name=\"http://genomebiology.com\"></ref> have been sequenced. It was the second beetle genome to be sequenced.\n\nMountain pine beetles affect pine trees by laying eggs under the bark. The beetles introduce blue stain fungus into the sapwood that prevents the tree from repelling and killing the attacking beetles with tree pitch flow. The fungus also blocks water and nutrient transport within the tree. On the tree exterior, this results in popcorn-shaped masses of resin, called \"pitch tubes\", where the beetles have entered. The joint action of larval feeding and fungal colonization kills the host tree within a few weeks of successful attack (the fungus and feeding by the larvae girdles the tree, cutting off the flow of water and nutrients). In recent years, drought conditions have further weakened trees, making them more vulnerable and unable to defend against attack. When the tree is first attacked, it remains green. Usually within a year of attack, the needles will have turned red. This means the tree is dying or dead, and the beetles have moved to another tree. In three to four years after the attack, very little foliage is left, so the trees appear grey.\n\nAs beetle populations increase or more trees become stressed because of drought or other causes, the population may quickly increase and spread. Healthy trees are then attacked, and huge areas of mature pine stands may be threatened or killed. Warm summers and mild winters play a role in both insect survival and the continuation and intensification of an outbreak. Adverse weather conditions (such as winter lows of -40°) can reduce the beetle populations and slow the spread, but the insects can recover quickly and resume their attack on otherwise healthy forests.\n\nBeetles develop through four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Except for a few days during the summer when adults emerge from brood trees and fly to attack new host trees, all life stages are spent beneath the bark.\n\nIn low elevation stands and in warm years, mountain pine beetles require one year to complete a generation. At high elevations, where summers are typically cooler, life cycles may vary from one to two years\n\nFemale beetles initiate attacks. As they chew into the inner bark and phloem, pheromones are released, attracting male and female beetles to the same tree. The attacking beetles produce more pheromones, resulting in a mass attack that overcomes the tree's defenses, and results in attacks on adjacent trees.\n\nNatural predators of the mountain pine beetle include certain birds, particularly woodpeckers, and various insects.\n\nManagement techniques include harvesting at the leading edges of what is known as \"green attack\", as well as other techniques that can be used to manage infestations on a smaller scale, including:\n\nThe concept of natural plant defense holds hope for eliminating pine beetle infestation. Beneficial microbial solutions are being researched and developed that work with the plant to activate and enhance its resistance mechanisms against insects and disease.\n\nThe US Forest Service tested chitosan, a biopesticide, to pre-arm pine trees to defend themselves against MPB. The US Forest Service results show colloidal chitosan elicited a 40% increase in pine resin (P<0.05) in southern pine trees. One milliliter chitosan per 10 gallons water was applied to the ground area within the drip ring of loblolly pine trees. The application was repeated three times from May through September in 2008. The chitosan was responsible for eliciting natural defense responses of increased resin pitch-outs, with the ability to destroy 37% of the pine beetle eggs.\nDr. Jim Linden, Microbiologist, Colorado State University, stated the chitosan increased resin pitch-outs to push the mountain pine beetle out of the tree, preventing the MPB from entering the pine tree and spreading blue stain mold.\n\nAggressively searching out, removing, and destroying the brood in infested trees is the best way to slow the spread of mountain pine beetles; however, it may not protect specific trees. Spraying trees to prevent attack is the most effective way to protect a small number of high-value trees from mountain pine beetles. Carbaryl, permethrin and bifenthrin are registered in the United States for use in the prevention of pine beetle infestations. Carbaryl is considered by the EPA to likely be carcinogenic to humans. It is moderately toxic to wild birds and partially to highly toxic to aquatic organisms. Permethrin is easily metabolized in mammalian livers, so is less dangerous to humans. Birds are also practically not affected by permethrin. Negative effects can be seen in aquatic ecosystems, as well as it being very toxic to beneficial insects. Bifenthrin is moderately dangerous to mammals, including humans; it is slightly more toxic to birds and aquatic ecosystems than permethrin, as well as extremely toxic to beneficial insects.\n\nColorado's forests are densely wooded, making them much more susceptible to bark beetle attack. Current legislation is in place to help with the growing beetle problem. Colorado Senators Mark Udall and Michael Bennet announced that Colorado will receive $30 million of the $40 million being diverted by the U.S. Forest Service to fight the millions of acres of damage caused by the mountain pine beetle in the Rocky Mountain region.\n\nFall and burn is the technique being used in Alberta where there is hope of limiting the outbreak to western Canada, preventing its spread to northern Saskatchewan and further towards eastern Canada where jack pine may be vulnerable as far east as Nova Scotia.\n\nWood from beetle-affected trees retains its commercial usefulness for 8 to 12 years after the tree has died, but its value drops rapidly, for within several months, the escaping moisture blows large checks and cracks from the outer perimeter of the wood deep into the heart of the tree. The remaining moisture escapes more slowly, causing small cracks throughout the timber. This causes difficulties for modern high-output automated sawmill operations and greatly increases the lumber losses and the labor to produce high quality wood products. This so-called 'shelf life' is dependent on a number of factors, including economic and stand site conditions. The trees remain commercially viable longer conditions. In areas where it is wetter, the trees tend to rot at the base and fall faster, especially if they are larger. The fungus that is carried by the beetles and kills the trees causes blue staining of the sapwood at the perimeter of the tree, but it does not affect the wood's strength, nor are there any harmful human health effects. Blue stain is, however, considered to be a defect in the lumber grading standards and thus is considered a 'down-grade' resulting in a lower commodity market price. All these factors have severely limited the production of blue-stain wood products.\n\nThe timber can be used for any wood product from standard framing lumber to engineered wood products, such as glue-laminated products and cross-laminated panels. The epidemic in British Columbia is also creating opportunities for the emerging bio-energy industry.\nThough there are many small wood working and craft shops that are making furniture and crafts out of the exotic appearing blue-stained wood, and despite the massive supply and the increasingly apparent need to utilize this dead timber, there are very few companies that have created product lines that require large volumes of dead trees. This is largely due to the significant difficulties and increased expense inherent to processing dead timber, and the correspondingly lowered profitability. Blue-stained pine is now available at some big box stores like Lowes.\nThere has been concern that the huge number of beetle-killed trees may pose a risk of devastating forest fires. Forest thinning to mitigate fire danger is expensive and resource-intensive. Attention is turning to ways to turn this liability into a source of cellulosic ethanol.\n\nLeaders in western U.S. states and Canadian provinces have promoted legislation to provide incentives for companies using beetle-killed trees for biofuel or biopower applications. Sellable commodities resulting from MPB damage can help subsidize the cost of forest thinning projects and support new job markets. Colorado's Department of Energy recently provided $30 million toward construction of the state's first cellulosic ethanol plant, to convert beetle kill into ethanol. Lignin, a byproduct of the process, can be sold for applications in lubricants and other goods.\n\nThe long-held belief that beetle infestations and resulting deadkill lead to more devastating forest fires is currently being challenged. Although some disagree, ongoing NASA studies have shown beetle kill may actually reduce available small fuels and consequently limit the effect and reach of fires.\n\nThe current outbreak of mountain pine beetles is ten times larger than previous outbreaks. Huge swaths of central British Columbia (BC) and parts of Alberta have been hit badly, with over of BC's forests affected.\nUnder the presumption that the large areas of dead pine stands represent a potential fire hazard, the BC government is directing fuel management activities in beetle areas as recommended in the 2003 Firestorm Provincial Review. Harvesting affected stands aids fire management by removing the presumed hazard and breaking the continuity of the fuels.\nThese fuel management treatments are specifically designed to reduce interface fire threats to communities and Native Americans located in the infestation zone. The interface is the area where urban development and wilderness meet.\n\nAs of May 2013, the Pine Beetle is aggressively devastating forests in all 19 Western States and Canada, destroying approximately 88 million acres of timber at a 70–90% kill rate. Over 13,000 miles of power lines are being endangered with falling trees that increasingly raise the risk of fires that could cause widespread problems for millions of people. The mountain pine beetle has affected more than of trail, of road and of developed recreation sites over in Colorado and southeastern Wyoming; other outbreaks encompass the Black Hills of South Dakota and extend as far south as Arizona, and as far north as Montana and Idaho. The US Forest Service is working on a hazard tree removal strategy, prioritizing high-use recreation areas, such as campgrounds, roads and National Forest Service lands adjacent to vulnerable public infrastructures such as power lines and near communities.\n\nPreviously, cold spells had killed off bark beetles which are now attacking the forests. The longer breeding season is another factor encouraging beetle proliferation. The combination of warmer weather, attack by beetles, and mismanagement during past years has led to a substantial increase in the severity of forest fires in Montana. According to a study done for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency by the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Science, portions of Montana will experience a 200% increase in area burned by wildland fires, and an 80% increase in air pollution from those fires.\n\nResearchers from the Canadian Forest Service have studied the relationship between the carbon cycle and forest fires, logging and tree deaths. They concluded by 2020, the pine beetle outbreak will have released 270 megatonnes of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from Canadian forests. There is yet to be an accepted study of the carbon cycle effect over a future period of time for North American forests, but scientists believe we are at a 'tipping point' of our Western Forests becoming a source of carbon off-put that is greater than that of a 'carbon sink'. Other scientists say that this \"tipping point\" will reverse itself as new forest life is established. This new growth will remove more carbon dioxide than the mature trees they are replacing would have.\nAccording to a 2016 study from the Pacific Institute for Climate Solutions rising levels of carbon dioxide may cancel out the pine beetle impact in British Columbia by 2020. The fertilization effect of the increased CO levels has returned BC forests to a carbon sink as of 2016 per Werner Kurz of the Canadian Forest Service.\n\nHydrologists from the University of Colorado have investigated the impacts of beetle-infested forests on the water cycle, in particular, snow accumulation and melt. They concluded that dead forests will accumulate more snowpack as a result of thinner tree canopies and decreased snow sublimation. These thinned canopies also cause faster snowmelt by allowing more sunlight through to the forest floor and lowering the snowpack albedo, as a result of needle litter on the snow surface. Augmented snowpack coupled with dead trees that no longer transpire will likely lead to more available water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018254", "title": "Ringer's lactate solution", "text": "Ringer's lactate solution\n\nRinger's lactate solution (RL), also known as sodium lactate solution and Hartmann's solution, is a mixture of sodium chloride, sodium lactate, potassium chloride, and calcium chloride in water. It is used for replacing fluids and electrolytes in those who have low blood volume or low blood pressure. It may also be used to treat metabolic acidosis and to wash the eye following a chemical burn. It is given by injection into a vein or applied to the affected area.\nSide effects may include allergic reactions, high blood potassium, volume overload, and high blood calcium. It may not be suitable for mixing with certain medications and some recommend against use in the same infusion as a blood transfusion. Ringer's lactate solution has a lower rate of acidosis as compared with normal saline. Use is generally safe in pregnancy and breastfeeding. Ringer's lactate solution is in the crystalloid family of medication. It has the same tonicity as blood.\nRinger's solution was invented in the 1880s with lactate being added in the 1930s. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the safest and most effective medicines needed in a health system. Lactated Ringer's is available as a generic medication. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about 0.60 to 2.30 per liter. For people with poor liver function, Ringer's acetate may be a better alternative with the lactate replaced by acetate. In Scandinavia Ringer's acetate is typically used.\n\nRinger's lactate solution is very often used for fluid resuscitation after a blood loss due to trauma, surgery, or a burn injury. \nRinger's lactate solution is used because the by-products of lactate metabolism in the liver counteract acidosis, which is a chemical imbalance that occurs with acute fluid loss or kidney failure.\n\nThe IV dose of Ringer's lactate solution is usually calculated by estimated fluid loss and presumed fluid deficit. For fluid resuscitation the usual rate of administration is 20 to 30 mL/kg body weight/hour. RL is not suitable for maintenance therapy (i.e., maintenance fluids) because the sodium content (130 mEq/L) is considered too low, particularly for children, and the potassium content (4 mEq/L) is too low, in view of electrolyte daily requirement. Moreover, since the lactate is converted into bicarbonate, long-term use will cause patients to become alkalotic. Ringer's lactate and other crystalloids are also used as vehicles for the IV delivery of medications.\n\nIn a large-volume resuscitation over several hours, LRS maintains a more stable blood pH than normal saline.\n\nAccording to an April 2019 US NRC Medical Generic Communication, Medical use licensees that use Strontium-82/Rubidium-82 (Sr-82/Rb-82) generators to produce Rb-82 for cardiac imaging [be advised] there have been two incidents in different states since December 2018 with patients injected with Rb-82 contaminated with Sr-82 and Sr-85 from generators eluted with Ringer’s lactate solution instead of sterile saline. Ringer's lactate solution is a mixture of sodium chloride, sodium lactate, potassium chloride, and calcium chloride in water. The calcium in the Ringer’s lactate solution replaces the strontium on the generator column. This results in the strontium being washed off the column when it is eluted. Ringers lactate should never be used to elute an Rb-82/Sr-82 generator for this reason.\n\nOne liter of Ringer's lactate solution contains:\n\n\nRinger's lactate has an osmolarity of 273 mOsm L and a pH of 6.5.The lactate is metabolized into bicarbonate by the liver, which can help correct metabolic acidosis. Ringer's lactate solution alkalinizes via its consumption in the citric acid cycle, the generation of a molecule of carbon dioxide which is then excreted by the lungs. They increase the strong ion difference in solution, leading to proton consumption and an overall alkalinizing effect.\n\nThe solution is formulated to have concentrations of potassium and calcium that are similar to the ionized concentrations found in normal blood plasma. To maintain electrical neutrality, the solution has a lower level of sodium than that found in blood plasma or normal saline.\n\nGenerally, the source of the constituent ions is a mixture of sodium chloride (NaCl), sodium lactate (CHCH(OH)CONa), calcium chloride (CaCl), and potassium chloride (KCl), dissolved into distilled water. Ringer's solution has the same constituents without the sodium lactate, though sometimes it may also include magnesium chloride (MgCl).\n\nThere are slight variations for the composition for Ringer's as supplied by different manufacturers. As such, the term Ringer's lactate should not be equated with one precise formulation.\nRinger's saline solution was invented in the early 1880s by Sydney Ringer, a British physician and physiologist. Ringer was studying the beating of an isolated frog heart outside of the body. He hoped to identify the substances in blood that would allow the isolated heart to beat normally for a time. The use of Ringer's original solution of inorganic salts slowly became more popular. In the 1930s, the original solution was further modified by American pediatrician Alexis Hartmann for the purpose of treating acidosis. Hartmann added lactate, which mitigates changes in pH by acting as a buffer for acid. Thus the solution became known as \"Ringer's lactate solution\" or \"Hartmann's solution\".\n\nRinger's solution technically refers only to the saline component, without lactate. Some countries instead use a Ringer's acetate solution or Ringer-acetate, which has similar properties. This was thought to be helpful when analyzing blood-lactate for signs of anaerobic metabolism (e.g. present with septic shock, hypovolemic shock). Subsequently it has been shown that lactate is metabolized much faster than infused. Ringers lactate should not cause an elevated blood-lactate level except possibly in the most severe presentations of liver failure.\n\nIt is used for the treatment or palliative care of chronic kidney failure in small animals. The solution can be administered both by IV and subcutaneously. Administering the fluids subcutaneously allows the solution to be readily given to the animal by a trained layperson, as it is not required that a vein be located. The solution is slowly absorbed from beneath the skin into the bloodstream of the animal.<ref name=\"AAHA/AAFP_Fluid_Therapy_Guidelines\">AAHA/AAFP Fluid Therapy Guidelines</ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "2018266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018266", "title": "Fly (Yoko Ono album)", "text": "Fly (Yoko Ono album)\n\nFly is the second album by Yoko Ono, produced by her and John Lennon, and released in 1971. It was a complete avant-garde/Fluxus package in a gatefold sleeve that came with a full-size poster and a postcard to order Ono's book \"Grapefruit\". Notable songs include the singles \"Midsummer New York\" and \"Mrs. Lennon\", \"Hirake\" aka \"Open Your Box\" and \"Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking for Her Hand in the Snow)\", dedicated to Ono's daughter Kyoko Cox. \"Airmale\" is the soundtrack to Lennon's film \"Erection\", showing a building being erected in time lapsed photography, while \"Fly\" is the soundtrack to Ono's film \"Fly\".\n\nThe album was recorded around the same time as Lennon's \"Imagine\". Ono had to re-record her vocals on \"Open Your Box\", on 4 March 1971 at Abbey Road Studios, after a managing director of EMI called the lyrics \"distasteful\"; The song featured a line that went \"\"Open your trousers, open your skirt, open your legs and open your thighs\"\". \"\"Trousers\"\", \"\"skirt\"\", \"\"legs\"\", and \"\"thighs\"\" were changed to \"\"houses\"\", \"\"church\"\", \"\"lakes\"\", and \"\"eyes\"\". Lennon and Ono didn't complain about the change of words, and only \"wanted to get the record out\", as a spokesman said.\n\n\"Will You Touch Me\" was first recorded during the \"Fly\" sessions. It was later re-recorded for Yoko's shelved 1974 album \"A Story\" and for 1981's \"Season of Glass\". The original demo version was included on the Rykodisc reissue of \"Fly\" in 1997.\n\nEach edition of the US, UK and Japanese albums utilized that country's distinctive telephone ring in the track \"Telephone Piece\" (i.e. each edition of the album used entirely different recordings) – the Rykodisc CD edition used the US variation.\n\n\"Fly\" peaked at number 199 in the \"Billboard\" charts. On 1 February 1972, Lennon and Ono Lennon performed \"Midsummer New York\" backed by Elephant's Memory for an episode of The Mike Douglas Show, which aired on 15 February.\n\nThe album was a significant influence to British power electronics musician William Bennett of Whitehouse fame.\n\nAll songs written by Yoko Ono.\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nSide three\n\nSide four\n\n"}
{"id": "2018268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018268", "title": "Robert Nobel", "text": "Robert Nobel\n\nRobert Hjalmar Nobel ( , ; August 4, 1829 – August 7, 1896) was a Swedish businessman, industrialist and investor. He was the founder Branobel and was a pioneer in the Russian oil industry.\n\nRobert Nobel was born in Maria Magdalena parish in Stockholm, Sweden. He was the eldest son of Karolina Andrietta Ahlsell and her husband Immanuel Nobel. He was the brother of Emil Oscar Nobel, Ludvig Nobel and Alfred Nobel.\n\nRobert Nobel started Branobel, an important early oil company which controlled a significant amount of Russian oil output.\nIn 1873 he started his business in Baku, Azerbaijan and began to interest his brother Ludvig in the growing company. \nIn 1876, he bought an interest in an oil refinery in Baku.\nIn 1878, together with the third brother Alfred Nobel, the two brothers formed Naftabolaget Bröderna Nobel (Branobel).\nIn 1880, Ludvig took over the business because Robert's health was failing. Robert returned to Sweden to seek a cure.\nHe applied to several seaside resorts in southern Europe before settling at Getå in Norrköping Municipality during 1888. He died during 1896 and was buried at Norra begravningsplatsen in Stockholm.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018273", "title": "Koowarta v Bjelke-Petersen", "text": "Koowarta v Bjelke-Petersen\n\nKoowarta v Bjelke-Petersen, was a significant court case decided in the High Court of Australia on 11 May 1982. It concerned the constitutional validity of parts of the \"Racial Discrimination Act 1975\", and the discriminatory acts of the Government of Queensland in blocking the purchase of land by Aboriginal people in northern Queensland.\n\nJohn Koowarta, the plaintiff, was an Aboriginal Australian man, a member of the Wik nation. The Wik peoples were the Indigenous inhabitants of the Aurukun region of the Cape York Peninsula. In 1974, Koowarta and a number of other stockmen planned to purchase the Archer River cattle station, which covered much of the Wik peoples' traditional homeland, using funds provided by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. They approached Remington Rand, an American businessman who owned the station by way of a pastoral lease, who agreed to sell the lease to them. In February 1976, the Commission made a contract to purchase the property, but before the sale could be completed, it was blocked by the Government of Queensland.\n\nJoh Bjelke-Petersen, the Premier of Queensland at the time, did not approve of the sale, because he did not believe that Aboriginal people should be able to acquire large areas of land, a view which was reflected in official cabinet policy. As such, he had directed the Queensland Minister of Lands not to approve the sale. Koowarta initially made a complaint to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, on the basis that blocking the sale was discriminatory. The Commission upheld Koowarta's complaint, but the Queensland Government appealed to the Supreme Court of Queensland. The Queensland Government also brought a separate action against the Government of Australia, arguing that they had no power to pass the \"Racial Discrimination Act\", and as such, the case was moved to the High Court.\n\nKoowarta presented a case to the Human Rights Commission opposing the policy enacted by the Queensland Government, to block Aboriginal acquisition of large areas of land, arguing that it was discriminatory under sections 9 and 12 of the \"Racial Discrimination Act 1975\". Section 9 makes it unlawful for any person to make a distinction based on race which interferes with another person's human rights. Section 12 makes it unlawful for any person to refuse to sell land to another person, or refuse to allow them to occupy the land, based on their race.\n\nBjelke-Petersen, on behalf of the Queensland Government, argued that the \"Racial Discrimination Act\" was not valid, and that the Australian Government had no power to make it. Section 51 of the Australian Constitution defines the powers of the Australian Government, and Bjelke-Petersen argued that subsection xxvi of that section, which allows the Parliament of Australia to make laws for \"the people of any race, for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws,\" did not apply to the Act, since it prohibited discrimination against people of \"all\" races.\n\nThe most important question in the case was whether the \"Racial Discrimination Act\" was valid. Section 51(xxvi) of the Australian Constitution, which allows the Commonwealth to make laws for the people of any race, originally made a specific exclusion for Aboriginal people. However, this exception was removed in the 1967 referendum on Aboriginal people, and since then, the Commonwealth had power to make laws for Aboriginal people. However, the wording did not mean that only laws benefiting people of any race could be passed; in fact, the section was originally designed to allow the Commonwealth to discriminate against the people of any race. Nevertheless, the court agreed that the Commonwealth could make laws prohibiting discrimination against the people of any race.\n\nHowever, the court found that the Act addressed racial discrimination against all people, not just the people of one particular race. As such, the Act had no basis in the 'any race' power.\n\nThe court agreed that the \"Racial Discrimination Act\" was intended to give effect within Australia to the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD), which Australia had signed on 13 October 1966. Section 51(xxix) of the Australian Constitution, which simply states that the Parliament has power to make laws with respect to \"external affairs\" (a term which is left undefined), was put forward as an alternative source of authority for the Act. The Commonwealth in a submission argued that since the Act gave effect to Australia's international obligations as a signatory to the CERD, it came under the external affairs power.\n\nAn important question was whether the Act could truly be regarded as an \"external affair\", since it applied entirely within Australia. There had already been a number of High Court cases which approved the use of the external affairs power to implement international treaties (such as the Paris Convention case and the Seas and Submerged Lands case). The court recognised that the external affairs power was not restricted only to matters outside of Australia, but it was still questionable whether it applied to matters that did not involve foreigners or other countries at all. The Commonwealth argued that it would affect Australia's international reputation if it were not able to carry out its obligations as a signatory to the Convention.\n\nBy a majority of six to one, the court found that the \"Racial Discrimination Act\" was not valid under the \"race\" power. However, by a narrow majority of four to three, the court also found that the Act was within the \"external affairs\" power.\n\nThree judges (Gibbs, Aickin, and Wilson) adopted a very narrow view, endorsing a test proposed by Justice Dixon in R v Burgess; Ex parte Henry, which focuses on whether a treaty is \"indisputably international\". They also suggested that reading the external affairs power too widely would destroy the balance of powers between the Commonwealth and the States. They felt that the external affairs power had to be read in light of federalism in the Constitution. In effect, they proposed that any treaty had to meet an additional test and be 'indisputably international in character'. Their view was therefore concerned with the subject-matter of racial discrimination. In this case, the legislation was not sufficient to satisfy their test, and they held that the legislation was not valid.\n\nThree other judges (Mason, Murphy, Brennan) took a wide view, saying that the mere existence of a treaty obligation was sufficient to render the matter an 'external affair', regardless of the particular subject in question. This view was therefore not concerned with the international character of racial discrimination, but with the activity of treaty-making. Justice Murphy, characterised the arguments advanced by the States' as an attempt to resurrect the reserved State powers doctrine rejected in the 1920 Engineers' Case, and said that without the ability to implement treaties, Australia would be an \"international cripple\". Here, Australia clearly had obligations under the treaty, and as such the legislation was valid.\n\nThe deciding opinion was that of Ninian Stephen, who ultimately agreed with Mason, Murphy and Brennan on the facts, but took a somewhat narrow middle path in order to arrive at the same conclusion. He adopted a test based on whether or not the subject matter of the treaty being implemented is of 'international concern'. This test was not as broad as the wide view, and not as restrictive as the 'indisputably international' test. On the facts, Stephen found that the prevention of racial discrimination was indeed a matter of international concern, and as such the \"Racial Discrimination Act\" was valid.\n\nIn total, four judges held the legislation was valid under the external affairs power, but there was not a majority of judges agreeing on the test for determining validity. As a result, there was no clear ratio decidendi in the case; at best, a majority of the court might hold that s51(xxix) would support legislation implementing treaties with subject-matter of 'international concern'.\n\nThe case upheld the validity of the \"Racial Discrimination Act\", and endorsed the Australian Government's use of the \"external affairs\" power to implement treaties not directly relating to other countries, an interpretation that would later become important in cases such as the Tasmanian Dam case, where a majority of four judges would adopt the reasoning favoured by Mason, Murphy and Brennan in this case. In another later case, the Industrial Relations Act case, a majority of five judges endorsed the same reasoning, thus cementing its place in Australian law.\n\nThe main part of the case, relating to the Queensland Government's action in blocking Koowarta's purchase of the lease, was remitted to the Supreme Court of Queensland. The decision there was eventually made in 1988, in favour of Koowarta. The sale was to proceed, but at the last minute, Bjelke-Petersen, in an act described by Australian Conservation Foundation councillor Kevin Guy as one of \"spite and prejudice,\" declared the Archer River property a national park, the Archer Bend National Park (now known as Oyala Thumotang National Park), to ensure that no one could ever own it. However, on 6 October 2010 Premier Anna Bligh announced that a portion of the park would be given over to the Wik-Mungkana peoples as freehold land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018274", "title": "You're the Top", "text": "You're the Top\n\n\"You're the Top\" is a Cole Porter song from the 1934 musical \"Anything Goes\". It is about a man and a woman who take turns complimenting each other. The best-selling version was Paul Whiteman's Victor single, which made the top five.\n\nIt was the most popular song from \"Anything Goes\" at the start with hundreds of parodies.\n\nThe lyrics are particularly notable because they offer a snapshot as to what was highly prized in the mid-1930s and demonstrate Porter's rhyming ability.\n\nSome of the lyrics were re-written by P. G. Wodehouse for the British version of \"Anything Goes\".\n\nThe following is a list of many of the references made in the song:\n\nP. G. Wodehouse anglicised it for the British version of \"Anything Goes\". Amongst other changes, he altered two lines from \"You’re an O’Neill drama / You’re Whistler’s mama!\" to \"You’re Mussolini / You’re Mrs Sweeny\")\n\n\nPorter biographer William McBrien wrote that at the height of its popularity in 1934 to 1935 it had become a \"popular pastime\" to create parodies of the lyrics. Porter, who himself had called the song \"just a trick\" the public would get bored by was flooded with hundreds of parodies with one reportedly written by Irving Berlin. Despite the \"ribald\" nature of some of the parodies, McBrien believes few, including a King Kong parody, were written by Porter or Berlin. The American Cabaret Theatre biographical musical \"Cole & Noel\" (2001) had the line \"I'm talkin' King Kong's penis\" in the performance of the song.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018283", "title": "Moto Racer", "text": "Moto Racer\n\nMoto Racer is an arcade style motorcycle racing game developed by Delphine Software International and published by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation. The game was originally to be published by BMG Interactive, but after BMG closed down its U.S. operations it sold the publication rights to Electronic Arts.\n\nPlayers race on either a motocross bike or street bike, depending on the track. The PC version features a total of eight tracks, four of which are unlockable, while the PlayStation version adds two tracks for a total of ten. A multiplayer option is also available, allowing two players to compete over a LAN or Internet on the PC or split screen on the PlayStation version. The single player modes include \"Time Attack\" and \"Championship\". The most laps a player can do is eight on the Practice Race.\n\nMoto Racer was met with positive reception. On GameRankings it held a score of 75.50% for the PC version based on 4 reviews and 80.09% for the PlayStation version based on 11 reviews. \n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the PC version of the game, rating it five stars out of five, and stated that \"\"Moto Racer GP\" fills the vacant niche of the PC motorcycle racing genre admirably.\"\n\nCritics widely praised the PlayStation version for its sharp graphics and strong sense of speed. Tim Soete of \"GameSpot\" remarked that \"the gut-turning velocities achieved during parts of the game - and the requirement that your reflexes one-up this pace - is definitely where the challenge lies in \"Moto Racer\".\" The vast majority also applauded the controls, particularly when using analog joypads. Jay Boor of \"IGN\" disagreed, saying the realism and precision of the bike's handling frustrated him. Crispin Boyer of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" (EGM) acknowledged that while the game is too easy on easy difficulty, medium difficulty is rather unforgiving, but he and co-reviewers John Ricciardi and Kelly Rickards found this outweighed by the strong controls and overall fun of the game. \"EGM\" guest reviewer David Siller gave \"Moto Racer\" one of its few negative reviews, citing poor track design. \"GamePro\" gave it a 4.5 out of 5 in both control and sound and a perfect 5.0 in graphics and fun factor, citing the exhilarating sense of speed, \"instant onscreen responsiveness\" of the controls, low-key musical score, and variety of tracks and options.\n\nReviewers for \"IGN\" and \"Next Generation\" agreed that the PlayStation port, while clearly inferior to the PC version in terms of graphics, is an exemplary conversion given the PlayStation's limitations and provides the same essential gaming experience as the PC original. \"Next Generation\" stated that \"Although perhaps not quite as technically proficient as the PC version, \"Moto Racer\" for PlayStation loses nothing in the essence of the gaming experience it offers. A remarkable achievement.\"\n\nSeveral sequels and spin-offs followed, including \"Moto Racer 2\", \"Moto Racer World Tour\", \"Moto Racer 3\", \"Moto Racer 4\", \"Moto Racer Advance\" and \"Moto Racer DS\".\n\nIn 2011, Anuman and Nobilis released a remake called \"Moto Racer 15th Anniversary\" for iOS and Microsoft Windows.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018285", "title": "Polyketone", "text": "Polyketone\n\nPolyketones are a family of high-performance thermoplastic polymers. The polar ketone groups in the polymer backbone of these materials gives rise to a strong attraction between polymer chains, which increases the material's melting point (255 °C for copolymer (carbon monoxide ethylene), 220 °C for terpolymer (carbon monoxide, ethylene, propylene). Trade names include Poketone, Carilon, Karilon, Akrotek, and Schulaketon. Such materials also tend to resist solvents and have good mechanical properties. Unlike many other engineering plastics, aliphatic polyketones such as Shell Chemicals' Carilon are relatively easy to synthesize and can be derived from inexpensive monomers. Carilon is made with a palladium(II) catalyst from ethylene and carbon monoxide. A small fraction of the ethylene is generally replaced with propylene to reduce the melting point somewhat. Shell Chemical commercially launched Carilon thermoplastic polymer in the U.S.in 1996, but discontinued it in 2000. SRI International offers Carilon thermoplastic polymers. Hyosung announced that they would launch production in 2015. Hyosung Chemical Corp. is the only company who has been in commercial production and supply polyketone base(neat) polymer since 2015.\n\nThe ethylene-carbon monoxide co-polymer is most significant. Industrially, this polymer is synthesized either as a methanol slurry, or \"via\" a gas phase reaction with immobilized catalysts.\n\nWhere external initiation is not employed for the methanol system, initiation can take place \"via\" methanolysis of the palladium(II) precursor, giving either a methoxide or a hydride complex. Termination occurs also by methanolysis. Depending on the end of the growing polymer chain, this results in either an ester or a ketone end group, and regenerating the palladium methoxide or hydride catalysts respectively.\n\nA mechanism for the propagation of this reaction using a palladium(II)-phenanthroline catalyst has been proposed by Brookhart:\n\nPolyketones are noted for having extremely low defects (double ethylene insertions or double carbonyl insertions, in red):\n\nThe activation barrier to give double carbonyl insertions is very high, so it does not occur. Brookhart's mechanistic studies show that the concentration of the alkyl-ethylene palladium complex required to give double ethylene insertions is very low at any one point:\n\nAdditionally, the Gibbs energy of activation of the alkyl-ethylene insertion is ~ 3 kcal/mol higher than the corresponding activation barrier for the alkyl-carbon monoxide insertion. As a result, defects occur at an extremely low rate (~ 1 part per million). The industrially-relevant palladium-dppp catalyst has also been investigated.\n\nWhere palladium(II) pre-catalysts bearing monodentate phosphine ligands are used in methanol, a relatively high fraction of methyl propionate is produced. In comparison, where chelating diphosphine ligands are used, this side-product is absent. This observation is rationalized: the bis(phosphine) complex can undergo \"cis\"-\"trans\" isomerization to give the sterically favored \"trans\" isomer. The propionyl ligand is now \"trans\"- to the open coordination site or ethylene ligand, and is unable to undergo migratory insertion. Instead, solvolysis by methanol occurs, which gives the undesired methyl propionate side-product.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018288", "title": "Carilon", "text": "Carilon\n\nCarilon or carillon may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018294", "title": "The Man Who Came to Dinner", "text": "The Man Who Came to Dinner\n\nThe Man Who Came to Dinner is a comedy in three acts by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart. It debuted on October 16, 1939, at the Music Box Theatre in New York City, where it ran until 1941, closing after 739 performances. It then enjoyed a number of New York and London revivals. The first London production was staged at The Savoy Theatre starring Robert Morley and Coral Browne. In 1990, Browne stated in a televised biographical interview, broadcast on UK Channel 4 (entitled \"Caviar to the General\"), that she bought the rights to the play, borrowing money from her dentist to do so. When she died, her will revealed that she had received royalties for all future productions and adaptations.\n\nThe song \"What Am I To Do\" was written by Cole Porter specifically for the play.\n\nThe play is set in the small town of Malia, Ohio in the weeks leading to Christmas in the late 1930s. The exposition reveals that the famously outlandish New York City radio wit Sheridan Whiteside ('Sherry' to his friends) is invited to dine at the house of the well-to-do factory owner Ernest W. Stanley and his family. But before Whiteside can enter the house, he slips on a patch of ice outside the Stanleys' front door and injures his hip. Confined to the Stanleys' home, Whiteside is looked after by several professionals: Dr. Bradley, the absent-minded town physician, Miss Preen, his frantic nurse, and Maggie Cutler, his faithful secretary. He is also visited by the eccentric Professor Metz, who brings him a glass-encased cockroach colony. \n\nConfined to the house for a month, Sherry drives his hosts mad by viciously insulting them, monopolizing their house and staff, running up large phone bills, and receiving many bizarre guests, including paroled convicts. However, Sherry manages to befriend the Stanleys' children, June and Richard, as well as Mr. Stanley's eccentric older sister Harriet.\n\nHe also befriends local newspaperman and aspiring playwright Bert Jefferson but soon learns that Maggie is in love with Bert, and plans to leave her job to marry him. Unable to bear losing his secretary, Sherry invites his friend, the glamorous and loose-living actress Lorraine Sheldon, to Mesalia to look at Bert's new play, hoping she can break up the marriage plans. Dr. Bradley tells Sherry he was mistaken in his diagnosis, and Sherry is well enough to leave. Sherry buys the doctor's silence by pretending to want to work on a book with him, and for the rest of the play keeps brushing him off.\n\nAs Christmas Day nears, Sherry encourages June Stanley to elope with a young union organizer whom her father disapproves of, and Richard to run away and pursue his dream of becoming a photographer. Lorraine arrives, and Maggie instantly suspects Sherry's involvement. They receive a visit from their friend, noted British actor and playwright Beverly Carlton. Maggie learns Beverly can do a great impression of Lord Bottomley, an English lord whom Lorraine is hoping to marry. She gets Beverly to call Lorraine and pretend to be Lord Bottomley proposing, to get Lorraine to leave. However, Sherry soon sees through the ruse. When Lorraine realizes Maggie's involvement she starts to seduce Bert as revenge.\n\nThe next day, Christmas, Bert is enthralled with Lorraine, and Maggie, hurt by Sherry's betrayal, tells him she is quitting. Feeling guilty, Sherry tries to think of a way to get Lorraine out of Malia. He gets help from an unexpected visit by his friend, movie comedian Banjo. Mr. Stanley, however, furious at Sherry's interference with his family, has now ordered Sherry's eviction from the house and gives him fifteen minutes to leave. All looks hopeless until an Egyptian mummy case is delivered to Sherry (a Christmas gift from the Khedive of Egypt). Sherry and Banjo manage to trick Lorraine into the mummy case and shut her inside. Sherry then sees a photo of Harriet Stanley when she was younger, and recognizes her as a famous murderer. Using this information, he blackmails Mr. Stanley into helping them get the case onto Banjo's plane.\n\nSherry now stands, telling Maggie she is free to marry Bert and prepares to return to New York by train. Unfortunately, as he is leaving the house, he slips on another patch of ice, injuring himself again. He is carried back inside the house screaming as the curtain falls.\n\nKaufman and Hart wrote the play as a vehicle for their friend Alexander Woollcott, the model for the lead character Sheridan Whiteside. At the time the play was written Woollcott was famous both as the theater critic who helped re-launch the career of the Marx Brothers and as the star of the national radio show \"The Town Crier\". He was well liked by both Kaufman and Hart, but that did not stop him from displaying the obnoxious characteristics displayed by Whiteside in the play. Kaufman and Hart had promised a vehicle for Woollcott but had been unable to find a plot that suited them until one day Woollcott showed up, unannounced, at Hart's Bucks County estate, and proceeded to take over the house. He slept in the master bedroom, terrorized Hart's staff, and generally acted like Sheridan Whiteside. On his way out he wrote in Hart's guest book, \"This is to certify that I had one of the most unpleasant times I ever spent.\" Hart related the story to Kaufman soon afterwards. As they were both laughing about it, Hart remarked that he was lucky that Woollcott had not broken his leg and become stuck there. Kaufman looked at Hart and the idea was born. \n\nA plot point mentions actress and Broadway producer Katharine Cornell. The character Bert Jefferson writes a play, and Whiteside promises to give it to Cornell for her to star in. The character of Professor Metz is after Gustav Eckstein, MD, a physician writer from Cincinnati who studied animal behavior and was a long-time friend of Alexander Woollcott.\n\nWoollcott was delighted with \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" and was offered the role for its Broadway debut. With his busy schedule of radio broadcasts and lectures, he declined, and Monty Woolley played the part. Woollcott did play Whiteside in the West Coast version of the play and was even joined by Harpo Marx, who portrayed his own referenced character, Banjo.\n\nThe printed edition of the play starts with the inscription \"To Alexander Woollcott, for reasons that are nobody's business.\"\n\nThe original cast as billed:\n\n\nCharacter notes\n\nThe production was adapted for a 1942 feature film, scripted by Philip G. Epstein and Julius J. Epstein and directed by William Keighley. The film featured Monty Woolley, Bette Davis, Ann Sheridan, Billie Burke, Jimmy Durante, Mary Wickes and Richard Travis. It had its world premiere at the Capitol Theater in Paragould, Arkansas.\n\n\"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" was presented on \"Philip Morris Playhouse\" July 10, 1942. Monty Woolley starred in the adaptation. It was broadcast again by Theatre Guild on the Air on ABC Radio November 17, 1946 starring Fred Allen. In 1949, \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" was produced for CBS Radio for \"The Hotpoint Holiday Hour\". The production starred Charles Boyer, Jack Benny, Gene Kelly, Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire, and Rosalind Russell. It was also adapted for the \"Lux Radio Theater\" on March 27, 1950, starring Clifton Webb as Sheridan Whiteside and Lucille Ball as Maggie Cutler. The show was hosted by William Keighley, who directed the 1942 film adaptation.\n\nFor Christmas Day, 2000, BBC Radio 4 broadcast a Marcy Kahan adaptation of \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" approved by the Hart and Kaufman estates which starred Simon Callow as Whiteside, Elizabeth McGovern as Maggie, with Conleth Hill as Bert Jefferson, Cheryl Campbell as Lorraine Sheldon, John Sessions as Banjo and Professor Metz, Colin Stinton as Mr. Stanley, and Malcolm Sinclair as Beverley Carlton. Moira Petty, writing in \"The Stage\", said, \"\"Director Ned Chaillet elicited from his cast ... a smart, gag-telling pace, which gave it a sensational period flavour.\"\n\nThe play and subsequent film served as the basis for the 1967 musical \"Sherry!\", with a book and lyrics by James Lipton and music by Laurence Rosenthal. Clive Revill starred as Sheridan Whiteside. The show ran on Broadway for 72 performances. Years later, the musical was recorded with a studio cast led by Nathan Lane as Sheridan.\n\n\nA 1980 revival directed by Stephen Porter ran for 19 previews and 85 performances at the Circle in the Square Theatre. The cast included Ellis Rabb, Roderick Cook, Leonard Frey, Carrie Nye, and Jamey Sheridan. Drama Desk Award nominations went to Cook for Outstanding Featured Actor in a Play and Nye for Outstanding Featured Actress in a Play.\n\nA 2000 revival, which ran for 85 performances, was produced by the Roundabout Theatre Company and directed by Jerry Zaks. The cast included Nathan Lane (Sheridan Whiteside), Jean Smart (Lorraine Sheldon), Harriet Sansom Harris (Maggie Cutler), and Lewis J. Stadlen (Banjo). In an interview prior to the opening, Lane said, \"There's a danger in playing Whiteside. In the movie, Monty Woolley's portrayal at times came across as mean for mean's sake. It's when it gets nasty or bitchy that it goes off in the wrong direction.\" He suggested that his performance was influenced by Woollcott's repressed sexuality, stating, \"He had a lot of...things he didn't want to deal with.\" The production received mixed reviews. \"Variety\", \"The Advocate\" and \"Talkin' Broadway\" reviewed it positively, and \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the production a B+, calling it \"as fresh a send-up as an SNL sketch and [with] an even more inspired plot\" and singling out Smart's \"swanning demonstration of ultimate showbiz phoniness\" for praise. In \"The New York Times\", however, Ben Brantley disliked the production, writing that \"What should be a buoyant balloon of an evening [is] more often an exercise in deflation.\" Brantley praised Stadlen but found most of the acting, including Lane's, to be \"a series of flourishes that sell individual jokes and epigrams without being anchored to character.\" Smart was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play and Stadlen was nominated for the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Featured Actor in a Play, though neither won.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2018297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018297", "title": "Florin Felecan", "text": "Florin Felecan\n\nFlorin Felecan (born 7 April 1980, [Brasov]) is a chess International Master. Born in Romania, he resides in Evanston, Illinois, having moved there on July 17, 1997, along with his family.\n\nFelecan is a multiple-time former junior national champion of Romania. In 1994, he tied for first in the U14 European Championships with a 7/9 points performance. He won the 1998 National Denker Tournament of High School Champions in Hawaii with 4.5/5 record. \n\nHe served as one of four advisors on the World team in the Kasparov versus The World chess match in 1999.\n\nFelecan attended University of Maryland - Baltimore County (UMBC) on a chess scholarship from 1998 until 1999. He played first/second board and led UMBC to the Pan-American team Championship in Dallas (1998) and Toronto (1999), but left shortly thereafter. He intermittently played chess from 2000 through 2002, then stopped playing until May 2006.\n\nFelecan began actively seeking his International Master title after being contacted by organizer Sevan Muradian. Felecan achieved the three required title norms between April 2009 and July 2009. He became the third person to earn all three required title norms at the North American FIDE Invitational series organized by Sevan Muradian, behind IM Mehmed Pasalic (the first person to achieve this) and GM Marc Arnold (the second person to achieve this for his IM title). \n\nIM Felecan worked in a non-chess related occupation until 2011 when he actively became a full-time chess coach for youth and adult players. He is one of the most active coaches on the Chicago North Shore. \n\nOn the March 2013 FIDE list his Elo rating was 2375. In 2016, he tied for first in the Chicago Open Under-2400 section beating Grandmasters Eugene Perelshteyn and Holden Hernandez in the process. His 6/9 result was the best result for any player in the state of Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018303", "title": "Danny Gaither", "text": "Danny Gaither\n\nDanny Gaither (November 20, 1938April 6, 2001), was a gospel music singer from Alexandria, Indiana, and an original member of the Bill Gaither Trio.\n\nBorn Daniel Joseph Gaither, he was the son of George and Lela Gaither. He \"began singing for community groups when he was only 3, with his mother accompanying him on the piano.\"\n\nHe attended the Cunningham School, where in the seventh grade he won a music award. Later, he was a student at Alexandria (Indiana) High School, where he was elected president of his senior class. He went on to attend Ball State University. After graduating from Ball State, he went to Ohio to teach industrial arts in the Wheelersburg Local School district, beginning in 1962. By 1966, he had returned to Indiana to teach at Alexandria High School.\n\nAs a youngster, Gaither was a member of the Nazarene church in his hometown.\n\nBy 1950, he was already singing religious music in an organized group. He and his brother, Bill, were half of a quartet known as the Junior Dixie Four. In 1954, he was the tenor soloist from a 100-member high school choir for a community sunrise service in his hometown.\n\nBy the time Gaither was 15, his interest in Southern gospel music had already been ignited. An item in a local newspaper reported that he and brother Bill had attended an out-of-town \"all-night sing\" that featured The Blackwood Brothers and The Statesmen Quartet.\n\nBy the time Gaither was 18, he, brother Bill, and sister Mary Ann had formed the Gaither Trio, and the group was singing at churches and religious events. A 1957 newspaper advertisement for a \"Frankfort Zone Young People's Rally\" featured a picture of the trio and the slogan, \"GOSPEL SONGS you'll really like.\"\n\nAfter he moved to Ohio to teach in a high school, Gaither became a member of the Golden Keys Quartet, which was based in Portsmouth, Ohio. He sang second tenor with the group.\n\nGaither sang to audiences around the world with the trio. (Mary Ann was later replaced by Bill's wife Gloria.) In 1977, he left the group and embarked on a successful solo career. An advertisement for a 1994 concert said: \"For years Danny's unique voice added the special sound to the Bill Gaither Trio. Now Danny is on his own, still singing but also sharing in a new and special way.\" As a soloist, he produced a number of albums including \"Singing to the World\", \"It Is Well With My Soul\", \"Sing a Song of Love\" and \"Sweet and High\". As a soloist, he was a guest on \"The 700 Club\" on television.\n\nThe stress of touring affected Dan, and in the early 1990s he experienced problems with his vocal cords. The problems were so severe that he was forced to stop touring, although he was able to occasionally appear with Bill and other fellow gospel singers in the well-known \"Homecoming\" performances.\n\nHe also was minister of music at Chesterfield Community Church of God.\n\nDuring one such performance, at the 1994 Praise Gathering in Indianapolis, Indiana, Bill Gaither and Mark Lowry concocted a surprise for Danny and those in attendance. Lowry walked down from the stage to the audience during \"The Longer I Serve Him,\" and tapped Danny to sing a verse, which moved both the audience and the other Homecoming performers to tears.\n\nDanny continued to join the Homecoming group whenever his health permitted, even after he was diagnosed with lymphoma.\n\nGaither was a finalist for the GMA Dove Award in the Best Male Gospel Vocalist category in 1973 and 1974. Gaither was inducted into the Southern Gospel Music Association's Southern Gospel Music Hall of Fame (Pigeon Forge, TN) in 2010.\n\nGaither and his wife, Vonnie, had three children, Nicholas, Mitchell and Trina. A son and the daughter were active in Christian music. Nick Gaither played bass in the group that accompanied his father in concerts. In late 2001, Vonnie and Trina were two-thirds of the Gaither, Oliver and Oren trio.\n\nGaither died of lymphoma April 6, 2001, in Alexandria, Indiana. He was 62. He was survived by his wife, three children, three grandchildren, his parents, his brother, and his sister.\n"}
{"id": "2018323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018323", "title": "Mini Office II", "text": "Mini Office II\n\nMini Office II, published by Database Software in 1986, was an office suite available for several home computers, among which were the Amstrad CPC, the Atari 8-bit family, the BBC Micro, the Commodore 64, and others. The software package could be purchased on cassette tape or floppy disk. Mini Office II was originally written for the BBC Micro Computer (in 6502 assembler) and was also available in EPROM format.\n\nThe office applications included in Mini Office II were listed as:\n\nAn enhanced version, \"Mini Office Professional\", was released for the Amstrad PCW in 1989.\n\nThe word processor on Mini Office II allows the user, after having loaded the word processor and created a word file and saved it, to load the word file directly from the tape without re-loading the word processor. If the user has a word file on tape it therefore loads in about three seconds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018326", "title": "Glycal", "text": "Glycal\n\nGlycal is a name for cyclic enol ether derivatives of sugars having a double bond between carbon atoms 1 and 2 of the ring. The term “glycal” should not be used for an unsaturated sugar that has a double bond in any position other than between carbon atoms 1 and 2.\n\nThe first glycal was synthesized by Hermann Emil Fischer and Karl Zach in 1913. They synthesized this 1,2-unsaturated sugar from D-glucose and named their product D-glucal. Fischer believed he had synthesized an aldehyde, and therefore he gave the product a name that suggested this. By the time he discovered his mistake, the name “glycal” was adopted as a general name for all sugars with a double bond between carbon atoms 1 and 2.\n\nGlycals can be formed as pyranose (six-membered) or furanose (five-membered) rings, depending on the monosaccharide used as a starting material to synthesize the glycal. Glycals can also be classified as \"endo\"-glycals or \"exo\"-glycals. A glycal is an endo-glycal when the double bond is within the ring. If the hydroxyl group on carbon 1 has been replaced with another carbon atom, a double bond can also form outside the ring between carbon 1 and this new carbon. In this case, the product is called an \"exo\"-glycal. The glycal conformation that has been studied in most depth is that of the pyranose \"endo\"-glycal. The favoured conformation of this glycal is the half-chair, a result which has been confirmed by quantum mechanical calculations.\n\nThe original Fischer glycal synthesis was the reductive elimination with zinc of a glycosyl halide. This glycosyl halide was formed from a monosaccharide starting material. Some other synthetic routes include:\nA general example of each synthetic route is given below (drawn with first discussed synthesis bottom right, moving clockwise):\nThe double bond of a glycal allows many other functional groups to be introduced into a monosaccharide. Like an alkene, a glycal can undergo electrophilic addition across the double bond to add in these new atoms such as halogens, epoxides, and nitrogen. The glycal double bond also allows a deoxy position (carbon in the ring that doesn’t have an oxygen bonded to it) to be easily introduced. \n\nGlycals have many uses in synthetic carbohydrate chemistry. They are commonly used as glycosylation donors, meaning that they can react with other monosaccharides to form a longer chain of monosaccharides called an oligosaccharide.\n\nGlycals can also have interesting applications in studying biological systems, particularly enzymes. D-glucal and radiolabelled D-galactal have been used to selectively bind with amino acids in the active sites of several enzymes. These enzyme-glycal complexes allow these amino acids that are essential for catalysis to be identified and allow for a better understanding of how these enzymes function.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018332", "title": "The Street with No Name", "text": "The Street with No Name\n\nThe Street with No Name is a 1948 film noir directed by William Keighley. A follow-up to \"The House on 92nd Street\" (1945), it tells the story of an undercover FBI agent, Gene Cordell (Mark Stevens), who infiltrates a deadly crime gang. Cordell's superior, FBI Inspector George A. Briggs (Lloyd Nolan), also appears in \"The House on 92nd Street\". The movie, shot in a semidocumentary style, takes place in the Skid Row section of fictional (actually Los Angeles) \"Center City.\"\n\nA crime wave, including a holdup at a nightclub that ends in a murder and a bank robbery in which a guard is killed, has hit Center City. A squad of FBI agents headed by inspector George A. Briggs meets with local FBI field officer Richard Atkins, police chief Bernard Harmatz and Police Commissioner Ralph Demory. After Briggs interrogates suspect Robert Danker, who claims he was not involved in either killing and that he has been framed, various tests are run at the FBI laboratory in Washington that exonerate Danker. Later Danker, who has been bailed out by \"John Smith,\" is found stabbed to death. At the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia, Briggs briefs agent Gene Cordell, who is going undercover in Center City to try to infiltrate the gang Briggs thinks is responsible for all three killings. Cordell takes a bus into Center City and rents a room at the same \"Skid Row\" hotel in which Danker had been living. Fellow agent Cy Gordon is in a similar hotel across the street from him. Using the name George Manly, Cordell makes himself known in the area by going to the local gym and picking a fight with one of the boxers training there. He is spotted by owner Alec Stiles, who offers him cash if he can last against the boxer. He does, and Alec pays him off.\n\nLater, in a nearby amusement arcade, Cordell tells Gordon that while he was at the gym, his Social Security card was stolen. As they talk, two policemen approach and arrest Cordell for a break-in at a jewelry store, where his card has been found. The FBI has provided a false record for Cordell, and he is bailed out by John Smith, who turns out to be Stiles. Through the police department, Stiles has acquired a copy of Cordell's phony FBI record and is impressed enough to invite him to join his organization. Later Cordell meets with Briggs on board a ferry, and his report convinces Briggs that the Stiles gang are their culprits. After Stiles and his henchmen plan a robbery of a local mansion, Stiles has a violent argument with his wife Judy. Cordell alerts Gordon about the robbery and the FBI and police prepare an ambush, but Stiles' informant within the police department tips him off and he cancels the job. Cordell returns to gang headquarters and fires a shot from Stiles' revolver in order to recover the bullet for testing. However, Stiles discovers that his gun has been fired and goes to see his informant, who turns out to be Commissioner Demory, and asks him to have his gun checked for fingerprints. Demory later advises Stiles that his gang has been infiltrated by Cordell.\n\nShivvy and Matty, two of Stiles' henchmen, take Cordell to see Stiles, and Gordon follows them in a taxi. Briggs, who has been observing Stiles and can link him to Demory, then receives a report from Washington that the barrel markings on the bullet fired from Stiles' gun are identical with those on the bullets used in the previous killings. After Gordon tracks Shivvy, Matty and Cordell to a factory, he tells the taxi driver to get word to Briggs as to where he is. Inside the plant, Shivvy discovers and then stabs Gordon. Cordell does not realize he has been found out until Stiles announces he is going to frame him and have Demory's officers \"accidentally\" kill him. However, the plan backfires when Briggs and Chief Harmatz arrive with backup and chase Stiles through the factory. Cordell corners Stiles and kills him, and as Briggs arrests Demory, agent Gordon recovers.\n\n\nThe role of Judy Stiles was offered to June Haver, but she turned it down, calling it an \"unimportant role\". She furthermore said: \"After playing that role, I won't have any name\". As a result, she was put on suspension by Fox.\n\nWhen the film was released the staff at \"Variety\" magazine wrote, \"A double-barreled gangster film, \"The Street with No Name\" ranks at the top of the list of documentary-type productions which have been rolling out of the 20th-Fox lot. This pic has a lean, tough surface wrapped around a nucleus of explosive violence. Beneath its documentary exterior there lies a straight melodrama that harks back to the great gangster films of the early 1930s...Along a continuous line of fresh details, film includes a crackerjack fight sequence between Stevens and a professional pug, a glimpse into the FBI machinery, and a slambang finale in which the cops and the hoodlums shoot it out in an industrial plant. In a secondary role, Lloyd Nolan, playing the same Inspector Briggs of the FBI of \"The House on 92nd Street,\" delivers with his usual competence.\"\n\nMore recently, critic Dennis Schwartz wrote, \"William Keighley (\"Bullets or Ballots\"/\"G Men\") ably directs in a no-nonsense manner this semi-documentary styled crime drama, while Harry Kleiner provides the taut script; it follows in the authentically atmospheric territory carved out by \"The House on 92nd Street\" (1945). The film noir gets its colorful flavorings from star Richard Widmark playing another psychopathic killer like he did in \"Kiss of Death\"...The film's main purpose is to tell in an entertaining fashion how efficient the FBI is and how dangerous is their work. But the film is well-acted, has terrific shadowy visuals courtesy of Joe MacDonald, frighteningly conveys the feeling of a corrupt city, and never pretends to be anything more arty than a good cops and robbers action film. On those merits, it's watchable.\"\n\nNominations\n\nHarry Kleiner's screenplay was reworked seven years later for Samuel Fuller's \"House of Bamboo\" (1955).\n\n"}
{"id": "2018336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018336", "title": "Mohammad Nosrati", "text": "Mohammad Nosrati\n\nMohammad Nosrati (, born January 10, 1982 in Karaj, Iran) is an Iranian Football player. He currently plays for Oxin Alborz in the Azadegan League.\n\nNosrati started his career at Aboomoslem, he left the club to join PAS in 2001. He was one of many valuable players of Pas Tehran, finishing the 2003–04 season as Iran Pro League champions.\nThere had been some notable interest shown in him from outside Iran—most notably he was officially linked to 2003 Croatian champions, Dinamo Zagreb, but rejected the offer citing that he wanted to play in a better European league. He dispelled speculation of which European team he would sign with when he signed a three-year extension with Pas in 2005. He also played in AFC Champions League for Pas. After Pas Tehran was disqualified, Nosrati left the club and did not join the newly formed Pas Hamedan.\n\nOn February 9, 2007 it was said Nosrati signed with Belgian League outfit R.E. Mouscron on a 5-month contract after a successful trial and passing medical tests, however the deal was not completed as terms and conditions could not be agreed on.\nHe moved to Persepolis in August 2007 and won the league in his first and only season.\n\nIn 2008, he moved to Al-Nasr in the United Arab Emirates and joined Luka Bonačić's team. He played in most of the matches for Al-Nasr but it was reported that he was unhappy in the United Arab Emirates and wanted to move back to Persepolis. He finally joined newly promoted Iran Pro League club Tractor. Nosrati moved back to his old club in the UAE Al-Nasr in late January 2010. He moved back to Tractor in summer of 2010 and stayed there for a season.\n\nHe signed a contract with Persepolis on 27 June 2011. He was indefinitely suspended by the Iranian football federation for \"immoral acts\" after he squeezed his teammate Sheis Rezaei's buttocks during a goal celebration. His suspension was come to end on 26 December 2011. After his suspension he became the regular player for the team again but was named in transfer list after the end of the season and was transfer to his former club Tractor.\n\nAt Tractor he was one of the key players of the team which became the runners-up in the league for the first time in the club's history. He also helped the club win the Hazfi Cup in his second season at the club.\n\nOn 19 June 2014, Nosrati joined Paykan.\n\nNosrati made his debut for Iran in 2002 in a game against Jordan and since that moment has had a somewhat stable role in the squad. Already labeled a talented youngster before that debut, he has consistently made a balanced and overall good impression. After being one of the Asian Games 2002 gold medal winners, he was marked as a fixed defender in the national team despite being only 20 years old at the time. He was in irans squad in 2004 Asian Cup and scored an important goal against Oman in group stages in 92nd minute. He also won the 2004 West Asian Football Federation Championship with Team Melli.\n\nHe was among Iran's final squad for World Cup 2006.\nHe also played in 2007 AFC Asian Cup qualification and after a long injury played in 2007 Asian Cup. He played in 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification and 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification for Team Melli. He continued to be one of the regular players in 2011 AFC Asian Cup qualification. He played in West Asian Football Federation Championship 2010 and 2011 Asian Cup.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018344", "title": "John Wilder", "text": "John Wilder\n\nJohn Wilder may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018345", "title": "Hwabyeong", "text": "Hwabyeong\n\nHwabyeong or Hwabyung is a somatization disorder, a mental illness which arises when people are unable to confront their anger as a result of conditions which they perceive to be unfair.\nHwabyung is a colloquial and somewhat inaccurate name, as it refers to the etiology of the disorder rather than its symptoms or apparent characteristics. Hwabyung is similar to Amuk. Hwabyung is known as a culture-bound syndrome.\n\nThe word hwabyung is composed of \"hwa\" (the Chinese-Korean word for \"fire\" which can also contextually mean \"anger\") and \"byung\" (the Chinese-Korean word for \"syndrome\" or \"illness\"). It may also be called \"ulhwabyeong\" (), literally \"depression anger illness\". In one survey, 4.1% of the general population in a rural area in Korea were reported as having hwabyung. \n\nPhysical symptoms include:\n\n\nPsychological symptoms include:\n\n\nDiagnosed patients may also have a medical history of prior major depressive disorder, dysthymic disorder, anxiety disorders, somatoform disorders, or adjustment disorder according to the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\", fourth edition (DSM-IV) criteria.\n\nDiagnosed patients are most likely to be middle-aged, post-menopausal women with low socio-economic status.\n\nUnderlying causes may include:\n\n\nTriggering causes are typically external events, including:\n\n\nThe syndrome itself is believed to be the result of the continued repression of feelings of anger without addressing their source. In holistic medicine the containment of anger in hwabyung disturbs the balance of the five bodily elements, resulting in the development of psychosomatic symptoms such as panic, insomnia, and depression after a long period of repressed feelings.\n\nIt is possible that hormonal imbalances such as those around the time of menopause may also be an underlying cause of hwabyung in middle-aged women, the most often-diagnosed demographic.\n\nWestern doctors are more likely to diagnose it as a kind of stress or depression. The \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" currently lists \"hwabyeong\" among its culture-bound illnesses. Outside of Korea, informally \"hwabyeong\" may be mistaken as a reference to a psychological profile marked by a short temper, or explosive, generally bellicose behavior. To the contrary, \"hwabyeong\" is a traditional psychological term used to refer to a condition characterized by passive suffering, is roughly comparable to depression, and is typically associated with older women. It is important that when diagnosing Hwabyeong, the culture of the patient is well understood. Since Hwabyeong can often be misdiagnosed as depression, the symptoms and culture need to be clearly and thoroughly looked into. Once Hwabyeong has been diagnosed, past treatments need to be reviewed. The treatments for the patient can then be a combination of pharmacological, and therapy-based interventions.\n\nThe treatment methods used to combat hwabyung include psychotherapy, drug treatment, family therapy, and community approaches. To be more successful psychiatrists might need to incorporate the teachings from traditional and religious healing methods or the use of han-puri, which is the sentiment of resolving, loosening, unraveling and appeasing negative emotions with positive ones. One example of hann-puri would be a mother who has suffered from poverty, less education, a violent husband, or a harsh mother-in-law, can be solved many years later by the success of her son for which she had endured hardships and sacrifices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018347", "title": "Cahaba, Alabama", "text": "Cahaba, Alabama\n\nCahaba, also spelled Cahawba, was the first permanent state capital of Alabama from 1820 to 1825, and the county seat of Dallas County, Alabama until 1866. Located at the confluence of the Alabama and Cahaba rivers, it suffered regular seasonal flooding.\n\nThis was one reason that the state legislature moved the capital to a better location in 1826. After the town suffered another major flood in 1865, the state legislature moved the county seat northeast to Selma, which was better situated.\n\nThe former settlement became defunct. It is now a ghost town and is preserved as a state historic site, the Old Cahawba Archeological Park. The state and associated citizens' groups are working to develop it as a full interpretive park St. Luke's Episcopal Church was returned to Old Cahawba, and a fundraising campaign is underway for its restoration.\n\nCahawba was listed on the 1860-1880 U.S. Censuses. Although it remained incorporated until as late as 1989, it did not appear on the United States census rolls after 1880.\n\nCahaba had its beginnings as an undeveloped town site at the confluence of the Alabama and Cahaba rivers. At the old territorial capital of St. Stephens, a commission was formed on February 13, 1818 to select the site for Alabama's state capital. Cahaba was the site chosen and was approved on November 21, 1818. Due to the future capital site being undeveloped, Alabama's constitutional convention took temporary accommodations in Huntsville until a statehouse could be built.\n\nGovernor William Wyatt Bibb reported in October 1819 that the town had been laid out and that lots would be auctioned to the highest bidders. The town was planned on a grid system, with streets running north and south named for trees and those running east and west named for famous men. The new statehouse was a two-story brick structure, measuring wide by long located near Vine Street and Capitol Avenue. By 1820 Cahaba had become a functioning state capital.\n\nDue to its lowland location at the confluence of two large rivers, Cahaba was subject to seasonal flooding and a reputation for having an unhealthy atmosphere. Mosquitoes carried disease. People who were opposed to the capital's location at Cahaba used this as an argument for moving the capital to Tuscaloosa, which was approved by the legislature in January 1826.\n\nGiven the regular damage from flooding and relocation of the capital, Cahaba was adversely affected by the loss of state government business.\n\nThe town served as the county seat of Dallas County for several more decades. Based on revenues from the cotton trade, the town recovered from losing the capital, and reestablished itself as a social and commercial center.\n\nCentered in the fertile \"Black Belt\", Cahaba became a major distribution point for cotton shipped down the Alabama River to the Gulf port of Mobile. Successful planters and merchants built two-story mansions in town that expressed their wealth. St. Luke's Episcopal Church was built in 1854, designed by the nationally known architect, Richard Upjohn.\n\nWhen Cahaba was connected to a railroad line in 1859, a building boom was stimulated. In 1860 On the eve of the American Civil War, the town had 2,000 residents, according to the US Census. Some 64% were enslaved African Americans, reflecting the population of Dallas County, which was 75% black. Most were fieldworkers on plantations. But in the town, free people of color dominated the poultry business.\n\nDuring the Civil War, the Confederate government seized Cahaba's railroad and appropriated the iron rails to extend a nearby railroad of more military importance. It built a stockade around a large cotton warehouse on the riverbank along Arch Street in order to use it as a prison, known as Castle Morgan. It was used for Union prisoners-of-war from 1863 to 1865.\n\nIn February 1865 a major flood inundated the town, causing much additional hardship for the roughly 3000 Union soldiers held in the prison, and for the town's residents. Confederate General Nathan Bedford Forrest and Union General James H. Wilson met in Cahaba at the Crocheron mansion to discuss an exchange of prisoners captured during the Battle of Selma.\n\nIn 1866, the state legislature moved the county seat to nearby Selma. Related businesses and population soon followed. Within ten years, many of the houses and churches in Cahaba were dismantled and moved away. St. Luke's Episcopal Church, for example, was moved in 1878 to Martin's Station.\n\nJeremiah Haralson represented Cahawba and Dallas County when elected to the State House, the State Senate and the United States Congress. He was the only African American in Alabama elected to all three legislative bodies during Reconstruction.\n\nTogether with the minority of whites, most freedmen rapidly left the declining town. By 1870, the overall population was 431, and the number of blacks was 302. During the Reconstruction era, freedmen organizing in the Republican Party and trying to keep their \"moderate political gains\" met regularly at the vacant county courthouse. Freedmen and their families gradually developed vacant town blocks into fields and garden plots. But they soon moved away.\n\nPrior to the turn of the 20th century, a freedman purchased most of the old town site for $500. He had the abandoned buildings demolished for their building materials and shipped the material by steamboat to Mobile and Selma for use in growing communities. By 1903, most of Cahawba's buildings were gone; only a handful of structures survived past 1930.\n\nAlthough the area is no longer inhabited, the Alabama Historical Commission maintains the site as Old Cahawba Archeological Park. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. Visitors to this park can see many of the abandoned streets, cemeteries, and ruins of this former state capital and county seat. The Cahawba Advisory Committee is a non-profit group based in Selma that serves to support the park; it also maintains a website related to the park and its history. It is conducting fundraising to support the restoration of St. Luke's Episcopal Church, which was relocated to Old Cahawba in the early 21st century.\n\nThe town, and later its abandoned site, was the setting for many ghost stories during the 19th and 20th centuries. A widely known one tells of a ghostly orb in a now-vanished garden maze at the home of C. C. Pegues. The house was located on a lot that occupied a block between Pine and Chestnut streets. The purported haunting was recorded in “Specter in the Maze at Cahaba” in \"13 Alabama Ghosts and Jeffrey\".\nReported hauntings are updated online by the Digital Alabama Guide To Ghosts And Haunted Places.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018361", "title": "Virden, Manitoba", "text": "Virden, Manitoba\n\nVirden is a town in southwestern Manitoba. Oil was first discovered in 1951, and Virden has since come to be known as the \"Oil Capital of Manitoba\".\n\nVirden has its roots as a farming community known as Gopher Creek. However, it became a railway tent town in 1882, and grew in population due to the brick and flour industry, as well as with the discovery of oil in the 1950s. The origin of the name, Virden, allegedly arose as a misspelling of the German town Verden in the homeland of the 7th Duke of Manchester's wife.\n\nThe town is located at the junction of the Trans-Canada Highway (also known as Highway #1) and Highway 83 (the \"Palms to Pines\" route) and is surrounded by the Rural Municipality of Wallace. Virden is a regional service centre owing in part to its location, and it has a stable commercial sector, including several restaurants, gas stations, body shops, a movie theatre, and a performing arts theatre.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Canadian Census, the population of Virden is 3,114, a 3.5% increased from 2006. Virden's land mass is 8.56 km with a population density is 363.6 people per km. The median age is 42.7 years old which is 2 years older than the national average at 40.6 years old. There are 1,446 dwellings in Virden with an occupancy rate of 95.1%, and the median cost of a dwelling at $159,748, more than $100,000 lower than the national average at $280,552.\n\nAccording to the 2011 National Household Survey, 96.8% of Virden residents are Canadian citizens, and about 3.2% of residents are recent immigrants (from 2001 to 2011). The racial make up of Virden is mostly Caucasian (92.0%), with a moderate Aboriginal population (5.5%); \"First Nations (2.0%), Métis (3.5%)\", and a small visible minority population (2.7%), most of which are Filipino (2.0%) or multiracial (0.5%).\n\nThe Tourist Information Center is run by the Virden Chamber of Commerce. Located in the old train station, the Virden Tourist Information Centre provides tourists with any desired information about attractions in the Virden Area. \nFor more information, visit their website.\n\nKnown as the \"Victorian Home on the Prairies\", the Virden Pioneer Home Museum is located within a red brick veneer home built by James Frame in 1888. With an extensive collection of over ten thousand donated artifacts relating to Virden and area, the museum is a must tourist destination. It is open May to September where guided tours are offered by knowledgeable guides. The museum is located at 390 King Street West in Virden.\nFor more information, visit the museum's website.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018368", "title": "Sattar Zare", "text": "Sattar Zare\n\nSattar Zare (, born January 27, 1982 in Shiraz) is a former Iranian football player and coach who currently manages Bargh Shiraz. He played in both wing-back and midfielder positions.\n\nZare started his youth career at Bargh Shiraz at the age of 8 and stayed with the youth team until he was 20 and played for the team after becoming influential in the club's relative success in recent years. He is the captain of Bargh and the only Bargh player that participates in Team melli in recent years. In the middle of 2007–08 season, he was fired and banned from training by the team manager Mahmoud Yavari because of anarchy, but he was forgiven after a brief period and played for the club again.\nat the end of 2007–08 season, he was a free agent and had offers from both Iranian giants Persepolis and Esteghlal, and also an offer from Mes, but he decided to remain at Hafezieh for another season.\nHe was the best player for Bargh Shiraz but the team was relegated and despite having offers again he decided to stay.\n\nHe joined Shahin Bushehr in July 2010 and spent one season there. After the end of the season, he signed a contract with Rah Ahan on 1 July 2011 but he was fired by Rah Ahan's head coach, Ali Daei on 5 October 2011. He returned to Shahin Bushehr during the winter transfer window.\n\nHe was a little-known player beyond the Hafezieh Stadium in his native city of Shiraz, until his selection for the Iranian national under-23 football team.\n\nZare was drafted to mend the defenses of the Iranian U-23s, after Hossein Faraki took over the coaching job. Along with Zare, Faraki also invited Alavi and the duo were a success. After that performance, Iran's coach Branko Ivankovic invited both of the players to the squad for the game against Jordan in June 2004. He made his debut on July 20, 2004 in the match against Thailand. He was a part of Iran's 2004 Asian Cup squad. During the quarterfinals against China he received a controversial red card after lightly pushing a Chinese player's chest who fell over holding his face.\n\nZare was set to play for Iran at the 2006 World Cup, but after damaging ligaments in his right knee, he was replaced by Moharram Navidkia.\nAfter missing the World Cup, he was not a regular part of Team Melli. After the World Cup, Amir Ghalenoei became Iran's coach. Ghalenoei called up Zare for his 30-man list for the 2007 AFC Asian Cup, but he did not select him for the Iranian squad. When Ali Daei became Team Melli's coach, he called Zare i[ again and used him as a left defender in starting line up in the World Cup 2010 first round qualifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018373", "title": "Miracle Mart", "text": "Miracle Mart\n\nMiracle Mart was a chain of discount department stores with locations in Ontario and Quebec, Canada based in Saint-Laurent, Quebec. The chain was renamed to simply M in the mid-1980s.\n\nThe company was founded in early 1961 as Miracle Mart Limited by Montreal-based grocery chain Steinberg's. Later in the year, Steinberg's associated itself with Vancouver-based chain Woodward's, and operated the first two stores, in Pont-Viau and Place Greenfield Park, under the trade name of Woodward Steinberg. The partnership between Steinberg's and Woodward ended in 1962, and the two Woodward Steinberg stores were converted to the Miracle Mart name. \nMiracle Mart operated at mid-level and competed with the likes of Towers/Bonimart, Zellers, Woolco and Kmart. There was also a similarly named grocery chain, Miracle Food Mart (Steinberg's rebranded all their Ontario grocery stores to Miracle Food Marts starting in 1969), that operated exclusively in Ontario. Often found together, some locations with both a grocery and department store became Steinberg Beaucoups or Miracle Beaucoups.\n\nIn order to provide photographic film-processing services at Miracle Mart stores, a company was created by the Greenberg brothers, named Angreen Photo, which evolved into Astral Photo and became giant Astral Media.\nThe chain was facing financial problems since its debut in 1961. In the mid 1980s, Steinberg's underwent a restructuring plan to rebrand the chain to the shorter and less anglophone name of M. The transformation of Miracle Mart locations into M stores were done in different phases. Miracle Mart at Carrefour Laval was the first location to convert as a M store and the only one to do so in the year of 1985. Four additional stores in Greater Montreal were converted to the M name by September 1986; specifically at Promenades Saint-Bruno, Place Longueuil, Mail Champlain and Pont-Viau. Four more stores, again all located in the Montreal area, were added to the M cluster in April 1987: Châteauguay, West Island Mall, Place Lasalle and Galeries Lachine. The remaining 11 Miracle Mart stores were renamed in August of the same year. \n\nOverall, only 20 of Miracle Mart's 31 stores transitioned to the M nameplate. The other 11 locations (7 in Ontario and 4 in Quebec) were closed during the restructuring process. The 11 aforementioned stores that had bit the dust were Place Greenfield Park, Centre Saint-Martin (Laval), Place Lebourgneuf (Charlesbourg), Place Centre Ville (Jonquière) and 7 locations in Southern Ontario. This signaled the end for the chain in south-west Ontario. Other Miracle Mart stores had already been closed in the 1970s and first half of the 1980s due to poor performance.\n\nThe sub-chain M was initially successful and promising. The first store at Carrefour Laval increased its sales by 55 percent in the first two years that followed its conversion from Miracle Mart to M. In December 1986, the five M stores saw their sales increased by 6,5%, while the remaining 15 Miracle Mart-branded locations continued to decline. \n\nDespite a good start, the M chain began to go downhill after the last Miracle Mart stores were renamed in 1987, and was soon experiencing the same financial woes that had plagued its predecessor. When Socanav took over Steinberg's and was trying to sell parts of the company off, a buyer for the poorly performing M stores could not be found. They were liquidated in July 1992, virtually the same time parent company Steinberg's went bankrupt. The original store in Pont-Viau, Laval was still in operation when the company declared bankruptcy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018376", "title": "Heavy as a Really Heavy Thing", "text": "Heavy as a Really Heavy Thing\n\nHeavy as a Really Heavy Thing is the debut album by Canadian extreme metal band Strapping Young Lad. It was released on April 4, 1995. Century Media Europe released a remastered version of \"Heavy as a Really Heavy Thing\" on June 12, 2006, which includes the video for \"S.Y.L.\", several bonus tracks, and a 12-page booklet containing extended liner notes.\n\nStrapping Young Lad began in 1994 as a solo project of Canadian musician Devin Townsend. Following his work as vocalist on Steve Vai's 1993 album \"Sex & Religion\" and its 1994 tour, Townsend believed he had been a \"musical whore\", spending \"the first five years of [his] career working at the behest of other people\". During a brief stint as touring guitarist for The Wildhearts, Townsend received a phone call from an A&R representative for Roadrunner Records, expressing an interest in his demos and an intention to sign him. The offer was ultimately rescinded by the head of Roadrunner, who regarded Townsend's recordings as \"just noise\". He faced further rejection by Relativity Records, the label behind Vai's \"Sex & Religion\", who saw no commercial appeal in his music. Century Media Records subsequently contacted the musician, offering him a contract to \"make us some extreme albums\". Townsend agreed to a five-album deal with the record label.\n\nFollowing his tour with The Wildhearts, Townsend began recording and producing his debut album, \"Heavy as a Really Heavy Thing\", under the moniker Strapping Young Lad. According to Townsend, the recording process took \"about a week\". Embracing The Wildhearts' anarchist approach, \"while focusing on dissonance and just being as over-the-top as [he] could\", Townsend sang on the record and performed the majority of its instrumental tracks (with the assistance of a drum machine). A few songs, however, featured local session musicians, including guitarist Jed Simon, Townsend's future bandmate.\nReleased on April 4, 1995, \"Heavy as a Really Heavy Thing\" was not widely recognized in the metal community. The album sold 143 copies in its first six months, but received favourable reviews from the heavy metal press. Its unusual musical ideas—a synthesis of death, thrash, and industrial metal influences—prompted Andy Stout from \"Metal Hammer\" to call it \"one of the most disturbing albums you'll hear for a very long time\". Nevertheless, Townsend has repeatedly expressed his distaste for the recording. He dismissed the album in the liner notes of the record's 2006 reissue, contending that it contained only two great songs. He also deemed its production poor in interviews, referring to the album as \"basically a collection of demos that were remixed\". When Century Media advertised the reissue of \"Heavy as a Really Heavy Thing\" as the \"rebirth of a genre-defying classic\", Townsend called it \"record company bullshit\".\n\nThe album was remastered and re-released on June 12, 2006, by Century Media Europe. The re-release contains several bonus tracks taken from international versions of the album, an unreleased track, and the video for \"S.Y.L.\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018385", "title": "Mohammad Alavi (footballer)", "text": "Mohammad Alavi (footballer)\n\nSeyed Mohammad Alavi (, born 29 January 1982 in Kashan, Iran) is an Iranian retired footballer and football manager. He manages Esteghlal Khuzestan in Persian Gulf Pro League. He usually played in the defensive midfield position.\n\nA product of the football rich province of Khuzestan and the young team of Foolad, he was a pivotal player within this young team and his consistency and solid defending was one of the factors for the success of his club in becoming the champions of the IPL 2004/05. He played for the club in Iran's Premier League till its relegation to the lower division, Azadegan League, in 2007. He also played for Foolad in the 2006 AFC Champions League group stage.\n\nHe moved to Pas and stayed there for a season. He moved to Persepolis and stayed for few months where he only played 2 games and had no spot in the team because of excellent performances by Karim Bagheri and Maziar Zare and moved for back to Pas for 6 months loan. He moved back to Foolad in summer 2009.\n\nLast Update 4 May 2011 \n\nAlavi stormed on the national scene after his header goal against China in Azadi Stadium which assured Iran Under-23 team 3 points in the anticipated revival of the team's chances in the 2004 Olympic qualifying matches. Although Alavi was selected by then coach Mohammad Mayeli Kohan in the roster of the U23 team, he was not given much playing time. After Hossein Faraki was appointed as the new coach, Alavi was given more playing time in all the remaining matches. Apart from his goal against China, Alavi played well in all the remaining matches under Faraki although it was a step too late as Iran did not manage to dislodge the Koreans from clinching the qualification to Athens.\n\nIn the 2004 Asian Cup, Alavi scored a goal in Iran's controversial loss to China in the semifinals of the tournament held in China 2004. The goal kept Iran's hopes alive, as they were forced to play one man down due to a red card, but China progressed to the final match at the end by penalty shoot-outs.\n\nAlavi was usually a substitute player within the national team and was not part of the World Cup squad.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018394", "title": "Glossopteridales", "text": "Glossopteridales\n\nGlossopteridales is an extinct order of plants belonging to Pteridospermatophyta, or seed ferns, also known as Arberiales and Ottokariales. They arose at the beginning of the Permian () on the southern continent of Gondwana, but became extinct before the end of the Permian period (). The best known genus is \"Glossopteris\". Other examples are Glossotheca and Vertebraria.\n\nPermian permineralised glossopterid reproduction organs found in the central Transantarctic Mountains suggest seeds had an adaxial attachment to the leaf-like mega-sporophyll. This indicate Glossopteridales can be classified as seed ferns and is important in determining the status of the group as either close relatives or ancestors of the angiosperms.\n\nMidrib-less forms were common in the Early Permian whereas midrib forms were more common in the Late Permian.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018404", "title": "Powderhorn Wilderness", "text": "Powderhorn Wilderness\n\nThe Powderhorn Wilderness is a wilderness area in Hinsdale and Gunnison Counties, Colorado, USA, located northeast of Lake City. Most of the northern part of the area, , about 77.5%, is located on Bureau of Land Management land and its southern portion, , about 22.5%, is located within the Gunnison National Forest.\n\nThe Powderhorn is an important watershed for the Gunnison River. The area protects the East, Middle, and West forks of Powderhorn Creek, which merge and then have a confluence with Cebolla Creek. Calf Creek, which is on National Forest land flows south and eventually joins the Lake Fork Gunnison River that also flows into the Gunnison via Lake City. Within the area there are numerous small lakes and beaver ponds. The largest of these are Devil's Lake and Powderhorn Lake.\n\nMuch of the area sits above timberline at and it is recognized as one of the largest expanses of tundra in the continental United States. The lower portions of the area are characterized by large stands of ponderosa pine and groves of aspen and sagebrush.\n\nIn the area's southwest corner is Cannibal Plateau where Alferd Packer and his party became lost in the winter of 1874. Packer ate his four companions to survive.\n"}
{"id": "2018409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018409", "title": "Niles Car and Manufacturing Company", "text": "Niles Car and Manufacturing Company\n\nThe Niles Car and Manufacturing Company was an American manufacturer of railroad equipment, including many streetcar and interurban cars. It was founded in 1901 in Niles, Ohio and published catalogs showcasing their various cars. \n\nNiles specialized in building wooden-bodied cars in the heyday of interurban building. Its cars had a reputation of being well-built and stylish; Niles advertising called them \"The Electric Pullmans.\"\n\nThe company also produced equipment for the trucking industry, an industry reference citing 2 models of 1 and 2 tons respectively, costing $1500 to $2400, utilizing a worm drive and custom bodies to suit.\n\nThe company ceased producing railroad cars in 1917. The plant and equipment were purchased by the Engel Aircraft Company to produce aircraft parts for the United States Army Signal Corps.\n\nNiles' clients included the:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018411", "title": "Lloyd Nolan", "text": "Lloyd Nolan\n\nLloyd Benedict Nolan (August 11, 1902 – September 27, 1985) was an American film and television actor. Among his many roles, Nolan is remembered for originating the role of private investigator Michael Shayne in a series of 1940s B movies.\n\nNolan was born in San Francisco, California, the youngest of three children of Margaret, who was of Irish descent, and James Nolan, an Irish immigrant who was a shoe manufacturer. He attended Santa Clara Preparatory School and Stanford University, flunking out of Stanford as a freshman \"because I never got around to attending any other class but dramatics.\" His parents disapproved of his choice of a career in acting, preferring that he join his father's shoe business, \"one of the most solvent commercial firms in San Francisco.\"\n\nNolan served in the United States Merchant Marine before joining the Dennis Players theatrical troupe in Cape Cod. He began his career on stage and was subsequently lured to Hollywood, where he played mainly doctors, private detectives, and policemen in many film roles.\n\nNolan's obituary in the \"Los Angeles Times\" contained the evaluation, \"Nolan was to both critics and audiences the veteran actor who works often and well regardless of his material.\" Although Nolan's acting was often praised by critics, he was, for the most part, relegated to B pictures. Despite this, Nolan co-starred with a number of well-known actresses, among them Mae West, Dorothy McGuire, and former Metropolitan Opera mezzo-soprano Gladys Swarthout. Under contract to Paramount and 20th Century Fox studios, he essayed starring roles in the late '30s and early-to-mid '40s and appeared as the title character in the Michael Shayne detective series. Raymond Chandler's novel \"The High Window\" was adapted from a Philip Marlowe adventure for the seventh film in the Michael Shayne series, \"Time to Kill\" (1942); the film was remade five years later as \"The Brasher Doubloon\", truer to Chandler's original story, with George Montgomery as Marlowe.\n\nMost of Nolan's films were light entertainment with an emphasis on action. His most famous include \"Atlantic Adventure\", costarring Nancy Carroll; \"Ebb Tide\"; \"Wells Fargo\"; \"Every Day's a Holiday\", starring Mae West; \"Bataan\"; and \"A Tree Grows in Brooklyn\", with Dorothy McGuire and James Dunn. He also gave a strong performance in the 1957 film \"Peyton Place\" with Lana Turner.\n\nNolan also contributed solid and key character parts in numerous other films. One, \"The House on 92nd Street\", was a startling revelation to audiences in 1945. It was a conflation of several true incidents of attempted sabotage by the Nazi regime (incidents which the FBI was able to thwart during World War II), and many scenes were filmed on location in New York City, unusual at the time. Nolan portrayed FBI Agent Briggs, and actual FBI employees interacted with Nolan throughout the film; he reprised the role in a subsequent 1948 movie, \"The Street with No Name\".\n\nOne of the last of his many military roles was playing an admiral at the start of what proved to be Howard Hughes' favorite film, \"Ice Station Zebra\".\n\nLater in Nolan's career, he returned to the stage and appeared on television to great acclaim in \"The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial\", for which he received a 1955 Emmy award for portraying Captain Queeg, the role made famous by Humphrey Bogart. Nolan also made guest appearances on television shows, including NBC's \"The Ford Show, Starring Tennessee Ernie Ford\", \"The Bing Crosby Show\", a sitcom on ABC and the Emmy-winning NBC anthology series \"The Barbara Stanwyck Show\".\n\nNolan appeared three times on NBC's \"Laramie\" Western series, as sheriff Tully Hatch in the episode \"The Star Trail (1959), as outlaw Matt Dyer in the episode \"Deadly Is the Night\" (1961) and then as former Union Army General George Barton in the episode \"War Hero\" (1962). On December 8, 1960, Nolan was cast as Dr. Elisha Pittman, in \"Knife of Hate\" on \"Dick Powell's Zane Grey Theatre\". In the story line, Dr. Pittman removed one of the legs of Jack Hoyt (Robert Harland) after Hoyt sustained a gunshot wound from which infection was developing. Hoyt wants to marry Susan Pittman (Susan Oliver), but her father is at first unyielding on the matter.\n\nNolan starred in \"The Outer Limits\" episode \"Soldier\" written by Harlan Ellison. He appeared in the NBC Western \"Bonanza\" as LaDuke, a New Orleans detective. In 1967, Strother Martin and he guest-starred in the episode \"A Mighty Hunter Before the Lord\" of NBC's \"The Road West\" series, starring Barry Sullivan. Also in 1967, Nolan was a guest star in the popular Western TV series \"The Virginian\", in the episode \"The Masquerade\", and in the pilot episode of \"Mannix\".\n\nNolan co-starred from 1968 to 1971 in the pioneering NBC series \"Julia\", with Diahann Carroll, who was the first African American to star in her own television series.\n\nOne of his last appearances was a guest spot as himself in the 1984 episode \"Cast in Steele\" on the TV detective series \"Remington Steele\".\n\nOn February 8, 1960, Nolan received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work in the television industry, at 1752 Vine Street.\n\nIn his later years, Nolan appeared in commercials for Polident.\n\nNolan married his first wife Mell Efrid in 1933. They had a daughter, Melinda, and a son, Jay. The couple remained married until Mel's death in 1981. Their son had autism, and was institutionalized at a private institution at age 13. He died at age 26 from choking while eating. In 1973 Nolan testified to Congress urging that Autism be recognized as a developmental disability. Nolan is credited with having convinced Ronald Reagan to sign California's bill mandating education be provided to children with autism. Nolan founded the Jay Nolan Autistic Center (now known as Jay Nolan Community Services) in honor of his son, Jay, and was chairman of the annual Save Autistic Children Telethon.\n\nIn 1983, Nolan married his second wife Virginia Dabney, whom he remained with until his death.\n\nNolan was a lifelong Republican. In 1964, Nolan spoke at the \"Project Prayer\" rally attended by 2,500 at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. The gathering, which was hosted by Anthony Eisley, a star of ABC's \"Hawaiian Eye\" series, sought to flood the United States Congress with letters in support of mandatory school prayer, following two decisions in 1962 and 1963 of the United States Supreme Court which struck down mandatory school prayer as conflicting with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Joining Nolan and Eisley at the rally were Walter Brennan, Rhonda Fleming, Dale Evans, Pat Boone, and Gloria Swanson. At the rally, Nolan asked, \"Do we permit ourselves to be turned into a godless people, or do we preserve America as one nation under God?\" Eisley and Fleming added that John Wayne, Ronald Reagan, Roy Rogers, Mary Pickford, Jane Russell, Ginger Rogers, and Pat Buttram would also have attended the rally had their schedules not been in conflict. \"Project Prayer\" was ultimately unsuccessful in its campaign to keep public prayer in public schools.\n\nA long-time cigar and pipe smoker, Nolan died of lung cancer on September 27, 1985, at his home in Brentwood, California; he was 83. He is interred at the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Westwood, Los Angeles, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018415", "title": "Covenant Theological Seminary", "text": "Covenant Theological Seminary\n\nCovenant Theological Seminary, sometimes known as Covenant Seminary, is the denominational seminary of the Presbyterian Church in America (PCA). It is located in the St. Louis, Missouri suburb of Creve Coeur, and its purpose is to train leaders for work in the church and the world — especially as pastors, missionaries, and counselors. It does not require all students to be members of the PCA, but it is bound to promote the teachings of its denomination. Faculty must subscribe to the system of biblical doctrine outlined in the Westminster Standards.\n\nThe seminary was established by Christians in the Evangelical Presbyterian Church, (which later merged with the Reformed Presbyterian Church, General Synod to form Reformed Presbyterian Church-Evangelical Synod), who believed that their denomination, born out of resistance to rising liberal influences, needed a strong theological school of its own. In 1956, Covenant College and Seminary began with eleven students on a plot of land a few miles west of St. Louis, Missouri (having split from Faith Theological Seminary). The seminary continued to grow in both size and reputation in the years that followed. In 1964, having outgrown its space, the liberal arts undergraduate school, Covenant College, along with its students, faculty, and staff, moved to Lookout Mountain, Georgia to the site of a former luxury hotel. In 1966, the two institutions formally divided. In 1982, following another denominational merger (known as the \"joining and receiving\") between the Reformed Presbyterian Church and the Presbyterian Church in America, Covenant Seminary became the national seminary of the PCA, which elects and oversees the work of the seminary's Board of Trustees.\n\nThe seminary is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada. It offers several academic degrees: Master of Divinity, Master of Arts, Master of Theology, and Doctor of Ministry.\n\nThe seminary is doctrinally committed to the Reformed faith and Covenant theology, and it believes the Bible to be the inspired and inerrant word of God.\n\nThe seminary is also home to the Francis Schaeffer Institute, which encourages Christians to engage contemporary culture in a compassionate way with the truth-claims of the gospel.\n\nCovenant also publishes a semiannual theological journal, \"Presbyterion\".\n\nAs of 28 April 2012, Mark Dalbey was the acting president of Covenant Theological Seminary. On this date his office announced the decision by the board of trustees, that Bryan Chapell, the current president of Covenant Seminary, would be transitioning from sabbatical to a newly created position of chancellor on 1 June 2012. On that date Dalbey would assume the position of interim president. 1 February 2013 brought the announcement that Chappell had taken a pastoral call in Illinois with resignation as chancellor effective 15 April 2013. On September 26, 2013, Dalbey was inaugurated as president.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018420", "title": "Sea lane", "text": "Sea lane\n\nA sea lane, sea road or shipping lane is a regularly used route for vessels on oceans and large lakes. In the Age of Sail they were not only determined by the distribution of land masses but also the prevailing winds, whose discovery was crucial for the success of long voyages. Sea lanes are very important for trade by sea.\n\nThe establishment of the North Atlantic sea lanes was inspired by the sinking of the US mail steamer SS \"Arctic\" by collision with the French steamer SS \"Vesta\" in October 1854 which resulted in the loss of over 300 lives.\nLieutenant M. F. Maury of the US Navy first published a section titled \"Steam Lanes Across the Atlantic\" in his 1855 \"Sailing Directions\" proposing sea lanes along the 42 degree latitude. A number of international conferences and committees were held in 1866, 1872, 1887, 1889, and 1891 all of which left the designation of sea lanes to the principal trans-Atlantic steamship companies at the time; Cunard, White Star, Inman, National Line, and Guion Lines. In 1913–1914 the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea held in London again reaffirmed that the selection of routes across the Atlantic in both directions is left to the responsibility of the steamship companies.\n\nShipping lanes came to be by analysing the prevailing winds. The trade winds allowed ships to sail towards the west quickly, and the westerlies allowed ships to travel to the east quickly. As such, the sea lanes are mostly chosen to take full advantage of these winds. Currents are also similarly followed as well, which also gives an advantage to the vessel. Some routes, such as that from Cape Town to Rio de Janeiro (passing Tristan da Cunha), were not able to take advantage of these natural factors.\n\nMain sea lanes may also attract pirates. \"Pax Britannica\" was the period from 1815–1914 during which the British Royal Navy controlled most of the key maritime trade routes, and also suppressed piracy and the slave trade. During World War I, as German U-boats began hitting American and British shipping, the Allied trade vessels began to move out of the usual sea lanes to be escorted by naval ships.\n\nAlthough most ships no longer use sails (having switched them for engines), the wind still creates waves, and this can cause heeling. As such following the overall direction of the trade winds and westerlies is still very useful. However, any vessel that is not engaged in trading, or is smaller than a certain length, is best to avoid the lanes. This is not only because the slight chance of a collision with a large ship that can easily cause a smaller ship to sink, but also because large vessels are much less maneuverable than smaller ships, and need much more depth. Smaller ships can thus easily take courses that are nearer to the shore. Unlike with road traffic, there is no exact \"road\" a ship must follow, so this can easily be done.\n\nShipping lanes are the busiest parts of the sea, thus being a useful place for stranded boaters whose boats are sinking or people on a liferaft to boat to, and be rescued by a passing ship.\n\nShipping lanes may pose threats to some ocean-going craft. Small boats risk conflicts with bigger ships if they follow the shipping lanes. Sections of lanes exist which can be shallow or have some kind of obstruction (such as sand banks). This threat is greatest when passing some narrows, such as between islands in the Indian Ocean (e.g. in Indonesia) as well as between islands in the Pacific (e.g. near the Marquesas islands, Tahiti) Some shipping lanes, such as the Straits of Malacca off Indonesia and Malaysia, and the waters off Somalia, are frequented by pirates operating independently or as privateers (for companies and countries). Passing ships run the risk of being attacked and held for ransom.\n\nThe world's busiest shipping lane is the Dover Strait. 500-600 vessels per day traverse the narrow strait and in 1999 1.4 billion tonnes gross, carried by 62,500 vessels passed through the strait.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018421", "title": "String Quartet No. 12 (Dvořák)", "text": "String Quartet No. 12 (Dvořák)\n\nThe String Quartet in F major, Op. 96, nicknamed the American Quartet, is the 12th string quartet composed by Antonín Dvořák. It was written in 1893, during Dvořák's time in the United States. The quartet is one of the most popular in the chamber music repertoire.\n\nDvořák composed the quartet in 1893 during a summer vacation from his position as director (1892–1895) of the National Conservatory in New York City. He spent his vacation in the town of Spillville, Iowa, which was home to a Czech immigrant community. Dvořák had come to Spillville through Josef Jan Kovařík who had finished violin studies at the Prague Conservatory and was about to return to Spillville, his home in the United States, when Dvořák offered him a position as secretary, which Josef Jan accepted, so he came to live with the Dvořák family in New York. He told Dvořák about Spillville, where his father Jan Josef was a schoolmaster, which led to Dvořák deciding to spend the summer of 1893 there.\n\nIn that environment, and surrounded by beautiful nature, Dvořák felt very much at ease. Writing to a friend he described his state of mind, away from hectic New York: \"I have been on vacation since 3 June here in the Czech village of Spillville and I won’t be returning to New York until the latter half of September. The children arrived safely from Europe and we’re all happy together. We like it very much here and, thank God, I am working hard and I’m healthy and in good spirits.\" He composed the quartet shortly after the \"New World Symphony\", before that work had been performed.\n\nDvořák sketched the quartet in three days and completed it in thirteen more days, finishing the score with the comment \"Thank God! I am content. It was fast.\" It was his second attempt to write a quartet in F major: his first effort, 12 years earlier, produced only one movement. The \"American Quartet\" proved a turning point in Dvořák's chamber music output: for decades he had toiled unsuccessfully to find a balance between his overflowing melodic invention and a clear structure. In the \"American Quartet\" it finally came together. Dvořák defended the apparent simplicity of the piece: \"When I wrote this quartet in the Czech community of Spillville in 1893, I wanted to write something for once that was very melodious and straightforward, and dear Papa Haydn kept appearing before my eyes, and that is why it all turned out so simply. And it’s good that it did.\"\n\nFor his symphony Dvořák gave the subtitle himself: \"From the New World\". To the quartet he gave no subtitle himself, but there is the comment \"The second composition written in America.\"\n\nFor the London premiere of his \"New World\" symphony, Dvořák wrote: \"As to my opinion I think that the influence of this country (it means the folk songs as are Negro, Indian, Irish etc.) is to be seen, and that this and all other works (written in America) differ very much from my other works as well as in couleur as in character...\"\n\nDvořák's appreciation of African-American music is documented: Harry T. Burleigh, a baritone and later a composer, who knew Dvořák while a student at the National Conservatory, said, \"I sang our Negro songs for him very often, and before he wrote his own themes, he filled himself with the spirit of the old Spirituals.\" Dvořák said: \"In the Negro melodies of America I discover all that is needed for a great and noble school of music.\" For its presumed association with African-American music, the quartet was referred to with nicknames such as \"Negro\" and \"Nigger\", before being called the \"American Quartet\". The older nicknames, without negative connotations for the composition, were abandoned after the 1950s.\n\nDvořák wrote (in a letter he sent from America shortly after composing the quartet): \"As for my new Symphony, the F major String Quartet and the Quintet (composed here in Spillville) – I should never have written these works 'just so' if I hadn't seen America.\" Listeners have tried to identify specific American motifs in the quartet. Some have claimed that the theme of the second movement is based on a Negro spiritual, or perhaps on a Kickapoo Indian tune, which Dvořák heard during his sojourn at Spillville.\n\nA characteristic, unifying element throughout the quartet is the use of the pentatonic scale. This scale gives the whole quartet its open, simple character, a character that is frequently identified with American folk music. However, the pentatonic scale is common in many ethnic musics worldwide, and Dvořák had composed pentatonic music, being familiar with such Slavonic folk music examples, before coming to America.\n\nOn the whole, specific American influences are doubted: \"In fact the only American thing about the work is that it was written there,\" writes Paul Griffiths. \"The specific American qualities of the so-called \"American\" Quartet are not easily identifiable, writes Lucy Miller, \"...Better to look upon the subtitle as simply one assigned because of its composition during Dvořák's American tour.\"\n\nSome have heard suggestions of a locomotive in the last movement, recalling Dvořák's love of railroads.\n\nDvořák quoted in the third movement, measures 21-24, a bird that he believed was a scarlet tanager, an American songbird. The song appears as a high, interrupting strain in the first violin part. Dvořák was annoyed by this bird's insistent chattering, and transcribed its song in his notebook. American ornithologist Ted Floyd showed in 2016 that the bird quoted by Dvořák likely was not a scarlet tanager; instead, the bird was probably a red-eyed vireo, another American songbird. \n\nThe quartet is scored for the usual complement of two violins, viola, and cello, and comprises four movements: A typical performance lasts 26 to 30 minutes.\n\nThe opening theme of the quartet is purely pentatonic, played by the viola, with a rippling F major chord in the accompanying instruments. This same F major chord continues without harmonic change throughout the first 12 measures of the piece. The movement then goes into a bridge, developing harmonically, but still with the open, triadic sense of openness and simplicity.\n\nThe second theme, in A major, is also primarily pentatonic, but ornamented with melismatic elements reminiscent of Gypsy or Czech music. The movement moves to a development section that is much denser harmonically and much more dramatic in tempo and color.\n\nThe development ends with a fugato section that leads into the recapitulation.\n\nAfter the first theme is restated in the recapitulation, there is a cello solo that bridges to the second theme.\n\nThe theme of the second movement is the one that interpreters have most tried to associate with a Negro spiritual or with an American Indian tune. The simple melody, with the pulsing accompaniment in second violin and viola, does indeed recall spirituals or Indian ritual music. It is written using the same pentatonic scale as the first movement, but in the minor (D minor) rather than the major. The theme is introduced in the first violin, and repeated in the cello. Dvořák develops this thematic material in an extended middle section, then repeats the theme in the cello with an even thinner accompaniment that is alternately bowed and pizzicato.\n\nThe third movement is a variant of the traditional scherzo. It has the form ABABA: the A section is a sprightly, somewhat quirky tune, full of off-beats and cross-rhythms. High in the first violin there appears the song of a bird the composer believed to be a scarlet tanager; however, the song was likely not that of the tanager.\n\nThe B section is actually a variation of the main scherzo theme, played in minor, at half tempo, and more lyrical. In its first appearance it is a legato line, while in the second appearance the lyrical theme is played in triplets, giving it a more pulsing character.\n\nThe final movement is in a traditional rondo form, ABACABA. Again, the main melody is pentatonic.\n\nThe B section is more lyrical, but continues in the spirit of the first theme.\n\nThe C section is a chorale theme.\n\nIn a first \"private\" performance of the quartet, in Spillville, June 1893, Dvořák himself played first violin, Jan Josef Kovařík second violin, daughter Cecilie Kovaříková viola, and son Josef Jan Kovařík the cello.\n\nThe first two public performances of the quartet were by the Kneisel quartet, in Boston on 1 January 1894, and then In New York on 13 January. An unnamed reviewer wrote the next day that to be sure, \"there is none of the soaring or the yearning of the mighty Beethoven\", but that there is \"the spirit of eternal sunshine\" which is \"the soul of Mozart's music\". Burghauser mentions press notices in both cities, the first in the \"New York Herald\", 18 December 1893.\n\nWhile the influence of American folk song is not explicit in the quartet, the impact of Dvořák's quartet on later American compositions is clear. Following Dvořák, a number of American composers turned their hands to the string quartet genre, including John Knowles Paine, Horatio Parker, George Whitefield Chadwick, and Arthur Foote. \"The extensive use of folk-songs in 20th century American music and the 'wide-open-spaces' atmosphere of 'Western' film scores may have at least some of their origins\" in Dvořák's new American style, writes Butterworth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018425", "title": "Major Barbara (film)", "text": "Major Barbara (film)\n\nMajor Barbara is a 1941 British film starring Wendy Hiller and Rex Harrison. The film was produced and directed by Gabriel Pascal and edited by David Lean. It was adapted for the screen by Marjorie Deans and Anatole de Grunwald, based on the 1905 stage play \"Major Barbara\" by George Bernard Shaw. It was both a critical and financial success.\n\nIn this social satire, Barbara Undershaft (Hiller), an idealistic major in the Salvation Army, is deeply troubled by the fact that her father, Andrew Undershaft (Robert Morley), is a wealthy weapons manufacturer. Meanwhile, Andrew is looking for an heir for his industrial empire, in particular a foundling like himself.\n\n\n\"Major Barbara\" was filmed in London during The Blitz bombing of 1940. During air raids, the crew and cast repeatedly had to dodge into bomb shelters. The film's producer-director, Pascal, never stopped the production and the film was completed on schedule.\n\nIn a contemporary review, Bosley Crowther wrote in \"The New York Times\", \"To call it a manifest triumph would be arrant stinginess with words. For this is something more than just a brilliant and adult translation of a stimulating play, something more than a captivating compound of ironic humor and pity. This is a lasting memorial to the devotion of artists working under fire, a permanent proof for posterity that it takes more than bombs to squelch the English wit. It is as wry and impudent a satire of conventional morals and social creeds as though it had been made in a time of easy and carefree peace. It is, in short, a more triumphant picture than any the British have yet sent across.\" while more recently, \"Time Out\" wrote, \"There is plenty to relish, notably Newton and Morley hamming it up (as, respectively, the rumbustious Bill Walker and the overbearing tycoon), and Deborah Kerr in her debut; but it does tend to just sit there. It was David Lean's first shot at directing, but producer Pascal helmed the bulk of it.\"\n\n\"Major Barbara\" was released on DVD by The Criterion Collection on 23 February 2010, as part of the box set \"George Bernard Shaw on Film\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2018428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018428", "title": "Loftus railway station, Sydney", "text": "Loftus railway station, Sydney\n\nLoftus railway station is located on the Illawarra line, serving the Sydney suburb of Loftus. It is served by Sydney Trains T4 line services and limited NSW TrainLink South Coast line services.\n\nLoftus station opened on 9 March 1886 as Loftus Junction when the Illawarra line was extended from Sutherland to Waterfall. Until September 1896, it was called Loftus Junction. It was rebuilt in 1979 as part of the extension of the electrification from Loftus Junction to Waterfall.\n\nFrom 1886 until 1991, Loftus was the former junction of the branch line to the Royal National Park which branched off immediately south of the station.\n\nTransdev NSW operates two routes via Loftus station:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018430", "title": "Jack Dangermond", "text": "Jack Dangermond\n\nJack Dangermond (born 1945) is an American billionaire businessman and environmental scientist. In 1969, he co-founded with his wife Laura the Environmental Systems Research Institute (Esri), a privately held geographic information systems (GIS) software company.\n\nDangermond is the company's president and works at its headquarters in Redlands, California. Dangermond founded Esri to perform land use analysis; however, its focus evolved into GIS software development, highlighted by the release of ARC/INFO in the early 1980s; the development and marketing of ARC/INFO positioned Esri with the dominant market share among GIS software developers. Today, Esri is the largest GIS software developer in the world and its flagship product, ArcGIS, traces its heritage to Dangermond's initial efforts in developing ARC/INFO.\n\nJack Dangermond was born in 1945, and grew up in Redlands, California, the son of Dutch immigrants. His parents owned a plant nursery in Redlands. Dangermond attended Redlands High School.\n\nDangermond completed his undergraduate work at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona (Cal Poly Pomona), studying landscape architecture and environmental science. He then earned a Master of Architecture degree in Urban Planning from the University of Minnesota, and a Master of Landscape Architecture degree from the Harvard University Graduate School of Design GSD in 1969. His early work in the school's Laboratory for Computer Graphics and Spatial Analysis (LCGSA) led directly to the development of Esri's ARC/INFO GIS software. He has been awarded 13 honorary doctoral degrees.\n\nIn December 2017, Jack and Laura Dangermond donated $165 million to establish the Jack and Laura Dangermond Preserve on the Pacific coast—the largest ever gift to The Nature Conservancy.\n\nJack and Laura Dangermond have signed The Giving Pledge.\n\nDangermond has had a strong impact on the development of GIS methodologies, the GIS software market, GIS technology research and related analytical methods. He has received many awards reflecting the influence of his work, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018436", "title": "Engadine railway station", "text": "Engadine railway station\n\nEngadine railway station is located on the Illawarra line, serving the Sydney suburb of Engadine. It is served by Sydney Trains T4 line services and limited NSW TrainLink South Coast line services.\n\nEngadine station opened on 1 October 1920. The station was extensively upgraded in 2006 with the provision of extended shelters and passenger lifts between the platforms and the overhead footbridge.\n\nMaianbar Bundeena Bus Service operates one route to and from Engadine station:\n\nPremier Motor Service operates one route via Engadine station:\n\nTransdev NSW operates four routes via Engadine station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018437", "title": "Peach Fuzz", "text": "Peach Fuzz\n\nPeach Fuzz, is an original English-language manga written and illustrated by Lindsay Cibos and Jared Hodges. It was published in North America and the United Kingdom by Tokyopop in three volumes from January 11, 2005 to December 11, 2007. \"Peach Fuzz\" originally started as a short 17-page story in Tokyopop's 2nd Rising Stars of Manga competition, where it won the grand prize. The series also appeared in a Sunday comic strip form within Sunday newspaper comics sections. \"Peach Fuzz\" focuses on the relationship between a young girl and a ferret who believes herself to be a princess.\n\nThe series begins when Amanda desires a unique pet and chooses a young ferret at the local pet shop. Her mother reluctantly yields to her decision on the condition that it should never injure her. Amanda names it Peach after seeing a fruit stand with peaches. Terrified of losing her new pet and companion, Amanda keeps Peach's biting a secret. Peach, in turn, rebels in a self-congratulatory way, maintaining that she is a ferret princess who must heroically retain her composure and courage while being tormented by five-headed giants and their slaves. After being forced to fight Mr. Fuzzy — a toy given to Peach which she views as a servant, Peach bites Amanda and Amanda, in response, tries the \"Bitter Bite\" spray to discipline her. Amanda's actions reminds her of her mother and Peach softens her view of Amanda.\n\nAmanda brings Peach to her class's show and tell and because of Peach's popularity with the class, Amanda's friend Kim decides to get a ferret. Her ferret, Pavaratty, displays arrogance towards Peach and doubts her princess status since she lacks a palace, an entourage and treasure. Peach resolves to gain these things so she can impress the ferret prince. Meanwhile, two bullies turn Amanda's class against her after she wears a handmade ferret costume to school in an attempt to stand out. To collect more treasure, Peach secretly accompanies Amanda to school. Kim realizes Amanda's friendship is more important and admits she was wrong to turn against her. Peach accidentally saves the class's hamsters from being eaten by a snake which escaped during the show and tell. Amanda is redeemed in the class's eyes.\n\nTo ease Peach's boredom, Amanda gets another ferret, who is named Edwin after the hero of a romance novel. Initially Peach believes he is her ferret prince, but quickly becomes annoyed by him. Amanda brings the ferrets to her friend's house. There, Peach and Edwin meet Mimi's albino ferrets, the manic-depressive Spore and melancholy Truffle, who believe that they and anyone who enters their land is cursed. After Edwin breaks off a claw, Peach softens her view of him, but becomes ill. She recovers and decides that even if Edwin is not a prince, she still loves him.\n\nAs a young girl, Lindsay Cibos frequently read comic books such as \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" and \"Gargoyles\". After learning about manga, she preferred it to comics because it had art and female-centered storylines that appealed to her. She found it easier to get into manga because they were self-contained stories that started at the beginning. She learned about Tokyopop's Rising Stars of Manga contest from a Tokyopop Newsblast e-mail but was unable to work on an entry for the contest because of other projects. For the second contest, she worked with Jared Hodges, whom she had met at an anime club in 1998, and set aside a month to work on her entry; she wanted to \"make a good concise little story for the contest's 20-page limit.\" Based on a web-comic that the two had been working on, their entry \"Peach Fuzz\" won the grand prize, was published in Tokyopop's anthology and turned into a manga series of the same name. While drawing the series, Cibos and Hodges encountered the challenge of working with the screentone and \"digitally inking\" the comic.\n\nSome of \"Peach Fuzz\" is based on real-life ferrets and places. The creators designed the ferret characters Peach and Edwin after Cibos's pet ferrets Momoko—Japanese for Peach—and Elf. They also modeled several of Edwin's mannerisms on Elf's. Elf's \"single-minded obsession to a pair of headphones\" became the model for \"Pavaratty’s devotion to his toy microphone\". In contrast, the human characters have no specific model. Cibos stated: \"Bits and pieces were likely inspired from the people around me and from an amalgam of life experiences Jared and I had growing up: remembering what it was like to be in the fourth grade, having a pet for the first time, dealing with bullies, misunderstandings with parents, and so on.\" Several of the locations in \"Peach Fuzz\", such as Mimi's apartments, were designed after real-life places.\n\nWritten and illustrated by Lindsay Cibos and Jared Hodges, \"Peach Fuzz\" was published in three volumes in North America and the United Kingdom by Tokyopop from January 11, 2005 to December 11, 2007. The first six chapters of \"Peach Fuzz\" also appeared as a serial in forty newspapers, including \"The Chicago Tribune\", \"Los Angeles Times\", and \"Vancouver Sun\", from January to July 2006. In Australia and New Zealand, Madman Entertainment distributes the series. It is also licensed in Sweden by B. Wahlströms Bokförlag, in Germany by Tokyopop Germany, in Finland by Pauna Media Group, in Spain, and in Portugal by Edições Asa.\n\n\"Peach Fuzz\" received positive reviews from English-language critics. \"Newtype USA\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Jennifer M. Contino enjoyed how much of the story focused on Peach's perspective and called the series \"a promising debut\". Danica Davidson of The Book Report praised the appeal of the \"fun cast of characters\" and described the series as \"cute and warmhearted...with plenty of laughs.\" Johanna Draper Carlson, a longtime reviewer for \"Publishers Weekly\", noted the potential of the series but thought it could have \"benefited from experienced editing\" and commented on the mixed messages being sent, stating: \"If we root for the character we see most often, Peach, then we’re hoping to see her continue to misbehave. If we root for Amanda teaching Peach how to behave, then most of the material is irrelevant or mistargeted.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2018444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018444", "title": "Heathcote railway station", "text": "Heathcote railway station\n\nHeathcote railway station is located on the Illawarra line, serving the Sydney suburb of Heathcote. It is served by Sydney Trains T4 line services and limited NSW TrainLink South Coast line services.\n\nHeathcote station opened on 9 March 1886 as Loftus station when the Illawarra line was extended from Sutherland to Waterfall. Upgrades to the station, including a new footbridge with lifts, were completed in January 2017. The contract for these upgrades was awarded in July 2015.\n\nTransdev NSW operates two routes via Heathcote station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018445", "title": "Eduardo Rodríguez", "text": "Eduardo Rodríguez\n\nEduardo Rodríguez Veltzé (born March 2, 1956) is a Bolivian judge. During the 2005 political crisis in Bolivia, he briefly served as President of Bolivia. Prior to that, he was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.\n\nBorn in Cochabamba in 1956, Rodríguez is a lawyer and holds a master's degree in public administration. He studied at Colegio San Agustín; later he studied law at the Universidad Mayor de San Simón in Cochabamba and obtained his Master of Public Administration at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.\n\nRodríguez is an ambassador to the International Court of Justice.\n\nIn 2005, after weeks of civil unrest led by Evo Morales, former president Carlos Mesa offered his resignation to Congress. Senate President Hormando Vaca Diez and Chamber of Deputies leader Mario Cossío did not take the post, under pressure from opposition protestors. Rodríguez, as head of the judiciary and fourth in the line of succession, became the country's new president on June 10, 2005; he was inaugurated with the constitutional mandate to call elections within one year's time.\n\nRodríguez's time in office ended when Evo Morales won the December 2005 general election. He was inaugurated in January 2006 and served until November 2019.\n\nUnder the Morales administration, Rodriguez has been charged with treason following the decommissioning of missiles during his term in office. Bolivia bought about 30 HN-5 shoulder-launched missiles from China in 1993 or 1998. By 2005 they had become obsolete and Rodriguez made the decision to destroy them; he says he did not know the United States would be the ones to be given the missiles for destruction. Before taking office, Morales charged that the transfer amounted to putting the country \"under foreign domination.\"\n\nHe was charged with treason in 2006, which carries a 30-year prison term. He has since been cleared of all charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018450", "title": "Pambula, New South Wales", "text": "Pambula, New South Wales\n\nPambula is a town in Bega Valley Shire on the far south coast of New South Wales, Australia south of Sydney via the Princes Highway. At the , Pambula had a population of 970 people.\n\nThe area was populated by the Thaua Aboriginal people, with shell middens dating back 3000 years. The name Pambula is derived from its Dharwa name, pronounced \"panboola\", meaning 'twin waters'. In 1797, the European voyager George Bass explored the area.\n\nPambula is a historic village with its first European settlers thought to have been the Imlay brothers who established cattle runs on the Pambula River flats in the 1830s. The village of Pambula situated on the flats near the river was planned in 1843 by surveyor Townsend and the first school and churches were built there, but frequent flooding led to the village being relocated to its present site on higher ground.\n\nCaptain John Lloyd, RN, acquired land in 1844 with his severance pay when he left the Royal Navy, and built \"The Grange\" on the hill near the river. At about that time he invited the family of Syms Covington to move there. Covington had joined the second survey expedition of HMS \"Beagle\" as a fiddler and cabin boy. He became an assistant and manservant to Charles Darwin during the voyage and for a few years afterwards before emigrating to Australia. In 1854 he became Postmaster of Pambula, and managed an inn called the \"Forest Oak Inn\" which still stands at a bend on the coast road.\n\nThe main land uses were grazing and agriculture, and tented accommodation on stock routes was replaced by slab and bark huts, then by more permanent buildings providing homes, housing, smithies, and hotels. Pambula had five licensed hotels by 1856 and the foundation stone for the courthouse was laid in 1860. Pambula was proclaimed a town in 1885.\nIn 1888, gold was discovered and villages grew up around the mines at nearby Yowaka River and Pipeclay Creek. This created a boom in the town, but in the early 20th century production of gold ceased and the prosperity of the town went into a decline.\n\nWilliam McKell, Premier of New South Wales from 1941-1947 and Governor-General of Australia from 1947-1953, was born in Pambula in 1891.\n\nPambula continued to be the dominant town of the district, providing facilities which came to include commercial premises, banks, courthouse, hospital, newspaper, and a school of arts. Agriculture developed on the river flats, producing prize crops of maize and potatoes, and a dairying industry became established. Timber felling was carried out in the surrounding forests, and oyster farming was developed in the river.\n\nPambula has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nPambula is situated approximately south of Merimbula and has its own hospital, a small supermarket, a community bank, and a primary school. The nearest secondary school is a private secondary school in nearby Pambula Beach. The nearest public secondary schools are in Bega and Eden.\n\nPanboola, the Pambula wetlands heritage project, is located between the south edge of town and the Pambula River. Panboola contains fresh water billabongs, saline areas around the former racecourse, saltmarsh and mangroves, plantings of thousands of trees, shrubs and ground covers, walking and cycle tracks and tables and seats.\n\nPambula has a local cricket team, the Pambula Bluedogs. Their home ground is located at the Pambula Recreation oval in the town's centre. The Pambula Sporting Complex is the home ground for the Pambula Panthers Australian Football Club. This club was formed in 1983. The ground is also the home ground for the newly created soccer club, Pambula United Football Club, also known as The Penguins.\nLocated in between Pambula and Merimbula is the 27 hole course Merimbula Golf Club.\n"}
{"id": "2018456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018456", "title": "Home District Council", "text": "Home District Council\n\nThe Home District Council was the municipal governing body for York, Upper Canada (now Toronto, Ontario) from 1792 to 1849. It was established by Lieutenant Governor of Ontario John Graves Simcoe.\n\nThe leader of the council was known as the Chairman of the General Quarter Session of Peace. By 1849 the role was replaced by the Warden of York County, Ontario.\n\nThe council first met in Newark at Navy Hall in 1792, then to York after 1793.\n\n\nMr. Jarvis was also provincial secretary and registrar of deeds\n\n\nMr. Ridout was also Clerk of Peace of the Home District 1800-1811, Surveyor-General of Upper Canada\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018468", "title": "University System of New Hampshire", "text": "University System of New Hampshire\n\nThe University System of New Hampshire (USNH) is a system of public colleges and universities in the U.S. state of New Hampshire. It was established in 1963 and is responsible for overseeing the University of New Hampshire - Durham, the University of New Hampshire School of Law, the University of New Hampshire at Manchester, Plymouth State University, Keene State College, and Granite State College. The University System of New Hampshire is the largest provider of post-secondary education in New Hampshire and is governed by a single board of trustees which is responsible for ensuring that each institution has a unique character and educational mission. Presently USNH has approximately 32,000 enrolled students annually and more than 90,000 alumni living in state.\n\nThe decision to establish the university system came from the recommendation of the Interim Commission on Higher Education appointed in 1961 by Governor Wesley Powell. In establishing the university system, the Keene and Plymouth Teachers' Colleges were removed from the supervision of the State Board of Education, were renamed \"state colleges\", and placed under the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees of the University of New Hampshire. The number of trustees increased from 13 to 22 with the establishment of the University System. The Board designated the President of the University of New Hampshire as \"first among equals\" and assigned the responsibility to coordinate the activities of the three institutions.\n\nIn 1972, the trustees established the School of Continuing Studies (now Granite State College) to serve the adult education needs of New Hampshire residents.\n\nFrom 1963 to 1974, there was a growing concern of the trustees over the steadily increasing amount of time that senior UNH officials had to devote to the growing responsibilities to the university system. An appointed committee representing a broad spectrum of political, professional, and educational interests later named the Carter Commission recommended the employment of a System Director of Personnel and the development of a comprehensive personnel system which would provide for the establishment of a statewide educational system. The trustees voted to physically separate the university system staff from the university staff. In summer 1974, the newly designated USNH staff moved five miles west of Durham to Lee. The trustees also had legislation passed and signed to create the position of chancellor. The chancellor was established as the chief executive and chief academic officer of the system to oversee the head of each institution, and is elected and answerable to the trustees.\n\nThe University System of New Hampshire is governed by a 29-member Board of Trustees comprising the Governor of the state, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House, ten members appointed by the Governor and Executive Council, seven alumni-elected members, two student-elected members, the Commissioner of Education, the Commissioner of Agriculture, the presidents of the University System's four colleges and universities, and the Chancellor. The chancellor is the chief executive officer of the university system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018479", "title": "Backstitch", "text": "Backstitch\n\nBackstitch or \"back stitch\" and its variants \"stem stitch\", \"outline stitch\" and \"split stitch\" are a class of embroidery and sewing stitches in which individual stitches are made backward to the general direction of sewing. In embroidery, these stitches form lines and are most often used to outline shapes and to add fine detail to an embroidered picture. It is also used to embroider lettering. In hand sewing, it is a utility stitch which strongly and permanently attaches two pieces of fabric. \n\nA versatile stitch which is easy to work, backstitch is ideal for following both simple and intricate outlines and as a foundation row for more complex embroidery stitches such as \"herringbone ladder filling stitch\". Although superficially similar to the Holbein stitch, which is commonly used in blackwork embroidery, backstitch differs in the way it is worked, requiring only a single journey to complete a line of stitching.\n\nBasic backstitch is the stitch used to outline shapes in modern cross-stitch, in Assisi embroidery and occasionally in blackwork.\n\nStem stitch is an ancient technique; surviving mantles embroidered with stem stitch by the Paracas people of Peru are dated to the first century BCE. Stem stitch is used in the Bayeux Tapestry, an embroidered cloth probably dating to the later 1070s, for lettering and to outline areas filled with couching or laid-work.\n\nSplit stitch in silk is characteristic of Opus Anglicanum, an embroidery style of Medieval England.\n\nBackstitch is most easily worked on an even-weave fabric, where the threads can be counted to ensure regularity, and is generally executed from right to left. The stitches are worked in a 'two steps forward, one step back' fashion, along the line to be filled, as shown in the diagram.\n\nNeatly worked in a straight line this stitch resembles chain stitching produced by a sewing machine.\n\nThe back stitch can also be used as a hand sewing utility stitch to attach two pieces of fabric together.\n\nVariants of backstitch include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018489", "title": "Ternate, Cavite", "text": "Ternate, Cavite\n\n', officially the ', (, ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nFormerly known as Bahra, the municipality is named after Ternate island of Indonesia where migrants from then Dutch East Indies originated.\n\nThe Merdicas (also spelled Mardicas or Mardikas) were Catholic natives of the islands of Ternate and Tidore of the Moluccas, converted during the Portuguese occupation of the islands by Jesuit missionaries. The islands were later captured by the Spanish who vied for their control with the Dutch. In 1663, the Spanish garrison in Ternate were forced to pull out to defend Manila against an impending invasion by the Chinese pirate Koxinga (sacrificing the Moluccas to the Dutch in doing so). A number of Merdicas volunteered to help, eventually being resettled in a sandbar near the mouth of the Maragondon river (known as the \"Bahra de Maragondon\") and Tanza, Cavite.\n\nThe invasion did not occur as Koxinga fell ill and died. The Merdicas community eventually integrated into the local population. Today, the place is called Ternate after the island of Ternate in the Moluccas, and the descendants of the Merdicas continue to use their Spanish creole (with Portuguese and Papuan influence) which came to be known as Ternateño Chabacano.\n\nTernate is politically subdivided into ten barangays (three urban and seven rural).\n\nIn the , the population of Ternate, Cavite, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe following are the elected officials of the town elected last May 13, 2019 which serves until 2022:\n\nIn addition to Tagalog, the community continue to use one of several Spanish-based creole varieties found in the Philippines, collectively known as Chabacano (Ternateño Chavacano); Locals however call this vernacular simply as \"Bahra\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018494", "title": "Hedley, British Columbia", "text": "Hedley, British Columbia\n\nHedley is an unincorporated town in southern British Columbia, Canada, named after Robert R. Hedley, the manager of the Hall Smelter in Nelson. Hedley is located at the foot of Nickel Plate Mountain in the Similkameen. The town had a population of approximately 242 as of 2016. In the early 1900s, Hedley's population peaked over 1,000 people, primarily due to the gold mining industry. The Hedley Museum and the Mascot Mine Museum display artifacts and photographs from this era.\n\nChuchuwayha 2, an Indian Reserve of the Upper Similkameen First Nation, is located in Hedley. Chuchuwayha 2C, another reserve of the same First Nation, is located four miles southwest of Hedley at the head of Johns Creek.\n\nKeremeos, British Columbia is the closest neighbouring town, approximately east on the Crowsnest Highway. The nearest community to the west is Princeton, British Columbia, approximately away.\n\nTwenty Mile Creek, once known as Hedley Creek, flows southwest through the town & joins the Similkameen River shortly downstream.\n\nThe 1987 Burt Reynolds film \"Malone\" was filmed in the town. Part of the film \"The Pledge\" Starring Jack Nicholson and directed by Sean Penn, was filmed in Hedley.\n\nThe Mini TV series \"The Andromeda Strain\" was filmed in Hedley B.C..\n\nHedley was featured on the historical television series Gold Trails and Ghost Towns Season 3, Episode 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018498", "title": "Hourly, Daily", "text": "Hourly, Daily\n\nHourly, Daily is an album by the Australian rock band, You Am I, released in July 1996. The album is Tim Rogers' portrait of Australian life, spread across 15 tracks. Themes include childhood, suburbia and relationships. The album also seems to run the course of a day, \"Good Mornin'\" beginning with an alarm clock, ending with the question of \"Who Takes Who Home\" on a night out, and after a period of silence, the hidden track entitled \"Forget It Sister\" begins with 'good morning baby..'\n\nThe album debuted at No. 1 on the Australian ARIA Albums Chart. In October 2010, \"Hourly, Daily\", was listed in the book, \"100 Best Australian Albums\" with their previous album, \"Hi Fi Way\" (1995) at No. 8.\nReviewed in Rolling Stone Australia at the time of release, it was noted that You Am I were moving away from their earlier \"screaching guitar\" rock towards gentler and more melodic music. The additional accompaniment of trumpets, french-horns and string sections was remarked upon. Tim Rogers writing was said to be, \"almost totally concerned with other people, crafting intricate character sketches in The Beatles/Ray Davies tradition.\"\n\nJuice magazine complimented the musical \"width\" and \"strongly hued richness\" on the album, though wondering if old fans would respond to the less direct music. Lyrically, Rogers was said to have, \"a thematic cohesion and eye for detail that brings to mind Neil Young or Paul Westerberg at their finest.\"\n\nIn a retrospective piece titled \"You Am I Is the Longest Love Affair I Have Ever Had\", FasterLouder writer A.H. Cayley singled out \"Hi Fi Way\" and \"Hourly, Daily\" as the two high points of the band's career, which You Am I fans speak of with a \"hushed reverence\".\n\nTim Rogers later said of the album, \"I was probably listening to too many Kinks records, it must be said. I'm glad people like it, I don't listen to it.\"\n\nIn 2013, You Am I reissued remastered versions of \"Sound As Ever\", \"Hi Fi Way\", and \"Hourly Daily\" with bonus discs featuring B-sides, out-takes and live recordings. In the winter of 2013, the band toured major cities of Australia on the \"Hi Fi Daily Double Tour\", performing both \"Hourly Daily\" and \"Hi Fi Way\" in their entirety, followed by an encore of other songs from these reissued collections. Vinyl versions of the three albums were released for the first time to coincide with this tour. In turn, a live recording from the 2013 tour was released as a vinyl/DVD box set titled \"Live Electrified\" in 2014.\n\nAll songs written by Tim Rogers.\n\n\n\nThe international release (June 1997) replaced the songs \"Someone Else's Home\" and \"Moon Shines on Trubble\" with \"Opportunities\" and \"Trike\", supposedly to increase its overseas appeal by including songs that did not explicitly refer to Sydney or Australia. The international version also replaced the sleeve photo of the ubiquitous Australian overhead telegraph pole with a simpler photo of the band playing live. Unlike the original issue, the new cover also had the virtue of fitting in with You Am I's recurring theme of retro-styled album covers.\n\nSome copies of the album came with a live bonus disc of songs recorded in May 1996 with Greg Hitchcock on second guitar and organ.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018504", "title": "Junta Grande", "text": "Junta Grande\n\nJunta Grande () is the most common name for the executive government of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata (modern-day Argentina), that followed the incorporation of provincial representatives into the Primera Junta (First Junta).\n\nThe Primera Junta, created on May 25 1810 out of the May Revolution, was meant to be a provisional government until a Junta representative of all the cities of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata was integrated. Reactions from the provinces, however, were not homogeneous. Some of them recognised the Buenos Aires Junta and the outcome of the events of the May Revolution, while others sought to exercise exclusive control over their own affairs, and still others continued to recognize the Regency Council in Spain. \n\nThus, in order to avoid royalists taking political advantage of the situation, the Buenos Aires Junta sought to quickly assert its power. On May 27 1810, it delivered messages to every one of the Viceroyalty municipal councils (), asking them to elect representatives to join the Junta at Buenos Aires. By early December, most delegates had already arrived in the capital city, and they were asking for their effective incorporation into the governing body (that was being held up due to the infighting between \"centralists\" led by the Junta's Secretary of War Mariano Moreno, and \"federalists\" led by the Junta's President, Cornelio Saavedra). Ultimately, Saavedra managed to orchestrate Moreno's resignation and on December 18 1810, the Junta Grande was at last established. \n\nIt governed until September 23 1811 (since August 26 1811 under the presidency of Domingo Matheu), when it was replaced as the executive authority by the First Triumvirate. However, reorganized as a \"Conservative Junta\", it retained some controlling functions over the Triumvirate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018519", "title": "Dragon's breath (ammunition)", "text": "Dragon's breath (ammunition)\n\nDragon's breath is a special type of incendiary-effect round for a 12 gauge () shotgun. Dragon's breath consists primarily of magnesium pellets/shards. When the round is fired, sparks and flames can shoot out to about 100 feet (30 meters), although, some sources claim it extends to 300 feet (91 meters). Dragon's breath is normally chambered in 12 gauge 2 3/4\" () shot shell. The rounds are safe to fire out of an improved cylinder bore as well as a modified choke barrel, common on many shotguns.\n\nWhile its combat or tactical usage remains undocumented, the visual effect it produces is impressive and entertaining, similar to that of a short-ranged flamethrower or fireworks. Also undocumented, it has been claimed by enthusiasts that the rounds are often used as a distress signal, similar to a \"very short\" duration emergency flare gun, though some would argue a flare would be better suited for such. It may also be used as a less-than-lethal option for self-/home-defense, although the less-than-lethal aspect and safety are disputed, as the magnesium shards burn at approximately , which is more than enough to light a person, or house, on fire. Compared to most regular types of shotgun ammunition that is mass-produced, the pyrotechnic shell is somewhat expensive, and costs $5–$7 US per shell, depending on caliber and load. Due to the shells being low-pressure charged rounds, it is not suited to be used in a semi-automatic shotgun as it does not produce enough recoil energy to cycle the automated action, causing the mechanism to fail to cycle.\n\nDragon's breath rounds are banned by law in four American states (California, Florida, Illinois and Iowa), due to their inherent fire hazard. Even in areas where the round may be shipped, an extra fee for hazardous materials may be charged.\n"}
{"id": "2018528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018528", "title": "Striscia la notizia", "text": "Striscia la notizia\n\nStriscia la notizia () is an Italian satirical television program on the Mediaset-controlled Canale 5. Founded in 1988, it is meant to be a parody of the daily news, which airs right before the program, but \"Striscia\" also satirizes government corruption and exposes scams with the help of local reporters who are also comedians. The program is directed and produced by Antonio Ricci and is hosted by two major comedians. Usually Ezio Greggio (who co-founded the show with Gianfranco D'Angelo) is assisted by another comedian (such as Enzo Iacchetti or Michelle Hunziker) for the winter season, after which there is a change of guard with the two comedians Ficarra & Picone.\n\nThe name of the show literally translates in English as \"the news slither\". The polysemic term \"striscia\" () refers to a cartoon strip (noun) while its conjugation \"strisciare\" is a verb which means \"to crawl\" or \"to slither\", thus allegorically referring to a worm or snake which slithers and bores underground digging holes and exposing \"cheats\".\n\nThe Gabibbo, an Italian cultural icon, acts as the mascot and is the soul of the show. Gabibbo is a caricature of an Italian layman, a low-income worker who lives near the docks of Genoa. Always loud, braggart but pungent in his naive but straightforward ways, he butts in everywhere he sees new friends to chat to with a childlike enthusiasm always running after the veline, the show's two dancing showgirls. He is, in some ways, like the Cockney type often seen in British comedies.\n\nThe term \"velina\" () is a figurative term in Italian journalism which refers to government-issued propagated news. It is a parody of the news industry during the Fascist era under the Mussolini where the government controlled and heavily censored all news reports and papers.\n\nWithin Striscia, the \"veline\" are two young women in their early twenties (one blonde, the other brunette) who come on stage to hand the \"news anchors\" their news and perform short dances called \"stacchetti\", always finishing up on the news anchors' desk.\n\nThe names of the \"veline\" for each season of Striscia are announced after a long beauty pageant during the summer. The program is called \"Veline\". A similar program, \"Velone\" (which means \"big \"veline\"\"), is a contest for women in their 60s (although some are nearly 100). As in \"Veline,\" the women dance and perform in brief sketches.\nThe word \"velina\" has become a synonym for television presenters's assistant. In 2012 also \"velinismo\" [English: Velinism] (to become famous for passiveness and inconclusiveness) became an entry in the Zingarelli dictionary.\n\n\nThe \"Tapiro d'Oro\" (\"Golden Tapir\"), a small golden statue, is a special \"prize\" delivered to big celebrities or politicians who have been humiliated or defeated. Although many personalities take it in front of the cameras in the hope of getting attention for themselves, others run away and Valerio Staffelli, a special correspondent for the show, has to run after them until they finally take it. Some even react aggressively. Rai Uno Director Fabrizio Del Noce, cornered by Staffelli, banged his microphone on the reporter's face, breaking Staffelli's nose.\n\nEach edition of Strip uses a subtitle always different, which reads the voice of-enza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018529", "title": "The Losers (comics)", "text": "The Losers (comics)\n\nThe Losers is the name of a war comic book feature published by DC Comics. The name was later given to a reimagined comic book series for DC's Vertigo imprint.\n\nThe first \"Losers\" comic was a war comics feature set during World War II. It was created by Robert Kanigher and became a regular feature in DC's long-running war comic book series \"Our Fighting Forces\" beginning with issue #123, dated January/February 1970.\n\nPrior to the formation of the group, each character had his own adventures in DC's war anthology comics. Captain Johnny Cloud, a Navajo pilot who always destroyed his planes after a mission, had appeared in \"All-American Men of War\" #82–115 (1960–1966); the two-man team of Gunner and Sarge had first appeared in issue #67 of the same title (March 1959) before transferring to \"Our Fighting Forces\" for a fifty-issue run, #45–94 (May 1959–August 1965). Captain Storm, a PT boat commander, had his own title, which lasted 18 issues from 1964 to 1967.\n\nTheir first appearance as a group was with The Haunted Tank crew in \"G.I. Combat\" #138 (October–November 1969) in a story titled \"The Losers\". The tank crew had failed to destroy a Nazi radar station and collected the 'Losers'. The men were on their own after surviving separate disastrous battles. The eight-man strong group rallied and returned to the site of the Nazi radar station, demolishing it. Prior to that, Captain Storm, Gunner and Sarge (along with Fighting Devil Dog) had teamed together once before to fight some Japanese naval officers in \"Captain Storm\" #13. They got their own series a few months later (January/February 1970), as the main feature of \"Our Fighting Forces\", beginning with issue #123. Their stories as a team were written by Robert Kanigher and illustrated by a variety of artists, most notably Sam Glanzman, Russ Heath, John Severin, and Joe Kubert.\n\nThe group served in Europe, Africa, and the Pacific, meeting other DC World War II characters such as the Haunted Tank and Sergeant Rock. The team briefly had a female member named Ona Tomsen who was part of the Norwegian resistance movement, who joined the team in issue #135. At the same time, the team briefly lost Captain Storm, who suffered amnesia (and lost an eye) due to a bomb blast. They reunited in issue #141, when Capt. Storm reappeared as a one-eyed, peg-legged pirate. Gunner's pet dog Pooch also joined the team for some missions.\n\nRobert Kanigher was the original writer for the series, and he emphasized the group's bad luck. They were anti-heroes, and the stories emphasized negative aspects of war. During the Vietnam War, Kanigher added this philosophy to many of the DC war books. Also in common with most DC war books of the time were spectacular cover illustrations by Joe Kubert. Ken Barr did the art chores for the first issue, with Ross Andru and Mike Esposito participating beginning with issue #124. John Severin, a veteran of Marvel Comics' \"Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos\" began doing the art chores by issue #132. This series lasted until Jack Kirby became artist/writer with issue #151 during the autumn of 1974. While Kirby enjoyed working with the series, he changed the story's philosophy in a manner that was often disfavored by fans, judging by comments in the book's letter pages. There have been favorable comments about his series in recent years and DC released it in collected form.\n\nWith issue #163 Bob Kanigher was back writing the book with Jack Lehti doing the art. For issue #164, Ric Estrada penciled and George Evans inked, and Evans did all of the artistic duties by issue #166. He continued with the series until the final issue, #181 (September/October 1978). A story that was originally set to feature in issue #182, written by Kanigher and drawn by Evans and entitled \"Young Losers - Young Lions\", was finally printed four years later in \"The Unknown Soldier\" #265 (July 1982).\n\nAccording to \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", the team ended in Markovia during the spring of 1944. Along with powered beings, such as Geo-Force and Doctor Polaris, they were defending the towers created by the Monitor. The Anti-Monitor's shadow demon minions touched each one, destroying them.\n\nThe re-ordering of the DC Universe resulted in a different ending for the team. In \"The Losers Special\" #1, written by Kanigher and illustrated by Glanzman, the Losers (along with Pooch) died in action during 1945 while destroying a German missile site: Sarge was bayoneted, Captain Storm fell on a grenade, and the remainder were strafed by aircraft bullets. The Special was published during 1985, during the \"Crisis\"' initial printing, and remained the definitive ending of the group for several years.\n\nIn 2000, a short-lived revival of the Creature Commandos resurrected Gunner as a cyborg warrior member of the new team. Gunner and Sarge are found alive and out of their own time in an issue of \"Birds of Prey\", trapped in a POW camp in the time-fluctuating Dinosaur Island, now with a \"Pooch\" that is a trained \"Velociraptor\". It is not known if they somehow went back in time to conclude their lives or if this brings them into the present.\n\nIn the backup story \"Snapshot: Remembrance\" in the retrospective mini-series \"DC Universe: Legacies\" #4, set during a reunion on July 4, 1976, it is revealed that the Losers did survive the end of the war. Storm works for the Bureau of Disabled Veterans Affairs, Gunner is a veterinarian in memory of the now-dead Pooch, Sarge owns a string of service stations along the East Coast and Johnny Cloud is a third-term congressman. The other attendees are Jeb Stuart of the Haunted Tank, Gravedigger, Mademoiselle Marie and possibly the Unknown Soldier.\n\nAn alternative ending was presented in the out-of-continuity 2004 miniseries \"\". In it, the group was sent to Dinosaur Island during December 1945 to rescue Rick Flag and important war-time information. Once they go on the island, one by one, they are killed due to the dangers of the island. Gunner is smashed by a \"Tyrannosaurus rex\". Storm is snatched by flying beasts. Sarge vanishes while trying to kill the same Rex. Pooch is hit by a booby trap set by Rick Flag. Johnny Cloud, after ensuring Flag can conclude the mission, sacrifices himself in a revenge mission on the same T-Rex. Their epitaph, of sorts, was written by Johnny Cloud: \"Ask my family and they'll tell you I was a Navajo. Ask the Army Air Force and they'll say I was an American. But if you ask my brothers, they'll set you straight. John Cloud was a Loser.\"\n\nA new \"The Losers\" series began during 2004, created by writer Andy Diggle and artist Jock and published under DC's Vertigo imprint. The new series, set in the present, concerns a team of special forces soldiers who declare war on the Central Intelligence Agency after their Agency handler tries to assassinate them. It was initially inspired by and intended to be a continuation of the original series, with the unit having survived their final mission and getting back together in the 1950s for a caper story.\n\nIn 2010 DC published five one-shots featuring characters and titles revived from their \"classic\" war comics line, including \"Our Fighting Forces\", featuring The Losers. The one-shot was written by B. Clay Moore and drawn by Chad Hardin and Wayne Foucher. The story featured the \"classic\" team of Johnny Cloud, Captain Storm and Gunner & Sarge.\n\nIn the \"Flashpoint\" universe, Gunner was a member of Team 7, an elite unit of soldiers led by Grifter. Gunner and most of his teammates were ultimately killed during a botched attack on a terrorist training camp.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018532", "title": "List of Donald Duck universe characters", "text": "List of Donald Duck universe characters\n\nThis list of Donald Duck universe characters focuses on Disney cartoon and comics characters who typically appear with Donald Duck and Scrooge McDuck, but are not related to them. For relatives of Donald and Scrooge, see Duck family (Disney) or Clan McDuck. For characters exclusive to the \"DuckTales\" franchise, see List of \"DuckTales\" characters.\n\n\n\nDucks are the most common type of named characters in the Donald Duck universe. Like Donald, they appear as white American Pekin ducks. This section contains a list of characters with the surname \"Duck\" who are not related to Donald. Disney illustrator Don Rosa has said that \"Duck\" is a common name in Duckburg (just as \"Smith\" or \"Jones\" are common in the real-life United States) and does not necessarily identify a blood relation of Donald.\n\nDonna Duck is the first love interest of Donald Duck. She was later replaced by Daisy Duck. According to some sources, Daisy was introduced in 1937 as Donna Duck, yet there is conflicting evidence as to whether Donna was an early version of Daisy or a separate character entirely. However, the fact that The Walt Disney Company released a collector's pin (See #703 on Pinpics.com) in 1999 which states, \"Daisy Duck debuts as Donna Duck 1937,\" solidifies the fact that Daisy Duck and Donna Duck were, in fact, one and the same.\n\nDonna made her sole animated appearance in the short film Don Donald (1937), directed by Ben Sharpsteen. It was the first installment of the Donald Duck film series and was also the first time Donald was shown with a love interest. In the story, Donald travels to Mexico to court a duck who is largely a female version of himself. She is portrayed with the same feisty temperament and impatience and was even voiced by Donald's voice actor Clarence Nash. At the end of the story she spitefully abandons Donald in the desert after his car breaks down.\n\nSome sources consider Don Donald, Daisy's debut. These include The Encyclopedia of Animated Disney Shorts, and the Big Cartoon DataBase. In addition to this, Don Donald is included on the Disney-produced DVD \"Best Pals: Donald and Daisy.\" Donna's identification as an early Daisy is aided by the fact that other Disney characters, such as Goofy, were also introduced under different names (Dippy Dawg), appearances, and mannerisms. \"Donna\" in Italian is also the equivalent of \"Don,\" a title Donald takes in the film's title.\n\nHowever, in 1951 the character of Donna was retconned in a newspaper comic strip where she appeared as a separate character from Daisy, and as an unwitting rival for Donald's affections.\n\nDaisy Duck is Donald's girlfriend. Huey, Dewey, and Louie sometimes call her \"Aunt Daisy\", but it is unclear if this signifies an affinal or fictive relationship.\n\nGladstone Gander is Donald's lucky cousin who is always flirting with Daisy Duck. Gladstone first appeared in \"Wintertime Wager\" in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #88 (Jan 1948), written and drawn by Carl Barks.\n\nApril, May, and June (their surname is unknown) are the triplet nieces of Daisy Duck. They were created by Carl Barks and were first used in the story \"Flip Decision\", published in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #149 (Feb 1953). According to their debut story, they live in Duckburg with their parents, though they do not appear in the comic. Their mother is a sister of Daisy. When they appear at family gatherings their parents are never present and they usually accompany Daisy.\n\nIn some stories, mostly Dutch, they live along with their aunt, but in other comics, such as the comics by Barks, they are only visiting Daisy. The triplets act as Donald's nephews' (Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck) female counterparts, occasional rivals, occasional friends, and occasional dates. They are members of the organization The Junior Chickadees, who serve as The Junior Woodchucks' female counterparts. Unusually for children of their age, the girls routinely wear high-heeled shoes.\n\nLike the nephews, April, May & June usually wear the colors red, blue and green, but unlike them, a color assignment has never been established. The girls also frequently wear yellow, purple and orange. However, one might consider \"blue\" to be April's color since that was the color she wore when she appeared solo in \"Dell Giant\" #35. It is also unknown which nephew is paired with which niece when they double date with their Uncle Donald and Aunt Daisy.\n\nIn 1998, the editors of the Dutch \"Donald Duck\" weekly magazine decided the three girls should be modernized, and they got permission from the Disney Company to do so. Dutch Duck comic artist Mau Heymans designed a new hairdo and new wardrobe for April, May and June. They now do not look the same at all in Dutch stories and do not have the 'girly' occupations anymore they had when Barks created them. In some Danish stories, the new hairdo has been copied.\n\nApril, May, and June were not seen in animation until they were given a special cameo appearance in the \"House of Mouse\" episode \"Ladies' Night\". They would later appear as regular cast members in the 2018 animated series \"Legend of the Three Caballeros\" (all three voiced by Jessica DiCicco).\n\nApril, May, and June never appeared on \"DuckTales\" and have not been indicated to appear in the reboot series, but Webby Vanderquack from both versions strongly resembles them. This led to Dutch translators naming Webby 'Lizzy', which is used for April in Dutch. May and June are called Juultje and Babetje in The Netherlands.\n\nApril, May, and June returned to American comics in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #698. The story had them retelling \"Little Red Riding Hood\" with the girls as Red and the Beagle Boys as the wolf.\n\nGoldie O'Gilt, a.k.a. Glittering Goldie, is Scrooge's secret sweetheart. Originally created by Carl Barks as a character in the story \"Back to the Klondike\" (\"Uncle Scrooge\" #2, March 1953), Goldie's origins are as a music hall singer in Dawson City. In a flashback sequence, Scrooge catches Goldie in an attempt to rob him of his recent gold poke, and she is forced to repay the debt by helping him work at his claim at White Agony Creek. Some 50 years later, they meet again and it is revealed that Goldie is now poor and living alone at Scrooge's former claim in Yukon.\n\nBarks only used the character once, but Goldie and her relationship with Scrooge was later picked up and expanded by other creators. One of these was Don Rosa who used her in several stories, including \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\" and \"Last Sled to Dawson\", where it is implied that Scrooge and Goldie fell in love with each other, but never revealed their feelings of affection to the other one, and eventually drifted apart as Scrooge traveled across the world and became a trillionaire, while Goldie remained in Dawson.\n\nCarl Barks drew inspiration for Glittering Goldie's character from Kathleen Rockwell (\"Klondike Kate\" Rockwell).\n\nGoldie is the owner of a wild bear called Blackjack trained by her to attack \"prowlers\", word used by Goldie herself in \"Back to the Klondike\".\n\nGoldie is eventually used in Italian or Danish comic stories, but some of those ones show situations that may conflict with others previously showed in \"Back to the Klondike\". Some examples are her comic appearances in \"Arriva Paperetta Yè-Yè\" by Romano Scarpa, where she appears as a resident in an asylum for old people and as a grandmother of Dickie Duck, a girl who has recently completed her secondary education, and in a Danish story called \"The Old Lady\", where Donald ignores who is Scrooge's former love of Klondike when his uncle asks him to pick Goldie up at the train station, since she is coming for a visit. But Donald and his nephews knew Goldie personally in \"Back to the Klondike\". Curiously, Goldie appears taller than Scrooge in another Danish story, \"After The Ball\".\n\nGoldie appears in the original \"DuckTales\" animated series, where her appearance is largely based on her comics origins. She has also been reimagined for the \"DuckTales\" reboot as a female kleptomaniac adventurer with whom Scrooge often clashes despite their mutual affection.\n\nFlintheart Glomgold is Scrooge's archenemy and the second richest duck in the world. The character was created by Carl Barks in the 1956 story \"The Second-Richest Duck\".\n\nBrigitta MacBridge, is a supporting character created in Italy by Romano Scarpa, first appearing in \"The Last Balaboo\" (\"Topolino\" #243, July 1960). While she first appeared in 1960, her relationship with Scrooge McDuck is said to have started in 1930. The relationship did not start well. Scrooge, who at the time had already been isolated from his family, when hearing of her feelings about him reacted quite cynically. He bought her an expensive fur coat and in exchange asked her to never bother him again. This did not work. Brigitta truly loves Scrooge, and for decades she has tried every method to get him to return her love. This includes stalking him, which greatly infuriates Scrooge. To impress him she has established her own business and at times acts as his rival. She has proven to be cunning and skilful and seems to have a very strong will. Sometimes she has Jubal Pomp helping her. Dickie Duck (Goldie's Granddaughter) occasionally appears as her employee.\n\nRight from the beginning, Scarpa and his successors have left enough hints that Scrooge is interested in her, but does not enjoy her obsession with him. Although he pretends to be emotionless — a typical character trait — he is not. When she gets in trouble, he is there to help her, and he has at times protected her from danger. Whenever another man expresses an interest in her, Scrooge seems not to be above jealousy. In the story \"The Next Best Thing\" by writer Lars Jensen and artist José Maria Manrique, Scrooge manipulates his rival Flintheart Glomgold into dating her, so he can feel free at last, but then he discovers Flintheart is heartlessly using her and rescues her. Though Scrooge has had chances to end their strange relationship, when she is truly frustrated with his behavior, he has instead chosen to pass them by and even apologizes to her at times.\n\nOn another note, Brigitta acts as Scrooge's personal nurse whenever he is sick and has nursed him back to health on many occasions. She is among Scrooge's most trusted allies and she volunteers to help whenever he asks for it. Scrooge's relatives are quite friendly with Brigitta and seem to have accepted her as an unofficial member of the family; she is even present in family meetings. Brigitta has also helped them against the Beagle Boys and Magica De Spell at times. John D. Rockerduck is said to find his rival's relationship amusing and is himself friendly with Brigitta, including John already pretended to be in love with her to make Scrooge jealous. And it really worked for Brigitta, but then Scrooge discovered her pact with John, who was interested in keeping Scrooge busy in a possible marriage with Brigitta. These events were shown in the story \"Zio Paperone e l'amore a seconda vista\" (\"Uncle Scrooge and Love at Second Sight\").\n\nIn the story \"Brother From Another Earth!\" (1995), written by Rudy Salvagnini and drawn by Giorgio Cavazzano, a parallel-universe Scrooge is bankrupt and married to Brigitta, whose shopaholic ways are contributing to his money problems. When the parallel-universe Scrooge fools the Earth A Scrooge into trading places, the Earth A Scrooge works to set things right by retiring his debts and seeking money-making opportunities. He also put Brigitta on a strict budget and says she should do her own cooking, as she was once a restaurateur. After Scrooge solves the money problems of his parallel-universe counterpart, he returns to his own world but realizes he may be missing out on marriage, so he starts a relationship with the Brigitta from his world.\n\nDespite the fact that Brigitta MacBridge and Glittering Goldie love the same man, Scrooge McDuck, these two quite different ladies have never been in conflict because of his affection in the rare comic stories where they both appear. But in the story \"Arriva Paperetta Yè-Yè\" (free translation: \"The Arrival of Dickie Duck\") by Romano Scarpa, Brigitta feels really sad when she sees Scrooge and Glittering together for a brief moment, but then Glittering comforts her and says that she assumes Brigitta loves Scrooge's stingness more than himself and Brigitta thanks for Glittering's \"kind\" words and calls her \"my friend\". There are only other six Italian stories — \"Zio Paperone Pigmalione\" (\"Uncle Scrooge Benefactor\") by writer Caterina Mognato and artist Sandro Dossi, \"Zio Paperone e Le Grandi Conquiste\" (\"Uncle Scrooge and The Big Achievement\") by writer Gianfranco Cordara and artist Andrea Ferraris, \"Paperina di Rivondosa\" (\"Daisy of Rivondosa\") by Silvia Ziche, \"San Valentino a Paperopoli — Doretta vs Brigitta?\" (\"Valentine's Day in Duckburg — Goldie vs Brigitta?\") by writer Giorgio Fontana and artist Marco Mazzarello, \"Zio Paperone e il nuovo canto di Natale\" (\"Uncle Scrooge and the new Christmas Carol\") by writer Marco Bosco and artist Silvia Ziche and \"Piccole grandi papere\" (\"Small big ducks\") by writer Marco Bosco and artist Silvia Ziche — where they both appear, but they are not shown talking to each other in the first three stories, including they do not even meet face to face in any panel of the stories \"Zio Paperone Pigmalione\" and \"Zio Paperone e Le Grandi Conquiste\".\n\nIn German and Dutch, she is named Gitta (sometimes Brigitta) Gans (Gans = Goose). In newer Dutch comics her name is changed to Brigitta MacBridge.\n\nJohn D. Rockerduck is a wealthy oil magnate, and one of Scrooge McDuck's main business rivals. Rockerduck was created by Carl Barks, who used him in one story: \"Boat Buster\", first published in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #255 (Dec 1961).\n\nMagica De Spell is an evil sorceress who is always trying to steal Scrooge's Number One Dime in order to make an amulet that will give her the Midas Touch. The character was created by Carl Barks in the December 1961 story \"The Midas Touch\".\n\nEmily or Florence Quackfaster is the secretary of Scrooge McDuck. She was originally hired by Scrooge's sisters Hortense McDuck and Matilda McDuck. At first Scrooge did not like the idea of having someone on his payroll but he got used to her very quickly. In fact, some stories have revealed that Scrooge has come to depend on Miss Quackfaster. Even though Scrooge is a shrewd businessman and can easily smell profit, running basic organizational jobs in his own office is beyond his capability.\n\nMiss Quackfaster first appeared in Uncle Scrooge #36 (Dec 1961) in the story \"The Midas Touch\" (the same story that introduced Magica De Spell), and her last name Quackfaster was first used in Uncle Scrooge #39 (Sept 1962) in \"A Spicy Tale\". Both stories were created by Carl Barks. Miss Quackfaster is almost always referred to by her surname. In one story by Don Rosa, \"The Empire-Builder from Calisota\" (1994), her first name was said to be Emily. However, in Geoffrey Blum's \"Uncle Scrooge\" comic \"World Wide Witch\" (2001, published in the US in Uncle Scrooge #320), her first name is given as Florence instead (her full name is seen on the door to her office). Later stories by other authors have occasionally used the name Emily again. She was also known as Miss Typefast in some stories and on the 1987 show \"DuckTales\" she was called Mrs. Featherby. In the 2017 \"DuckTales\" series she is once again known by the name of Emily Quackfaster and is the somewhat unhinged keeper of Scrooge's private archives.\n\nFethry Duck is the son of Lulubelle Loon and Eider Duck (a son of Grandma Duck) and is the beatnik cousin of Donald Duck. He was created for the Disney Studio Program by Dick Kinney and Al Hubbard and was first used in the story \"The Health Nut\", published on August 2, 1964.\n\nFethry has a rather unorthodox way of viewing and reacting to the world around him, as does his backwoods brother, Abner \"Whitewater\" Duck (from WDC&S #267). In 1982, the Brazilian Disney market created a young nephew for Fethry named Dugan Duck who tends to be quite a handful. Like Goofy (Super Goof) and Donald (Superduck), since the early 1970s Fethry has occasionally donned superhero garb and called himself the Red Bat (not related to the villain of the same name whom Mickey Mouse faced in his heroic guise as \"Plastic Mickey\"). Occasionally Gloria, Fethry's girlfriend (created by Gerson Luiz Borlotti Texeira), would team-up with the Red Bat as another costumed crime-fighter called the Purple Butterfly (Borboleta Purpurea). Even Fethry's nephew, Dugan, has donned a costume and called himself Red Bat Junior. Fethry often appears in Uncle Scrooge and Donald Duck tales. In his earliest adventures he supposedly lived in another state (possibly New York or California, and had to visit via airplane or train. However, since 1964 he has resided in an old house definitely in Duckburg. He is also closely associated with the hillbilly Hard Haid Moe who dislikes Fethry very much (though Fethry does not seem to understand this), and with Donald's pet cat, Tabby.\n\nHustler Duck is an obscure character created by Dick Kinney & Al Hubbard that works as a marketing man. He first appeared in \"The Good Earth\", first published in \"Almanacco Topolino\" #94 (Oct 1964). The American cartoonists who most frequently used this character were Jim Fletcher and Vivie Risto, although Hubbard is credited for co-creating him. Hustler is funnily annoying and he wears big round glasses, like John Rockerduck. He is always ready to sell his services in different professional areas to Uncle Scrooge McDuck in most of his oldest stories. After almost ten years withoug being used in comic stories, Hustler appeared in two Brazilian ones firstly published in 1975. His last appearance was in a Brazilian story from 1991.\n\nIn the comic story \"A Star is Born\", Hustler calls an aunt of him, but the name of this aunt is not revealed.\n\nKatie \"Hashknife Kate\" Mallard is an old friend of Scrooge who first appeared in \"Mystery of the Ghost Town Railroad\" by Carl Barks (\"Uncle Scrooge\" #56, March 1965). Katie is portrayed as a kind and brave woman. She uses some humor in the story too. For example, when everybody around her is tense because of mysterious thefts, she offers pancakes with a smile on her face saying that at least her pancakes cannot be stolen. According to the story, Scrooge and Katie meet each other in the city of \"Goldopolis\" after sixty two years. Katie's granddaughter, the cowgirl Ducky Bird, appears in the beginning of this one, meeting Donald, his nephews and Scrooge by chance. Scrooge is desperate when he meets Ducky, since he thinks it will be impossible to find a certificate for one thousand shares in the \"Goldopolis and Boom City Railroad\" that he had intentionally hidden in the now desolate city of \"Goldopolis\" to avoid that they were stolen by the McViper Clan. He had previously discovered that those shares suddenly became highly valuable. Then he at last discovers that Ducky is the granddaughter of his old friend \"Hashnife Kate\", who tells him about how dangerous is to stay in the city lately.\n\nOn their next appearance in the story, Katie and Ducky think Scrooge and his nephews are in trouble with robbers, after they heard some shooting coming from the old hotel where Scrooge decided to spend the night. Soon Katie and Ducky discover that Donald and the triplets are dealing with ghosts inside the hotel.\n\nKatie Mallard also has a cameo appearance in the second-to-last episode of \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\" by Don Rosa, where she is younger.\n\nGotrocks is a not very well-known rival of Scrooge McDuck. He was used for the first time in the May 1966 story \"The Luck of Pali\" by Bob Gregory and Tony Strobl, where he and Scrooge both take a part in a museum contest to know who has the most unusual valuable object. Gotrocks is an unpleasant old man with black and thick eyebrows, whose eyes are quite often narrowed, as suggesting that he owns a foxy personality. He has long and white hair on the right and left sides of his head and is always holding a crutch. Gotrocks was also used by the prolific Brazilian comic writer Ivan Saidenberg in four comic stories.\n\nAnother very different character also called Gotrocks appears in \"The Goat With the Long Silky Hair\" as a rival of Scrooge too.\n\nGranny De Spell, whose real name may be Caraldina De Spell, is the greatest witch in the world. She is the grandmother of Magica De Spell, and taught Magica sorcery when she was a child. By the 1960s, however, she had retired to a lonely and cobwebby old castle, where she spent most of her time sitting in a rocking chair, knitting. But her mind (and curses) are still sharp as flints, and she casts a usually-disapproving eye at her granddaughter's frequent attempts to get Scrooge McDuck's Dime, though she can also be persuaded to help her descendant once in a while. She and Magica love each other dearly, but Granny tends to get on Magica's nerves in her attempt to fix her up with clumsy magician Rosolio, for whom Magica really could not care less.\n\nThe character was created by George Davie and Jim Fletcher, and her first appearance was in the May 1966 comic story \"A Lesson from Granny\". Starting with the 1995 story \"Magica De Spell and the Great Rock of Power-Plus\", Giorgio Cavazzano introduced a redesigned, more active Granny De Spell, now sporting long blond hair, who has made several subsequent appearances.\n\nGranny De Spell's first name has not been used in English publication. However, her Italian name gives it as Caraldina, which considering the fact that the character is, in-universe, Italian, is a perfectly plausible suggestion. Further strengthening it is the fact that she bears similar first names in the German (Karoline) and French (Caroline) versions.\n\nGranny De Spell's precise age is also unknown, but she states in her debut that she was already the queen of sorcery before Madam Mim was even born, making her at least over 1500 years old.\n\nDickie Duck () was created by Romano Scarpa. She first appeared in \"Arriva Paperetta Yè-Yè\" (\"The Miner's Granddaughter\", published in \"Topolino\" #577 (Dec 1966). She was introduced as Goldie O'Gilt's granddaughter. But in the story \"Paperetta e la leggenda del luna park\" by Romano Scarpa she calls Huey, Dewey, and Louie \"cuginetti\" (small/young cousins) (in the third panel of the first page) and then \"cugini\" (cousins) (in the fourth panel of the second page), suggesting that she and Donald's nephews share the same surname in English because of a kinship. Dickie does not have an official family name in Italy, being \"Yè-Yè\" a reference to Yé-yé, a style of pop music of the early 1960s, which she uses with her original name, \"Paperetta\", as if to show her love for pop music. She has become popular in Italy, Denmark, Brazil and some other countries, while she is almost unknown in the USA and others. Dickie clearly seems to be older than Huey, Dewey, and Louie. According to Scarpa, she completed her secondary education at a boarding school (Goldie says to Scrooge in the original Italian, \"Ehm, come sai, ho una nipotina che è cresciuta in collegio! Ora ne esce...\", which can be loosely translated as \"Er, you know, I have a granddaughter who has grown in a boarding school! Now she's leaving...\"), so she is possibly around 18 years old.\n\nThe connection between Goldie and Dickie is not largely accepted, even though they made two appearances together as grandmother and granddaughter. The first one was in the Italian story \"Arriva Paperetta Yè-Yè\" (published in the US as \"The Miner's Granddaughter\" in IDW's Uncle Scrooge #18), which introduced Dickie in this particular universe. In this story, Goldie drops Dickie off because she cannot take care of her anymore, so she asks Scrooge McDuck to do it for her. And the second one was in another Italian story called \"Zio Paperone Pigmalione\" (\"Uncle Scrooge Benefactor\"), where Dickie appears living in Duckburg as Scrooge's house guest. But in later stories with her, she lives in her own house.\n\nSometimes Dickie has worked as a reporter for Brigitta McBridge or for Scrooge's little known brother Gideon McDuck.\n\nIn Brazil, their name is Pata Lee, (a reference to the singer Rita Lee) she appeared in her own series with her teen friends the short owl Netunia, the tall crane Olimpia, the handsome pelican Parceiro, and Foliao, which is actually the name given to the old cartoon character Aracuan Bird, in a series of stories titled \"Os Adolescentes\" (translated loosely from Portuguese to \"The Teenagers\") as a bonus story in Ze Carioca (a comic book starring José Carioca). Netunia, Olimpia and Parceiro were specially created to be part of Dickie's gang by Brazilian Disney Studios, which belongs to Grupo Abril. That was the first (and probably only) time that a teen gang was introduced in the \"Duckverse\" (a nickname commonly used to refer to the Disney Ducks Universe). Dickie and her four close friends possibly are studying journalism at some university of Duckburg, because of her clear connection to the reporter career, which was shown in various comic stories. Donald and his nephews never appeared in those stories with Dickie's teen gang.\n\nDickie Duck's first American appearance was in the Gemstone run of \"Donald Duck Adventures\", in the story \"Return to TNT\", in a cameo.\n\nJust like Moby Duck, Dickie is one of the few secondary characters who was cast as a small figurine in two different Italian collections by De Agostini.\n\n0.0. Duck and Mata Harrier are a secret-agent duo. They were created by Dick Kinney and Al Hubbard for the Disney Studio Program, a unit that produced Disney comics for foreign publication. Their first story was \"The Case of the Purloined Pearls\" published in 1966. 0.0. Duck's name is a play on \"007\" (a.k.a. \"James Bond\") while Mata Harrier's one is an obvious play on \"Mata Hari\". They appeared for the first time in the story \"The Case of the Purloined Pearls\", where they fought against agents of the evil organization \"BLONK\". Then the agents of this organization became the traditional rivals of 0.0. Duck and Mata Harrier in their subsequent stories, most of them created by Brazilian cartoonists. 0.0. Duck owns a small dog ironically called Wolf. The latest comic appearance of 0.0. Duck, Mata Harrier, Wolf and agents of BLONK was in the 20th adventure of the comic subseries Tamers of Nonhuman Threats, called \"Things that Go Blonk\". Even 0.0. & Mata's subchief, created by Brazilian comic artists in 1975, appears in this one.\n\nBelle Duck is a plus-sized, tall and elegant duck lady. She appeared for the first time in \"Belle Corners the Coin Collection\" with drawings by the cartoonist Al Hubbard, first published in \"Topolino\" #591 (March 1967). In this story, Scrooge meets Belle again 40 years after their last meeting. He tells to his grandnephews Huey, Dewey, and Louie before her arrival at his house that she was the most charming girl of her town, being daughter of a tycoon who lived in a mansion. But later Belle reveals that now a riverboat called \"The Gilded Lily\" is everything that she can own, since she spent all her inheritance money. Scrooge cannot hide his surprise at seeing his old crush's look after all those years when they finally meet each other in the story. Tony Strobl was the American cartoonist who most frequently drew this character, despite Hubbard was the cartoonist who first drew her. Belle is an independent, self-assured, generous and warm-hearted woman, and Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck adore her. She also has a joyful personality and she loves to give parties on her riverboat by using Scrooge's money. Borrowing money from Scrooge is generally the first thing that Belle thinks of when she intends to repair \"The Gilded Lily\" or to buy a new piece of machinery for it. She often shows a daring behavior towards Scrooge, like in \"The Return of Belle Duck\" by Strobl, where Scrooge asks her about what they will talk about and she answers, \"About your money... and how I'm going to spend it!\".\n\nIn \"Go West, Young Duck\" by Dick Kinney and Tony Strobl, Belle tells the story of a European ancestor of her called Christina Duck who tried to find America in 1492.\n\nAfter many years without a comic appearance, the last one had been in a Brazilian story from 1982, Belle appeared again in \"Riverboat Rovers\" by Lars Jensen and José Ramon Bernardo, first published in 2007. Thus far, Belle Duck's latest appearance was in a Danish story written by Lars Jensen and drawn by Andrea Ferraris first published in 2015.\n\nGrand Mogul is an anthropomorphic tall duck with a big chest who appears in stories of the Junior Woodchucks. He first appeared in \"Rescue of the Grand Mogul\" by Vic Lockman and Tony Strobl (\"Huey Dewie and Louie Junior Woodchucks\" #2, Aug 1967). In various comic stories, Mogul was shown with a big belly instead of a big chest. He is often portrayed as a self-confident, demanding and rigid leader, but not rarely he has clumsy attitudes. The name \"Grand Mogul\" is actually rarely mentioned in the Junior Woodchucks comic stories, since their leader's official name traditionally changes from one story to another (e.g. \"Great J.A.W.B.O.N.E.\", \"Great C.O.O.L.H.E.A.D.\", \"Great I.R.O.N.H.E.A.R.T.\", \"Great T.O.P. B.R.A.S.S.\" — these abbreviations are always spelled out in a text box when they are first mentioned, but their expansions are usually quite contrived), but it was stipulated as the generic one when someone wants to refer in English language to the leader of this group of scouting boys created by Carl Barks. His real name never was revealed. Before the story \"Whale of a Good Deed\", firstly published in \"Huey, Dewey, and Louie/Junior Woodchucks\" #7, the Junior Woodchucks' leader was generally shown as some Carl Barks's \"dognose\" (a human face with dog snout). But even in later stories with the Junior Woodchucks a character with \"dognose\" look eventually appears as their leader. The comic story \"Rescue of the Grand Mogul\" possibly was the first one where the name \"Grand Mogul\" was used to refer to the leader of the Junior Woodchucks, but it was written by Vic Lockman, not by Barks, and its title refers to the rescue of a \"dognose\" leader.\n\nSince 1992 the cartoonist Daan Jippes, a fan and follower of Carl Barks, has used \"Grand Mogul\" in many old comic stories written by Barks. He has redrawn those ones.\n\nA new \"Grand Mogul\" was introduced in Italy in the 1990s, whose nickname is Mogul Bertie. His real name is said to be Bertie McGoose. He is a goose guy with blonde hair, being quite more easy-going than the original Mogul. And his chest is not as big as Mogul's one. He has a crush on the leader of the Italian version of the Chickadees, Clarissa (original Italian name), a human-like girl. Mogul Bertie became a major character in the Italian comic book series \"Giovani Marmotte\" (Italian name for the Junior Woodchucks). But other characters also became popular among Italian comic readers with this comic book series, especially Alvin, a scared chicken kid, and Lardello (original Italian name), a gluttonous pig kid. Alvin is actually a revamped version of an old character from foreign market stories, who has only one story published in America, \"The Spirit of Chief Firebird\", where he is called Willie.\n\nRoberta is an anthropomorphic female duck who appeared for the first time in \"Uncle Scrooge and the Witches in Action\" (\"Zio Paperone e le streghe in azione\") from \"Topolino\" #812 (June 1971), written by Rodolfo Cimino and drawn by Giorgio Cavazzano. She is a witch friend of Magica De Spell and has been used in various Italian stories, becoming a relatively popular character. In her first comic appearance, Roberta is described as a technological witch, but she does not hesitate to use ancient wizardry knowledges to help Magica to steal Scrooge's Number One Dime. Despite being a duck, Roberta owns a very different beak comparing to the usual ones in this particular universe. Her beak is longer and pointier. Roberta originally has a big blonde frizzy hair and blue eyes.\n\nAfter having three comic book appearances during the 1970s, Roberta started being used again during the 1990s in comic stories mostly written by her co-creator Rodolfo Cimino. Her last comic book appearance thus far was in a story from 2008, where she appears with her original look.\n\nReginella is an anthropomorphic female duck created in Italian Disney comics by writer Rodolfo Cimino and artist Giorgio Cavazzano, first appearing in \"The Kingdom Under the Sea\" (\"Paperino e l'avventura sottomarina\"), from \"Topolino\" #873 (Aug 1972). She is a queen who governs an undersea kingdom inhabited by duck-like aliens forced to live in our planet after losing their spaceship in a disaster. She became one of Donald Duck's greatest loves. In her first comic appearance, she knows Donald after he is captured by one of her subjects while he was practicing the underwater fishing to fulfill her own order, since she is irresistibly attracted by his look and intends to make him her king. However, she is advised by her counselor to let him go, after Donald commits an act of cowardice. Donald's romance with Reginella ended up becoming a trilogy, whose first two \"chapters\" were respectively published in 1972 and 1974. The last one was published only in 1987. After the end of this trilogy, Reginella appeared in two comic stories published during the 1990s. She also had a cameo appearance in a commemorative story to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Italian comic book series \"Topolino\". She also appears in a long comic story by Silvia Ziche.\n\nGloria is the girlfriend of Fethry Duck, created by Brazilian comic artists in the early 1970s, when Fethry was starting to get very popular in Brazil. In her first story, \"Paz, Amor E Glória\" (\"Zé Carioca\" #1099, Dec 1972), she was a hippie girl. But her look and behavior were radically revamped in later stories and her hippie side was quite softened. She still looks like a hippie, but she acts more like an eccentric and a bit neurotic urban girl. For example, she appears using a vintage hair dryer, wearing high heels or practicing jogging in some stories.\n\nAlong with her boyfriend Fethry, Gloria was used in various Brazilian parodies of famous stories, especially during the 1980s. In the early 1980s she gained an alter ego called Purple Butterfly, as shown in \"Nasce Uma Heroína... Borboleta Púrpura\". Gloria's alter ego and Fethry's one, Red Bat, were shown working as a superhero duo in some stories, despite their mutual rivalry, and she proved to be a competent ally. Besides, Gloria was shown as a close friend of Daisy Duck in some stories, and in 1993 a Brazilian comic subseries called \"O Clube da Aventura\" showed Daisy, Minnie Mouse, Clarabelle Cow, Clara Cluck and Gloria as a group of adventurers.\n\nAlthough Gloria may be considered as Fethry's greatest love, she was not his first one, since he was in love with another girl called Rita Gansa before knowing Gloria, but then Fethry decided to dump Rita for no apparent reason. Gloria and Rita met each other in the story \"Quando A Glória I-Rita\". Gloria, in turn, first fell in love with Fethry's alter ego, Red Bat, before becoming Fethry's girlfriend indeed, as shown in \"Morcego Vermelho Conquista A Glória\". Fethry has eventually appeared showing romantic interest in other girls, while Gloria has not had a full appearance in comics for many years. Nevertheless, she can be seen in a painting adorning a wall in Fethry's house in a Danish story called \"Surprise, Surprise!\" from 2014.\n\nGloria's mother is an Italian descendant called Pascoalina, who is the owner of a pizzeria in Duckburg, as shown in the Brazilian story \"Genro À Bolonhesa\". Mamma (Italian word for mommy) Pascoalina is portrayed as a sturdy woman with strong personality who does not approve her dear daughter's boyfriend, Fethry.\n\nAndold \"Wild Duck\" () was created by Gaudenzio Capelli and Marco Rota and appears in stories set in the Middle Ages. His first appearance was in \"Paperino e il piccolo Krack\" (\"Donald Duck and the Little Krack\"), published in \"Almanacco Topolino\" #228 (Dec 1975). He is a lookalike and probably ancestor to Donald Duck. Andold was a commander who protected the shores of Caledonia (Scotland) from Vikings. He has a girlfriend named Aydis who looks like Daisy Duck, and he also has five soldiers, two of them are named Little Bo and Big Brutus.\n\nAndold wears a helmet, topped with a miniature decoration representing his own face. As a comical touch, the decoration's facial expression always matches Andold's own, changing between panels if necessary.\n\nIn the first Andold story (\"Paperino e il piccolo Krack\" from 1975), Donald dreams about Andold, in the second (\"Le avventure di Mac Paperin: L'arrosto della salvezza\" from 1980, published in the United States as \"Donald Duck and his fierce ancestor... Andold Wild Duck\"), Huey, Dewey, and Louie are reading a book about his adventures. In later Andold stories, the modern-day Ducks do not appear. All Andold Wild Duck stories are illustrated by Marco Rota, most of them are also written by him.\n\nThe names Andold and Aydis are anagrams of Donald and Daisy.\n\nO.K. Quack is an alien duck who appears in some Italian comics created by Carlo Chendi and drawn by Giorgio Cavazzano.\n\nHis first appearance was in \"Topolino\" #1353 (Nov 1981) in the story \"Paperino e il turista spaziale\" (published in the US as \"The Tourist at the End of the Universe\" in IDW's Uncle Scrooge #30). He is an alien who came from space, and more precisely from the planet Duck, with his spaceship shaped as a coin and that can be shrunk to the size of a dime and reads O.K. Quack's fingerprints as a means of activating its size mechanism. He also appeared in some other stories such as \"Zio Paperone e il satellite bomba\" (published in the US as \"Scare of the Sky Satellite!\" in IDW's Uncle Scrooge #33) from \"Topolino\" #1354, \"E quando Paperino prende una decisione...\" (\"And when Donald takes a decision...\") from \"Topolino\" #1373; \"Zio Paperone e la moneta disco volante\" (\"Uncle Scrooge and the flying saucer coin\"); \"Zio Paperone e la piramide capovolta\" (\"Uncle Scrooge and the upside-down pyramid\").\n\nIn all of these stories O.K. Quack is looking for his spaceship that has been lost and is circulating as a dime somewhere in Duckburg. O.K. Quack soon reveals his strange abilities such as being able to communicate mentally with seemingly inanimate objects (usually convincing locks to \"unlock themselves\", but he particularly likes talking to flowers) and telekinesis (moving things with the power of his mind, even buildings as big as Scrooge's money bin). He does not understand the concept or use of money (in this way he seems to have been inspired by Bill Walsh and Floyd Gottfredson's Eega Beewa). Franco Fossati once defined him as \"...a perfect character who with his innocence criticizes the absurdity of our society. Going on with time he will adequate to our times and to our every-day way of living and we'll forget that he came from space.\" Uncle Scrooge, Donald Duck and the Nephews know that O.K. Quack is a space alien and are actively trying to help him find his ship. They first met him in the money bin where he entered talking to Scrooge's locks and was looking at Scrooge's coins thinking that they were all spaceships. Thus he does not require any cover story and can freely act in his strange ways (at least in front of them). He sometimes lives in the Money Bin, and sometimes in a rented room in a small hotel in Duckburg where he met Humphrey Gokart, a sorry private detective whose services O.K. has contracted to also help locate his spaceship.\n\nAs for his initials \"O.K.\" there has been no real explanation and it is assumed that they basically mean the same as the American expression meaning \"alright!\"\n\nOther friendly aliens like O.K. Quack have appeared in Italian stories and have also become friends of members of the \"Duck Family\", such as Little Gum, who is able to make different shapes with chewing gums, and Etci, who came from a planet where everybody likes to invent facts and developed allergy to lies. His name is the Italian onomatopoeia for a sneeze.\n\nHumphrey Gokart (original Italian name: Umperio Bogarto) is a private detective. He was created by Italian cartoonists Carlo Chendi and Giorgio Cavazzano in 1982 to be used as a supporting character in two stories with O.K. Quack. Ironically, Gokart became more popular than O.K. He is named after the actor Humphrey Bogart. Gokart's office is straight from a typical 1920s-era American detective novel. He is running severely late on payment of his rent. Gokart wears a trench coat, a fedora and gum-soled shoes.\n\nAs a detective, Gokart is rather clumsy and incompetent. Despite this, Scrooge McDuck often relies on his services, because he is by far the cheapest detective in Duckburg. Gokart started his career as a hotel detective, with the job of looking for clients who left without paying. After moving on to bigger cases, Gokart has started cooperating with Fethry Duck.\n\nPandy Pap is an Italian Disney character who appeared in three comic stories drawn by the cartoonist Giorgio Cavazzano during the 1990s; her first story was \"Zio Paperone e la fabbrica d'aria\" (\"Topolino\" #1783, Jan 1990). She is a radical ecologist who became friends with Huey, Dewey, and Louie and the Junior Woodchucks. Pandy has straight blonde hair and wears hot pink short overalls.\n\nHoward Rockerduck, invented by Don Rosa, is an American businessman and the father of Scrooge's rival John D. Rockerduck. He first appeared in \"The King of the Copper Hill\", published in \"Anders And & Co.\" #1993-02 (Jan 1993). Howard Rockerduck, implied to be much older than Scrooge, was already a millionaire by the time Scrooge was earning his fortune. Unlike his son, who is not above resorting to cheating and even criminal behavior to compete with Scrooge, Howard Rockerduck is an honest and honorable businessman.\n\nHoward Rockerduck has made only two major appearances in the comics. His first appearance was when Scrooge was earning his fortune in the American Old West. Howard, who was traveling with his wife and infant son John on a stagecoach to Butte, Montana, spotted Scrooge digging for gold beside the road. Impressed with Scrooge's efforts, Howard stayed to help Scrooge out while his wife and son continued to Butte without him.\n\nHoward Rockerduck later appeared in Scrooge's old hometown Glasgow in Scotland, when Magica De Spell used time travel to steal Scrooge's Number One Dime while he was still a small boy. In this timeline, Howard was only a background character and did not even meet Scrooge. He was traveling on a holiday in Europe, flaunting his riches and trying to flirt with the local ladies, who were not very receptive to this behavior. After an encounter with Magica, who Howard first thought was a normal Scottish lady, but who later even caused Howard's stagecoach to crash in her mad pursuit of Scrooge's famous dime, Howard decided he had had enough of the temper of the Scottish ladies and bought a ticket on a ship back to the United States.\n\nPrincess Oona is a character created by Stefan Printz-Påhlson and his wife Unn Printz-Påhlson in the story \"Princess Oona\" (\"Anders And & Co.\" #1995-47, Nov 1995). During a trip to the Stone Age in Gyro Gearloose's time machine Gyro and Donald Duck first meet the incredibly strong cave-duck Oona. On the journey back to the future she stows away in the time machine, and has remained in Duckburg ever since.\n\nAll of the early Princess Oona stories—and a significant percentage of modern ones—were illustrated by the Chilean artist Victor Arriagades Rios, better known by his artist name Vicar.\n\nAfter having written the first couple of stories about Princess Oona, Stefan Printz-Påhlson asked the rest of the Egmont crew to do stories with the super cave girl. So far about 25 have been created, teaming Princess Oona with such well-known Disney characters as Scrooge McDuck, Daisy Duck, Gladstone Gander, the Beagle Boys and Huey, Dewey, and Louie. Oona claims to be attracted to Donald and she is always trying to get his attention, but in the story \"Love and War\" by Lars Jensen and Vicar she falls for Gladstone.\n\nThe adventures of Princess Oona have appeared in Disney publications in many countries including Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Estonia, Finland, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Hungary, Brazil, Iceland and Russia. She has not appeared in any animation, though she is similar to the \"DuckTales\" character Bubba the Caveduck.\n\nThe Evronians are a race of extraterrestrial ducks who appear in \"PKNA\" comics, first created in 1996. They are antagonists of Donald's superhero alter ego the \"Duck Avenger\" (). Individual Evronian characters are listed in the main article.\n\nBum Bum Ghigno is a character created by Corrado Mastantuono in 1997. Bum Bum Ghigno is a rotund man who dresses in overalls and a red chequered shirt. He also has protruding front teeth, similar to Goofy, and thick black eyebrows.\n\nBum Bum Ghigno is a general layabout with no permanent profession. He is frequently seen in various short-timed jobs, but his laziness and clumsiness prevent him from holding them for long. In his first appearance he was an antagonist to Donald Duck and Gyro Gearloose, but has since become their friend.\n\nVelma Vanderduck is a rich Dutch woman who competes with Scrooge. Her first appearance was in \"Two-Bit Tycoons\", in \"Anders And & Co.\" #1999-38 (Sept 1999). She is a redhead with green eyes. Velma has a personal secretary, Jackson Jackdaw, an anthropomorphic jackdaw. Thus far, Velma has already appeared in six stories written by Lars Jensen. The last one was published in 2016.\n\nClara Cluck debuted in the 1934 Mickey Mouse cartoon \"Orphan's Benefit\". She is an operatic chicken who is a good friend of Mickey Mouse.\n\nIt is possible that Clara Cluck played the title role in The Wise Little Hen (June 9, 1934), as both characters were voiced by the same person, Florence Gill, and there is more than just a passing physical resemblance. However, by the time she made her big debut in the original version of Orphan's Benefit, she had changed into an oversized operatic diva; a role that she would continue in until the end. Clara's singing is meant to be a caricature of the Bel Canto style of Opera singing popular at the time of her appearance. Some of her arias are clearly modeled on those of Tosca. Her last major appearance was as one of the musicians in Symphony Hour. Curiously, although she is seen in the rehearsal scenes at the beginning, she is not seen in the performance scenes at the end.\n\nDespite Clara's absence from most other Disney media, Clara has remained a major supporting character in the Disney Comic universe. She is usually seen with the rest of the \"classic\" Disney cast. In most adaptations, she is seen speaking properly rather than her usual clucks from her appearance in Disney cartoons. She is usually portrayed as one of Daisy's best friends, not to say her best friend, in American, Italian, Danish, Dutch and Brazilian comic stories.\n\nClara Cluck has appeared in the Disney parks as a meetable character. She has also been seen in shows and parades.\n\nJosé Carioca is a green, Brazilian parrot who first appears in the Disney film \"Saludos Amigos\" (1942) alongside Donald Duck. He returned in the 1944 film \"The Three Caballeros\" along with Donald and a Mexican rooster named Panchito Pistoles. José is from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (thus the name \"Carioca\", which is a term used for a person born in Rio de Janeiro).\n\nPanchito Pistoles is a red, Mexican rooster who was created as the third titular caballero (along with Donald Duck and José Carioca) for the 1944 film \"The Three Caballeros\". Later he appeared in several Disney comics, including a year-long run in the \"Silly Symphony\" Sunday comic strip (1944-1945), as well as Don Rosa's comic book stories \"The Three Caballeros Ride Again\" (2000) and \"The Magnificent Seven (Minus 4) Caballeros\" (2005).\n\nGyro Gearloose is a tall, anthropomorphic chicken who is a scientist and inventor. He first appeared in the Carl Barks comic \"Gladstone's Terrible Secret\" (\"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #140, May 1952), and was the regular lead character in 4-page backup stories in Barks' issues of \"Uncle Scrooge\", starting with issue #13 (March 1956) and continuing through #41 (March 1963).\n\nRockhead Rooster is a character who first appeared in a 1959 Daisy's Diary story, \"The Double Date\" by Carl Barks. He later became a recurring minor character, making various other printed appearances in recent years. He is Clara Cluck's pen pal, and when he comes to Duckburg, Clara and Daisy decide to have a double date, Clara taking Rockhead and Daisy taking Donald. Donald and Rockhead get along so well that they do not pay enough attention to their girlfriends, as he agrees with Donald on everything.\n\nJubal Pomp (\"Filo Sganga\") is a fat, chicken-faced tycoon created by Romano Scarpa in 1961. His main ambition is to become as rich as Scrooge McDuck. His attempts at gaining wealth tend to be disastrous. When he tries to compete with Scrooge, he markets eccentric products (firefly-powered mood lights, for instance) that meet with varied success at best. When he tries to convince Scrooge to become partners in some project, the result is Jubal being kicked out of Scrooge's office.\n\nJubal sometimes helps Brigitta MacBridge try to get back at Scrooge by setting up businesses to rival his. On these occasions Jubal is more successful.\n\nHe first appeared in \"Zio Paperone e il ratto di Brigitta\" (published in the US as \"The Secret of Success\" in Uncle Scrooge #338), Topolino #272 (February 12, 1961). He appears as an upstart businessman who happens to overhear Scrooge mentioning his \"Secret of Prosperity\". Convinced that the contents of the Secret would open his path to true wealth, he sought to blackmail Scrooge. He abducted Brigitta McBridge, Scrooge's stalker/love interest and asked the contents of the Secret as ransom. Scrooge was at first reluctant if he should rescue her or take the opportunity to be free of her obsessive pursuit. However he finally decided on retrieving his lady and managed to locate Jubal's hiding place and launch a successful rescue operation. He also took the opportunity to explain that his \"Secret of Prosperity\" were the virtues which led him to wealth, not some kind of shortcut.\n\nJubal is bright and creative but his money making schemes are at times both clumsy and impractical. On his own Jubal is more of a nuisance than an actual threat. However Brigitta has decided that one way to impress Scrooge is prove her own worth as a businesswoman. Pulling her resources with Jubal, the duo have been able to launch a number of locally successful business operations in Duckburg. Providing true competition to Scrooge and often breaking his hold on a certain market. It helps that Brigitta appears to be equally resourceful to Scrooge in launching out new operations and surpaces him in the marketing and advertisement process. With her as a partner, Jubal enjoys much more success. There are a few stories that hint to him seeing Brigitta as more than a business partner and friend but they are not really romantically involved.\n\nEmil Eagle first appeared in \"Uncle Scrooge\" #63 (May 1966) as a rival inventor for Gyro Gearloose, in the story \"The Evil Inventor\" by Vic Lockman. Later on, he was adopted into the Mickey Mouse universe as an enemy for Mickey Mouse and his friends, in particular Super Goof.\n\nEmil has caused a lot of trouble for Mickey Mouse, Super Goof, Donald Duck, Scrooge McDuck, Gyro Gearloose, and other characters on various occasions. Sometimes he has teamed up with Black Pete, the Beagle Boys, Mad Madam Mim, or other bad guys in the Mickey Mouse universe or the Duck universe. There are two stories where John D. Rockerduck hires Emil to take advantage of his inventive genius. \"Zio Paperone e la sfida robotica (\"Uncle Scrooge and the Robotic Challenge\") and \"Dog Eat Dog\".\n\nEmil is particularly popular among Brazilian comic readers. In addition, he appeared as a small figurine in two different Italian collections with Disney characters made by De Agostini.\n\nEmil Eagle was a Boss in the videogame \"The Duckforce Rises\" in 2015.\n\nZantaf is an Italian character created by the comic writer Carlo Chendi and the cartoonist Luciano Bottaro. He debuted in the Italian story \"Paperino missione Zantaf\" (known in English as \"Tycoonraker! or From Zantaf with Lumps!\"), first published in \"Almanacco Topolino\" #142 (Oct 1968). In the story, Donald Duck is working for Scrooge McDuck's secret agency (called P.I.A. in Italian language).\n\nZantaf is a mad scientist who wants to conquer the world by using stolen fortunes from rich men like Scrooge McDuck, and for this purpose he uses his scientific genius to build robots programmed to help him. Like Dr. No (from a James Bond film), Zantaf owns his own secret island. Since 2004 Zantaf has also appeared in some Danish stories.\n\nGarvey Gull is a young, anthropomorphic seagull who is a mischievous, homeless orphan friend of Huey, Dewey, and Louie. Donald does not think much of him. The character was created by writer Paul Halas and artist Daniel Branca, and debuted in the 2002 story \"Junior Chuckwoods\", first published in Eastern Europe. A big part of the stories where he has an important role were drawn by the Argentinian cartoonist Wanda Gattino, Branca's compatriot. Garvey's arch-enemy is Mr. Phelps, a rat-faced railway security guard who views Garvey as an outlaw and wants to drive him off the railway where he works.\n\nIn Europe, Garvey's (British) English name is Sonny Seagull. Garvey is his name in American comics.\n\nBaron Thieving (Finnish name: Bär Lingonsylt) is an anthropomorphic pelican. He was designed and invented as the result of the Finnish \"Aku Ankka\" magazine's \"design a villain\" competition. He debuted in the story \"The Baron Cordially Invites You\", which was first printed in \"Aku Ankka\" #2016-48 (Nov 2016), and returned two years later in \"The Return of the Baron\", which appeared in \"Aku Ankka\" #2018-36 (Sept 2018). The first story was reprinted in Germany in 2018, and besides that, the Baron has never appeared in print outside of Finland.\n\nBaron Thieving is an aristocratic baron who likes to lead a flamboyant playboy lifestyle and throw lavish parties. However, his wealth is long since gone, so he has to resort to crime to fund his lifestyle, and he steals money and other valuable items in secret.\n\nThieving is modelled after the classic \"gentleman thief\" character. He is also often accompanied by his pet dachshund Rollie.\n\n\"Dogfaces\" are humanoid characters whose faces resemble dogs. They are generally used in Disney comics as stand-ins for humans and appear to be the most common race in Duckburg, although they most often appear as unnamed extras. Many historical figures who appear in Donald Duck comic stories as characters (see below) are also portrayed as dogfaces.\n\nAlbert Quackmore (Battista in Italian; Baptist in Indian English and German) is Scrooge's butler in Italian, and more recently Egmont Disney comics. Quackmore is tall and has a long dog-nose, but humanlike ears. His hair is generally shown as being brown and curly. He is loyal and dedicated to his boss, Scrooge, and not rarely he is in trouble because of all this loyalty and dedication, creating invariably funny situations.\n\nQuackmore's first official comic appearance was in the 1967 story \"Zio Paperone e l'angolare di sicurezza\" written by Rodolfo Cimino and illustrated by Massimo De Vita. Quackmore has become one of the most frequently recurring characters in Scrooge's Italian stories and he is quite popular among Italian comic readers.\n\nThe Beagle Boys are a gang of criminals who are dedicated to an eternal, unsuccessful string of attempts to break into Scrooge's money bin and loot his fortune. Created by Carl Barks, the gang first appeared in the story \"Terror of the Beagle Boys\" (Walt Disney's Comics and Stories #134, November 1951), although in this story they only appear in the last frame and have no lines. The first story to feature the Beagle Boys in a major role is \"Only a Poor Old Man\" (Uncle Scrooge #1, March 1952), which serves as a template for virtually all future Beagle Boys appearances, and establishes them as a serious threat to Scrooge's fortune. One of the main figures in Scrooge's rogues gallery, the Beagle Boys have appeared in hundreds of stories created around the world, and even led their own comic book from 1964 to 1979.\n\nThe Beagle Brats are the nephews of the Beagle Boys, who first appeared in the 1965 story \"That Motherly Feeling\". They are a handful even for their equally-immoral parents, who often shift their guardianships to said main trio — who, in turn, have no idea how to deal with them. The Brats seem to have a rivalry against the Junior Woodchucks, each seeing the others as their polar opposite.\n\nThough the triplets 1, 2 and 3 are usually the ones referred to as the Beagle Brats, there is evidence that any children of Beagle Boys who follow the family traditions at an early age can be referred to as Beagle Brats.\n\nBlackheart Beagle, also known as Grandpa Beagle, is the grandfather, founder, and sometimes leader of the Beagle Boys. His first appearance was in the 1957 Carl Barks story \"The Fantastic River Race\" as Blackheart Beagle, and then showed up in the 1958 Barks story \"The Money Well\" as Grandpa Beagle.\n\nBlackheart Beagle started his career of misdeeds and dishonestly as a pirate captain on the Mississippi; his beloved boat was known as the River Witch. He had a history of ransoming and plundering merchandise boat on the large river, and served as the archenemy of Pothole McDuck. However, when Pothole's young nephew Scrooge joined forces with his uncle, Blackheart and his sons (whom he used as his crew) had met their match and were finally arrested after having succeeded in blowing up Scrooge's own boat, the Dilly Dollar. Swearing revenge on the Scottish duck, Blackheart served his sentence and moved to Calisota with his sons and his wife, ruling the place by fear and making a decent loot out of what he could steal from the local hillibillies. Bad luck was apparently after him, as the place where Scrooge McDuck, now one of the World's largest fortunes (ans soon to be the largest), happened to be precisely the unknown corner of Calisota that Blackheart had elected as his territory. He was arrested again, and when he was released, the rural area he loved to terrorized had turned, thanks to Scrooge's financial impulse, into a San Francisco-esque metropolis in which he did not really belong anymore.\n\nBlackheart Beagle was a Boss in the videogame The Duckforce Rises in 2015.\n\nPenny Beagle is a young dognose girl and the daughter of the Beagle Boys' numerous cousins. She first appeared in 2005, in the Sergio Badino story \"Arriva Penny\". Unlike a majority of Beagle Boys, Penny is scrupulously honest and law-abiding (although she still wears a mask because of the family traditions), and she often visits her Duckburg uncles to try and redeem them.\n\nGranny Beagle is the grandmother of the Beagle Boys. She closely resembles, and is often mistaken for Auntie Beagle, who is the aunt of the Beagle Boys. While the two are both featured mostly in comics, they are two separate characters. Granny first appeared in 1967 in a one-page gag in \"The Beagle Boys\" #5; her first full story was the 1969 story \"The Flight of the Bumbleduck\".\n\nGranny has been featured in numerous comics, and acts as the leader of the Beagle Boys at times. She is usually the one to come up with schemes, whether for a great heist or a jailbreak.\n\nGreat Grandpappy Beagle, also known as Great Great Grandpappy Beagle or Grandpappy Beagle, is the great grandfather of the Beagle Boys who only appears in the 1975 comic story \"Scrooge For A Day\", and was mentioned later in the same year in \"The Deep Sea Deed\". He has the prison number “1”, is greatly trusted by later generations of Beagles, which is perhaps somewhat foolish of them, as, being a Beagle, Great-Grandpappy is as shifty as they come. Prone to telling stories about the clan's past, he once told the Duckburg trio about their ancestor Beegul's ownership of all the water in the world.\n\nHe makes his animated debut in the 2017 \"DuckTales\" series episode, \"Last Christmas!\" (voiced by Eric Bauza), ordering his great-grandchildren to steal all presents during Christmas party.\n\nAzure Blue is a character who first appeared as an evil miser in the Barks story \"The Golden Helmet\" in \"Four Color\" #408 (July 1952). In that story, he was revealed to be a descendant of Olaf the Blue (Viking discoverer of America according to that story) and he wanted to find a Golden Helmet so he can be king of North America and make everyone on the continent his slaves, but Donald Duck and his nephews Huey, Dewey, and Louie would not let that happen. Azure was assisted by Lawyer Sharky. He also appeared in the 1995 Don Rosa story \"The Lost Charts of Columbus\", pulling a similar scam.\n\nAzure also made a cameo appearance in Rosa's 1989 story \"Return to Plain Awful\" when he sees off the disguised Scrooge McDuck and Donald Duck and his three nephews at the Duckburg Airport, as well as the 1987 story \"Nobody's Business\", when Donald and the nephews had to find a more valuable treasure than the Golden Helmet.\n\nAzure's kinship to Olaf is questionable, since his lawyer, instead of showing evidence of it, asked for evidence in contrary from whoever doubted Azure to be descendant of Olaf. When Donald and the nephews found what Blue and Sharky believed to be evidence that a Phoenician prince named Hanno and his kin are the real owners of North America, Azure renamed himself Azure Hanno Blue. It can make people think Blue to be a surname Azure gave himself in order to claim to descend from Olaf in the very first place.\n\nAkers McCovet is a slimy crook specializing in fraudulently getting his oily hands on real estate, who appeared in the 1989 Don Rosa story \"His Majesty, McDuck\". When Scrooge McDuck, abusing a legal loophole, declared Killmotor Hill and his Money Bin an independent nation, McCovet realized that Scrooge's fortune was no longer protected by American laws, and the police would not intervene; the very land he could seize from Scrooge, since the old duck had not even bothered to write laws of his own. Therefore, McCovet hired the Beagle Boys as a miniature army and took over McDuckland. However, the Beagle Boys were eventually defeated by Huey, Dewey and Louie; without his minions, Akers was defenseless, and after a quick sword fight with Scrooge, he was forced to give up the crown and thrown out of McDuckland. He was meant to appear in The Lost Charts of Columbus, but was cut from the story.\n\nStella Curfew (Finnish: Jaana Kapula) is a police officer who appears in the Donald Duck stories where Donald was still a small boy, living with his grandmother. The character was invented by Kari Korhonen and was the first Donald Duck character invented in Finland.\n\nThe Doe Boys are a pair of crooks created by Dick Kinney and Al Hubbard. They appeared for the first time in a story featuring 0.0. Duck & Mata Harrier, \"Picnic\". Most of the American stories where they took park were drawn by Tony Strobl, who revamped the original look of this duo, developed by Hubbard. They had a more human-like look and Strobl made them look like Carl Barks's \"dognoses\" (human faces with dog snouts). Besides, one of them became quite shorter than the original character. Strobl used the Doe Boys in various comic stories for the market outside of the USA during the 1970s whose events invariably also involved Donald Duck, his cousin Fethry and Uncle Scrooge McDuck. Donald and Fethry are generally working as reporters for Scrooge McDuck's newspaper, the \"Duckburg Chronicle\", in those stories. Daisy Duck eventually also meets the Doe Boys, sometimes working also as a reporter for Scrooge's newspaper, sometimes working as a policewoman. Brazilian comic artists also produced various stories where the Doe Boys appear.\n\nThe Doe Boys were used in two comic stories written by Lars Jensen and drawn by the Spanish cartoonist José Maria Manrique during the 2000s. More two stories with them written by Jensen were published in 2014.\n\nNeighbor J. Jones is Donald Duck's next door neighbor. He is portrayed as being as short-tempered as Donald, and more truculent. The yard between their respective homes often becomes a battlefield. The usual setting would be some argument or fight which would result in a huge mess for both Jones and Donald. Donald once even thought taking a vacation on a cruise ship would get him thousands of miles away from Jones and other problems, only to realize Jones bought a ticket on the same cruise by coincidence. The captain of the ship, however, is quick to extinguish bickering by threatening to throw both in the brig, and later on Donald and Neighbor Jones actually have to work together when they are stranded at sea.\n\nThe character first appeared in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #34 (in July 1943). There and in later issues, he tended to appear in stories featuring Donald Duck. Neighbor Jones was the first of many recurring characters that Carl Barks created. Jones has since appeared in hundreds of additional stories, with writers Paul Halas (UK) and Jan Kruse (Netherlands) among the most frequent to use the character. The character has made more appearances in American comics.\n\nAlthough Neighbor Jones is largely an adversary, he will be pleasant with Donald on occasion, such as Donald offering Jones money to clear his yard during a snowstorm after seeing how efficiently Jones had shoveled his own driveway. Jones does the job, and courteously announces he is finished after Donald presents payment.\n\nIn various Italian stories Jones is replaced by a similar character named Anacleto Mitraglia, who is taller and narrower than Jones, but with a similar personality and practically the same rivalry with Donald. Jones is actually rarely used in Italian stories. Mitraglia evolved from one of several names given to the real Jones in early Barks stories.\n\nIn one Barks story (\"Uncle Scrooge\" #6, 1954), Jones was given the first name of \"Jughead\". However, this caused a copyright conflict with Archie Comics and the name was quickly discontinued.\n\nHe makes his animated debut in the 2017 \"DuckTales\" series episode, \"Whatever Happened to Donald Duck?!\" (voiced by James Adomian), as Donald's anger management counselor, whom Donald's nephew Dewey and the boy's friend Webby run into while chasing down a mystery to solve.\n\nJeeves (Italian: Lusky) is John D. Rockerduck's secretary. The character was created in Italy in the 1970s. Rockerduck depends greatly on him, much in the same way as Scrooge McDuck depends on his butler Albert Quackmore. Unlike Scrooge, Rockerduck has rarely been shown to have any family, so when Rockerduck goes on an adventure, Jeeves fills the role of a supporting adventurer, which would be served by Donald Duck in Scrooge's case.\n\nJeeves is usually drawn to appear slightly younger than Quackmore, with short black hair. Like Quackmore, Jeeves takes great pride in being a dedicated helper of his boss, but he will sometimes resort to criminal activity if pressed to by his master. Rockerduck and Jeeves have worn different disguises to trick Scrooge in some Italian stories. Jeeves has been shown confiding with Quackmore, without the consent or knowledge of either of their respective bosses.\n\nJeeves made has first animated appearance in the 2017 \"DuckTales\" series episode, \"The Outlaw Scrooge McDuck!\", reimagined as Rockerduck's muscular enforcer. He later reappears as an agent of F.O.W.L., having been artificially reconstructed to act as Rockerduck's caretaker while he is in suspended animation.\n\nCaptain Ramrod is a strong, broad-shouldered, square-jawed woman who used to work as an army engineer. When she retired, she became a troop leader for the Chickadees Patrol, putting her background knowledge (and intimidating discipline) to good use. Ramrod shares most of the Chickadees' strong rivalry with the Junior Woodchucks, and, while she is too honorable to truly cheat, she is not above striking when the Woodchucks are down, such as challenging them at a woodcraft contest just when their woodcraft counsellor was unavailable.\n\nArpin Lusène, nicknamed Le Chevalier Noir (\"The Black Knight\"), is a French gentleman, and a notorious thief with, naturally, a cheesy French accent which other characters have hard time understanding at times, often leading to wordplay. Apparently, Lusène even \"writes\" in his accent, spelling English words phonetically as he would pronounce them. His home has been said to be a castle in Portofino on the Italian Riviera, although he has also been described as coming from the French Riviera.\n\nHe is a sticky fingered thief. On some occasions he is even seen stealing people's clothes while the victims are wearing them. His life's goal is to steal Scrooge McDuck's money, or make it disappear to make people think he stole it. His motive for this is to be remembered as the greatest thief ever to exist, rather than to make a profit out of it, as he has plenty of money already.\n\nLusène strictly refuses to appear in any photographs, claiming he has never been photographed. He likes to use his extreme dexterity to avoid being photographed. He once removed the filament from the lightbulb of a camera's flash, without breaking the bulb glass.\n\nUsually on his appearances, Lusène wears an armor of a knight, almost completely covered in Gyro Gearloose's invention, a universal solvent which has the ability of absorbing all kinds of matter, excluding diamonds. Only Lusène's hands, feet, and the handle of his sword are not coated with the universal solvent, and even this only so that he will not accidentally dissolve the floor he walks on or his own sword.\n\nLusène has appeared in several stories, the first one being \"The Black Knight\" in 1998. This story was mainly the introduction to the character as well as a sequel to the story \"The Universal Solvent\". As the main plot, Arpin comes to Duckburg in order to rob the Money Bin. His first attempt fails, however he steals the universal solvent and uses it to make his special armor to make another, successful attack on the Bin. Scrooge, with the help of Donald, Huey, Dewey, and Louie, manage to stop him. Lusène's next appearance was in the story \"Attaaaaaack\" in which Scrooge stops his new plot to raid the Money Bin thanks to an invention of Gyro's. His third appearance was in Rosa's \"The Black Knight GLORPS Again\" which is a direct sequel to events in \"The Black Knight\" and Arpin restores his suit in it. So far the only use of him by creators other than Don Rosa (such as Marco Rota) has been on covers.\n\nArpin is the only present day character that Don Rosa has created for the Duck Universe that has made more than one appearance.\n\nHis name comes from a spoonerism of Arsène Lupin, a fictional character from novels by Maurice Leblanc. The switcheroo spelling is ironic, partly because Leblanc himself once changed the spelling of the name of a character (who was \"visiting\", in a way, from the works of another author) from \"Sherlock Holmes\" to \"Herlock Sholmes\", in response to legal objections from the author (Arthur Conan Doyle) who was the original creator of Sherlock Holmes. In the Swedish translation, his name is \"Armand Lutin\", a play on \"Arsène Lupin\".\n\nMaurice Mattressface first appeared in \"Uncle Scrooge\" #10 in a story called \"The Fabulous Philosopher's Stone\". In that story he confiscated the stone from Scrooge McDuck because he was afraid that he might use it to wreck the Gold Market. In \"The Crown of the Crusader Kings\" by Don Rosa, he was shown as working for Mr. Molay as an employee of The International Money Council. In \"The Old Castle's Other Secret or A Letter From Home\", he betrays his boss after finding out that he wants to use the treasure of Castle McDuck for evil purposes.\n\nChisel McSue is an enemy of Scrooge McDuck. Scrooge almost lost his fortune because he could not produce a single heirloom. He also accused Scrooge of not being a true Scot. Scrooge and his nephews managed to defeat him after staging a mock Battle of Culloden.\n\nIn the \"DuckTales\" episode Down and Out in Duckburg, a character named Fritter O'Way with the same background took over Scrooge's fortune until Scrooge recovered the cargo sunk with Seafoam McDuck's ship, the Golden Goose.\n\nHis ancestor, Swindle McSue, is the guy who sabotaged Seafoam McDuck's boat in 1776. Because of that incident Scrooge almost lost his fortune.\n\nScottie McTerrier was appointed caretaker of the McDuck Castle by Scrooge McDuck in 1902. He died in 1948. Sometime after Scottie died, Matilda McDuck took over the castle.\n\nHis name was first mentioned in \"The Old Castle's Secret\" by Carl Barks, but his true first appearance was in \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\", Part 9: \"The Billionaire of Dismal Downs\", by Don Rosa.\n\nThe McViper Clan first appeared in Uncle Scrooge #56 in The Mystery of the Ghosttown Railroad. In that story they try to scare Scrooge McDuck and his nephews with ravens dressed as ghosts, in order to steal the deeds to the local railroad. When a defense contractor wishes to acquire the railroad track for rocket testing, this causes a significant increase in the railroad's shares, meaning a tremendous windfall for Scrooge and a few other residents of the Western town of Goldopolis, who were the only investors. The McViper gang attempted to steal the deeds in order to prevent sale of the railroad track, and that modern changes in Goldopolis would mean the end of the memories of them as outlaws. Actually only one of them appeared in that story and his name was Copperhead McViper, and stated he was the last McViper due to the rest of the gang having died of old age. Another McViper by the name of Snake McViper appeared in The Cattle King in Uncle Scrooge #69 where he tried to antagonize Scrooge and his nephews. Surprisingly Snake is a pignose and not a dogface like Copperhead. Don Rosa used The McViper Clan in The Life and Times of Scrooge Part 3 where two of them who go by the names Snake Eyes and Haggis infiltrate Murdo Mackenzie and his posse while they plan to rustle Murdo's prize bull Vindicator but Scrooge outwits them. This is supposedly the first encounter that Scrooge has had with The McViper Clan. Either Snake Eyes or Haggis is the father of Copperhead but it is unknown which one. In Part 11 Copperhead and two of his brothers try to steal some papers from Scrooge but they do not succeed.\n\nThe name McViper is a pun on the word viper, a type of venomous snake.\n\nAll of The McVipers' names have references to snakes, except for Haggis, which is a Scottish dish.\n\nSnake is obviously not related to the rest of The McViper Clan. He just has the same last name as the rest of them, since he happens to be a pig and the rest of them are dogs. It may be possible the brothers accepted him into their gang and allowed him to use \"McViper\" in order to show his gang membership.\n\nIt is unknown whether or not The McViper Clan appeared in any stories other than the aforementioned stories written by Carl Barks and Don Rosa.\n\nMr. Molay is a comics character who first appeared in the story \"The Crown of the Crusader Kings\" in \"Uncle Scrooge #339\". In that story he is known to be the head of The International Money Council. He and his associate Maurice Mattressface confiscate a crown from Scrooge McDuck and his nephews. He also appears in the story titled \"The Old Castle's Other Secret or A Letter From Home\", in which he and Maurice plan to steal the treasure from Scrooge's old ancestral castle and using Scrooge's sister Matilda to get it. Later in that story Maurice betrayed Mr. Molay.\n\nMr. Molay has only appeared in these two stories. He is named after Jacques de Molay, last Grand Master of the Knights Templar.\n\nThe Whiskerville Clan first appeared in Uncle Scrooge #29 in \"Hound of the Whiskervilles\" by Carl Barks, where Scrooge McDuck and his nephews find out that the Whiskervilles have been using their hound costume to frighten The Clan McDuck for centuries. The hound ruse caused the McDuck family to vacate the castle in 1675, giving the Whiskervilles opportunity to search for hidden treasure. At the end of that story Scrooge and the last member of the Whiskerville family eventually become friends.\n\nThe Whiskervilles returned in \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\" Parts 1, 5, and 9, where they continued to antagonize The McDucks. In Part 1, they run Scrooge and his father off by using the hound costume, but Scrooge gets back at them by impersonating the Ghost of Sir Quackly McDuck. In Part 5, they try to steal a bank draft from Scrooge so they can legally buy Castle McDuck to tear it down, but Scrooge stops them with supernatural help from the ghosts of his ancestors. In Part 9, only one Whiskerville appears, but he does not cause too much trouble in that story. He appears as a sheep owner while Scrooge competes in a Scottish games sheep shearing contest. After that the Whiskervilles do not make any more appearances in the Scrooge McDuck story line.\n\nThese characters are not anthropomorphic animals but actual (or former) humans.\n\nBombie the Zombie first appeared in the story \"Voodoo Hoodoo\" in \"Four Color\" #238. In that story, Bombie gives a voodoo doll to Donald Duck, thinking that Donald is Scrooge McDuck. Bombie was sent by a witch doctor named Foola Zoola to get revenge on Scrooge for destroying his village many years ago. Huey, Dewey, and Louie befriended the zombie and helped him get back to Africa while Donald tried to find a cure for the Voodoo Curse, eventually succeeding. Though he had been sent after Scrooge, Bombie never came in direct contact with Scrooge during this story.\n\nIn Don Rosa's \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\", Part 11, it was revealed that Bombie had been stalking Scrooge for decades prior to \"Voodoo Hoodoo\". In order to force Foola Zoola to sell him some valuable rubber plantation land, Scrooge hired a gang of thugs and destroyed Zoola's village. Scrooge then disguised himself and tricked Zoola long enough to close the deal by making Zoola think the land would be safe with him. Zoola realized the trick, and set Bombie on Scrooge. After the first time Bombie found him, Scrooge turned back to his normal look, keeping Bombie from recognizing him and explaining why Bombie would later mistake Donald for Scrooge (in \"Voodoo Hoodoo\"). Although this saved Scrooge from the curse, Bombie continued to pursue Scrooge thanks to Zoola's magic. Bombie followed Scrooge to the North Pole, an iceberg near the RMS Titanic, and finally to the isle of Ripan Taro. Cornered by the zombie, Scrooge agreed to give a local sorcerer the valuable candy-stripped ruby in exchange for a spell to trap Bombie on Ripan Taro for 30 years. Scrooge took the deal, assuming that the curse would wear off by the time Bombie could leave the island. Except for a few cameos, Bombie did not make any further appearances in \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\", but later returned in a dream where Scrooge had a flashback of the Titanic scene.\n\nBombie made his animation debut in the \"DuckTales\" episode \"The Richest Duck in the World\", voiced by Fred Tatasciore. Here, Bombie's pursuit of Scrooge is the result of a general curse that afflicts whoever is the richest person in the world at any given time. Though he could not defeat it, Scrooge managed to trap Bombie on a deserted island and sealed him away within an enchanted bin. However, when Scrooge's great-nephew Louie gets his hands on his great-uncle's fortune (as the result of a previous episode) and uses the money for frivolous means, he inadvertently cuts the \"magical security\" budget funding the trap, releasing Bombie. After going on an unstoppable rampage, Bombie is only stopped when Louie and Scrooge show humility and learn that wealth cannot solve all of one's problems; giving the monster a shoe-shine before he departs from Duckburg and dispels the curse.\n\nHard Haid Moe is a hillbilly and unlike most other characters in the Donald Duck universe indubitably a human being. Moe was created by Dick Kinney and Al Hubbard. His first appearance was in the story \"It's music\" (1964). In the 1960s and 1970s, he was used in various comic stories, usually as a supporting character for Fethry Duck, Donald Duck and Scrooge McDuck. Fethry is actually one of very few townspeople ever befriended by Moe, but their relation is not exactly friendly. Most of those stories were drawn by Tony Strobl. However, Moe would eventually disappear from North American and European stories, but became popular in Brazil, where he even had his own title (\"Urtigão\") from 1987 to 1994. In Italy, where he is called \"Dinamite Bla\", his appearances has become more frequent since the 2000s (decade) and he has even gained a small Italian figurine from a special collection with various Disney characters simply called \"Disney Collection\", made by De Agostini.\n\nHard Haid Moe lives somewhere on Calisota's countryside with his rather flabby dog, Houn' Dawg. Moe is often seen carrying a shotgun. Brazilian cartoonists created a permanent female character for Moe's stories, a funny maid called Firmina (original Brazilian name), who is reluctantly hired by Moe in the story \"Uma Intrusa Especiar\" (free translation: \"An Unusual Newcomer\"), and because of her strong and daring personality she is often arguing with Moe, who in turn has a very hard temperament. She became a kind of non-official girlfriend of Moe, including she almost married him.\n\nAmy Lou is the name of Moe's niece who appeared in the comic story \"Marriage Mountain-style\" by Dick Kinney and Al Hubbard. In this story she wants to find a husband, and Donald and Fethry become involuntarially her suitors.\n\nIn Italian stories, Moe has a neighbor and rival named Truz, a dogface character who wears a tuxedo and a crooked top hat.\n\nWitch Hazel is a fictional character appearing in productions of The Walt Disney Company. She first appeared in the Donald Duck cartoon \"Trick or Treat\" in 1952, voiced by June Foray, where she helps Huey, Dewey, and Louie get candy from Donald. She also appeared in the Carl Barks's comic book adaptation and two sequels to that story, \"Too Late for Christmas\" in \"Donald Duck Adventures\" (Gladstone Series) #30 in December 1994 and \"The Poorest Duck in Duckburg\" in \"Donald Duck Adventures\" (Gladstone Series) #35 in October 1995.\n\nWitch Hazel has a broom named Beelzebub, which acts as both her servant and her mode of transport. In Disney comics she appeared as working with other Disney witches such as Magica De Spell and Mad Madam Mim.\n\nWitch Hazel is also seen in some Italian Disney comics, where she is called \"Nocciola\" (Italian for \"hazelnut\"; full name \"Nocciola Vildibranda Crapomena\"), notably those by Luciano Bottaro.\n\nHer name, a pun on the name of the North American shrub and the herbal medicine derived from it, witch hazel, has been commonly used for the names of cartoon witches; Warner Bros., MGM, Famous Studios, and the \"Little Lulu\" comic book also had characters named \"Witch Hazel\", and Rembrandt Films had one named \"Hazel Witch\". Animator Chuck Jones, of his own admission, got the idea of \"Looney Tunes\" Witch Hazel from the Disney short, creating a different character but again using June Foray for the voice.\n\nThe Disney Witch Hazel had a very different appearance from her \"Looney Tunes\" counterpart. She is short, has a hairy, warty chin and a large red nose with green eyes. She wears a long blonde wig (although occasionally it is grey), dresses in archetypal black witches clothes, and her hat is very tall. She is also far more benevolent than the \"Looney Tunes\" version.\n\nThe Disney Witch Hazel never became as popular as Magica De Spell or Mad Madam Mim. But, in Italian Disney comics, she has been for a long time an oft-used and well-liked character. Usually, her stories show her interactions not with the Duck Clan, but with Goofy (the only exception are the stories \"Il dottor Paperus\", parody of Goethe's Faust in the 1950s, and its sequel \"Paperino e il seguito della storia\", published in 1999). This is due to her irritation at Goofy's staunch refusal to believe in magic or witches of any sort, believing instead that real magic is the same as regular trick magic, and that those claiming to be magicians (including Hazel) are crazy. This leads to several amusing adventures where Hazel uses every spell in the book to try to convince Goofy of the existence of \"real\" magic, despite continued failure. She also appears to be the first boss of the NES game \"Mickey Mousecapade\", despite being originally a good character.\n\nWitch Hazel appeared as a guest in \"Disney's House of Mouse\".\n\nIn one 1965 story (\"The Dime From Uncle\" from \"The Beagle Boys\" #2), she was known as Wanda Witch.\n\nJ. Audubon Woodlore is the park ranger of Brownstone National Park (a play on Yellowstone National Park), one of the features of which is a geyser named \"Old Fateful\" (a play on Old Faithful). He was originally voiced by Bill Thompson. Woodlore's name is an inside joke-reference to John James Audubon, the famous 19th Century ornithologist/naturalist/painter. He is currently voiced by Corey Burton and Jeff Bennett.\n\nHe first appeared in two 1954 Donald Duck cartoons \"Grin and Bear It\" and \"Grand Canyonscope\". (It is revealed in the latter that Woodlore was a postal worker prior to his Ranger days.) One year later, in \"Beezy Bear\", he repeatedly admonishes Humphrey the Bear \"You bathe too much!\", not realising that the bear is really just hiding in the pond from the bees whose honey he was trying to steal.\n\nWoodlore prides himself on running a tight ship and is frequently oblivious to those (particularly Donald) who are humiliated and/or insulted by his constant scoldings and criticisms. Despite his somewhat authoritarian attitude, he cares about the bears as if they were his children...although he once bamboozled them into cleaning up the park for him (so that he could nap in a hammock) by singing the jazzy ditty \"In the Bag\". When Woodlore's lazy motive became apparent, the bears irritably bagged \"him\" along with the litter.\n\nMost of the bears are respectful of Woodlore, except Humphrey the Bear, whom the Ranger often lectures.\n\nThe Ranger also made an appearance in \"Down and Out With Donald Duck\" (also known as \"A Duckumentary\"), a mockumentary about Donald Duck's infamous temper, where he is out of uniform, now working in an employment agency where Donald seeks a job.\n\nWoodlore's name appeared on the entrance sign at Disneyland's Bear Country land, as the resident park ranger.\n\nWoodlore most recently appeared in an episode of \"Disney's House of Mouse\".\n\nHerbert is a not especially bright pig friend of Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck. He first appeared in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #43 in the Donald Duck story entitled \"Three Dirty Little Ducks\".\n\nHe then appeared in a few other Barks stories, including \"The Fifty Dollar Dime\" in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories #50\". He has recently made appearances in Disney comics produced in the Netherlands.\n\nPorker Hogg is a rival of Angus Pothole McDuck. He hired the original Beagle Boys to destroy McDuck's boat but then they double crossed him. Porker's nephew Horseshoe Hogg challenged Scrooge McDuck to finish the race their uncles started in 1870, but in the imaginary part of Ducktales, he was a thug who worked for the Beagle Boys.\n\nArgus McSwine is an enemy of Scrooge McDuck and Donald Duck. He appears in many stories, both by Carl Barks and others. Sometimes he has the Beagle Boys working for him. His first appearance was in \"Forbidden Valley\" by Carl Barks, published in Donald Duck #54.\n\nMcSwine has appeared in many Egmont-produced Disney stories in which he antagonizes Donald more than he does Scrooge. Argus is a lot like Neighbor Jones in this function—except that he does not live next door to Donald, and is often a crook or con man (whereas Jones is generally on the side of law and order). Often portrayed as rich, McSwine sometimes competes with Scrooge for some type of prize in much the way that Flintheart Glomgold or John D. Rockerduck also do.\n\nArgus is in fact one of the most evil villains in the Scrooge stories, having openly shot at the ducks and threatened them with harm in a manner that the Beagle Boys rarely do.\n\nFrom the 1950s to the 1980s, McSwine had no consistent name and was known only as \"the pig villain\", going by a number of one-time aliases including John the Con and Porkman De Lardo.\n\nThe last name McSwine comes from Carl Barks' \"Donald the Milkman\". In 1990, then-editor Bob Foster published that story for the first time in the USA. At the same time, the decision was taken that McSwine should be the character's \"real\" name, with the first name Argus being added at the same time. Thus the pig villain has remained Argus McSwine in many other stories through 2010, with only the occasional alias used in more modern times (\"Lardo J. Porkington\" in Lars Jensen's \"The Nest Egg\").\n\nPeter Pig is a fictional pig in Disney short films and comics of the 1930s. He was introduced in \"The Wise Little Hen\" (1934), in which he was the lazy and greedy friend of his much more famous fellow first-appearance character, Donald Duck. Peter Pig's second and last Disney film appearance was in \"The Band Concert\" (1935), in which Peter played trumpet and a smaller, similar pig called Paddy Pig played the tuba. Peter later made a cameo in a Toontown scene of \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" during \"Smile, Darn Ya, Smile\".\n\nThe brief film career was followed by a just as brief comics career. Federico Pedrocchi, the Italian who created the first long Donald Duck comics in the magazine \"Paperino e altre avventure\", used Peter Pig as Donald's sidekick in three stories: \"Special Correspondent\" (1938), \"Paperino fra i pellirosse\" (1939) and \"Paperino chiromante\" (1939).\n\nIn the Garden area of Disney Castle in \"Kingdom Hearts II\", there is a topiary sculpture of Peter Pig.\n\nPeter Pig also appears on one of the first artworks for the video game \"Epic Mickey\".\n\nThe Pig Mayor is an anthropomorphic pig whose name was actually created especially to refer to the character in Carl Barks's stories who governs the fictional city of Duckburg. Barks never worried about naming this mayor, including using dogfaces with different looks to be shown as mayors of Duckburg in early comic stories, and he never named them, too. Despite all the irrelevance that Barks used to give to this creation, the \"Pig Mayor\" became an essential character in this particular universe, being largely used in Italian and Danish comic stories. He is also a recurring character in Brazilian and Dutch ones. In Italy, the look of the \"Pig Mayor\" has changed a bit through the years and some cartoonists have drawn him with brown hair. He has been used in various Italian stories where Scrooge McDuck and John D. Rockerduck both are involved in some competition.\n\nSoapy Slick is the crooked saloon operator and profiteer in the Scrooge McDuck comic series, modeled after Jefferson Randolph \"Soapy\" Smith of Skagway, Alaska. He is one of the oldest of Scrooge McDuck's enemies. He was introduced by Carl Barks in North of the Yukon.\n\nDon Rosa illustrated \"The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck\" Chapter 8: The King of the Klondike documents Scrooge's Alaskan prospecting days (1896 or thereabouts). Scrooge secures a loan from Soapy. Soapy, being a saloon owner on land and water (he owns a gambling boat), has plenty of money to lend. Of course, at a more than suitable interest rate (it was 10% at the turn of the 20th century). Soapy then swindles Scrooge — the pocket of land Scrooge wants to pan on has already been identified as having no gold — and Soapy goes ahead and gives him the loan anyway.\n\nSoapy adds another 0 to the 10 and makes the interest on the loan 100% and then tries to collect on the loan in \"Uncle Scrooge\" #59. Luckily, Scrooge manages to produce the loan-paid receipt.\n\nEventually, Scrooge goes to the Yukon and strikes gold in \"Uncle Scrooge\" #292. However, he is kidnapped by Soapy, who binds Scrooge to the smokestack of the casino boat with chains and taunts Scrooge by making fun of Scrooge's dead mother. Scrooge becomes enraged and tears the smokestack down by pulling on the chains, sinking Soapy's casino boat.\n\nTachyon Farflung is a monkey-like alien whose first appearance was in the Danish comic story \"The Terror From Outer Space\", where he becomes a relatively important foe of Scrooge McDuck. Tachyon is shown as a notorious intergalactic thief who hid himself on the planet Melbar, described as \"crime capital of the universe\". He discovers Scrooge's fortune by using an interstellar spyscope. Then Tachyon comes to Earth on his spaceship determined to steal Scrooge's Money Bin. Like Princess Oona, Tachyon Farflung is a comic character developed through a partnership between the Swedish couple Stefan and Unn Printz-Påhlson and the Chilean cartoonist Vicar. Tachyon's original skin color is green, but some countries showed him with light creamy skin. This character appeared in more than five comic stories.\n\nWoimly Filcher is an anthropomorphic male cat created by William Van Horn who is similar to another Disney character, Pete. He appeared for the first time in the Danish story \"Deck Us All!\", where he is shown as a close friend of Jones. Nevertheless, this fellowship was not explored in any of Woimly's later stories. Woimly is always smoking a cigar like the original Pete used to do. He became a relatively important rival to Donald Duck. Woimly likes to provoke Donald by showing unbearable arrogance when they are in some contest against each other.\n\nPete is a large, menacing black cat who appears in several \"Donald Duck\" short films and in \"DuckTales\". He is usually more closely associated with the Mickey Mouse universe where he has remained a central figure since \"Steamboat Willie\".\n\nSylvester J. Sharky appears to be an anthropomorphic rat, with a huge droop-snoot nose upon which a pair of pince-nez spectacles are perched.\n\nIn \"The Golden Helmet\" (1952), the first story in which he appears, he provides legal advice to Azure Blue, who claims to be owner of North America, because he is a descendant of Olaf the Blue, a Viking explorer who discovered America in 901 AD. Whenever Sharky was asked to prove his client (Blue or whoever he was working for) to descend from Olaf, he replies asking the questioner to prove he is not.\n\nSharky often speaks in fake legal Latin, like \"\"Hocus, locus, jocus\"\", which means \"To the landlord belong the doorknobs\".\n\nLawyer Sharky seldom has a large role, but he is often seen in cameo appearances.\n\nIn The Lost Charts of Columbus, believing a Phoenician prince named Hanno to have made a claim to North America before anybody else, he helped Azure Blue, now Azure \"Hanno\" Blue, to \"prove\" his kinship to Hanno.\n\nIn \"The Poorest Duck in Duckburg\" he helps Scrooge McDuck cancel Halloween by spending his money on all the Halloween stuff in Duckburg but that only makes things worse for Scrooge but Scrooge gets his money back eventually.\n\nRed Eye and his brother are two ratfaced thugs who were introduced as pirates in Donald Duck Finds Pirate Gold (October, 1942). They typically serve as henchmen under Black Pete or other villains with more dominant personalities.\n\nThis section contains animal characters who act like animals, unlike the majority of characters in this article who are highly anthropomorphized animals and act like humans.\n\nThe Aracuan Bird, also called the Clown of the Jungle, first appeared in the feature film \"The Three Caballeros\" (1944); though, despite his apparent on-screen popularity, strangely he did not appear in the comic book adaptation of that film. During the segment \"\"Aves Raras\"\" (or \"\"rare birds\"\"), Donald is watching a film about South American birds when the film's narrator introduces the Aracuan as \"one of the most eccentric birds you have ever seen\". The Aracuan proceeds to walk right out of the film along the projectors' light beam and into Donald's life. This crazy bird drives Donald nuts not only in this film, but again in the cartoon short \"\"Clown of the Jungle\"\" (1947), and then once more in the feature film \"Melody Time\" segment called \"Blame it on the Samba\" (1948) where he attempts to cheer up the \"blue\" (literally) Donald Duck and José Carioca. Like Panchito Pistoles and José Carioca, the Aracuan Bird is primarily known only from these three films in the USA. However, he has found some success in comics from Brazil where he is known as \"Folião\". More recently the Aracuan Bird has appeared in \"Mickey Mouse Works\" and \"Disney's House of Mouse\", and is a regular cast member in \"Legend of the Three Caballeros\" as \"Ari the Caretaker\". He causes hilarious practical jokes and dons various disguises (including posing as Donald Duck). Often Donald is shown trying to take a photo of the bird, with it evading his efforts. In Norway & Sweden the cartoon \"\"Clown of the Jungle\"\" is shown as part of the \"From All of Us to All of You\", a Disney Christmas special shown on television every Christmas Eve at 3 pm, although the Swedish censorship edits out the part where Donald attacks the Aracuan with a machine gun.\n\nThe crazy Aracuan, with its flaming red hair, hot pink face and fluorescent yellow feet, appears at first to be a completely fictional creation. However, there actually is a South American bird called the Aracuan (or Aracuã, in contemporary Portuguese). The aracuan is the local name for the eastern Brazilian sub-species of the speckled chachalaca (\"Ortalis guttata\"). Chachalacas are moderately large tree-dwelling birds that belong the Cracid family, which also includes guans and curassows. Cracids are related to other galliformes, such as turkeys, and also share some characteristics with megapodes (such as the Australian malleefowl and brush-turkey).\n\nThe very name \"chachalaca\" (from Paraguayan Spanish) refers to the noisy call of the bird. Around dawn, groups emit hoarse screams and \"\"arapapiyas\"\" that are similar to those produced by the Aracuan Bird in the Disney movie. However, the physical appearance of the bird is quite different, with a long tail, drab plumage and a much shorter beak.\n\nBilly Goat is one of the various farm animals that are treated as pets by Grandma Duck, but he certainly is the most known one. Billy is always ready to hit intruders with his horns. He was used by Carl Barks in ten stories of the comic series \"Grandma Duck's Farm Friends\".\n\nBolivar is a non-anthropomorphic St. Bernard dog belonging to Donald Duck. He first appeared in the Mickey Mouse cartoon \"Alpine Climbers\" where he rescued Pluto from freezing in the snow, the two later found by Mickey and Donald to be drunk on Bolivar's own brandy. He also appeared in the Silly Symphonies cartoon \"More Kittens\" under the name \"Tolivar\".\n\nLater on he appeared in the newspaper comic strips as Donald's dog. Ever since 1938, Bolivar has been a prominent member of the Duck family. He has even been used by Carl Barks as a companion for Huey, Dewey and Louie, and appears now and then in recent stories (the artist Daniel Branca had Bolivar as one of his favorite characters).\n\nIn some comic strips Bolivar had a son named Behemoth, who disappeared without a trace later on.\n\nBolivar has also been called Bornworthy and Bernie, as his name is rather controversial for being a Disney character (see Simón Bolívar). Nevertheless, from 1992 onward the original name Bolivar has almost always been used in the United States.\n\nHe is thought to have been created by Al Taliaferro. In some dialects, Taliaferro rhymes with Bolivar.\n\nChip and Dale are two chipmunks who appear in several \"Donald Duck\" short films. In most cartoons they are either antagonists against Pluto or more frequently against Donald Duck, and on very rare occasions Mickey Mouse. In the 1950s, they were finally given their own series, but only three cartoons were made; \"Chicken in the Rough\" (1951), \"Two Chips and a Miss\" (1952) and \"The Lone Chipmunks\" (1954).\n\nThe chipmunks form a duo, similar to Laurel and Hardy, and can be told apart by their noses. Chip, the \"straight man\", has a small, black nose, whereas Dale, the \"funny man\", has a larger, pink nose.\n\nIn 1989, Chip and Dale became the title characters in a new animated series, Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers, in which they formed a detective agency with new characters created for the show: female mouse inventor Gadget Hackwrench, muscular adventuring Australian mouse Monterey Jack, and Zipper the fly. While in the original shorts the duo are frequent troublemakers who are concerned only with themselves, in Rescue Rangers they are crime fighters who help the less fortunate.\n\nGeneral Snozzie is the official bloodhound for the Junior Woodchucks of Duckburg. He has the ability to sniff out a substance on command. He sometimes joins Huey, Dewey, and Louie, Donald Duck, and Scrooge McDuck on their adventures.\n\nHe first appeared in \"Walt Disney's Comics and Stories\" #213 in the story \"Dodging Miss Daisy\" by Carl Barks, where he helped Daisy Duck and the boys track down Donald. In the story \"W.H.A.D.A.L.O.T.T.A.J.A.R.G.O.N.\" by Don Rosa, General Snozzie was just a puppy; back then he was called Major Snozzie. General Snozzie was not the only mascot of The Junior Woodchucks. Bolivar was a Junior Woodchucks mascot at one point, and Pluto also was a Junior Woodchucks mascot in some stories.\n\nHerman appears in cartoon shorts as old man beetle telling the audience flashback stories of his youth and Donald Duck serves as his nemesis. He first appears in \"Bootle Beetle\" (1947) dodging Donald's attempts to catch him for his bug collection. His next appearance is in \"The Greener Yard\" (1949), in which he is tempted to have a go at Donald's vegetables. In the next short \"Sea Salts\" (1949), he is a long time friend of Donald, both of them marooned on an island. In the last short \"Morris the Midget Moose\" (1950) he narrates the story of the same name. His name is revealed in \"Mickey and the Beanstalk\" narrated by his friend Ludwig von Drake.\n\nHortense was Scrooge McDuck's horse during his adventures in his youth. The mare was originally named Widowmaker, belonging to Murdo McKenzie. When Scrooge wanted to enlist as a cowboy in McKenzie's payroll, McKenzie offered him the job if he could successfully manage to ride his most violent-tempered horse. Scrooge would have fallen off the horse like everyone else before him, but his belt was accidentally caught in the saddle knob, keeping him in the saddle while the horse did her utmost to throw him off. Impressed by Scrooge's performance, McKenzie enlisted him as a cowboy and gave him the horse Widowmaker as a gift. Impressed by the horse's temper, Scrooge renamed her Hortense after his little sister, claiming both had equally bad tempers (much to his sister's chagrin). Tamed by Scrooge, Hortense later expressed impressive skills in galloping very fast, keeping her calm in dire situations and even controlling other animals.\n\nHortense was also the name of the ostrich in the 1937 short \"Donald's Ostrich\".\n\nHoun' Dawg is Hard Haid Moe's very loyal but very lazy dog.\n\nHumphrey is a bear who appears in several \"Donald Duck\" short films.\n\nLouie is a buffoonish and sometimes grumpy mountain lion who is an occasional enemy of Donald and Goofy. His cartoons often see him chasing after either Donald Duck or Goofy. He appears in \"Lion Around\" (1950), \"Hook, Lion and Sinker\" (1950), \"Lion Down\" (1951), \"Father's Lion\" (1952), and \"Grand Canyonscope\" (1954).\n\nHe later reappears in the Mickey Mouse Works short \"Goofy's Big Kitty\" and in the House of Mouse episodes \"Goofy's Valentine Date\" and \"Pluto Saves the Day\".\n\nOttoperotto is the Beagle Boys' pet dog. Unlike Pluto, Ottoperotto has a criminal mindset.\n\nPoochie is Fethry Duck's dog, who has an over-friendly personality. He appeared in some 1970s stories drawn by Tony Strobl. Some Brazilian cartoonists also used Fethry's little-known pet.\n\nPorpy is Moby Duck's nice and smart porpoise.\n\nRatface is Magica De Spell's raven. He is different from the raven named Poe in \"DuckTales\", who is Magica's brother.\n\nRatty was the Beagle Boys' pet cat. He first appears in \"Sentimental Journey\" by Tony Strobl, in which the Beagle Boys try to shoot at him through a door, thinking that they were being raided. This, however, causes significant damage to their hideout. Most of his later appearances were drawn by Jack Manning, appearing in twelve comics in the \"Beagle Boys\" series.\n\nOther instances of him include two comics by Peter Alvarado; \"Ratty's Birthday Party\" and \"The Guardian Sword\", one Italian comic, written by Ivan Saidenberg; \"O Gato Gatuno\" (\"Cat Thief\"), and one \"Uncle Scrooge\" series comic, drawn by Kay Wright; \"The Stuffed Mattress\", of which is his last appearance.\n\nSpike, also called as Buzz-Buzz or Barrington, is a small aggressive bee who is frequently an enemy of Donald and Pluto. In many of his appearances he is on a quest to gather food. He appears in \"Window Cleaners\" (1940), \"Home Defense\" (1943), \"Pluto's Blue Note\" (1947), \"Inferior Decorator\" (1948), \"Bubble Bee\" (1949), \"Honey Harvester\" (1949), \"Slide, Donald, Slide\" (1949), \"Bee at the Beach\" (1950), \"Bee on Guard\" (1951) and \"Let's Stick Together\" (1952).\n\nHe later reappears in the Mickey Mouse Clubhouse episodes \"Goofy's Bird\", \"Minnie's Bee Story\" and \"Mickey's Little Parade\" as well in the \"Mickey Mouse short films \"Bee Inspired\" and \"New Shoes\".\n\nTabby is Donald's cat and he appeared for the first time in the story \"The Health Nut\" by Dick Kinney and Al Hubbard, where Fethry Duck also made his first appearance in comics. Tabby dislikes Fethry basically because he is full of crazy ideas that usually put Donald and him in trouble. This relation between Fethry and Tabby was quite explored in American and Brazilian comic stories starring Donald and Fethry. Tabby really likes his owner, Donald, but this does not refrain him from trying to catch a fish who lives in Donald's fishbowl. Like Poochie (Fethry Duck's dog) and Houn' Dawg (Hard Haid Moe's dog), Tabby is a pet whose thoughts are generally shown by comic writers, which is not the case of Bolivar (Donald Duck's dog), for example.\n\nYellow Beak is a green parrot with a wooden leg, wearing a red jacket and bandanna, a blue cape and a pirate hat. He was originally going to appear in the short film Morgan's Ghost which was set to feature Mickey Mouse, Donald, Goofy and Pete, but was cancelled. The first appearance of him goes back in the 01-page story Donald Duck Finds Pirate Gold (WDC #9) that was first published in October 1942, where he meets Donald, Huey, Dewey and Louie and they wind up searching for the lost treasure of Henry Morgan.\n\nSmorgasbord, also known as Smorgie the Bad, is an ogre. Described by his owner Witch Hazel as her \"pet ogre\", Smorgasbord is a large monster who can be summoned thanks to a special witch's brew by his mistress. He is a tall and hairy humanlike figure with a dog nose, horns, an eye on each side of the head and six arms in total; he can stretch those arms almost infinitely; his skin may be either orange or lime green.\n\nThough he is quite beastly, Smorgasbord is nonetheless sentient (as demonstrated by the fact that he wears clothes, primitive jewelry and, most notably, a bowler hat) and can actually talk, though he rarely does. Smorgasbord is invulnerable to most mundane attacks, but the explosion of a stick of dynamite is nonetheless too much for him to handle; when faced with one, he will disappear and will only be back if one summons him all over again.\n\nHe was summoned on Halloween in 1952 by Witch Hazel to scare Donald Duck into giving away candy to trick-or-treaters Huey, Dewey and Louie Duck.\n\nSmorgasbord first appeared in November 1952 in Carl Barks's comic-book version of Trick or Treat, although he was only featured in cut pages that were not restored to the story until 1978.\n\nLittle Helper, or simply Helper, debuted in the story \"The Cat Box\" in \"Uncle Scrooge\" #15 (September 1956), created by Carl Barks. Helper is a small, humanoid robot (about 20 cm tall), constructed from pieces of metal and a lightbulb, which serves as his head. He acts as the assistant to the inventor Gyro Gearloose. In the \"Donald Duck\" comics, he is often shown as an inventor himself, sometimes copying Gyro's inventions.\n\nLittle Helper never speaks, but occasionally uses thought bubbles. He is capable of buzzing, which he mostly uses to attract Gyro's attention. It is not clear whether Gyro can actually understand Helper's buzzing or whether he just acknowledges that Helper has something to show for him.\n\nLittle Helper enjoys chasing mice and helping Gyro clean up the unusual consequences of his inventions.\n\nHelper's origin is given in the story \"Gyro's First Invention\" (written and drawn by Don Rosa), which appears in \"Uncle Scrooge\" #324 (December 2003) as part of Gyro's 50th anniversary. In this retelling, Gyro accidentally passed on some of his intelligence to Donald Duck's desk lamp. Gyro added small metal arms and legs to the lamp, so that it could move about as a small robot. Little Helper lived up to his name, helping his creator with his inventions.\n\nIn the Italian comics, his name is Edi, in reference to Thomas Edison.\n\nIn many of Barks' original scripts and notes, he is sometimes named Little Bulbhead, a name that was never given in the comics.\n\nLittle Helper appears alongside Gyro in the animated series \"DuckTales\". He is called Little Bulb in the series, a name seemingly adapted from Barks' notes, which is compatible with the Brazilian name for the character — Lampadinha — informal diminutive of Lâmpada (lamp), in Portuguese. Also in Dutch, he is called \"Lampje\" (little lamp) and Filament in French. He also appears by the same name in the reboot series, in which he is depicted as a fairly hostile robot with a tendency towards violence.\n\nIn several Don Rosa stories, Scrooge McDuck encountered historical people. The most notable of these encounters was with U.S. president Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt and Scrooge would meet each other at least three times: in the Dakotas in 1883, in Duckburg in 1902, and in Panama in 1906. Rosa is famous for his historical accuracy: he checks historical records to make sure that the figures he writes about could have plausibly taken part in those adventures. (This also extends to scientific accuracy for the most part.) Other historical people who met Scrooge:\n\nFurthermore, Don Rosa often hides images of himself, his friends or Carl Barks in his stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018536", "title": "Amacrine cell", "text": "Amacrine cell\n\nAmacrine cells are interneurons in the retina. They are named from the Greek roots \"a–\" (\"non\"), \"makr–\" (\"long\") and \"in–\" (\"fiber\"), because of their short neuritic processes. Amacrine cells are inhibitory neurons, and they project their dendritic arbors onto the inner plexiform layer (IPL), they interact with retinal ganglion cells and/or bipolar cells.\n\nAmacrine cells operate at inner plexiform layer (IPL), the second synaptic retinal layer where bipolar cells and retinal ganglion cells form synapses. There are at least 33 different subtypes of amacrine cells based just on their dendrite morphology and stratification. Like horizontal cells, amacrine cells work laterally, but whereas horizontal cells are connected to the output of rod and cone cells, amacrine cells affect the output from bipolar cells, and are often more specialized. Each type of amacrine cell releases one or several neurotransmitters where it connects with other cells.\n\nThey are often classified by the width of their field of connection, which layer(s) of the stratum in the IPL they are in, and by neurotransmitter type. Most are inhibitory using either gamma-Aminobutyric acid or glycine as neurotransmitters.\n\nAs mentioned above, there are several different ways to divide the many different types of amacrine cells into subtypes.\n\nGABAergic, glycinergic, or neither:\nAmacrine cells can be either GABAergic, glycinergic or neither depending on what inhibitory neurotransmitter they express (GABA, glycine, or neither). GABAergic amacrine cells are usually wide field amacrine cells and are found in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) and the inner nuclear layer (INL). One type of GABAergic amacrine cell that is fairly well studied is the starburst amacrine cell. These amacrine cells are usually characterised by their expression of choline acetyltransferase, or ChAT and are known to play a role in direction selectivity and detection of directional motion. Acetylcholine is also released from these amacrine cells, but its function is not completely understood. Another subtype of GABAergic amacrine cells are those that are dopaminergic. These are all TH expressing and these amacrine cells modulate light adaption and circadian rhythm. These are widely spreading amacrine cells, and they diffusely release dopamine, while still releasing GABA and carrying out all normal synaptic release. Many other divisions of GABAergic amacrine cells have been noted, but those listed above are some of the most extensively researched and discussed.\n\nGlycinergic amacrine cells aren't as extensively characterized as GABAergic amacrine cells. All glycinergic amacrine cells though, are marked by the glycine transporter GlyT1. One very well characterized glycinergic amacrine cell is the AII amacrine cells. These cells are present in the INL. One importance function of the AII amacrine cells is that they capture cellular input from rod bipolar cells and redistribute it to cone bipolar cells using the synaptic endings of cone bipolar cells as adaptors \n\nAround 15% of amacrine cells are neither GABAergic or glycinergic. These amacrine cells are sometimes known as nGnG amacrine cells, and it is thought that transcription factors that act on progenitors decide the fate of amacrine cells. One transcription factor that was found to be selectively expressed in nGnG amacrine cells is Neurod6 \n\nLength of dendritic arbors:\nBased on length, spread of dendritic arbors, amacrine cells can be categorized as narrow field amacrine cells (around 70 micrometers in diameter), medium field amacrine cells (around 170 micrometers in diameter) and wide field amacrine cells (around 350 micrometers in diameter). These different lengths lend to different specific functions that the amacrine cells can accomplish. Narrow field amacrine cells allow vertical communication among different retinal levels. They also aid in creating functional subunits in the receptive field of ganglion cells. These narrow field amacrine cells and their overlap in these subunits can allow certain ganglion cells to detect small amounts of movement of a very small spot in a field of vision. One type of narrow field cells that does this is the starburst amacrine cell.\n\nMedium field amacrine cells also contribute to vertical communication in the cells of the retina, but much of their overall function is still unknown. Due to the fact that their dendritic arbor size is pretty similar to that of ganglion cells, they could blur the edge of the ganglion cell visual field. Similarly, wide field amacrine cells are hard to research and even discover because they span the entire retina so there aren't many of them. In light of their size though, one of their main functions is lateral communication within a layer, though some also communicate vertically among layers.\n\nAmacrine cells and other retinal interneuron cells are less likely to be near neighbours of the same subtype than would occur by chance, resulting in 'exclusion zones' that separate them. Mosaic arrangements provide a mechanism to distribute each cell type evenly across the retina, ensuring that all parts of the visual field have access to a full set of processing elements. MEGF10 and MEGF11 transmembrane proteins have critical roles in the formation of the mosaics by starburst amacrine cells and horizontal cells in mice.\n\nIn many cases, the subtype of the amacrine cell speaks to its function (form leads to function), but some specific functions of the retinal amacrine cells can be outlined.\n\n\nThere is still much to be discovered about all of the different functions of all of the different amacrine cells. Amacrine cells with extensive dendritic trees are thought to contribute to inhibitory surrounds by feedback at both the bipolar cell and ganglion cell levels. In this role they are considered to supplement the action of the horizontal cells.\n\nOther forms of amacrine cell are likely to play modulatory roles, allowing adjustment of sensitivity for photopic and scotopic vision. The AII amacrine cell is a mediator of signals from rod cells under scotopic conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018538", "title": "Gabibbo", "text": "Gabibbo\n\nGabibbo is an Italian mascot for the Mediaset-controlled channel Canale 5, created in 1990 by Antonio Ricci and operated by Gero Caldarelli. Gabibbo's main role has been in the programs \"Paperissima\" and \"Striscia la notizia\", but he has appeared in several other Canale 5 programs. He is normally a jovial character known for his ability to make wisecracks and his overall humble demeanor. He speaks Italian with a Genoese accent, occasionally using Italianized Genoese words. In fact the word \"Gabibbo\" or \"Gabibbu\" belongs to the Genoese language and it is used to indicate, in an ironic-depreciative way, an immigrant from southern or even central Italy (it may originate from the Arab epithet \"habib\").\n\nGabibbo has also earned negative press surrounding a lawsuit brought by Western Kentucky University who claim that Gabibbo is an exact copy of their mascot, Big Red. Western Kentucky claims it has a case because in an interview with \"Novella 2000\", Ricci states that he created Gabibbo after seeing Western Kentucky's mascot, further adding that Gabibbo is in fact, \"(an imported) Big Red\".\n\nRicci claims he was joking in that interview, saying that he made the remark after Novella pointed out the similarities between Big Red and Gabibbo. He goes on to say that there are \"100 different mascots who look like Gabibbo\", not just Big Red, adding that the \"Sesame Street\" mascots Cookie Monster and Elmo also look like Gabibbo. However, Gabibbo's head is almost an exact copy of Big Red's (a fact repeated by \"The New York Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> business section, who quip that Gabibbo is simply a \"better dressed\" version of Big Red) and that Big Red debuted in 1979, almost eleven years prior to Gabibbo.\n\nOn 12 December 2007, Gabibbo and Antonio Ricci were found to not be liable for infringement by the court of appeals in Milan but on June 7th, 2018, the decision was overruled and remanded by the Italian Supreme Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018541", "title": "Sound 80", "text": "Sound 80\n\nSound 80 is a recording studio in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States founded by engineer Tom Jung and composer/musician Herb Pilhofer in 1969. Largely involved with local artists, the studio is best known for recording portions of Bob Dylan's \"Blood on the Tracks\" in 1974 and Cat Stevens' \"Izitso\" in 1977, as well as demo tapes for Prince's first album \"For You\" in 1977.\n\nIn 1978, Sound 80 made the first digital audio recording to win a Grammy Award—The Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra's recording of Aaron Copland's \"Appalachian Spring\" and \"Short Symphony,\" and Charles Ives' \"Symphony No.3.\"\n\nJung and Pilhofer had previously worked at the Kay Bank Studios in Minneapolis, where artists such as Dave Dudley and The Trashmen had recorded. The Sound 80 name came from advertising man Brad Morrison, who had previously named Hormel's Cure 81 ham product (supposedly while drinking Vat 69 Scotch). \"The number didn't mean a thing,\" Pilhofer later explained. \"Eighty-one was already taken [by Hormel]. Eighty just sounded right and it looked good.\"\n\n3M, based in neighboring Saint Paul, Minnesota, brought in a prototype digital recording system in the late Spring of 1978. Nicknamed \"Herbie\" after Herb Pilhofer, the system was used for two recordings by the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra and one for jazz group Flim and the BB's. One of the SPCO albums won the Grammy Award for Best Chamber Orchestra Recording in 1979. Being a prototype, it was a very bulky and finicky system. For example, it used wire wrap boards and few, if any, soldered connections. When it worked, the system had a number of good qualities. However, there was no editing ability for digital media at the time, so even minor flaws would require the whole track to be re-recorded.\n\nTom Jung left the company to work in New York City, but created a mobile recording unit known as Road 80, which was rented to Sound 80 studios on occasion. Jung later created the company DMP Digital Music Products, which also pushed the envelope of later digital audio technology (the company recorded the first multi-channel Super Audio CD).\n\nIn the mid 1980s the building became the home to AVC Systems, one of the largest pro audio contractors in the midwest. The basement, including the live echo chamber, was converted into a staging area for system fabrication. The main studio was converted to a showroom and office facilities. The smaller studio was rented by \"Roger Dodger Music\", a Minneapolis based keyboard/synthesizer dealer.\n\nThe Sound 80 building was sold around 1990, but the original recording studio still exists and is now home to Orfield Labs who operate an Eckel Industries-designed anechoic chamber. At −13 dB, it is listed as \"the quietest place on Earth\" by the \"Guinness Book of World Records\". Sound 80 was listed in Guinness again in 2006 as the \"Oldest Digital Recording Studio in the World\".\n\nSound 80 continues today under the ownership of Jan Erickson. Erickson started with the company in 1969 and purchased the company in 1984. The business moved to the IDS Tower and after that to the Campbell Mithun Tower in Minneapolis where it resides today. It continues to do high quality audio recording specializing in commercial recording and small ensembles. Sound 80 has moved more and more into the areas of talent booking, payroll, and trafficking for the advertising industry, as well as developing an expertise in recording and scriptwriting for elearning programs.\n\nArtists who recorded at the studio include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018545", "title": "Do (singer)", "text": "Do (singer)\n\nDominique Rijpma Van Hulst is a Dutch singer known by her stage name Do. She is best known for singing the vocals of \"Heaven,\" DJ Sammy's worldwide top 10 hit in 2002-2003, a cover of the 1980s hit of the same name by Bryan Adams.\n\nDominique Rijpma van Hulst was born in 1981 in Valkenswaard, Netherlands. She was raised by her stepfather Willem-Jan van Hulst, a popular tennis coach. At age fifteen, she planned to compete in Wimbledon, but an injury ended her tennis career.\n\nHer first musical performance was in café Old Dutch in Valkenswaard, which led to a record label deal with Sony Music BMG.\n\nBefore she even released a single, she was a supporting act for the tour of 5ive and Montell Jordan in the Netherlands.\nThe first single Do released was the song \"Real Good\". Although the music video was played a lot on the Dutch music channel TMF, it was not a hit song in the Netherlands. Later in an interview, she says that \"\"It wasn't my sound, and I hated the video. Thankfully it wasn't a hit, 'cause I don't want people to remember me from that song\"\".\nAfter that, Do collaborated with DJ Sammy and Yanou, who is also her producer. The song was a cover of Bryan Adams song Heaven. It became an international hit. It reached the number one spot in the United Kingdom and was a Top ten hit in several countries. A candlelight remix version was made with a slower, piano instrumental. During this time, she had some problems with the credits of the song. Everywhere she went, she was asked if she was DJ Sammy because the song (in accordance with most dance songs) was credited to DJ Sammy, and she was the main focus in the video. Her candlelight version of \"Heaven\" is also used for the ending sequence of the TV series \"Cold Case\", 1st-season episode 8 'Fly Away'.\n\nDo's self-titled debut, \"Do\", was released in 2004, and reached No. three in the Netherlands. The first single from the album, \"Voorbij\", a duet with Marco Borsato, reached number one. She also had top ten hits in the Netherlands with her next two singles, \"Love Is Killing Me\" (which reached the No. six) and \"Angel By My Side\" (which reached No. ten). A specially recorded version of \"Angel By My Side\" was used as the title song for the 2004 Dutch film \"Ellis in Glamourland\".\n\nThe fourth single was planned to be a cover of the Cyndi Lauper song \"I Don't Want To Be Your Friend\". The plan fell through - Do's management did not get the rights to release it as a single.\n\nThe album received the golden status (40,000 copies) in the Netherlands just before Christmas. Although Do's former international success with \"Heaven\", her album was not released in other countries, the reasons are unknown. To end the year, she recorded a Christmas song with Trijntje Oosterhuis on the order of Sky Radio. It was called \"Everyday Is Christmas\". Due to the airplay it reached No. seven in the Dutch Top 40.\n\nAfter the tsunami disaster in Indonesia, Do joined several Dutch artists to record a song for the victims of the tsunami. The song, \"Als Je Iets Kan Doen\" (If You Can Do Something), reached No. 1 in the Netherlands and stayed there for several weeks. All of the profits from the song went to the victims of the tsunami disaster.\n\nShe has also made a few film appearances, including doing the voice of \"Cappy\" in the Dutch-spoken version of the multimillion-dollar film, \"Robots\". Other accomplishments include being the only female artist to have two different versions of the same song, \"Heaven\", on Billboard charts at the same time, peaking at No. 8.\n\nDo's second album, \"Follow Me\" was released in the Netherlands on June 19, 2006. The first single was also called \"Follow Me\". The song was written by Bryan Adams and had already been recorded by Melanie C in 1999. The single peaked at No. 39 in the Dutch Top 40 but did better in the Megacharts Top 50, peaking at No. 17. The album debuted in the Dutch Megacharts Album Top 100 at No. 8 and peaked there for two weeks. The album contains 12 songs. The album meant a lot to Do, whose friend worked on the album with her before passing away.\n\nThe second single from \"Follow Me\" was \"Beautiful Thing\". This song did better in the charts than \"Follow Me\" and it peaked at No. 23. It stayed in the Top 40 for 9 weeks. The video for \"Beautiful Thing\" was shot in Bonaire just like the third single of the album \"Sending Me Roses\" which was only released as a digital track. The two videos form a story.\n\nIn 2006, Do did a tour called \"Follow Me\" theater tour.\n\nThe fourth single from the album was \"I Will\". It was released in February 2007. The song was re-recorded in Sweden. However, no video was made and the song failed to chart.\n\nDo has also had a Dutch EP, entitled \"Zingen in het Donker\". (Singing in the Darkness.) The self-titled song was recorded in 4 different languages. (Dutch, English, German and French.) The proceeds were sent to a charity for Domestic Violence victims.\n\nOn 20 December 2009, Do premiered a new song, called \"Nobody But Me\", which was said to be off her upcoming album. Dominique Rijpma van Hulst stated the album was going to be released around March 2010; however, it has yet to be released.\n\nIn 2010, Dominique Rijpma van Hulst released an LP version of \"Zingen in het Donker\". (Singing in the Darkness) It had a very limited release in Europe, and only available on the European iTunes Store. The album contains 10 tracks from DO, and unlike her previous albums, \"Zingen in her Donker\" is completely in Dutch. The first single is titled after the name of the album.\n\nFrom November 2007 to March 2008 Do starred in \"Assepoester\", a Dutch version of \"Cinderella\", as the title character. The production was held at the Efteling Theatre, a theatre in the Efteling amusement park in the Netherlands. It was Do's first live theatrical performance.\n\nOn 7, July 2007, Do married Marc Verschoor in Barcelona. The couple divorced in 2010 but reconciled in 2012. She gave birth to a son on January 2, 2014. Do posed nude in and was featured on the cover of the January 2009 issue of the Dutch edition of \"Playboy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2018546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018546", "title": "Krrish", "text": "Krrish\n\nKrrish () is a 2006 Indian Hindi-language superhero film directed, produced, and written by Rakesh Roshan. It stars Hrithik Roshan, Priyanka Chopra and Naseeruddin Shah in the lead roles; while Rekha, Manini Mishra, Archana Puran Singh and Sharat Saxena feature in supporting roles. It is the second installment in the \"Krrish\" franchise, being the sequel to \"Koi... Mil Gaya\", and relates the story of Krishna, the son of the previous film's protagonists, who inherits his father's superhuman abilities. After falling in love with Priya, he follows her to Singapore, where he takes on the persona of \"Krrish\" to keep his identity secret while saving children from a burning circus. From that moment on he is regarded as a superhero, and must later thwart the plans of the evil Dr. Arya, who has a connection to Krishna's father, Rohit, the protagonist of the previous film.\n\n\"Krrish \" was conceived to be a film of global significance and a trendsetter in Indian cinema, with visual effects on par with those from Hollywood. To that end, the effects team was aided by Hollywood's Marc Kolbe and Craig Mumma, and the stunts were choreographed by Chinese martial arts film expert Tony Ching. The music was composed by Rajesh Roshan, with the background score by Salim-Sulaiman. Filming was done to a large extent in Singapore as well as India.\n\nThe film was released worldwide on 23 June 2006 at a budget of 400 million and on 1000 prints, both near-record amounts for an Indian film at the time. \"Krrish\" received mixed reviews from critics in India, but got a record opening week at the box office. A blockbuster, \"Krrish\" grossed a worldwide total of 1.26 billion, becoming the third highest earning Indian film of 2006.\n\n\"Krrish\" was nominated for eight Filmfare Awards, including Best Film, Best Director, Best Actor for Roshan, and Best Supporting Actress for Rekha, winning three, including Best Special Effects. At the 2007 IIFA Awards, the film received nine nominations and won three, with one being Best Actor for Roshan. It also won the National Film Award for Best Special Effects. The third film in the series, \"Krrish 3\" was released in 2013.\n\nFive-year-old Krishna Mehra, son of the late scientist Rohit Mehra, undergoes an intelligence quotient test by a professor, who suspects that he has superpowers, due to Krishna answering all the questions flawlessly. His grandmother Sonia takes the young Krishna to a remote mountain village to conceal his unique abilities. Years later, Krishna meets vacationing friends Priya and Honey when Krishna's friend Bahadur takes the girls' camping crew near his home to camp. Krishna saves Priya from a hang glider accident and falls in love with her when spending time with her.\n\nAfter returning home to Singapore, Priya and Honey are fired by their boss for taking a non-permitted extension of 5-days in their vacation. To keep their jobs, Honey suggests her boss making a television program about Krishna. Aware of Krishna's love towards her, Priya calls him to join her in Singapore to ask her mother permission to marry her. Sonia objects to this, saying that people will want to exploit his abilities. She then explains the events of the previous film, and that Rohit was hired by scientist Siddhant Arya to design a computer that could see the future to prevent wars and help prepare against natural disasters. Rohit later discovered that the purpose of the computer was not for good, so he destroyed it. Rohit reportedly died in a laboratory accident that night, with Krishna's mother, Nisha dying of trauma shortly thereafter. Krishna promises Sonia that he will never reveal his powers, so she permits him to go. In Singapore, during the program's production, Krishna keeps his word and reveals nothing exceptional about himself; Honey and Priya are fired again.\n\nKrishna meets circus performer Kristian Li, who attempts to raise funds to pay for his young sister's leg surgery. He invites Krishna and Priya to his circus, where a fire breaks out during the performance. Several children remain trapped in the blaze. To save the children without revealing his abilities, Krishna dons a broken black mask and puts his jacket on inside-out, creating the persona of \"Krrish\". Later, when Kristian sees Krrish fighting some goons and removing his mask, he discovers his friend Krishna is Krrish. As Krrish is being offered a reward for his deeds, Krishna asks Kristian to assume the identity, so that he can pay for his sister's surgery.\n\nMeanwhile, Priya discovers that Krishna is Krrish upon seeing the footage from her video camera. She and Honey decide to release the footage on TV to make Krishna a star. Krishna arrives and overhears them talking about how Priya had lied to him, and how they will reveal his identity. Just before Priya confesses to Honey that she has genuinely fallen in love with Krishna, he leaves, dejected.\n\nAfter being confronted by Krishna at his apartment they talked what she said, Priya realises her mistake and stops her boss from revealing Krrish's identity. She then meets Vikram Sinha, who has been searching for Krishna for years. He tells them that Rohit is still alive; after completing the computer, he and Rohit tested it and saw Siddhant holding Rohit at gunpoint. Rohit understood that Siddhant was going to kill him and then use the computer for his own selfish needs. He was able to destroy it, before being taken prisoner by Siddhant.\n\nIn the present, Siddhant has rebuilt the computer after many years. He uses it to reveal his future and sees Krrish killing him. Siddhant then kills Kristian, thinking that he is Krrish. Krishna later follows Siddhant to his island lair. When Siddhant looks into the future again, he sees the same thing and is shocked to see Krrish still alive and on his island.\n\nWhen Krrish enters the compound, there is a vicious fight with Siddhant's thugs. Krrish eventually defeats them and saves Priya and Rohit. However, Vikram is shot dead by Siddhant. Krrish eventually wounds Siddhant fatally. Before Siddhant dies, Krrish reveals himself as Krishna. After revealing to Rohit that he is his son, Krishna takes Priya and his father back to India, reuniting him with Sonia. Rohit then uses his father's special computer to contact his alien friend Jadoo, whose spaceship is later seen from a distance.\n\n\n\nIn November 2004, the Roshans confirmed he would produce a sequel to \"Koi... Mil Gaya\" (2003). They announced that actors Hrithik Roshan and Rekha would return for the sequel, but that Preity Zinta would be replaced by Priyanka Chopra. Chopra also confirmed the same, adding, \"The story will start where \"Koi... Mil Gaya\" ended.\" Rakesh Roshan hoped that the film would be remembered as the first to prove that the Indian film industry is equal to Hollywood. He decided to push the story forward by focusing on the son of the previous films's protagonist, who would inherit his father's special abilities. The story combined elements of Indian mythology (the main character's name Krishna alludes to the Hindu Lord Krishna), Chinese martial arts and Hollywood films to set itself up as a film of global significance.\n\nRakesh Roshan wanted \"Krrish\" to be a trendsetter in Indian cinema, with visual effects on par with Hollywood films. He hired Hollywood special effects experts Marc Kolbe and Craig Mumma, who had both previously worked on such films as \"Independence Day\", \"Godzilla\" and \"Sky Captain\", to help create the visual effects for the film. Roshan also hired Hong Kong action director Tony Ching after admiring his work in \"Hero\". Before production began, Hrithik Roshan went to China to train with Ching for the cable work that would be needed to make his character \"fly\". A story board of the film was prepared and sent to Ching to help him develop the action sequences.\n\nAdditional production credits include: Farah Khan – dance choreographer, Samir Chanda and Sham Kaushal – art directors, Baylon Fonesca and Nakul Kamte – sound, Nahush Pise – makeup artist, Sham Kaushal – assistant action director.\n\n\"Krrish\" was the first Indian film to be shot in Singapore under the Singapore Tourism Board's Film-in-Singapore subsidy scheme, and over 60% of the film was shot there. Shooting was accomplished on location over a span of two months, from September to November 2005. Locations featured included the Singapore Zoo, the Gateway building, and the Singapore National Library. Another major filming location was Robinson Road, where heavy rains caused production delays. The Singapore police were on location to block roads and protect the filming equipment, such as when the film's action scenes required two 250-foot high industrial cranes. Author Audrey Yue noted that the film shoot benefited Singapore by leading to domestic and Indian film-induced tourism.\n\nFilming also took place in Manali and Film City in Mumbai. During filming of a flying stunt, one of the wires that was tied to Hrithik Roshan broke, causing him to fall 50 feet, though he landed safely on a shop's canopy. Hrithik described the incident as a \"freak accident\", stating, \"I was skydiving to my death till I fell on a six-feet-long canopy of a shop that was out because of the slight drizzle. The canopy had iron rods. But I missed those rods too. What do I say? I guess the right word to describe the situation would be \"jadoo\" (magic).\" Roshan also suffered other injuries during the film's production. He tore the hamstring in his right leg during a circus scene, singed his hair while running through fire in another action scene, and broke his thumb and toe during strenuous training for the wirework.\n\nIndian firm Prasad EFX assigned a team of more than 100 VFX specialists to work with Marc Kolbe and Craig Mumma to create the visual effects for the film. Included were sophisticated 3D modelling and computer animation, including whole body scans, 3D replicas of vehicles, fire sequences, complicated wire removals and compositing work. They prepared over 1,200 VFX shots, accounting for approximately 90 minutes of screen time. Describing the effects, Rakesh Roshan stated, \"If you liked the visual effects in \"Koi... Mil Gaya\", you will find them far better in \"Krrish\". I do not think audiences have seen anything like this in Hindi films.\"\n\nThe film's soundtrack, composed by Rajesh Roshan, was released on 30 April 2006 by T-Series. Lyricists included Ibraheem Ashk, Nasir Faraaz, and Vijay Akela. Salim-Sulaiman provided the background score. It became the seventh best selling Bollywood soundtrack of the year.\nCritical reviews of the soundtrack were generally favourable, though some in the media called it a disappointment. Joginder Tuteja of Bollywood Hungama gave the album a rating of 3.5 out of 5 stars, saying that it was \"another good outing for Bollywood music lovers.\" He especially praised the songs \"Chori Chori\", \"Koi Tumsa Nahi\", and \"Pyaar Ki Ek Kahani.\" Sukanya Verma of Rediff gave a favourable review for the soundtracks's \"catchy\" songs. However, she felt that while the songs meshed with the film, \"none of them bear the staying power of Rajesh Roshan's earlier soundtracks.\" Shruti Bhasin of Planet Bollywood enjoyed the original songs, giving 8.5 out of 10 stars, but was disappointed with the remixes. Dr Mandar V. Bichu of Gulf News said that it did not live up to the pre-release expectations.\n\nThe final budget of \"Krrish\" came to , which at the time was considered big-budget film by Bollywood standards. The film was released on 23 June 2006 with 1,000 prints, and in five languages simultaneously. It was the first Indian film to receive payments in advance for product placement, music, and international distribution rights. There was also related merchandise offered for sale prior to the film's release to maximize profits. These included action figures, masks and other toys. The film's DVD was released in Region 1 on 18 August 2006, by Adlabs. On 21 August 2006, it was released for all regions by Filmkraft. Adlabs also released a Blu-ray version. After the success of \"Krrish\", Rakesh Roshan announced that he would be making a sequel, tentatively titled \"Krrish 3\". He confirmed that Hrithik Roshan and Priyanka Chopra would reprise their roles, and that the main antagonist would be played by Vivek Oberoi.\n\n\"Krrish\" received mixed reviews from critics in India. Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama believed that the film surpassed expectations, but felt that there were issues with pacing in first hour. Overall, he deemed \"Krrish\" to be \"a terrifically exciting and compelling experience\", and awarded the film 4.5 of 5 stars. Nikhat Kazmi noted in \"The Times of India\" that while the superhero and action sequences were appealing, there were not enough of them. He was also not excited by the romantic parts, comparing them to a sightseeing tour, first in India and then in Singapore. He said that overall, this film lacks the fun of its predecessor. On the other hand, Raja Sen said that \"Krrish\" was infinitely better than \"KMG\", though ultimately it was all about Hrithik Roshan. Sen and Sukanya Verma, writing for Rediff, both gave the film 3 out of 5 stars, and both said that it was a good film for children. Sen summarised \"So, is it a good superhero movie? No, but it's well-intentioned. It's a full-on kiddie movie, and while a lot of us might be scornful of \"Krrish\", it's heartening to see fantasy officially entering mainstream Bollywood.\" Verma agreed with other critics that it took too long for the action to get started, and said that a lot of attention was spent showing off Roshan's muscles. He summarised, \"\"Krrish\" neither has the sleek aura nor the deep-rooted ideology of superheroes. What it does have is a super spirited performance from Hrithik Roshan, which is likely to appeal to children. And that's worth a three-star cheer.\" Saibal Chatterjee wrote in the \"Hindustan Times\" that \"Krrish\" is a hackneyed, formulaic masala film, with special effects added on top, and hoped that this would not be the future of Bollywood. Rajeev Masand of CNN-IBN condemned the screenplay and thought that the only thing that made the film watchable was the acting of Hrithik Roshan. He gave the film only 2 out of 5 stars, saying \"\"Krrish\" is only an average film that could have been so much better if the makers had concentrated as hard on its story as they did on its action and stunts.\"\n\nOverseas reviews were consistently positive. The Rotten Tomatoes aggregate rating is 88% \"Fresh\", based on 8 reviews, with an average rating of 7 out of 10. Richard James Havis of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" stated, \"This Bollywood epic crunches together romance, comedy, extraterrestrials, martial arts, dancing and action to tell an entertaining story about a reluctant Indian superhero\" but said it may be \"far too crazed for foreign viewers\". David Chute of \"LA Weekly\" deemed it a \"hearty pulp cinema that really sticks to your ribs\". Likewise, Laura Kern of \"The New York Times\" said it was a blend of carefree romance, show-stopping action and sci-fi. Ronnie Scheib of \"Variety\" said that it was an \"enjoyable, daffily improbable escapist romp\". He praised the action sequences as ingeniously choreographed, but very family-friendly. Though Jaspreet Pandohar of BBC was critical of the script for being \"low on originality\", he praised Hrithik Roshan's performance and the action scenes. Dr. P.V. Vaidyanathan, in a review for BBC Shropshire, said that the film's excellent special effects were as good as the best from Hollywood, praised Hritik's acting, but called the music mundane.\n\n\"Krrish\" had a good opening week, and tickets were reportedly selling for many times the original cost at some locations. Total gross collections were an Indian record of ( nett) for its opening week. \"Krrish\" became the second-highest-grossing film of 2006, earning over 690 million nett in India alone, and was classified as a \"Blockbuster\" by Box Office India. It also grossed $4,320,000 in the overseas market, where it was declared a \"hit\". The final worldwide total gross was . One week after \"Krrish\" was released, another superhero film, \"Superman Returns\" was released in India. Rakesh Roshan stated, \"I was a little skeptical that Superman might hurt me, but fortunately it didn't.\" In fact, \"Krrish\" fared better at the box office in India than \"Superman Returns\" did.\n\n\"Krrish\" was one of India's possible nominations for the 2007 Academy Award for Best Foreign Film, but the country ultimately chose \"Rang De Basanti\" as its pick. Despite this, \"Krrish\" won numerous awards, including three Filmfare Awards—Best Special Effects, Best Action and Best Background Score—and was nominated for the awards of Best Film, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Supporting Actress, and Best Villain. At the 2007 IIFA Awards, \"Krrish\" received awards for Best Actor, Best Action, and Best Special Effects. Rakesh Roshan won the Creative Person of the Year title. Additionally the film was nominated in the following categories at the ceremony: Best Director, Best Story, and Best Music Direction.\n\nHrithik Roshan won other acting awards that year, including the Star Screen Award Best Actor, Zee Cine Award for Best Actor – Male, BFJA – Best Actor Award (Hindi) and GIFA Best Actor. The film's special effects won the National Film Award for Best Special Effects. The film also took Best Picture honours at the Matri Shree Media Awards.\n\nIn a showing of the film's popularity with children, \"Krrish\" swept the major film categories at the Pogo Amazing Kid's Awards, which are voted on by children across India. Winners were: Hrithik Roshan (Most Amazing Actor — Male), Priyanka Chopra (Most Amazing Actor — Female), \"Krrish\" (Most Amazing Film), Special Effects in \"Krrish\" (Most Amazing Moment in a film).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018547", "title": "Kavasji Jamshedji Petigara", "text": "Kavasji Jamshedji Petigara\n\nKhan Bahadur Kavasji Jamshedji Petigara CIE, OBE, ISO, KPM, JP, IP () (24 November 1877 – 28 March 1941) was the first Indian to become the Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Mumbai Police in 1928. He was in charge of the Crime Branch division and was noted for his intelligence network. A decorated officer, he was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE), Companion of the Indian Empire (CIE) and awarded the King's Police Medal. Petigara was also awarded the Imperial Service Order. He was called by the honorific title \"Khan Bahadur\". He joined the police force as a sub-inspector at the CID (Criminal Investigations Department), and gradually rose through the ranks. In 1928, he was promoted to the Indian Police Service rank, one that very few Indians achieved in those days.\n\nAmong his accomplishments was his role in foiling an attempt by Indian freedom activist Manabendra Nath Roy in toppling the government. Despite being a staunch loyalist of the British Indian government, he was respected by Indian freedom fighters. When Mahatma Gandhi applied for a passport in 1931 to attend the second Round Table Conference in London, Petigara was cited as one of his references. He retired from the police force in 1936.\n\nOn 1940-06-08 a statue of him was erected for the \"valuable services rendered to the city\". The statue is located near Metro Adlabs in South Mumbai. He died on 28 March 1941.\n\nPetigara was born on 24 November 1877 to Jamshedji Nusserwanji Petigara and Dhunbhaiji Bastavalla. He did his schooling in Surat in Gujarat, and later Bombay (now Mumbai). He was married to Avambai, the daughter of Jehangirshaw Ardeshir Taleyarkhan. They had one son. He was also the estate manager of Prince Aly Khan at Aga Khan building in Dalal Street in Mumbai. He died on 28 March 1941 after undergoing an operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018553", "title": "Ling Tan", "text": "Ling Tan\n\nTan Mang Ling (born 9 October 1974 in Kuala Lumpur), usually credited as Ling Tan, is a Malaysian model of Chinese descent, based in New York City. The first supermodel from Southeast Asia, she participated in hundreds of fashion shows and has been captured by top fashion photographers such as Richard Avedon, who photographed Tan for the Pirelli Calendar in 1997.\n\nTan was born and raised in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and is of Chinese ancestry. She has a younger sister who is also a model. Her father was a taxi driver and her mother a seamstress. She was educated in a Chinese school and speaks four varieties of Chinese as well as Malay and English. Tan also studied art and design before beginning her career as a model.\n\nHer career started when she participated in a local competition, the Asian Model Search contest, in Malaysia, where she won first place in the Malaysian section. She then went on to become the first runner up in the international finals of the Asian Model Search contest in 1994.\n\nHer first big break came when she was discovered at a small fashion show while waiting for a friend in a hotel lobby, by an advertising executive. Tan then appeared in an ad campaign for Tiger Beer. These commercials propelled Tan to success and she became the hottest model in Malaysia. European and American designers showing their collections in Malaysia were impressed with Tan’s talent and encouraged her to move to New York City.\n\nTan has been seen in hundreds of shows in New York, London, Milan, Rome and Paris. According to Fashion Model Directory, she appeared in over 30 shows in Fall 1997/Winter 1998 and Spring/Summer 1998.\n\nTan's first catwalk show was Zang Toi's Spring/ Summer 1995 show in November 1994. Tan has worked with many top designers, including Giambattista Valli, Elie Saab, Karl Lagerfeld, Yves Saint Laurent, Tom Ford, Emporio Armani, Donna Karan, and Chanel. She has also been photographed by leading fashion photographers including Irving Penn, Mario Testino, Peter Lindbergh, and Richard Avedon, who photographed Tan for the Pirelli calendar in 1997.\n\nTan has appeared on the covers and editorial pages of top fashion magazines. She was the subject of a twelve-page feature story in the prestigious \"Italian Vogue\" and a spread in \"Vogue US\" and \"Vogue China\". She also appeared on the covers of \"Vogue Germany\" in November 1998, \"Vogue Korea\" in April 1999 and now defunct \"Vogue Singapore\" in 1996. She appeared in \"Prestige Magazines\" Malaysian edition alongside Malaysian shoe designer, Jimmy Choo.\n\nTan has appeared in advertising campaigns, such as Ann Taylor’s 50th Anniversary “50 Women”, Banana Republic online ad campaign in Spring 2009, Bergdorf Goodman, Bloomingdale's Holiday ad campaign in 2007, Old Navy Perfect Summer Ad in Summer 2008, and Yves Saint Laurent. Tan has worked on the small screen, appearing in television commercials for Emporio Armani fragrances, FORD Car, La Poste (France’s postal service) and Pantene Hair Color. She was also featured in George Michael’s music video for his hit song \"Fast Love\".\n\nShe has been the subject of a biography featured on CNN’s Style Network with Elsa Klensch, and has appeared on the HBO series, Sex and The City and the CBS series, Blue Bloods.\n\nAfter a long hiatus from the runway, Tan walked for the Givenchy Fall/Winter 2010 show in Paris and did a video for Polo Ralph Lauren for the Fall 2010 campaign. In 2011, Tan along with Yasmin Warsame, Elsa Benítez, and Jacquetta Wheeler, was the face of L'Oreal Code Breaker Winter 2010 and Spring 2011 campaign. Ling Tan and her younger sister, Ein Tan, appeared together on the covers of Harper's Bazaar Malaysia and Harper's Bazaar Singapore. In 2014, Tan appeared as special guest in the final episode of Asia's Next Top Model Cycle 2 and 3rd episode of Asia's Next Top Model Cycle 5.\n\nTan has signed with The Model CoOp in New York City, and Innovative Artists Talent And Literary Agency, also in New York. She has also signed with Elite Paris, Elite Toronto, Munich Models and UNO Models in Barcelona. She used to be signed with IMG and Wilhelmina Models in New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018569", "title": "Microthread", "text": "Microthread\n\nMicrothreads are functions that may run in parallel to gain increased performance in microprocessors. They provide an execution model that uses a few additional instructions in a conventional processor to break code down into fragments that execute simultaneously. Dependencies are managed by making registers in the microprocessors executing the code synchronising, so one microthread will wait for another to produce data. \n\nThis is a form of dataflow. This model can be applied to an existing instruction set architecture incrementally by providing just five new instructions to implement concurrency controls. A \"set\" of microthreads is a static partition of a basic block into concurrently executing fragments, which execute on a single processor and share a microcontext. An \"iterator\" over a set provides a dynamic and parametric family of microthreads. Iterators capture loop concurrency and can be scheduled to different processors. An iterator over a set is created dynamically and is called a family of microthreads. This is the mechanism that allows the model to generate concurrency, which can be run on multiple processors or functional units. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018572", "title": "Belk", "text": "Belk\n\nBelk, Inc., is an American department store chain founded in 1888 by William Henry Belk in Monroe, North Carolina, with nearly 300 locations in 16 states. Belk stores and Belk.com offer apparel, shoes, accessories, cosmetics, home furnishings and wedding registry.\n\nBelk was founded in 1888 by William Henry Belk in Monroe, North Carolina, outside Charlotte. The store was first called \"New York Racket\" and then \"Belk Brothers\", after Belk made his brother, physician Dr. John Belk, his partner. Belk bought in volume to pass savings on and sold at fixed prices, then a relatively unusual practice.\n\nBy 1909, the company had moved its headquarters to Charlotte and built a huge flagship store on Trade and Tryon Streets in downtown Charlotte, which would remain the company's headquarters until it was closed in 1988 to make way for the construction of what is now Bank of America Corporate Center. The business grew steadily, relying on \"bargain sales\" and advertising to grow the business and increase its influence throughout the South.\n\nBeginning in 1921 with the Leggett Bros. stores of South Boston, Virginia, the Belk company grew by investing in various partnerships with local merchandisers in nearby markets. Belk's growth out of the Southeast was pushed by Earl Jones Sr and the Belk-Jones brand that opened the first Belk west of the Mississippi in 1947. The Jones family and the Belk-Jones brand continued to grow Belk's westward expansion. This complex story is chronicled in a book published by Belk – \"Belk, Inc.: The Company and the Family That Built It\" – about the evolution of the company.\n\nThis structure allowed Belk to expand quickly and permitted local variation, but resulted in a diluted brand identity since most stores were co-branded. By the 1990s, the system had become increasingly untenable: stores were held by over 350 separate legal entities, Belk family members disagreed about whether to maintain or sweep away the structure, and some local partners threatened stability by selling their stakes. For example, the heirs of John G. Parks, majority owners of the Parks-Belk chain, sold their interests to Proffitt's, a competitor. The Belks quickly sold their stake as well, although Belk would later purchase the stores back as part of its later acquisition of the entire Proffitt's chain. When Proffitt's made an offer for the Leggett family's stake, which included 42 stores comprising about 20 percent of Belk's revenue, John and Tom Belk were forced to respond by forming a new company in 1996 that bought the Leggetts out. This move accelerated the slow trend of consolidating the store's ownership under the Belks.\n\nIn 1998, the company formed a new entity (Belk, Inc.) that merged the 112 remaining Belk companies, swapping the existing partners' local interests for shares in the combined entity; for example, the Hudson family in Raleigh received almost 5% of the shares. The same year, Belk made a deal to acquire seven Dillard's locations in exchange for nine of theirs so that each could build on regional strengths. Slowly, Belk eliminated the dual brands, completing the process with a chain-wide Belk rebranding in the fall of 2010.\n\nOn July 5, 2005, Belk completed the purchase of 47 Proffitt's and McRae's department stores from Saks Incorporated, primarily in Tennessee and Mississippi. Belk converted the 39 Proffitt's and McRae's stores to the Belk nameplate on March 8, 2006. Just over a year later, Belk purchased 38 Parisian department stores from Saks on October 2, 2006. Although most Parisian stores were converted to the Belk nameplate since September 12, 2007, some duplicate Parisian stores were closed, as at The Mall at Barnes Crossing in Tupelo, Mississippi, Richland Mall (then known as Midtown at Forest Acres), Columbiana Centre in Columbia, South Carolina, and Citadel Mall in Charleston, South Carolina. Four Parisian stores in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio, plus a store under construction at the time in Michigan, were sold by Belk to The Bon-Ton Stores, Inc. Integrating the larger, more upscale Parisian stores proved a challenge for Belk, and spurred the creation of the company's flagship strategy.\n\nDuring the fourth quarter of 2005, Belk completed the sale of its private-label credit card division, Belk National Bank, to GE MoneyBank. Consumers were issued new Belk credit cards replacing the old ones issued by BNB. All new Belk cards are now issued by GE MoneyBank, now known as Synchrony Bank.\n\nOn October 3, 2010, the \"News & Observer\" reported that Belk planned to update its logo. On October 12 at SouthPark Mall, Belk introduced the new logo, its first since 1967. The chain embarked on a $70 million marketing campaign that replaced the old slogan \"All for You!\" with a new slogan, \"Modern. Southern. Style.\" Sixty stores got new signs in the first phase, with the remainder getting new signs throughout 2011. Advertisements for Belk & Co. jewelry continue to use a variation of the old logo.\n\nOn April 3, 2015, news reports revealed that Belk was exploring \"strategic alternatives,\" including a possible sale of the company.\n\nOn August 24, 2015, Belk announced that it had entered into a definitive merger agreement to be acquired by New York-based private equity firm Sycamore Partners. The acquisition was completed on December 10, 2015.\n\nOn June 29, 2016, Belk announced that effective as of July 5, Lisa Harper, CEO of Hot Topic (which is another Sycamore Partners-owned company), would replace Tim Belk as CEO of Belk. This would be the first time since the founding of the company that a non-Belk family member would head the company.\n\nThe chain operates 293 stores in 16 states, generating $4 billion in sales in 2014. The state of North Carolina leads in the number of Belk stores with 65 stores followed by Georgia and South Carolina with 45 and 35 stores respectively. Its typical store covers 100,000 to 180,000 square feet. 50% of its stores are in regional malls, another 40% in open-air community or retail parks, and 10% in open-air lifestyle centers.\n\nEven as Belk has made its recent acquisitions, the chain has operated limited electronic commerce on its website, and those websites acquired and redirected to Belk.com. Home furnishings such as bedding, small kitchen appliances, crystal, dinnerware, and china have been offered for several years to online shoppers as a part of the chain's online bridal and gift registry. The chain revamped its website and registry on September 15, 2008. Celebrity-branded product lines are another pursuit, including a partnership with actress Kristin Davis for a ladies apparel and accessories collection which debuted in fall 2008 in 125 store locations and online. However, that product line was discontinued in late 2009.\n\nIn December 2010 Belk announced that beginning in 2011 it would become the title sponsor for the former Meineke Car Care Bowl (played in Charlotte), now renamed the Belk Bowl. The sponsorship would continue for three years. The first Belk Bowl drew 58,427 fans in 2011 and the 2013 game drew 48,128. On July 18, 2013, Belk announced a six-year extension of the Belk Bowl's partnership with the Atlantic Coast Conference beginning in 2014. Under the current agreement the bowl will feature teams from the ACC and the Southeastern Conference (SEC). On November 20, 2019, Belk announced it would no longer be the title sponsor for the college bowl game.\n\nThe chain has multiple \"flagship\" locations—larger locations in urban and metropolitan centers, and a wider array of merchandise and services including in-store salons. As of 2014, the chain claimed 18 flagship locations, and plans to upgrade more locations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018587", "title": "The Deptford Mice Almanack", "text": "The Deptford Mice Almanack\n\nThe Deptford Mice Almanack is a book to accompany the \"Deptford Mice\" and Histories Trilogies by Robin Jarvis. It was first published in 1997.\n\nThe almanack is presented as though it were written by Gervase Brightkin, a red squirrel. There are entries for all the days of the year, and every major event in the main novels is given a date. Also, much of the folk lore and elaborate traditions of the mice, bats, squirrels and rats is recorded in the almanack.\n\nThroughout the almanack, Gervase writes of his stay in Greenwich Park during the tenth year of Audrey Scuttle's reign as Starwife. He also travels to Fennywolde and Holeborn to ask William 'Twit' Scuttle and Arthur Brown to tell their stories.\n\nWhile in Fennywolde, Gervase encounters Alison Sedge, the field mouse who was jealous of Audrey in \"The Crystal Prison\". Seemingly driven mad because of the death of her love, Jenkin Nettle, she solemnly warns that Audrey will not be the Starwife for much longer and will know great loss.\n\nAt the end of the year, the Great Oak (in which the rat god Hobb was imprisoned by Ysabelle in \"The Oaken Throne\") falls down because of heavy winds, and many of the grey squirrels in the park begin to whisper that it was Audrey's fault because she is not a squirrel but merely a mouse.\n\nWhen the black squirrels Morella and her father Modequai arrive in Greenwich, they and the grey squirrels plot against Audrey, and finally storm into her chamber and oust her from office. Then they give the silver acorn to Morella and she takes the title of Starwife. Strangely enough, she bears a resemblance to Alison Sedge.\n\nThe almanack ends on this ominous note, opening up the possibility of a new Deptford Mice novel.\n"}
{"id": "2018588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018588", "title": "Queensland Health", "text": "Queensland Health\n\nQueensland Health is a department of the Government of Queensland which operates and administers the state's public health system. The Minister for Health and Ambulance Services Hon Dr Steven Miles is responsible for the department, which consists of the Department of Health and 16 Hospital and Health Services. Queensland Health had 83,700 employees and a budget of $18.3 billion (2018–2019).\n\nIn 1946 Queensland was the first state in Australia to introduce free and universal public hospital treatment, a policy later adopted by some other states. Since 1975, Australian citizens, residents and visitors may be eligible to be reimbursed for receiving health care in public hospitals across Australia, initially through the Medibank scheme, and later the Medicare scheme.\n\nQueensland Health was restructured toward the end of 2005 from 38 \"health districts\" to 20. There were a number consolidations particularly in the urban areas with the formation of the \"Northside\" and \"Southside\" Districts. Northside District included three major hospital facilities including The Prince Charles Hospital, Redcliffe and Caboolture Hospitals while Southside brought the Logan, Redlands, Beaudesert and Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Hospitals together. Due to their size and areas they covered, the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital (RBWH) on the Northside, and the Princess Alexandra Hospital or regional centre on the Southside remained independent entities or Districts in their own right.\n\nFrom September 2008 the 20 health service districts were further reduced to 15. According to a Queensland Health media release, nine districts remain unchanged. They are: Central Queensland, Townsville, Mackay, Cairns, Torres Strait, Cape York, Mount Isa, Central West and South West Districts.\nSix new districts were created. They are:\n\nIn response to the Forster Review of Queensland Health Systems an independent Health Quality and Complaints Commission was established on 1 July 2006 to allow patients to lodge complaints about health matters.\n\nThe (full-time) Commissioner is Professor Michael Ward, a former Professor of Medicine at the University of Queensland. There are also a number of part-time Assistant Commissioners. \nThe Health Quality and Complaints Commission also has a role in the development and implementation of quality, safety and clinical practice standards throughout Queensland's public and private services and monitor best practice clinical governance and patient safety.\n\nIt was subject to review by an all-party Parliamentary Committee after its first full year of operation.\n\nThe HQCC has since been replaced by the Office of the Health Ombudsman.\n\nThe Queensland Health Payroll System Commission of Inquiry (QHPSCI) was established by order of the Governor in Council on 13 December 2012. The Honourable Richard Chesterman AO RFD QC commenced the Inquiry on 1 February 2013. In his remarks at the directions hearing, Commissioner Chesterman explained the purpose of the inquiry \"is to determine why such large amounts of money have been lost to the public, whether anything might be recovered; and why such distress was inflicted on the Queensland Health workforce.\"\nQHPSCI's public hearings began on Monday 11 March 2013 with phase one focusing on the \"Tender Process\". The second phase, examining the 'Contract' with IBM, commenced on 22 April 2013. The third and final phase, \"Settlement\", began on Monday 27 May 2013. The former Premier and two ex-ministers were called to give evidence during this phase. A special hearing was held on the 18 June 2013 to deal with late information submitted to the Commission. The QHPSCI will present its findings to the Premier on 31 July 2013.\n\nFormer Premier Anna Bligh announced on 12 December 2011 that the department would be dismantled. The decision was attributed to an \"unacceptable culture\", the theft of $16 million from the department and problems with the payroll system which has cost hundreds of millions of dollars. The department was due to cease operations on 1 July 2012.\n\nIn January 2012, more details of the reform plan were announced, with an emphasis on health care management to be done locally. Bligh described the changes as the biggest decentralisation of the public sector in the state's history. In March 2012, the ALP lost power in Queensland and the proposed abolition of Queensland Health did not eventuate.\n\nFollowing Queensland's agreement to participate in National Health Care Reform in 2011, an Australian Health Care Agreement was signed that required the creation of local hospital networks that would be directly funded by the Commonwealth. In May 2012 legislation was introduced by the Honourable Lawrence Springbourg MP to formalise the conversion of the health districts created in the 2005 restructure to independent local Hospital and Health Services (HHSs). Under the new arrangements the HHSs each have their own board to manage and oversee the operations of the HHS. The boards are accountable to the Minister for Health, and a \"system manager\" was established to provide oversight and support to each of the services. These changes became effective on 1 July 2012.\n\nQueensland Health consists of the Department of Health and 16 Health and Hospital Services (HHSs).\n\nThe Health and Hospital Services are independent statutory bodies which are responsible for delivering public health services in their areas. Each HHS is governed by a Hospital and Health Board and managed by a Health Service Chief Executive. There are 16 HHSs:\n\nQueensland Health and the Bundaberg Base Hospital were involved in a scandal surrounding the employment of surgeon Jayant Patel. The Queensland Medical Board approved his registration and he was then quickly promoted to Director of Surgery even though he lacked specific qualifications.\n\nIn March 2005, Rob Messenger raised concerns with Patel's medical practices in the Queensland Parliament after he was contacted by senior hospital nurse Toni Hoffman. Hoffman received the Order of Australia medal and 2006 Australian of the Year Local Hero Award for her role as a whistleblower.\n\nAn inquiry into the matter known as the Morris Inquiry was started but was terminated on the grounds of perceived bias. A second inquiry known as the Davies Inquiry found that the Queensland Health district manager and the hospital's Director of Medical Services had mostly ignored more than 20 complaints regarding Patel.\n\nOn 1 July 2010, Patel was sentenced to seven years' jail after he was found guilty of three charges of manslaughter and one count of grievous bodily harm.\n\nIn April 2010, it was revealed that many Queensland Health staff were experiencing incorrect payment of wages since the introduction of a new payroll system. The WorkBrain/SAP was a new system which replaced the LATTICE system. It went live in March 2010, without adequate testing and despite warnings from SAP and IBM.\n\nThe problem was not resolved by May, with 35,000 wage anomalies to be fixed, but some progress had been made. The State was advised that it could sue IBM for damages totaling $88M. On 23 November 2010, the Queensland government announced that a negotiated settlement with IBM will spend $209 million over three years to resolve payroll problems.\n\nThe system is very labor-intensive and requires ten times the staff as other systems. It is estimated to cost $1.2B before 2018 when it is recommended to be replaced. According to the 2013 Commission of Inquiry, \"the QH payroll system must take a place in the front rank of failures in public administration in this country\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018605", "title": "Ning Baizura", "text": "Ning Baizura\n\nNing Baizura binti Sheikh Hamzah (born 28 June 1975), better known by her stage name Ning Baizura, is a Malaysian pop and R&B singer, who sings in Malay, English, Japanese, Italian, French, Mandarin and Cantonese.\n\nShe was born in Kajang, Malaysia from parents of Arab, Malay, Dutch and Javanese ancestry. She is an alumnus of Convent Kajang Secondary School.\n\nNing crossed into the commercial scene in 1992 and became a recording artiste under various international labels, including (Sony, BMG, AMS Records Japan and Warner Music Group. From September 2008, she has recorded songs in the genres of pop, soul and R&B for her own music label, HappeNings Records. Her discography includes ten full studio albums (three of which are full English albums), as well as numerous compilations. Ning has also won various music industry awards and prizes, and has performed in the UK, Italy, France, China, Indonesia, Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Pakistan, Monte Carlo, Monaco, Switzerland and the United States.\n\nNing is best known for her live stage performances. She is an actress and has had roles in musicals, ten major films, short films and several tele-movies. Most significant of her roles is her critically acclaimed performance in the short film 'Malaikat Di Jendela' (Angel by My Window), directed by Osman Ali. She played a role of a midwife ostracised from her village because her husband had died of HIV. This film was entered into several film festivals in Cannes, Rotterdam and Singapore.\n\nIn 2006, Ning set up her own recording company, Artiste United Records (AUR). Her stable of artistes are her protégés, Nicolette Palikat or 'Nikki' from Malaysian Idol Season 1) and Siti Surianie Julkarim (Yanie) (from Mentor Season 1), as well as Ahmad Nubhan Ahamad (Nubhan) from Akademi Fantasia, Season 6. Meanwhile, her latest English album 'EastToWest' was released in Malaysia on 10 March 2008.\n\nShe worked with Yasmin Ahmad in the controversial movie Muallaf (The Convert). It won several international awards in Europe including The Berlin Film Fest and Singapore Film Fest.\nRestaurant closure of Tudung Periuk after 3 months operation.\n\nLaunched fashion label Romyda.\n\nNing Baizura is married to Omar Sharif Christopher Layton Dalton. He is the director of Asia Pacific consultant at Landmark Graphics Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. They were married at Masjid Abu Bakr Al-Siddiq, Bangsar, on January 31, 2008. The marriage was solemnised by Ning's father, Sheikh Hamza Sheikh Mohamed. About 100 people attended the ceremony, including Ning's mother; Satilah Abdullah, Omar's parents; Maureen and Colin Dalton, Omar's adoptive mother; Datin Sri Farida Hashim and her husband, Datuk Seri Dr. Ibrahim Saad, Omar's brother; Mark Dalton, fellow artists and media reporters.\nThe bersanding (reception) was attended by 5,000 people at martrade exhibition centre.\n\nNing's husband, Omar, has two children from a previous marriage. The couple has a son, Ryan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018613", "title": "Proffitt's", "text": "Proffitt's\n\nProffitt's was a department store chain based in Alcoa, Tennessee. On March 8, 2006, the Proffitt's and McRae's stores were converted into Belk stores. Belk acquired the two chains in July 2005 from Saks, Inc.\n\nJeweler David W. Proffitt and James Ellis founded the Ellis-Proffitt Co. on Main Street in downtown Maryville, Tennessee, in 1919. The first store had seven departments: ladies ready-to-wear, ladies accessories, millinery, men's shoes, dry goods, and bargain basement. Ellis sold his share of the company to Proffitt in 1921 due to illness. The company expanded by opening its second store in Athens, Tennessee in 1936. In the 1960s, the Maryville store moved from downtown to Midland Plaza in Alcoa.\n\nIn 1982 the store relocated again to Foothills Mall in Maryville where two stores remained until the Belk acquisition, one for Women and the other for Men, Kids, and Home. A warehouse and distribution center opened in Maryville in 1970. A location in Knoxville opened in 1972 in West Town Mall with an Oak Ridge store following in 1974. A second Knoxville store was added in 1984 at East Towne Mall (now Knoxville Center). In 1984, the company had four stores and annual sales of $40 million.\n\nFor the first 65 years of its existence, the company was a family-owned business, but in 1984 it was acquired by RBM Acquisition Co., led by R. Brad Martin.\n\nProffitt's Inc. went public on July 3, 1987 on the NASDAQ market under the symbol PRFT. The West Town Mall location in Knoxville was expanded to later that year making it the largest store in the chain. Proffitt's purchased the Chattanooga based Loveman's Department Store in 1986, adding four Chattanooga stores and one in Dalton, Georgia, its first location outside of Tennessee.\n\nIn 1989, a new store opened in Biltmore Square Mall in Asheville, North Carolina, bringing the total stores to eleven. The years 1992 and 1993 saw a number of acquisitions, making Proffitt's one of the fastest growing retailers in the US. During that time, the company purchased 18 Hess's locations in Tennessee, Virginia, Kentucky, and Georgia. Some of these locations were formerly Miller's of Tennessee stores. This added new stores in Rome, Georgia; Elizabethtown and Ashland, Kentucky; Bristol, Virginia; and Kingsport and Johnson City, Tennessee. In fall 1992, shortly before the Hess's purchase was completed, a new Proffitt's store opened in The Mall at Johnson City in the company's entry into the Tri-Cities market. The Hess's purchase led to a dual-store format in the mall, similar to the one in the Foothills Mall in Maryville. In Johnson City, once the Hess's store was vacated and renovated, the Men's and Home Stores were moved to that building, leaving Women's and Children's in the newly constructed Proffitt's building.\n\nProffitt's purchased the Jackson, Mississippi based McRae's chain in 1994. The McRae's stores, unlike the previous acquisitions, continued to operate under their nameplate and operational division. In 1995, Proffitt's purchased Parks-Belk, an independently owned affiliate of Charlotte, North Carolina based Belk, Inc. This purchase gave Proffitt's a presence for the first time in Greeneville, Tennessee, and gave the company an additional store in each mall in Kingsport and Johnson City. A Parks-Belk location in Morristown, Tennessee was part of the deal, but the store was closed instead of being converted to a Proffitt's. The Johnson City Proffitt's was already operating under the dual-location concept and this gave the company three stores in the same mall. The former Hess's store (now home to Forever 21, formerly Goody's Family Clothing) which housed the Men's and Home Store was vacated and relocated to the former Belk site along with the Children's department. This move created the largest Proffitt's Men's Store in the company and allowed the Women's department its own store. The former Hess store in the Fort Henry Mall in Kingsport was transformed into the largest Proffitt's Home Store, with all other departments remaining in the former Parks-Belk location. Proffitt's would later open stores in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Morgantown and Parkersburg, WV, and they would eventually build a new store at College Square Mall in Morristown, Tennessee.\n\nBirmingham, Alabama, based Parisian and Younkers of Des Moines, Iowa, were both acquired in 1996 and retained their names and operating units. Herberger's was purchased in 1997 and kept its nameplate. In the same year the company moved from the NASDAQ to the New York Stock Exchange and began trading under the PFT symbol. The company purchased the Carson Pirie Scott chain in 1998 which also consisted of Boston Store and Bergner's and they continued to operate those stores under their respective names. Later in 1998, the company purchased North Carolina based Brody's and those stores were converted to the Proffitt's name. 1998 also saw Proffitt's acquire a group of 15 stores from Dillard's after its buyout of Mercantile Stores. Five former Castner Knott store in Nashville, Tennessee were renamed Proffitt's, but sold in 2001 to May Department Stores (operated as Hecht's until 2006, now Macy's) after proving marginally profitable under Proffitt's management. The former Brody's stores were sold to Belk in 2004. Also, in 2004, Proffitt's opened a store in Alabama at the Riverchase Galleria in the Birmingham suburb of Hoover in the location vacated by Macy's which now houses a Von Maur store. The Carson Pirie Scott, Bergner's, Boston Store, Herberger's, and Younkers names were eventually sold to Bon-Ton Stores on March 6, 2006.\n\nLate 1998 would see the biggest name change when Proffitt's purchased Saks Holdings Inc, the holding company for luxury retailer Saks Fifth Avenue. Upon closing of the acquisition the company name changed to Saks, Inc. and its NYSE ticker symbol changed to SKS.\n\nThe McRae's operations would ultimately be consolidated into the Proffitt's division's Alcoa, Tennessee, based offices. They would however, continue to operate under the McRae's name. The year 2005 would signal the end of the Proffitt's and McRae's names with the purchase of those stores by Belk. On March 8, 2006, all McRae's and Proffitt's stores were converted into Belk stores. The conversion ended two of the most well-known retailing names in the southern United States. The only exceptions were two Alabama McRae's stores in Tuscaloosa and Gadsden, which were retained to convert into Parisian locations. On October 2, 2006, the Parisian unit was sold to Belk and these two locations downgraded to Belk stores almost a year after the purchase.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018616", "title": "McRae's", "text": "McRae's\n\nMcRae's was a mid-range regional department store chain founded and based in Jackson, Mississippi, with locations in Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, and Florida. The nameplate was in existence for more than a century.\n\nSamuel P. McRae founded the store in Jackson, Mississippi in 1902 as a dry goods store. It remained a family-owned business through the ensuing decades, while continuing to grow. Sales increased from only $1 million in 1955 to $10 million in 1970. The first location outside Mississippi opened in University Mall (now University Town Plaza) in Pensacola, Florida in 1974. In 1987, McRae's acquired 13 stores in Alabama from Pizitz. With strengths in home furnishings, men's apparel, and cosmetics, the chain was considered one of the most successful family-owned businesses in the country.\n\nMcRae's was acquired by Tennessee-based Proffitt's in 1994 in a transaction that \"The New York Times\" called \"a case of a little fish swallowing a bigger one.\" McRae's had 28 stores with combined annual sales of $419 million and Proffitt's had 25 stores with annual sales of only $201 million. After the sale, McRae's stores retained their name and were operated as a separate subsidiary.\n\nProffitt's merged with Saks Holdings, owner of Saks Fifth Avenue, in 1998. The merged company changed its name to Saks Incorporated. Proffitt's and McRae's became part of Saks Incorporated's Southern Department Store Group.\n\nFoley's acquired one McRae's in Louisiana at The Mall at Cortana.\nAs Saks sought repositioning as a more luxury retail-oriented operation, its mid-range chains became targets for sale. McRae's and Proffitt's were among the first to be sold. Charlotte-based Belk, the nation's largest privately owned department store chain, bought Proffitt's/McRae's in a deal that closed in July 2005.\n\nOn March 8, 2006, most McRae's stores were converted into Belk stores, with three stores excluded. Locations in Tuscaloosa and Gadsden, Alabama were retained by Saks to convert to its Parisian chain, though both stores eventually would be among the Parisian locations also sold to Belk. In addition, the Mall of Louisiana store in Baton Rouge became a Dillard's location.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018618", "title": "First Earth Battalion", "text": "First Earth Battalion\n\nThe First Earth Battalion was the name proposed by Lieutenant Colonel Jim Channon, a U.S. soldier who had served in Vietnam, for his idea of a new military of supersoldiers to be organized along New Age lines. A book of the same name was published in 1982.\n\nAccording to the book \"The Men Who Stare at Goats\" by journalist Jon Ronson, Channon spent time in the 1970s with many of the people in California credited with starting the Human Potential Movement, and subsequently wrote an operations manual for a First Earth Battalion. The manual was a 125-page mixture of drawings, graphs, maps, polemical essays, and point-by-point redesigns of every aspect of military life. Channon imagined a new battlefield uniform that would include pouches for ginseng regulators, divining tools, food stuffs to enhance night vision, and a loudspeaker that would automatically emit \"indigenous music and words of peace.\" A movie based on the book—released in Autumn 2009—starring George Clooney, Ewan McGregor, Jeff Bridges and Kevin Spacey, fictionalized the First Earth Battalion as the \"New Earth Army\".\n\nChannon believed the Army could be the principal moral and ethical basis on which politics could harmonize in the name of the Earth. He declared that the First Earth Battalion's primary allegiance was to the planet earth. Channon envisioned that the First Earth Battalion would organize itself informally: uniforms without uniformity, structure without status, and unity powered by diversity, and members would be multicultural, with each race contributing to \"rainbow power\". He also proposed as a guiding principle that members of the First Earth Battalion seek nondestructive methods of conflict resolution because their first loyalty is to the planet.\n\nChannon adopted the term \"warrior monk\" for potential members of the First Earth Battalion.\n\nAccording to the book \"Mind Wars\" by Ronald McRae, each member of the First Earth Battalion would be sworn to uphold a credo of \"high commandos and guerrilla gurus\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018623", "title": "The White Company", "text": "The White Company\n\nThe White Company is a historical adventure by British writer Arthur Conan Doyle, set during the Hundred Years' War. The story is set in England, France, and Spain, in the years 1366 and 1367, against the background of the campaign of Edward, the Black Prince, to restore Peter of Castile to the throne of the Kingdom of Castile. The climax of the book occurs before the Battle of Nájera. Doyle became inspired to write the novel after attending a lecture on the Middle Ages in 1889. After extensive research, \"The White Company\" was published in serialized form in 1891 in \"Cornhill Magazine\". Additionally, the book is considered a companion to Doyle's later work \"Sir Nigel\", which explores the early campaigns of Sir Nigel Loring and Samkin Aylward.\n\nThe novel is relatively unknown today, though it was very popular up through the Second World War. In fact, Doyle himself regarded this and his other historical novels more highly than the Sherlock Holmes adventures for which he is mainly remembered.\n\nThe \"White Company\" of the title is a free company of archers, led by one of the main characters. The name is taken from a real-life 14th-century Italian mercenary company, led by John Hawkwood.\n\nAt the age of twenty, young Alleyne, son of Edric, leaves the Catholic abbey where he has been raised—intelligent, skilled, and well-liked, though sheltered and naive—and goes out to see the world, in accordance with the terms of his father's will. The same day, the abbot banishes John of Hordle for worldly behavior: great appetite, teasing, and flirting. They meet at the Pied Merlin inn as they each rest for the night. There, they make friends with veteran archer Sam Aylward who has returned to England from France to recruit for the White Company of mercenaries. Aylward has brought a request for Sir Nigel Loring of Christchurch to take command of the company. Aylward and John continue to Christchurch, while Alleyne detours to visit his older brother, the socman or landlord of Minstead, whose fierce reputation has grown to wickedness.\n\nThe brothers meet for the first time since Alleyne was an infant and Alleyne finds that his brother is still furious their father gave three hides of land (80–120 acres) to the monastery for the boy's support. The socman threatens a lovely maiden, Maude, who escapes with Alleyne's aid and they flee on foot to find her horse. Maude makes a striking impression on the abbey-raised young man. When she hears that Alleyne intends to rejoin his friends to approach Sir Nigel Loring, Maude laughs and leaves him. Alleyne meets up again with Aylward and Hordle John, and the three friends meet Sir Nigel and his formidable wife Mary. There, he learns that Maude is Sir Nigel's daughter. Alleyne is taken on as squire to Sir Nigel and as tutor to Maude. When the men eventually depart for France, the young couple admit their love, but only to each other. En route to Gascony, our heroes destroy pirates, then report to the court of the Prince of Wales in Bordeaux.\n\nAfter adventures fearful and funny, the valiant fighters lead the White Company to join the Prince. A letter arrives to Sir Nigel declaring that Alleyne's brother, the Socman of Minstead, had attacked Sir Nigel's castle. During the siege, the socman died. This news means that Alleyne is the new socman and emboldens him to declare his love for Maude to Sir Nigel. Sir Nigel is startled by the news and Alleyne's declaration, but indicates that he prefers that Alleyne should be a full knight before he approaches Maude again with talk of love. The Spanish and French attack them in a narrow ravine, where the mighty warriors are almost all destroyed and the Company must disband -- only seven bowmen remain, including John. Alleyne was badly wounded when Sir Nigel sent him to alert the Prince to their plight. Sir Nigel and Aylward are missing and presumed dead. The English go on to win the Battle of Nájera, fulfilling the mission. The Prince knights Alleyne in his sick bed. Alleyne returns to England victorious with John as his squire, only to learn from a lady on the road that Maude and her mother had news that none of the White Company had survived. The lady said that love of a \"golden-haired squire\", who was presumed dead with the fighters, had caused Maude to decide to join a nunnery. The lady had left just before Maude was to take the veil. Alleyne rushes to the doors of the nunnery and he and Maude embrace. They marry. Alleyn and John prepare to return to find out what happened to Sir Nigel and Aylward. As Alleyne rides to see if the boat is ready to take them, he meets Aylward and Sir Nigel. They have a tale of adventure describing what occurred after they were captured by the Spanish, but eventually escaped to return to England. And everyone lives happily ever after.\n\n\n\n\nThere was a real knight named Sir Nigel Loring at the time when the novel is set, but the historical record supplied few details and his role in the book is largely Doyle's invention. He is known to have been an original member of the Order of the Garter, and to have been in the Black Prince's bodyguard, particularly at the Battle of Poitiers on 19 September 1356. He was also a member of the Prince's war council and his chamberlain, and was part of the delegation that negotiated a truce at Bordeaux. As a reward for his role in that battle, he was granted 83 pounds per annum by the Prince.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018635", "title": "Music as a Weapon", "text": "Music as a Weapon\n\nMusic as a Weapon is a series of concert tours created by the American metal band Disturbed. There have been seven editions of the tour, five in North America and two in Australasia. The name of the tour is from the lyrics of \"Droppin' Plates\" on Disturbed's first album, \"The Sickness\".\n\n\n\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see .\"\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see Indestructible Tour.\"\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see Asylum Tour.\"\nThis was the first time Music as a Weapon had co-headliners, Disturbed and Korn.\n\n\"For a list of tour dates, see .\"\n\nMusic as a Weapon II was recorded as a live album and DVD, created by Disturbed. It was recorded at The Aragon in Chicago in 2003, and released in 2004. It contains Disturbed's cover of Metallica's \"Fade to Black\" and the previously unreleased song \"Dehumanized\". The DVD also contains Disturbed's video for their single \"Liberate\". This was Disturbed's last release with bass guitarist Steve Kmak. It was also Ünloco's final release before splitting up.\n"}
{"id": "2018643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018643", "title": "Smuts", "text": "Smuts\n\nSmuts is an Afrikaans surname.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018647", "title": "Dunany", "text": "Dunany\n\nDunany may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018649", "title": "Dick's Sporting Goods", "text": "Dick's Sporting Goods\n\nDick's Sporting Goods, Inc. is an American sporting goods retail company, based in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. The company was established by Richard \"Dick\" Stack in 1948, and has approximately 850 stores and 30,000 employees, as of 2018. Dick's is the nation's largest sporting goods retailer, and is listed on the Fortune 500.\n\nDick's is the largest sporting goods retail company in the United States, with approximately 850 stores, as of 2018. The public company is based in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania, outside Pittsburgh, and has approximately 30,300 employees, as of January 2018. The company's subsidiaries include Field & Stream and Golf Galaxy, and previously, Chelsea Collective and True Runner. In 2017, there were 690 Dick's stores, close to 100 Golf Galaxy locations, and approximately 30 Field & Stream stores. The company launched Team Sports HQ, a collection of digital products, following the acquisitions of Affinity Sports, Blue Sombrero, and GameChanger.\n\nEdward W. Stack serves as chairman and chief executive officer. Lauren Hobart is president of the company and the Dick's Sporting Goods Foundation and Lee Belitsky is chief financial officer, as of 2018.\n\nRichard \"Dick\" Stack started the company as a fishing tackle store in Binghamton, New York, in 1948. He began with a $300 loan from his grandmother, who pulled from her savings, which she kept in a cookie jar.\n\nEdward W. Stack and his siblings purchased Dick's from their father in the early 1980s, when the company had two locations in Upstate New York. Stack established a board of directors, opened additional stores, and relocated the company's headquarters to Pittsburgh in 1994. He became chairman and chief executive officer following his father's retirement in 1984, and led the company during its initial public offering in 2002.\n\nDick's operated primarily throughout the Eastern United States, up to 2009, and has since expanded to the Pacific Northwest and West Coast. There were more than 357 Dick's stores in 38 states, as of mid 2008.\n\nIn 2012, the company opened three True Runner stores targeting runners in Boston, the St. Louis suburb Brentwood, and Pittsburgh's Shadyside neighborhood. The stores closed in early 2017.\n\nDick's launched the women's athleisure, fitness, and lifestyle store Chelsea Collective in 2015, opening two stores in Pittsburgh and Tysons, Virginia, in the Washington, D.C. metro area. The shops closed in 2017.\n\nThe company launched Dick's Team Sports HQ in early 2016, offering youth sports teams websites, uniforms, and sponsorship options.\n\nDick's opened its first Field & Stream store in Cranberry Township, a suburb of Pittsburgh, in 2013. Thirty-five Field & Stream stores are open across the country, as of 2018. Jason Aldean became the Field & Stream brand's first spokesperson in August 2016.\n\nFollowing the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in February 2018, Dick's stopped selling assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, and increased the minimum age for purchasing guns to 21. Dick's-branded stores had suspended assault-style weapon sales following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, but the guns were still available for purchase at Field & Stream locations. Dick's has never carried bump stocks.\n\nThe company currently operates five distribution centers. The most recent, in Conklin in Southern Tier, New York opened in January 2018, and was further expanded to fulfill online sales a few months later.\n\nDick's acquired Galyan's in July 2004. The company agreed to purchase Golf Galaxy for $225 million in November 2006. Dick's confirmed plans to close Golf Galaxy's headquarters in Eden Prairie, Minnesota in mid 2008.\n\nDick's purchased the San Diego-based sports management technology company Affinity Sports for an undisclosed amount in mid 2016. In September, Dick's acquired Sports Authority's brand name and intellectual property. There were 450 Sports Authority locations at the time.\n\nDick's acquired Golfsmith, the largest golf retailer in the United States, at a bankruptcy auction in October 2016. Dick's bid approximately $70 million for all of Golfsmith's intellectual property and inventory. The company planned to retain around 30 of Golfsmith's more than 100 locations, as well as 500 employees. Dick's rebranded 36–38 Golfsmith stores in 16 U.S. states as Golf Galaxy in 2017. This increased the number of Golf Galaxy stores to 98, located in 33 states.\n\n\nThe company signed a 20-year naming rights agreement for Dick's Sporting Goods Park, a soccer-specific stadium for the Colorado Rapids team in Commerce City, Colorado, in 2006. Dick's has sponsored the Pittsburgh Penguins and the team's home arena, PPG Paints Arena (formerly Consol Energy Center).\n\nSporting events sponsored by Dick's have included the Dick's Sporting Goods Open and the Pittsburgh Marathon. Dick's began sponsoring ESPN's college football kickoff week in 2009.\n\nIn 2015, the company sponsored Olympic and Paralympic athletes and hopefuls, and became the \"official sporting goods retailer\" for Team USA for the 2016 Summer Olympics and Paralympics. Dick's and Team USA established the Ambassador Program and Contender's Program in partnership with the United States Olympic Committee, employing Olympians and prospective Olympic athletes. Dick's employed approximately 200 Team USA athletes competing in 35 different Olympic and Paralympic sports, as of March–July 2016. The athletes worked in 89 stores in 32 states.\n\nDick's partnered with Carrie Underwood in 2015 to launch Calia, a fitness lifestyle line.\n\nIn 2014, the Dick's Sporting Goods Foundation committed up to $2 million annually to fund youth sports via its Sports Matter program. More than $50 million has been pledged for youth sports initiatives, benefitting hundreds of thousands of athletes, as of mid 2018. The organization also launched an awareness campaign with Jon Gruden and Michael B. Jordan serving as spokespeople, and worked with director Judd Ehrlich to release \"We Could Be King\", a documentary film about two Philadelphia high school football teams forced to merge due to lack of funding. Following Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma (2017), the foundation donated $2 million to youth sports facilities and program in affected areas, including $120,000 for Houston's reVision soccer team, composed of immigrants from Africa. Dick's later featured the team in a documentary-style advertisement called \"reVision FC: A Holiday Assist\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2018670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018670", "title": "Elahieh", "text": "Elahieh\n\nElahieh (also spelt Elahiyeh; ) is an affluent and upper-class district in northern Tehran. \nThe area is a residential and commercial locale and is filled with the homes and businesses of many politicians, diplomats, expatriates, and artists.\n\nIt is home to Tehran's most expensive real estate as well as the clubhouses of the Russia, Turkey, Germany, Denmark, Switzerland, Belgium, Iceland, Cuba and Finland embassies.\n\nThe most famous part of the district is Fereshteh Street, which has been the most expensive street in Tehran. This is where the newest buildings and many fashionable locales, including top-end shops and chichi cafes, can be found. Fereshteh used to be one of the most quiet, peaceful and greenest part of northern Tehran with vast gardens but has seen significant development and real estate investment after the Islamic revolution, especially during a construction boom in the 1990s, when Gholamhossein Karbaschi and Ghalibaaf served as mayor of Tehran. During this boom, many of the huge gardens and large houses were replaced with the most fashionable high rises which has increased the population of this area significantly. This has caused problems for narrow alleys around this area; the traffic often gets gridlocked on summer nights. \n\nIn the book \"The Ayatollah Begs to Differ\", Hooman Majd says that Elahieh is one of Tehran's \"most fashionable districts\" in Tehran, since this area included big gardens and mansions with eye catching architecture designs. It was perhaps the greenest part of northern Tehran as it was receiving most of mountain waters. The highest part of Elahieh had the most beautiful and scenic garden view in northern Tehran.\n\nElahiyeh is an upper class district in Northern Tehran, actually a part of Shemiran. Before Shemiran was officially incorporated into the city of Tehran, the area consisted of expensive residences and gardens used as summer homes for wealthy residents of Tehran. Today however residential towers and upscale penthouses have replaced them for good and few of those gardens have actually escaped development.\n\nPersian classical musician Esmaiel Mehrtash was living in Koohyar street in Fereshteh Avenue. Esmail Mehrtash, a tar player and musician, established Jame'eh Barbod in 1926, where operettas such as \"Leili & Majnoun\", \"Khosrow & Shirin\" as well as \"Khayyam\" went on stage.\n\nDr. Mahmoud Hessaby (1903–1992) a prominent Iranian scientist, researcher and distinguished professor of University of Tehran also lived in Elahieh on Hessaby Street. He was the receiver of the medal of the commandeur de la Légion d'honneur, France's highest scientific medal in 1957 for his achievements, including his classic paper on \"Continuous particles\" and his model of \"Infinitely extended particles\".\n\nThe house of the former military leader and Cabinet Minister of Iran during Reza Shah Lieutenant General Ahmad Amir-Ahmadi (1884–1974) (now a museum) is in Elahieh on Hessabi Street, and is the newly opened Iranian Art Garden Museum, which is home to some replicas of Iran's best known historical monuments, an art gallery, and a nice outdoor cafe. Sepahbod Ahmad Amir-Ahmadi was the first Iranian lieutenant General in Iran. He was appointed as the minister of interior (1942) and minister of war (1948) during Reza Shah dynasty. He was also appointed a senator to the first senate and held it for sixteen years.\n\nMost of the land in this district once belonged to Mrs. Fakhr ol dowleh, a daughter of Mozaffareddin Shah Qajar, known to be the richest woman in Iran during her life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018671", "title": "District of Columbia War Memorial", "text": "District of Columbia War Memorial\n\nThe District of Columbia War Memorial commemorates the citizens of the District of Columbia who served in World War I. Located on the National Mall, it was constructed in 1931 as a domed, peristyle Doric temple.\n\nThe memorial was built to honor World War I soldiers that died in the war. It stands in West Potomac Park slightly off of Independence Avenue in a grove of trees. Authorized by an act of Congress on June 7, 1924, funds to construct the memorial were provided by the contributions of both organizations and individual citizens of the District. Construction of the memorial began in the spring of 1931, and the memorial was dedicated by President Herbert Hoover on November 11, 1931 (Armistice Day). It was the first war memorial to be erected in West Potomac Park, part of the National Mall near the Lincoln Memorial, and remains the only local District memorial on the National Mall.\n\nDesigned by Washington architect Frederick H. Brooke, with Horace W. Peaslee and Nathan C. Wyeth as associate architects, the District of Columbia War Memorial is in the form of a 47-foot (14.3 m) tall circular, domed, peristyle Doric temple. Resting on concrete foundations, the 4 foot (1.2 m) high marble base defines a platform, 43 feet 5 inches (13.2 m) in diameter, intended for use as a bandstand. Preserved in the cornerstone of the District of Columbia World War Memorial is a list of 26,000 Washingtonians who served in the Great War. Inscribed on the base are the names of the 499 District of Columbia citizens who lost their lives in the war, together with medallions representing the branches of the armed forces. Twelve 22-foot (6.7 m) tall fluted Doric marble columns support the entablature and dome.\n\nIn September 2008, Rep. Ted Poe of Texas, with the support of Frank Buckles, then the last living US veteran of World War I, proposed a bill in Congress stating the memorial should be expanded and designated the national memorial to World War I.\n\nIn July 2010, the National Park Service announced that restoration work, funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, would soon begin on the memorial. Work began in October 2010, and the memorial reopened on November 10, 2011. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2014.\n\nThe memorial is administered by the National Park Service under its National Mall and Memorial Parks unit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018673", "title": "Retina horizontal cell", "text": "Retina horizontal cell\n\nHorizontal cells are the laterally interconnecting neurons having cell bodies in the inner nuclear layer of the retina of vertebrate eyes. They help integrate and regulate the input from multiple photoreceptor cells. Among their functions, horizontal cells are responsible for allowing eyes to adjust to see well under both bright and dim light conditions. Horizontal cells provide inhibitory feedback to rod and cone photoreceptors. They are thought to be important for the antagonistic center-surround property of the receptive fields of many types of retinal ganglion cells. \n\nOther retinal neurons include photoreceptor cells, bipolar cells, amacrine cells, and retinal ganglion cells.\n\nDepending on the species, there are typically one or two classes of horizontal cells, with a third type sometimes proposed.\n\nHorizontal cells span across photoreceptors and summate inputs before synapsing onto photoreceptor cells. Horizontal cells may also synapse onto bipolar cells, but this remains uncertain.\n\nThere is a greater density of horizontal cells towards the central region of the retina. In the cat, it is observed that A-type horizontal cells have a density of\n225 cells/mm near the center of the retina and a density of 120 cells/mm in more peripheral retina.\nHorizontal cells and other retinal interneuron cells are less likely to be near neighbours of the same subtype than would occur by chance, resulting in ‘exclusion zones’ that separate them. Mosaic arrangements provide a mechanism to distribute each cell type evenly across the retina, ensuring that all parts of the visual field have access to a full set of processing elements. MEGF10 and MEGF11 transmembrane proteins have critical roles in the formation of the mosaics by horizontal cells and starburst amacrine cells in mice.\n\nHorizontal cells are depolarized by the release of glutamate from photoreceptors, which happens in the absence of light. Depolarization of a horizontal cell causes it to hyperpolarize nearby photoreceptors. Conversely, in the light a photoreceptor releases less glutamate, which hyperpolarizes the horizontal cell, leading to depolarization of nearby photoreceptors. Thus, horizontal cells provide negative feedback to photoreceptors. The moderately wide lateral spread and coupling of horizontal cells by gap junctions, measures the average level of illumination falling upon a region of the retinal surface, which horizontal cells then subtract a proportionate value from the output of photoreceptors to hold the signal input to the inner retinal circuitry within its operating range. Horizontal cells are also one of two groups of inhibitory interneurons that contribute to the surround of retinal ganglion cells:\n\nIllumination formula_1 Center photoreceptor hyperpolarization formula_1 Horizontal cell hyperpolarization formula_1 Surround photoreceptor depolarization\n\nThe exact mechanism by which depolarization of horizontal cells hyperpolarizes photoreceptors is uncertain. Although horizontal cells contain GABA, the main mechanisms by which horizontal cells inhibit cones probably do not involve the release of GABA by horizontal cells onto cones. Two mechanisms that are not mutually exclusive likely contribute to horizontal cell inhibition of glutamate release by cones. Both postulated mechanisms depend on the protected environment provided by the invaginating synapses that horizontal cells make onto cones. The first postulated mechanism is a very fast ephaptic mechanism that has no synaptic delay, making it one of the fastest inhibitory synapses known. The second postulated mechanism is relatively slow with a time constant of about 200 ms and depends on ATP release via Pannexin 1 channels located on horizontal cell dendrites invaginating the cone synaptic terminal. The ecto-ATPase NTPDase1 hydrolyses extracellular ATP to AMP, phosphate groups, and protons. The phosphate groups and protons form a pH buffer with a pKa of 7.2, which keeps the pH in the synaptic cleft relatively acidic. This inhibits the cone Ca channels and consequently reduces the glutamate release by the cones.\n\nThe center-surround antagonism of bipolar cells is thought to be inherited from cones. However, when recordings are made from parts of the cone that are distant from the cone terminals that synapse onto bipolar cells, center-surround antagonism seems to be less reliable in cones than in bipolar cells. As the invaginating synapses from horizontal cells are made onto cone terminals, the center-surround antagonism of cones is thought to be more reliably present in cone terminals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018675", "title": "The First Class", "text": "The First Class\n\nThe First Class were a British pop music studio-based group, put together by songwriter and record producer John Carter. They are best known for their hit song \"Beach Baby,\" a top 20 hit in both the US and UK.\n\nThe First Class was the studio creation of British singer/songwriter John Carter, who hired singers Tony Burrows and Chas Mills to join him as an outlet for material Carter wrote with his creative partner and wife, Gillian (Jill) Shakespeare. In the 1960s, Carter had formed the group Carter-Lewis and the Southerners with fellow producer Ken Lewis. That band dissolved when Carter and Lewis began working extensively as studio singers, appearing on the hits \"It's Not Unusual\" (Tom Jones), \"I Can't Explain\" (The Who), \"Hi Ho Silver Lining\" (Jeff Beck), \"(There's) Always Something There to Remind Me\" (Sandie Shaw), \"Excerpt From A Teenage Opera\" (Keith West), and \"Out of Time\" (Chris Farlowe). Concurrently with this session work, Carter was a member of The Ivy League, leaving in 1966 to be replaced by Burrows.\n\nIn the summer of 1974, Carter and Shakespeare wrote the song \"Beach Baby\". Carter immediately created a studio band, enlisting musicians Burrows and Mills, to record the song for Jonathan King's UK Records record label – under the name The First Class. In 1974 the song became a hit in the UK (where it peaked at #13), and in the US, where it peaked at #4.\n\nThe group recorded a follow-up single, \"Bobby Dazzler\", and material for their eponymous first album, \"The First Class\". While there was some demand for live performances by the group, neither Carter nor Burrows had the time for or interest in touring, so a group including bassist Robin Shaw, lead singer Del John, guitarist Spencer James (since 1986 lead singer with The Searchers), keyboardist Clive Barrett and drummer Eddie Richards (like Burrows, a former member of Edison Lighthouse) was assembled to perform a number of dates as The First Class. Although that quintet was pictured and credited along with Carter, Burrows and Mills on the cover of the band's first album, none of the \"live\" quintet actually performed on \"Beach Baby\" or any of the album's other tracks.\n\n\"Bobby Dazzler\" and later singles \"Dreams Are Ten a Penny\", \"Won't Somebody Help Me\" and \"Funny How Love Can Be\" (a remake of the 1965 hit by The Ivy League, on which Carter had been one of the vocalists) failed to chart. After releasing an unsuccessful second album, \"SST\", in 1976 (with a drawing of the Concorde supersonic transport airliner featured on the cover), Carter, Burrows and Mills saw no need to continue under the First Class moniker and the group effectively ceased to exist.\n\nChas Mills subsequently retired from the music industry to run a restaurant in North London. Tony Burrows went on to become known as the only artist to score five hit tunes with five different groups, the artist known as \"A one-hit wonder . . . five times.\" Burrows was also lead singer on the song \"Love Grows (Where my Rosemary Goes)\" with Edison Lighthouse (although some You Tube videos of the era show other singers lip-synching to his vocals, it was his voice on that hit song. You can view him singing \"Love Grows\" when it was aired on \"Top of the Pops\" via You Tube). Burrows also sang on White Plains' hit \"My Baby Loves Lovin'\" with his frequent collaborator Roger Greenaway. Burrows sang lead male vocals on the hit by Brotherhood of Man, \"United We Stand,\" also with Greenaway. Burrows and Greenaway were also paired in their early years as \"The Pipkins,\" with a top hit song called \"Gimme Dat Ding.\" The two individually continued on to numerous successful ventures and occasionally perform together reviving their former hit songs. John Carter remained active writing jingles and managing his back catalogue. He later reflected on The First Class: \"Making the First Class albums was a very happy and creative time. Who knows if we ever come up with another suitable song, maybe we will all get back together one day and record under that name again?\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018701", "title": "Yellow-green algae", "text": "Yellow-green algae\n\nYellow-green algae or the Xanthophyceae (xanthophytes) are an important group of heterokont algae. Most live in fresh water, but some are found in marine and soil habitats. They vary from single-celled flagellates to simple colonial and filamentous forms. Xanthophyte chloroplasts contain the photosynthetic pigments chlorophyll \"a\", chlorophyll \"c\", β-carotene, and the carotenoid diadinoxanthin. Unlike other heterokonts, their chloroplasts do not contain fucoxanthin, which accounts for their lighter colour. Their storage polysaccharide is chrysolaminarin. Xanthophyte cell walls are produced of cellulose and hemicellulose. They appear to be the closest relatives of the brown algae.\n\nThe species now placed in the Xanthophyceae were formerly included in the Chlorophyceae. In 1899, Lüther created the group Heterokontae for green algae with unequal flagella. Pascher (1914) included the Heterokontae in the Chrysophyta. In 1930, Allorge renamed the group as Xanthophyceae.\n\nThe monadoid (unicellular flagellates) and also sometimes the amoeboid species have been included by some authors in the Protozoa or Protista, as order Heterochloridina (e.g., Doflein and Reichenow, 1927-1929), as class Xanthomonadina, with orders Heterochloridea and Rhizochloridea (e.g., Deflandre, 1956), as order Heterochlorida (e.g., Hall, 1953, Honigberg et al., 1964), as order Heteromonadida (e.g., Leedale, 1983), or as subclass Heterochloridia (e.g., Puytorac et al., 1987). These groups are called ambiregnal protists, as names for these have been published under either or both of the ICZN and the ICN.\n\nXanthophyceae have been divided into the following four orders in some classification systems:\n\n\nClassification according to Lüther (1899):\n\n\nClassification according to Pascher (1912):\n\n\nFritsch (1935) recognizes the following orders in the class Xanthophyceae:\n\n\nIn the classification of Smith (1938), there are six orders in the class Xanthophyceae, placed in the division Chrysophyta:\n\n\nPascher (1939) recognizes 6 classes in Heterokontae:\n\nCopeland (1956) treated the group as order Vaucheriacea:\n\n\nIn a classification presented by van den Hoek, Mann and Jahns (1995), based on the of the thallus, there are seven orders:\n\n\nThese are the same orders of the classification of Ettl (1978), an updated version of the classic work by Pascher (1939). Ultrastructural and molecular studies shows that the Mischococcales might be paraphyletic, and the Tribonematales and Botrydiales polyphyletic, and suggests two orders at most be used until the relationships within the division are sorted.\n\nInformal groups, according to Maistro et al. (2009):\n\nUnicellular flagellates, amoeboid and palmelloid taxa were not included in this study.\n\nAccording to Adl et al. (2005, 2012):\n\n"}
{"id": "2018702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018702", "title": "Chandrabindu", "text": "Chandrabindu\n\nChandrabindu (meaning \"moon-dot\" in Sanskrit, alternatively spelled candrabindu, chandravindu, candravindu, or chôndrobindu) is a diacritic sign with the form of a dot inside the lower half of a circle. It is used in the Devanagari (ँ), Bengali (), Gujarati (ઁ), Oriya (ଁ), Telugu (ఁ), Javanese ( ꦀ) and other scripts.\n\nIt usually means that the previous vowel is nasalized.\n\nIn Hindi, it is replaced in writing by anusvara when it is written above a consonant that carries a vowel symbol that extends above the top line.\n\nIn Classical Sanskrit, it seems to occur only over a \"lla\" conjunct consonant, to show that it is pronounced as a nasalized double \"l\", which occurs if \"-nl-\" have become assimilated in sandhi.\n\nIn Vedic Sanskrit, it is used instead of anusvara to represent the sound anunaasika when the next word starts with a vowel. It usually occurs where in earlier times a word ended in \"-ans\".\n\nUnicode encodes chandrabindu and chandrabindu-like characters for a variety of scripts:\n\nThere is also a general-purpose combining diacritical mark code point U+0310 (◌̐), but that is intended for use with Latin letters in transliteration of Indic languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018704", "title": "Leptostraca", "text": "Leptostraca\n\nLeptostraca (from the Greek words for \"thin\" and \"shell\") is an order of small, marine crustaceans. Its members, including the well-studied \"Nebalia\", occur throughout the world's oceans and are usually considered to be filter-feeders. It is the only extant order in the subclass Phyllocarida. They are believed to represent the most primitive members of their class, the Malacostraca, and first appear in the fossil record during the Cambrian period.\n\nLeptostracans are usually small, typically long, crustaceans distinguished from all other members of their class in having seven abdominal segments, instead of six. Their head has stalked compound eyes, two pairs of antennae (one biramous, one uniramous), and a pair of mandibles but no maxillipeds. The carapace is large and comprises two valves which cover the head and the thorax, including most of the thoracic appendages, and serves as a brood pouch for the developing embryos. The first six abdominal segments bear pleopods, while the seventh bears a pair of caudal furcae, which may be homologous to uropods of other crustaceans.\n\nLeptostracans have gills on their thoracic limbs, but also breathe through a respiratory membrane on the inside of the carapace. The eggs hatch as a postlarval, or \"manca\" stage, which lacks a fully developed carapace, but otherwise resembles the adult.\n\nIt is now accepted that leptostracans belong to the Malacostraca, and the sister crown group to Leptostraca is Eumalacostraca.\n\nThe Order Leptostraca is divided into three families, with ten genera containing a total of around 40 validly described extant species:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018706", "title": "Abu al-Hasan Ali ibn Othman", "text": "Abu al-Hasan Ali ibn Othman\n\nAbu Al-Hasan 'Ali ibn 'Othman (c. 1297 – 24 May 1351), () was a sultan of the Marinid dynasty who reigned in Morocco between 1331 and 1348. In 1333 he captured Gibraltar from the Castilians, although a later attempt to take Tarifa in 1339 ended in fiasco. In North Africa he extended his rule over Tlemcen and Ifriqiya, which together covered the north of what is now Algeria and Tunisia. Under him the Marinid realms in the Maghreb briefly covered an area that rivaled that of the preceding Almohad Caliphate. However, he was forced to retreat due to a revolt of the Arab tribes, was shipwrecked, and lost many of his supporters. His son Abu Inan Faris seized power in Fez. Abu Al-Hasan died in exile in the High Atlas mountains.\n\nAbu al-Hassan was the son of Marinid ruler Abu Sa'id Uthman II and an Abyssinian mother. \nHe had a dark complexion, and was known as the 'Black Sultan' of Morocco.\nHe succeeded his father Abu Sa'id Uthman II in 1331. Abu al-Hassan married Fatima, daughter of the Hafsid ruler Abu Bakr of Ifriqiya, sealing an alliance between the Marinids and Hafsids against the Zayyanid dynasty of Tlemcen.\n\nIn 1309, Castillian troops under Ferdinand IV captured Gibraltar, then known as the \"Medinat al-Fath\" (City of Victory), from the Muslim-ruled Emirate of Granada.\nIn 1333, responding to the appeal of Nasrid ruler Muhammad IV of Granada, Abu al-Hassan sent a Moroccan army to Algeciras under the command of his son Abd al-Malik Abd al-Wahid. A force of 7,000 men was transported across the Strait of Gibraltar to rendezvous with the forces of Muhammad IV of Granada at Algeciras in February 1333. The Castillians were distracted by the coronation of King Alfonso XI and were slow to respond to the invasion force, which was able to lay siege to Gibraltar before much of a response could be organised.\n\nThe situation in Gibraltar was desperate by mid-June. The food had run out and the townspeople and garrison had been reduced to eating their own shields, belts and shoes in an attempt to gain sustenance from the leather from which they were made.\nOn 17 June 1333, Vasco Perez surrendered Gibraltar after agreeing terms with Abd al-Malik. The defenders were allowed to leave with honour as a mark of respect for their courage in defending the town for so long. The fall of Gibraltar was rapturously received back in Morocco; the Moorish chronicler Ibn Marzuq recorded that while he was studying in Tlemcen, his teacher announced to his class: \"Rejoice, community of the faithful, because God has had the goodness to restore Gibraltar to us!\" According to Ibn Marzuq, the jubilant students burst out into cries of praise, gave thanks and shed tears of joy.\n\nThe success of the Gibraltar campaign stoked fears in the Granadan court that the Marinids would become too influential, and provoked the assassination of Muhammad IV by resentful Granadan nobles only a few months later.\nHowever, Abu al-Hasan was not ready to invade the Iberian peninsula since he was engaged in hostilities with Tlemcen.\nMuhammad IV's brother and successor, Yusuf I of Granada maintained the alliance with the Marinid ruler.\nA peace treaty was signed at Fez on 26 February 1334 between Castile, Granada and Morocco with a four-year duration.\n\nThe ruler of Tlemcen, Ibn Tashufin (r. 1318-1337), initiated hostilities against Ifriqiya, besieged Béjaïa, and sent an army into Tunisia that defeated the Hafsid king Abu Yahya Abu Bakr II, who fled to Constantine while the Zayyanids occupied Tunis.\n\nAbu al-Hassan was married to a Hafsid princess, and in 1334 the Hafsids appealed to him for help, giving him a welcome excuse for invading his neighbor.\n\nIn early 1335, Marinid forces under Abu al-Hassan invaded Tlemcen from the west and dispatched a naval force to assist the Hafsids from the east. The Zayyanids were rolled back into the city of Tlemcen. The Marinid sultan Abu al-Hassan laid a three-year siege of Tlemcen, turning his siege camp into a veritable adjoining city.\n\nIn 1336 or 1337, Abu al-Hassan suspended the siege of Tlemcen to campaign in southern Morocco, where his troublesome brother, Abu Ali, who ruled an appanage at Sijilmassa, was threatening to divide the Marinid dominions.\n\nIn May 1337, after a two-year siege, Tlemcen finally fell to a Marinid assault.\nIbn Tashufin died during the fighting.\nHis brothers were captured and killed and the Sultanate of Tlemcen (covering roughly modern western half of Algeria) was annexed by the Marinids. \nAbu al-Hasan received delegates from Egypt, Granada, Tunis and Mali congratulating him on his victory, by which he had gained complete control of the trans-Saharan trade.\n\nFlush from these victories, in 1339, Abu al-Hassan received an appeal from the Nasrid ruler Yusuf I of Granada to help drive back the Castilians. The assembly of a large Marinid invasion force in Morocco prompted the Castilian king Alfonso XI to bring to an end his quarrel with Afonso IV of Portugal.\n\nIn April 1340, a Castilian fleet of some 32 galleys under admiral Alonso Jofre Tenorio set out against the Marinid invasion fleet being outfitted at Ceuta. The Marinid fleet, under the command of Muhammad ibn Ali al-Azafi, destroyed the Castilian fleet in the naval battle of Gibraltar on 5 April 1340. The Castilian admiral Tenorio was killed during the engagement and only five Castilian galleys managed to make it safely out.\n\nWith the sea now clear for an invasion, Abu al-Hassan spent the rest of the summer calmly ferrying his troops and supplies across the straits to Algeciras. Abu al-Hassan crossed with the bulk of the Marinid forces in August 1340. The Marinid invasion force joined up with Granadan forces under Yusuf I in September, and together proceeded to lay siege to Tarifa.\n\nA desperate Alfonso XI appealed to his father-in-law, the Portuguese king Afonso IV for assistance. In October 1340, a Portuguese fleet under Manuel Pessanha, supplemented by a leased Genoese fleet, managed to move into position off Tarifa and cut off the besiegers' supply line to Morocco. In the meantime, Afonso IV of Portugal led an army overland to join Alfonso XI of Castile near Seville, and together they moved against the besiegers at Tarifa. The Marinid-Nasrid forces were defeated at the Battle of Río Salado in October, 1340, and Abu al-Hassan was forced to retreat back to Algeciras. After this defeat, Al-Hasan ended his campaigns in the Iberian Peninsula. A few years later, Alfonso XI of Castile had little difficulty taking Algeciras in March 1344.\n\nIn 1346 the Hafsid Sultan, Abu Bakr, died and a dispute over the succession ensued.\nSeveral Ifriqiyan parties appealed to the Marinid ruler for assistance. In a campaign in early 1347, Abu al-Hassan's Moroccan army swept through Ifriqiya and entered Tunis in September, 1347. By uniting Morocco, Tlemcen and Ifriqiya, the Marinid ruler Abu al-Hassan effectively accomplished the conquest of dominions as great as the Almohad empire of the Maghreb, and the comparison was not lost on contemporaries.\n\nHowever, Abu al-Hassan went too far in attempting to impose more authority over the Arab tribes. They revolted and in April 1348 defeated his army near Kairouan. His son, Abu Inan Faris, who had been serving as governor of Tlemcen, returned to Fez and declared that he was the sultan. Tlemcen and the central Maghreb revolted. The Zayyanid Abu Sa'id Uthman II was proclaimed king of Tlemcen.\n\nAbu al-Hassan's fleet was wrecked on its homeward journey by a tempest off Bougie, and the once mighty sultan was left stranded in the heart of enemy territory. Abu al-Hassan escaped capture and made his way to join his partisans in Algiers. He managed to gather enough forces to attempt a march to recover Tlemcen, but was defeated by the resurgent Abdalwadid princes near the Chelif River.\n\nAs many of his former supporters defected, Abu al-Hassan was forced to proceed to Sijilmassa, in southern Morocco, which he hoped to use as a base to recover his sultanate. But Abu Inan's armies descended on the area, forcing Abu al-Hassan to flee with what remained of his supporters to Marrakesh. In May 1350, Abu Inan defeated Abu al-Hassan on the banks of the Oum er-Rebia. With Abu Inan on his heels, Abu al-Hassan fled into the high Atlas Mountains, taking refuge among the Hintata tribes. Broken, ill and without resources, the once-mighty Abu al-Hassan, finally agreed to abdicate in favour of Abu Inan in late 1350 or early 1351.\n\nAbu al-Hassan died in May, 1351, still in his Atlas mountain hideout. His body was transferred by Abu Inan, allegedly with great public mourning, to the Marinid necropolis at Chellah.\n\nIn 1352 Abu Inan Faris recaptured Tlemcen. He also reconquered the central Maghreb. He took Béjaïa in 1353 and Tunis in 1357, becoming master of Ifriqiya. In 1358 he was forced to return to Fez due to Arab opposition, where he was strangled to death by his vizier.\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2018707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018707", "title": "Allah Selamatkan Sultan Mahkota", "text": "Allah Selamatkan Sultan Mahkota\n\nAllah Selamatkan Sultan Mahkota is the state anthem of Kedah, Malaysia. The lyrics were written by Almarhum Abdullah Syed Hussain Shahabuddin and it was composed by J. A. Redhill (Reutenberg). It was officially adopted on 22 March 1937.\n\nReuternberg, a Russian Jew and the then-Conductor of the Selangor Club Orchestra, had been ordered to compose a state anthem for Kedah with $1000 as the reward. He successfully composed it in 25 minutes time. The plan to create it was initiated by the British Adviser of Kedah, S.L. Jones.\n\nThe anthem was recomposed by Tunku Yakob with the addition of its lyrics written by Hj. Mohammad Sheriff, the then Menteri Besar and the melody from J.F. Agustin in 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018713", "title": "The Devil and Kate", "text": "The Devil and Kate\n\nThe Devil and Kate, Op. 112, B.201, (\"Čert a Káča\" in Czech) is an opera in three acts by Antonín Dvořák to a Czech libretto by Adolf Wenig. It is based on a farce by Josef Kajetán Tyl, and the story also had been treated in the \"Fairy Tales\" of Božena Němcová. The first performance of the opera was at the National Theatre, Prague, on 23 November 1899, under Adolf Čech.\n\n\"The Devil and Kate\" is one of the few operas of Dvořák, along with \"Rusalka\", to have remained in the repertory. This can be attributed to the high demand for Italian grand operas in his time and the difficulties of Dvořák's intricate staging. The opera has great appeal because of its combination of fairy tale and folk music; it is very close in feel to a Czech tone poem. At times, it feels like a Czech version of \"Hansel & Gretel\". The overture was written after the opera itself.\n\nJohn Clapham has written critical analysis of the opera and noted the presence of the style of Wagnerian declamation in the work.\n\nOn a summer evening, Jirka, slightly intoxicated, begs to be excused from further dancing outside the village inn, as he will be in trouble with his employer, the Princess's Steward, if he does not return to his work. Kate then appears with her mother, and Jirka leaves with some of the musicians. Kate wants to dance, but her mother doesn't want her daughter to embarrass herself. Infuriated, Kate says that she will dance with a devil if necessary. Suddenly, a mysterious hunter appears, asking about the Steward and the Princess. He sits down with Kate, engages her in conversation, and asks her to dance with him. She accepts, eventually collapsing with exhaustion but nevertheless exhilarated. Jirka returns, furious with the Steward, who shouted at him for bringing the musicians with him, then beat him, dismissed him and told him to go to Hell. Meanwhile, the hunter has persuaded Kate to go with him to his splendid dwelling. He stamps on the ground, and the two of them disappear into the earth amid thunder, lightning and smoke. It is apparent to all that they have gone to Hell. Jirka, having nothing to lose, consoles Kate's mother by agreeing to follow the pair and rescue Kate, and the Act ends as he jumps into the new hole in the ground.\nIn Hell, some Devils are playing cards for money. The Guard announces the arrival of Lucifer, who asks whether Marbuel has returned from Earth. On discovering that he hasn't, Lucifer asks to be informed when he does appear, and departs. The Gate-Keeper explains to the other Devils that Lucifer had sent Marbuel to see if the Princess and her Steward are ripe for Hell yet, as Marbuel is the mysterious hunter from Act 1. Marbuel now arrives, exhausted and carrying Kate, whom the Devils initially mistake for the Princess. She harangues him at length, and Marbuel explains that she is wearing a cross, which protects her against him so that he can't get rid of her. Lucifer re-enters to find out what the shouting is about. Then Jirka, saying that he has come for Kate, is admitted by the Gate-Keeper. He suggests to Lucifer that Kate might be bought off, and she is tempted by some golden chains that are produced. Meanwhile, Lucifer questions Marbuel about his trip, and agrees that the Princess should be brought to Hell, while the Steward should be threatened but reprieved for the time being. Marbuel now has to promise Jirka that he shall have some of the Princess's gold - given him by the Steward to reward him for fighting off the threatening Marbuel - if he will take Kate back to Earth. Jirka, pleased with the plan, agrees that the way to do that is to dance with Kate, and he manages to dance her out past the Gate-Keeper. The latter slams the gate shut, to the great relief of all, especially Marbuel, who remarks that music has succeeded in doing what the denizens of Hell could not.\n\nA hall in the Princess's castle. Marbuel's plan has worked, and Jirka rescued the Steward (who never appears on stage in the opera). The Princess has started to repent her misdeeds, but fears that nothing can save her, since the Steward was only doing her bidding and it is she whom the devils must carry to Hell. Nevertheless, she has summoned Jirka in the hope that he can ward them off. Jirka, embarrassed, tells her that she has already committed too many evil deeds, and he cannot help. The Princess promises to reform, but Jirka tells her that, unless she agrees to free the serfs, she will go to Hell and not even he will be able to save her. She agrees, and her Chamberlain announces her decree to the waiting crowd outside, who greet it with acclaim. Jirka now tells the Princess that he has a plan which will save her, and she exits so that he can make preparations.\n\nJirka summons Kate, and explains that when Marbuel comes for the Princess, she (Kate) will be able to take her revenge on him. Kate enthusiastically agrees, and hides in the next room. The Princess returns and, instructed by Jirka, sits in her chair with her courtiers round her, while Jirka joins Kate. The moon illuminates the room and then the light turns red as Marbuel appears, telling the Princess that her time on Earth is up. To Marbuel's irritation, Jirka interrupts, but his annoyance changes to horror when Jirka tells him that Kate is coming to get him. The door flies open, and Kate stands in the lighted doorway. Marbuel screams and disappears through the window, never to return. The grateful Princess appoints Jirka as her new Prime Minister, and agrees that Kate shall have the best house in the town and plenty of money. Kate would also like to get married, but she anticipates that, with her new-found wealth, she will have no problem making a good match. The peasants arrive to thank the Princess for freeing them from bondage. Jirka promises them that, although now a minister, he is still on their side, and they depart, rejoicing, to enjoy a banquet provided by the Princess.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018721", "title": "Milan Nedić", "text": "Milan Nedić\n\nMilan Nedić (; 2 September 1878 – 4 February 1946) was a Yugoslav and Serbian army general and politician who served as the Chief of the General Staff of the Royal Yugoslav Army, Minister of War in the Royal Yugoslav Government. During World War II, he collaborated with the Germans and served as the Prime Minister of a puppet government, Government of National Salvation, in the German occupied territory of Serbia. After the war, the Yugoslav communist authorities imprisoned him. In 1946, they reported that he had committed suicide by jumping out of a window in the prison.\n\nMilan Nedić was born in the Belgrade suburb of Grocka on 2 September 1878 to Đorđe and Pelagia Nedić. His father was a local district chief and his mother was a teacher from a village near Mount Kosmaj. She was the granddaughter of Nikola Mihailović, who was mentioned in the writings of poet Sima Milutinović Sarajlija and was an ally of Serbian revolutionary leader Karađorđe. The Nedić family was originally from the village of Zaoka, near Lazarevac. It traced its origins to two brothers, Damjan and Gligorije, who defended the Čokešina Monastery from the Turks during the Serbian Revolution. The family received its name from Nedić's great-grandmother, Neda, who was a member of the Vasojevići tribe in Montenegro.\n\nNedić finished gymnasium in Kragujevac in 1895 and entered the lower level of the Military Academy in Belgrade that year. In 1904, he completed the upper level of the academy, then the General Staff preparatory, and was commissioned into the Serbian Army. In 1910, he was promoted to the rank of major. He fought with the Serbian Army during the Balkan Wars, and received multiple decorations for bravery. In 1913, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He served with the Serbian Army during World War I and was involved in rearguard actions during its retreat through Albania in the winter of 1915. That year, he was promoted to the rank of colonel. At 38, he was the youngest colonel in the Serbian General Staff. He was appointed ordnance officer to King Peter in 1916. Towards the end of the war, Nedić was given command of an infantry brigade of the Timok Division.\n\nNedić remained a brigade commander within the Timok Division until the end of 1918 and served as the 3rd Army chief of staff. Beginning in 1919, he also served as the \"de facto\" head of the 4th Army District in Croatia because its nominal commander, General Božidar Janković, was old and infirm. Nedić's cousin, Dimitrije Ljotić, and their mutual friend Stanislav Krakov, also served in the 4th Army District and were commanded by Nedić. When the Royal Yugoslav Army (, VKJ) was formed in 1919 he was absorbed into the army at the same rank. He was promoted to \"Divizijski đeneral\" in 1923, and subsequently commanded a division then was Secretary-General of the Committee of National Defence. In 1930, Nedić was promoted to the rank of \"Armijski đeneral\", and assumed command of the 3rd Army in Skoplje. Nedić was appointed Chief of the General Staff in June 1934, and held this position until the following year, when he became the third member of the Military Council, probably because of his strained relations with the Minister for the Army and Navy, Petar Živković. At the time, British diplomatic staff observed that he was \"somewhat slow-thinking and obstinate\". On 13 August 1939, Nedić was appointed Minister of the Army and Navy as part of the Cvetković–Maček Agreement. Ljotić later assisted the \"SS-Reichssicherheitshauptamt\" (Reich Security Central Office, RSHA) in establishing contacts with him. He also exploited the connections he had with Nedić to ensure that the banned Zbor-published journal \"Bilten\" (Bulletin) was distributed to members of the VKJ. The journal was published illegally in a military printing house and distributed throughout Yugoslavia by military couriers.\n\nBecause of his disapproval of a potential participation in the war against Adolf Hitler's Germany, Nedić was dismissed on 6 November 1940 by regent Paul. This was most likely out of unease with Nazi Germany's ally, Fascist Italy which at the time harboured the Croatian extreme nationalist Ustashe leader Ante Pavelić in exile in Rome, and because of the rhetoric of some Italian fascists in the past such as the late Gabriele D'Annunzio, who were violently opposed to a Yugoslav state. Nedić welcomed the coup of 1941 which deposed the pro-Axis regime, and fought for Yugoslavia in the German-led Axis invasion that followed.\n\nWehrmacht commander Heinrich Danckelmann decided to entrust Nedić with the administration of German-occupied territory of Serbia in order to pacify Serb resistance. Not long before, Nedić had lost his only son and pregnant daughter in law in a munitions explosion in Smederevo, in which several thousands died. He accepted the post of the prime minister in the government called the Government of National Salvation, on 29 August 1941. At the same time mass imprisonment of the Jews started where police and gendarmerie of quisling government under Nedić assisted the Germans in arresting the Jews. \n\nOn 1 September 1941 Nedić made a speech on Radio Belgrade in which he declared the intent of his administration to \"save the core of the Serbian people\" by accepting the occupation of Germany in the area of Sumadija, Drina Valley, Pomoravlje and Banat. He also spoke against organizing resistance to the occupying forces. His state's propaganda was funded by Germany and promoted anti-Semitism and anti-communism, particularly linking these up with anti-masonry. In his speeches he uses terms such as \"\"Communist-Jewish rabble\"\" and \"\"Communist-Masonic-Jewish-English mafia\"\". In March 1942 Nedić with suport of August Meyszner establish Serbian State Guard (Srpska državna straža) who together with the Gestapo participated in guarding of Banjica concentration camp, in which among others were responsible for killings, including children.\n\nThe puppet government under Nedić accepted many refugees mostly of Serbian descent. The civil war unleashed by German occupation in Serbia was the cause of losing more lives than German terror. In total, between 141,000 and 167,000 people died in Serbia of war-related causes. These deaths included 34,000 killed by the Germans and their Serb helpers, 46,000 deaths in prisons and camps, and 33,000 Chetnik and 42,000 Partisan combatants. At least 300,000 people were deported from Serbia or held in prisons and concentration camps. German reprisals demanded that 100 Serbs be killed for each killed German soldier and 50 for each wounded German soldier, as in the Kragujevac massacre. Nedić implemented Hitler's anti Semitic policies and Belgrade became the first city in Europe to be declared Judenfrei (\"clean of Jews\") while Serbia itself was declared as such in August 1942. Nedić also secretly diverted money and arms from his government to the Chetniks. The military forces of Ljotić and Nedić together with the Wehrmacht participated in anti-Communist operations. In the 1942 Christmas address, he announced that \"\"the old world, which had destroyed our state, is over and replaced by the new one. This new world will elevate Serbia to its rightful and honorable place in the new Europe; under the new leadership (of Germany) we look courageously into the future\"\". In 1942 he outlined a memo of his vision of Great Serbia in which Bosnia-Herzegovina, Srijem, and Dalmatia are within Serbia's borders with local population replaced by Serbian settlers. On 28 February 1943, the commanding general in Serbia reduced the reprisal orders to 50 hostages for each German soldier, armed forces employee, civilian or Bulgarian soldier killed, and 25 for each German or Bulgarian wounded. Nedić was received by Adolf Hitler in September 1943 when they talked about security and order in the occupied territory. Nedić's Ministry of Education, Ljotić and the intellectuals from the Zbor prepared Serbia and its youth by changing the education system in order to prepare the society for Hitler’s New Europe, in which anti-Semitism and anti-Communism were integral parts of the new ideological framework.\n\nOn 4 October 1944, with the successes of the Yugoslav Partisans and their onslaught on Belgrade, Nedić's puppet government was disbanded, and on 6 October Nedić fled from Belgrade to Kitzbühel, Austria (then annexed to Germany) where he took refuge with the occupying British. On 1 January 1946 the British forces handed him over to the Yugoslav Partisans.\n\nHe was incarcerated in Belgrade on charges of treason. On 4 February 1946, it is believed that Nedić either jumped out of the window of the Belgrade hospital where he was being detained or that he was pushed out to his death. According to official records, he committed suicide by jumping through the window.\n\nRecently, Miodrag Mladenović, a former officer with of the Yugoslavian OZNA, said that on 4 February 1946, he received an order to pick up a dead body at Zmaj Jovina street, where the prison was located at the time. When he arrived there, the body was already wrapped in a blanket and \"rigor mortis\" had already set in. Following the orders given to him, he took the body to the cemetery where it was buried in an unusually deep grave. He never attempted to see the face of the person that he was carrying, but the day after he read in the news that Nedić had committed suicide by jumping through the prison window at Zmaj Jovina street.\n\nAfter 2000, revisionists' demands for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedić began. Nedić's portrait was included among those of Serbian prime ministers in the building of the Government of Serbia. In 2008, the Minister of Interior and Deputy PM Ivica Dačić removed the portrait after neo-Nazi marches were announced in the country. Revisionist interpretations required that Nedić's collaboration with the occupying forces and responsibility for the execution of Jews under his rule be obscured, in order to remember him as the \"savior of the Serbian people\".\n\nOn 11 July 2018, The Higher Serbian Court in Belgrade rejected an application to rehabilitate the quisling Prime Minister of occupied Serbia during World War II, Milan Nedić.\n\nIn 1941 in Kragujevac and Kraljevo during Milan Nedić puppet government Germany's military presence in Serbia was strengthened and there was more than one mass shooting of civilians when more than 5 thousand people most of them Serbs where killed during same puppet Nedić government that has claimed to protect Serbs from German killings. Events are known as Kragujevac massacre and Kraljevo massacre.\n\nDuring the rehabilitation trial, historian Bojan Dimitrijevic from the Institute for Contemporary Serbian History claimed, based on archived documents, that Nedić was not directly involved in the persecution and killing of Jews. According to Dimitrijevic, Nedić's administration only registered Jews and gave them fake Serbian documents while the Germans rounded them up and performed all the executions.\n\nDuring the Miloševic era, the regime and some Serb historians found it extremely important to win over eminent Yugoslav Jewish organizations and individuals for the idea of the joint Serbo-Jewish martyrdom. In order to accomplish this, Serbia had to falsify history by obscuring the fact that the Serb quislings Milan Nedic and Dimitrije Ljotic ́ had cleansed Serbia of her sizeable Jewish population by deportations of Jews to East European concentration camps or killing them in Serbia. In 1995, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts published a volume entitled \"100 Outstanding Serbs\", and included Nedić on the list. The minor Serbian Liberal Party attempted to promote his rehabilitation as an anti-Nazi who did his best in an impossible situation, sparking controversy in Serbia.\n\nOther opinions claims that it was Nedić role in order to protect Serbs from further executions in NDH and by Germans in Serbia to provide some reprisal toward Jews and that was mostly done with confiscating and selling Jews property after they were executed by Germans who were not interested to buy homes and lands of Jews in Serbia and prior that to give list of Jews to Germans.\n\nAs one of biggest reasons for killing about 11,000 Jews in Serbia by Germans, Jewish reporter, author of many books about Jews in Serbia, historian and president of Jew community Belgrade, Jaša Almuli claims that it was reprisal for resistance against Germans in occupied Serbia and that Jews where killed for same reasons as Serbs in order to fulfill Hitlers quota towards Serbs and Serbia - for one wounded soldier kill 50 and for dead German soldier kill 100 people. For that reason together with Serbs and Gypsies about 5000 Jews were shot. German SS general Harald Turner was main culprit behind shooting Jews in occupied Serbia.\n\nAccording to Cohen and Riesman in Nedić's Serbia about 15,000 of Jews perished or about 94% of Serbian Jews.According to Jelena Subotić in the pre-occupation Serbia 27,000 Jews from them 33,500 were killed in the Holocaust, and another 1,000 from central Europe, mostly from Czechoslovakia and Austria. In German-occupied Serbia lived around 17,000 of Jews and very early 82% of Jews were killed, this includes 11,000 of Belgrade Jews.\n\n\"One Hundred Greatest Serbs\" the book from 1993, published by Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts included an entry on Milan Nedić in which editor of the book historian Dejan Medaković clame that he was \"\"one of the most tragic figures in Serbian history\"\" whose collaboration saved \"\"a million Serbian lives\"\". Patriarch Pavle held a memorial service for Milan Nedić in 1994. Publisher of the recent secondary school history textbook Nebojša Jovanović, in 2002 told the daily Politika that collaboration with the Nazis was a way of preserving the ‘\"biological substance of the Serbian people\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2018725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018725", "title": "Argulidae", "text": "Argulidae\n\nThe family Argulidae contains the carp lice or fish lice – a group of parasitic crustaceans of uncertain position within the Maxillopoda. Although they are thought to be primitive forms, they have no fossil record. The Argulidae are the only family in the order Arguloida (occasionally \"Arguloidea\"), although a second family, the Dipteropeltidae, has been proposed.\n\nFish lice vary in size from just a few millimetres to over long, with females usually somewhat larger than the males. Almost all species in the family are ectoparasites on fish, with a few on invertebrates or amphibians. They have a flattened, oval body, which is almost entirely covered by a wide carapace. Their compound eyes are prominent, and the mouthparts and the first pair of antennae are modified to form a hooked, spiny proboscis armed with suckers, as an adaptation to parasitic life. They have four pairs of thoracic appendages, which are used to swim when not attached to the host. They leave their hosts for up to three weeks to mate and lay eggs, and reattach behind the fish's operculum, where they feed on mucus and sloughed-off scales, or pierce the skin and feed on the internal fluids. The eggs hatch into parasitic postnauplius larvae.\n\nThe 173 recognised species are divided among six genera. The centres of diversity are the Afrotropical and Neotropical ecozones.\nArgulus :\n\nBinoculus :\n\nChonopeltis :\n\nDipteropeltis :\n\nDolops :\n\nHuargulus :\nFish lice occasionally reach high enough densities to cause fish kills in aquaculture operations, or more rarely in wild populations of fish. They can also become abundant in aquaria, sometimes resulting in the death of ornamental fish.\n"}
{"id": "2018728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018728", "title": "United States Hockey Hall of Fame", "text": "United States Hockey Hall of Fame\n\nThe United States Hockey Hall of Fame was established in 1973 with the goal of preserving the rich history of ice hockey in the United States while recognizing the extraordinary contributions of select players, coaches, administrators, officials and teams. It is located in Eveleth, Minnesota, an iron mining town in northern Minnesota.\n\nWith the three-member induction Class of 2012, there are now 156 enshrined members consisting of 98 players, 26 coaches, 24 administrators, two players/administrators, one referee, one physician, one media member and three teams. New members are inducted annually based on their contributions to hockey in the United States during the course of their careers.\n\nEach year, nominations are solicited by USA Hockey from those willing to substantiate the candidacy of a particular individual or team for induction from Jan. 1 through March 31. All nominations are forwarded to the U.S. Hockey Hall of Fame Selection Committee for review. After a thorough evaluation of each candidate, the selection committee conducts a vote to select the newest members of the Hall of Fame.\n\nThe United States Hockey Hall of Fame Museum, the \"National Shrine of American Hockey,\" is dedicated to honoring these legends of the game and showcasing precious U.S. hockey memories. Opened in 1973 in Eveleth, Minn., the unique facility is driven by the mission to preserve and interpret America's proud hockey heritage.\n\nWith the \"Great Wall of Fame\" displaying the inductee plaques, historical displays representing all levels of American hockey, video presentations, interactive experiences and traveling outreach programs, the true spirit and excitement of the sport is captured and the many traditions are proudly presented to hockey fans throughout the country. Downtown Eveleth you will find the \"world's largest authentic hockey stick\". It is a Christian Brothers hockey stick that measures over 110 ft. and 10,000 lbs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018731", "title": "Military Intelligence Directorate (Israel)", "text": "Military Intelligence Directorate (Israel)\n\nThe Israeli Military Intelligence (, \"Agaf HaModi'in\" – lit. \"the Intelligence Section\"), often abbreviated to Aman (), is the central, overarching military intelligence body of the Israel Defense Forces. Aman was created in 1950, when the Intelligence Department was spun off from the IDF's General Staff (the Intelligence Department itself was composed largely of former members of the Haganah Intelligence Service). Aman is an independent service, and not part of the ground forces, Navy or the Air Force. \n\nIt is one of the main entities (and the largest component) of the Israeli Intelligence Community, along with Mossad and Shin Bet. It is currently headed by Major General Tamir Heiman. It includes the cyber warfare branch Unit 8200 and the training course Havatzalot Program. Its special forces unit is Sayeret Matkal.\n\nThe IDF's Intelligence Corps (חיל המודיעין), abbreviated as Haman (חמ\"ן) and headed by a brigadier general, has been detached from Aman since the Yom Kippur War, but remains under its jurisdiction.\n\nIn April 2000, the newest IDF corps was founded (the IDF's fifth land corps), the Combat Intelligence Collection Corps (חיל מודיעין השדה), abbreviated as Modash (מוד\"ש). It was designed to fulfill some of Aman's former combat intelligence functions, and is also headed by a Brigadier General. Although it falls under the operational jurisdiction of the GOC Army Headquarters, it also falls under Aman's professional jurisdiction.\n\nIn 1976, according to the \"Lexicon of National Security\", some of Aman's principal roles consisted of:\n\n\nAman consists of the following subordinate and professionally subordinate units:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe head of Aman is the senior intelligence officer in the IDF and engages in intelligence decision and policy-making at the same level as the heads of the Shabak and the Mossad: together, they form the three highest-ranking, co-equal heads of the Israeli Intelligence Community, focusing on the military, domestic (including the Palestinian territories), and foreign intelligence fronts respectively.\n\nOn June 10, 2005, then-IDF's Chief of Staff, Lieutenant General Dan Halutz, in a move viewed as surprising, announced that Major General Aharon Zeevi-Farkash would be replaced by Major General Amos Yadlin. Yadlin, who had been serving as the IDF's military attaché in Washington, D.C., was a combat pilot, former head of the air force's Air Intelligence Directorate, and Halutz's deputy. Yadlin was appointed as Aman Director on January 5, 2006, with Zeevi-Farkash having served an extended term. In November 2010 Yadlin was replaced by Major General Aviv Kochavi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018735", "title": "Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art", "text": "Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art\n\nThe Estorick Collection of Modern Italian Art is a museum in Canonbury Square in the district of Islington on the northern fringes of central London. It is the United Kingdom's only gallery devoted to modern Italian art and is a registered charity under English law.\n\nThe Estorick Collection was founded by American sociologist and writer Eric Estorick (1913–93), who began to collect art when he moved to England after the Second World War. Estorick and his German-born English wife Salome (1920–1989) discovered Umberto Boccioni’s book \"Futurist Painting and Sculpture\" (1914) while they were on their honeymoon in 1947. Before the end of their trip they visited erstwhile Futurist Mario Sironi in Milan and bought most of the contents of his studio, including hundreds of drawings. They built up the collection mainly between 1953 and 1958. The collection was shown in several temporary exhibitions, including one at the Tate Gallery in London in 1956, and the key works were on long-term loan to the Tate from 1966 to 1975. The Estoricks rejected offers to purchase their collection from the Italian government and museums in the United States and Israel. Six months prior to his death Eric Estorick set up the Eric and Salome Estorick Foundation, to which he donated all his Italian works.\n\nThe Estorick Collection moved to its current premises in Northampton Lodge, previously the home and office of Sir Basil Spence, the British architect, a converted Grade II-listed Georgian house, in 1998. The project was supported by a grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund.\n\nThe core of the collection is its Futurist works, but it also includes figurative art and sculpture dating from 1890 to the 1950s. It features paintings by Futurism's main protagonists: Giacomo Balla, Umberto Boccioni, Carlo Carrà, Gino Severini, Luigi Russolo and Ardengo Soffici, and works by Giorgio de Chirico, Amedeo Modigliani, Giorgio Morandi, Mario Sironi and Marino Marini. In addition to the main displays from the permanent collection, the Estorick Collection organises temporary exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018738", "title": "List of members of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame", "text": "List of members of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame\n\nThe United States Hockey Hall of Fame is located in Eveleth, Minnesota. It was established on June 21, 1973 with the purpose of honoring the sport of ice hockey in the United States by preserving American legends of the game. On May 11, 2007, USA Hockey and the United States Hockey Hall of Fame came to an agreement allowing the rights to the selection process and induction event associated to be handled by USA Hockey. After a class has been enshrined, anyone is allowed to nominate individuals to be considered for enshrinement in the following years class using the USA Hockey web site prior to the nomination deadline. Nominated individuals must be considered to have made an extraordinary contribution to the sport of ice hockey in America, but could come in any form such as player, coach, official, administrator or support personnel. A selection committee then reviews the nominations and decides who will be enshrined.\n\n Names appear as they are displayed in the United States Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018741", "title": "Punto in Aria", "text": "Punto in Aria\n\nPunto in aria (literally “stitch in air”) is an early form of needle lace devised in Italy. It is considered the first true lace because it was the first meant to be stitched alone, and not first onto a woven fabric.\n\nIt is a closely related needle lace to \"reticella\", and their designs have many similarities when compared side-by-side. However, the \"punto in aria\" was an important improvement on the \"reticella\" method, and was a breakthrough in needle lace design.\n\nThe \"reticella\" was the design that was the catalyst of the transition between fabrics made into lace by subtracting threads after needling, and lace made from scratch without fabric support. The \"reticella\" design required one to draw out threads after stitching onto fabric. As that design evolved, an increasing number of threads required withdrawing. Eventually, so many threads were drawn-out that the foundation became very flimsy and lace makers devised a new framework that did not require original foundation fabric. This came to be known as \"punto in aria\".\n\n\"Punto in aria\" retains many of the characteristics of \"reticella\" but also is able to go beyond the geometric framework. The lace makers devised a linen and parchment base for their work. This base consisted of two or three layers of fabric with the parchment pattern on top. The layers were then basted together. The pattern was then laid over with a gimp which was basted down through the pattern and layers of support fabric. When the lace was finished, the basting stitches were cut between the layers thus leaving only the lace.\n"}
{"id": "2018746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018746", "title": "Borik", "text": "Borik\n\nBorik is an urban neighborhood in the city of Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina (Republika Srpska entity). It was built northeast of the old city center after an earthquake in 1969 when Banjaluka was heavily damaged. Borik was planned for housing of people who lost their homes in an earthquake and it was built in a brutalist architectural style, typical for cities that were developed under an influence of a communist system.\n"}
{"id": "2018761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018761", "title": "Pale, Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Pale, Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nPale () is a municipality of the city of Istočno Sarajevo located in Republika Srpska, an entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is situated southeast of the capital city of Sarajevo. As of 2013, it has a population of 22,282 inhabitants, while the town of Pale has a population of 13,883 inhabitants.\n\nThe famous Jahorina ski resort is located some from the municipality.\n\nPale always represented an important junction between east and west that is the Sarajevo Valley and the Drina River basin. There are preserved ruins of roads and building from the Roman times in the nearby villages of Miosici and Ilijak. From early on this area served as a place of trade. In the late 14th and early 15th century the area surrounding Pale belonged to the Feudal House of Pavlović. There were several fortified settlements: Pavlovac on the River Prača, Gradina in the Upper Pale and Hodidjed above the junction of the Miljacka rivers. The Hodidjed settlement served as an administrative center for the surrounding area.\n\nThe feudal house of Pavlović belonged to the upper crust of the Bosnian aristocracy, their holdings extended from Vrhbosna (today's Sarajevo) on the West to Dobruna on the east. Pavle Radenović, the founder of the Pavlović line, aside from his ancestral holdings around Pale also owned the mines in Olovo, the city of Trebinje, and parts of Konavle and Cavtat. The area under his control enjoyed prosperous trade between the locals and the Merchants from Dubrovnik. The main trading center was the town of Praca, part of the Pale Municipality today. After the death of Pavle in 1415 during a duel, his younger son Radoslav Pavlović (1420–1421) would take over from his father.\n\nAfter the death of the Bosnian King Tvrtko I in 1391 the Bosnian feudals houses struggled to gain the throne. The sons of Pavle, under the threat from other Bosnian aristocrats, asked for the help of their allies the Ottomans. The Ottomans pursued a strategy of divide and conquer that eventually resulted in complete conquest.\n\nAfter the fall of Bosnia the feudal holdings of the House of Pavlović were divided into 11 districts, and renamed the entire area the \"Pavli Vilayet. The first Ottoman census in the year 1468–69 the town of Pale is recorded under the name of \"Bogazi Yumry\" as the seat of one of the 11 districts. The district of \"Bogazi Yumry\" contained six villages of which two were located on the plane of Pale.\n\nDue to the harsh conditions in which the local Christian population found itself, there is very little data about the urban development during the Ottoman rule of this area in the Middle Ages. The area continued to be commercially viable and valuable to the new rulers. The town of Praca continued to grow and expand until the great fire and outbreak of Black Death in the 18th century. The name \"Pavli Vilayet\" continued to be used for this area until the beginning of the 19th century and the town eventually came to be known as Pale. One of the earliest recordings of this new name is a map from 1877, where the town itself as well as the entire region are labelled as \"Pale\".\n\nDuring the 19th century the Ottoman Empire found itself under the two politically and socially completely different power struggles. The early decades of the 19th century were marked with a series of national and ethnic freedom movements of the many subject people. The Ottoman aristocracy on the other hand was deeply conservative and was resisting any efforts towards reform and development of a centralized state. The aristocracy in Bosnia was among the most dissatisfied in the empire, jealously guarding its right against the powers.\n\nIn 1831, Captain Husein Gradaščević, one of the wealthiest and most powerful members of the Bosnian aristocracy, came to lead the rebel aristocrats. After the conquest of Travnik, the seat of the Ottoman Viceroy, the Bosnian aristocracy demanded that the Sultan halt his reform efforts and keep the status quo in Bosnia. In addition they wanted the right to vote for and appoint the Viceroy from among their ranks.\n\nCaptain Hussain did not wait for the Sultan to answer their demands and appointed himself the Vice Roy of Bosnia, alienating many of his supporters in the process. The Sultan played the different factions against each other and in 1832 sent an army against the rebels. One of the decisive battles against the rebels took place in the town of Pale itself. Captain Husein did not command sufficient numbers of troops and suffered a defeat. The decisive victory broke the back of the revolt.\n\nWith the Berlin Congress Bosnia was placed under the administration of Austria-Hungary. During this time significant investment and economic changes were made in Pale and the surrounding areas.\n\nThe new overlords were favoring the exploitation of the natural resources, primarily mineral and wood products. The town of Pale at this point becomes an important logging and wood products center in the region. According to the 1895 census, Pale with the adjacent villages had 483 inhabitants. 440 inhabitants were engaged in agricultural and logging activities while 27 were engaged in clerical work. Industrial development spurs on supporting activities. New trade shops, hotels and other service activities are brought to the town.\n\nIn February 1907 Pale receives the first Elementary School. The school was administered by the school-church board of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Pale. The school admitted students regardless of their faith. Along with Orthodox Christians, Catholic and Jewish students also attended the school. These were mostly the children of people who were involved in the town log mill.\n\nAccording to administrative records of the Austro-Hungarian administration, by 1879 in Pale there were already two modern log mills, and their products were transported to Sarajevo. With the construction of the rail line connecting the Bosnian capital of Sarajevo with its eastern border town Višegrad the town of Pale received its first railway station. The railway link enabled Pale to continue to grow and prosper with foreign investment making it possible to open several additional mills in the town. Construction of the Bosnian Eastern Railway from Sarajevo to Uvac and Vardište started in 1903. It was completed in 1906, using the track gauge. With the cost of 75 million gold crowns, which approximately translates to 450 thousand gold crowns per kilometer, it was one of the most expensive railways in the world built by that time. The line was closed down in 1978, and dismantled afterwards.\n\nIn the early months of 1914 after the decisive Serbian victory at the Battle of Cer the allies requested from the Serbs and their Montenegrin allies to attack the Austro-Hungarians in Bosnia and tie up their forces there.\n\nIn October 1914 the Serbo-Montenegrin armies penetrated the areas surrounding Sarajevo and gained control of Mt. Romanija. During that operation, Montenegrin units entered Pale. Soon afterwards, the Montegrins had to withdraw. Along with them a large part of the local Serbian population.\n\nThose who were unable to flee were at the mercy of the Austrian Schutz corps, irregular Austrian police forces tasked with suppressing revolt within the empire. Pale was pillaged and burned down completely after the Austrian forces re-entered the town. 54 local residents were lynched in the town center.\n\nIn the town of Goražde, a refugee column of villagers from nearby villages such as Praca, Vijara, Budj, Podgrab, Vrhpraca, Gorovici, Hotocine, Glasinac, Podromanija and Socica were intercepted by Austrian regular forces and the irregulars before they could cross the Drina river. 48 adult men were separated from the rest of the group and executed by pistol-shot, while the remaining refugees were forced into detention camps.\n\nConditions in these detention camps were especially harsh. Among the most infamous was the detention camp in Doboj. From December 1914 to July 1917 more than 45,000 people (mostly Serbs) were detained there. While the exact numbers of fatalities will probably never be known, more than 1000 fatalities were identified, 230 of which were from the Pale municipality.\n\nWith the end of the war and the absorption of Bosnia into the newly created Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the town of Pale once again struck out towards growth. The basis for economic recovery and development once again, as before, were based the on the natural resources of the region, in particular forestry.\n\nNewly developed transportation links with Sarajevo spurred growth. In 1928 the town itself became the center of the municipality. By 1939 there were more than 14 log mills in Pale which generated more than of wood products. Increased economic development spurred population growth. Between 1921 and 1931 the number of inhabitants increased from 2,382 to 11,103.\n\nIn the 1930 one could already find 30 to 40 large buildings. In 1935 a modern water supply system was put into use. The town flourished culturally as well. New and old schools were renovated and built. A community center, completed in 1928, dedicated to the victims of World War I featured gymnastic equipment and from time to time cultural and entertainment events were held there. Amateur theater and folk dance companies were active there as well.\n\nIn 1934 the Vihor Football Club was founded, and along with it a new soccer stadium was constructed. The cultural and sport society \"Soko\" was responsible for a large level of participation by Pale's inhabitants in their athletic programs. The members of this club would go on to successfully compete in Zagreb, Ljubljana and Prague. In this period the town also received the first medical facility as well as a library.\n\nBy the 1940 Pale already have the looks of a small, but very well arranged city. A significant number of intellectuals as well as affluent and influential people from Sarajevo and other places in the country constructed summer homes in Pale. All of this was interrupted with the German attack on Yugoslavia in April 1941. After the conquests of Zagreb and Belgrade the German forces turned their drive towards the center of the country. On 15 April, a German motorized division would occupy Sarajevo and capture the Yugoslav Supreme Military command in the town of Pale itself. By April 1941 a complete surrender was signed. The short April war brought on a full dismemberment of the country. The town of Pale was incorporated into the Nazi-affiliated Independent State of Croatia.\n\nThe first of act of the newly installed puppet regime in the town of Pale was the demolition of the World War I Victim Memorial as well the demolition of the Eastern Orthodox Church. All Serb enterprises were nationalized and taken over by Nazi sympathizers. The former home to the cultural center was turned into the HQ of the local regiment of Ustashe, which would soon serve as prison and detention center. Mass deportations, executions of prominent Serbs were daily occurrences. During the summer of 1941 the first massacres occurred, the villages of Njemanici and Bjelogorica were completely destroyed and more than sixty people were murdered.\n\nFaced with this kind of mistreatment the local populace started an armed revolt. The initial skirmishes took place in the early morning hours of 1 August 1941. The occupation forces tried to brutally suppress this revolt and during the month of August more than 75 prominent town folk were arrested and deported to death camps.\n\nIn mid-November 1943 in a retaliatory expedition the Ustashe killed more than 100 inhabitants of the village of Rakovac. After 45 men out of that village reported to the Ustaše administration for the issuance of new identification documents they were all arrested and in pairs of two were chained to each other. They were transported and murdered. After they killed the men they went to Rakovac to kill the remaining women, children and the elderly. Once the surviving witnesses, Milan Starčević, residing today in Pale, testified: \"\"After they say that a part of the village inhabitants was missing the Ustashe sent out search parties and came to the Alija Hill. There they were stopped by the Germans. The Germans did not allow them to go into the Santrac house where about 10 or so women and children had fled. There were even shots exchanged among the Ustashe and the Germans.\"\"\n\nThe next day Milan Starčević's brother went with German troops back to bury the victims of the Ustashe massacre. During World War II in the municipality of Pale more than 1200 civilians were murdered, while another 350 resistance fighters were killed in the fighting.\n\nAfter World War II, the town and municipality of Pale, thanks to the tireless efforts of the local population, slowly recover and resume their economic development. In 1946 on the foundations of the old log mil a new one is constructed. This new mill would produce more than of wood products. The mill itself employed more than 170 in the mill and an addition 150 in the forest.\n\nIn 1952 a military maintenance facility in the suburb of Koran was constructed. The local economy received the first important building block for the metal industry. Between 1952 and 1960 and additional 300–400 employees were hired in that facility.\n\nWith the development of the metal industry there are significant migration into the town, the suburb of Koran is built out with new building and apartment complexes constructed.\n\nIn 1968 the Military Maintenance complex in Koran enters is merged with the \"FAMOS\" corporation and is incorporated as \"FAMOS-Koran\". This merger brings further development and new work opportunities. Famos-Koran would go on to manufacture parts for heavy engines, transmissions and vehicles. Towards the end of the 1980s there were more than 2000 employees at Famos-Koran. In addition factories were add for the manufacture of engine turbos and manufacture of parts for the Mercedes Benz OM-360 engine that was built under licence.\n\nDuring 1991 and 1992, as the tensions rose in the run up to the Bosnian War, the Pale region became an administrative center of the nascent anti-Sarajevo and pro-Serb Republika Srpska. It would remain a center of activity for the Serb forces during their Siege of Sarajevo which led to the deaths of more than 10,000 people and the wounding of 56,000 (including 15,000 children). Several high ranking Serb commanders in control of forces from the region, including General Stanislav Galić were sentenced by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) for crimes against the people of Sarajevo where a campaign of unrelenting violence against the inhabitants was led.\n\nThe town became the nominal administrative headquarters of the Bosnian Serb government, while Banja Luka became the \"de facto\" capital. Pale remained an important cultural center with a collection of cultural and informational institutions such as a news agency (SRNA), a television station (Canal S) and newspapers (\"Javnost\" and \"Ognjišta\") are based there.\n\nThe Bosnian War ended with the signing of the Dayton Peace accords on 14 December 1995. With the war at the end the town return to some sort of normalcy. As the Constitution of Republika Srpska sets out that Sarajevo is the capital of Republika Srpska which was recognized as an entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Dayton Peace Agreement. The administrative capital has now transferred to Banja Luka.\n\nIn 2013 the local authorities and residents welcomed convicted war criminal Momčilo Krajišnik after his release from jail. In 2006, he had been sentenced to 27 years in prison for crimes against humanity on non-Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war, some of which included persecution, extermination, murder and forced deportations. But his sentence was reduced and he was released early. The Municipal Board of the Serbian Democratic Party prepared the welcome which was attended by 3,000 Serbs.\n\nThere is the Jahorina Film Festival which is annually organized since 2007.\n\nThe following table gives a preview of total number of registered people employed in legal entities per their core activity (as of 2018):\nThere are more than 30 logging and wood production mills in the Pale municipality. The Wood Industry in Pale is an important part of the towns economy and number of people employed there. Currently there are too many logging facility around in the area, exceeding the renewal capacity of nearby forests.\n\nThe local economy has a significant tourism arm. The nearby mountains of Jahorina, Trebević and Igman were used during the 1984 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe Jahorina ski resort has 8 lifts and over of ski trails all over the mountain that offer Olympic-style professional trails and novice trails for children and beginners. The high season on Jahorina is mid-December to late January. Around the new year it is almost impossible to get accommodation without advance reservations.\n\nThe Hunting Association \"Jahorina Pale\" administers the \"Pale\" hunting grounds. These hunting grounds cover more than 37,039 hectares in the Pale and Stari Grad Municipality. The hunting grounds is one of the best-kept and -equipped hunting grounds in Republika Srpska.\n\nThe hunting grounds feature three hunting lodges; two are within the county limits of Palem, the hunting lodge \"Srndać\" features 35 beds, while the smaller hunting lodge \"Lane\" features 20 beds. The hunting grounds offer different kinds of game including: Deer, Bear, Boar and Rabbits.\n\nA significant archeological find is located at the Orlovača cave. The cave is situated only away from Pale and away from Sarajevo, at above sea level. In 1975 the first explorers entered the cave. Consisting of of explored passages and halls, Orlovača is the second-longest cave in BH ( after Vjetrenica Cave). During August and September 2002, through the initiative of the Faculty of Philosophy in Pale of the total length of the passages with the most beautiful cave ornaments were made accessible for tourist visits.\n\nThe cave is characterized by stable microclimate conditions, during the whole year the temperature is only and humidity over 90%. The variety of important signs of life discovered in the cave establishes it among the richest palaeontological sites in the region. The cave bear skeletons discovered in the cave are estimated to be over 16.000 years old. Signs of prehistoric culture were spotted on the slope leading to the main cave entrance. Dating of the remnants places them in the late Bronze Age, but remnants dating back to neolite and mezolite age are also expected to be found.\n\nBecause of its scientific and aesthetic characteristics the cave is destined to become the focus of the research and educational projects of the Faculty of Philosophy in Pale. The center is planned to be built on the banks of the Sinjeva River.\n\nPale is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018769", "title": "Point de Venise", "text": "Point de Venise\n\nPoint de Venise (also Gros Point de Venise) is a Venetian needle lace from the 17th century characterized by scrolling floral patterns with additional floral motifs worked in relief (in contrast with the geometric designs of the earlier reticella). By the mid-seventeenth century, it had overtaken Flemish lace as the most desirable type of lace in contemporary European fashion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018775", "title": "Point de France", "text": "Point de France\n\nPoint de France is a type of needle lace developed in the late 17th century. It is characterized by rich and symmetrical detail, and a reliance on symbols associated with King Louis XIV of France, such as suns, sunflowers, fleurs-de-lys, and crowns. \n\nDuring the 1660s, King Louis XIV of France was spending extravagant sums on lace from the Republic of Venice, particularly a type known as \"point de Venise\", to the dismay of his finance minister, Jean-Baptiste Colbert. In order to redirect this spending into the French economy, Colbert set up a number of official royal lace factories, which were to produce a type of lace he named \"point de France\". He worked with the French ambassador to Venice to tempt needle-workers from Venice, Italy, and Flanders to emigrate to France, prompting the Doge of Venice to declare that defection to France by needle-workers was a treasonous act punishable by execution or assassination. It is unclear whether this threat was ever carried out; regardless, enough Venetian needle-workers emigrated that the French quickly learned to produce high-quality lace.\n\n\"Point de France\" was popularized by the clergy, who used it for the ornaments of their rochets, a type of clerical vestment. \n\nMost surviving pieces from the 16th and 17th centuries are now in museums.\n"}
{"id": "2018777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018777", "title": "Bahman Shirazi", "text": "Bahman Shirazi\n\nBahman A.K. Shirazi is former director of graduate studies at California Institute of Integral Studies(CIIS). He has been actively affiliated with that organisation since 1983. His doctoral dissertation, \"Self in Integral Psychology\" was the first of its kind in the field of integral psychology. His work draws from the approach of Haridas Chaudhuri, focusing on an integrative approach to psychology, with the goal of developing insights into the nature of human psychospiritual development and integral self-realization. He has taught at several San francisco Bay Area Universities: Californian Institute of Integral Studies (CIIS), Sofia University (formerly Institute of Transpersonal Psychology), and previously at John F. Kennedy University(JFKU), and Dominican University of California.\n\nEditing\n\nEditor: Special Issue of Integral Review, Vol. 11, (#1), February 2015\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150730134747/http://www.integral-review.org/back_issues/backissue20_Vol11No1/index.asp\n\nEditor: Special Issue of Integral Review, Volume 9 (#3), September 2013\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150322140626/http://integral-review.org/back_issues/backissue18_Vol9No3/index.asp\n\nEditor: Special Issue of Integral Review, Vol. 8 (#1), July 2012\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150322140626/http://integral-review.org/back_issues/backissue18_Vol9No3/index.asp\n\nEditor: Special Issue of Integral Review, Vol. 7 (#1), June 2011\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150701182200/http://integral-review.org/back_issues/backissue13_Vol7No1_CIIS/index.asp\n\nEditor: Special Issue of ReVision Journal, Vol. 32 (#1), Spring 2010\n\nAudiovisual Media\n\nAssociate Producer: Integral Consciousness. Documentary Film. Director, Mark Kitchell. Alan Baiss (producer) ©2008\n\n"}
{"id": "2018782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018782", "title": "The Jacobin", "text": "The Jacobin\n\nThe Jacobin (\"Jakobín\" in Czech) is an opera in three acts by Antonín Dvořák to an original Czech libretto by Marie Červinková-Riegrová. Červinková-Riegrová took some of the story's characters from the story by Alois Jirásek, \"At the Ducal Court\", but devised her own plot about them. The first performance was at the National Theatre, Prague, 1889. Červinková-Riegrová revised the libretto, with Dvořák's permission, in 1894, notably in the last act. Dvořák himself revised the music in 1897 (the revised premiere was on 19 June 1898, under Adolf Čech). \n\nThe composer felt great affection for the subject of the opera, as the central character is a music teacher, and Dvořák had in mind his former teacher Antonin Liehmann, who had a daughter named Terinka, the name of one of the opera's characters.\n\nJohn Clapham has briefly discussed the presence of Czech musical style in the opera. H. C. Colles has described this opera as \"the most subtle and intimate of his peasant operas\", and noted \"how clearly its scenes are drawn from life\".\n\nBohuš has returned to his home-town, incognito, with his wife Julie. His mother is dead and his father, the Count, has disowned him and has become a recluse. Meanwhile, the Count's Burgrave pays court to the schoolmaster Benda's daughter, Terinka, who is, however, in love with Jiří. The Burgrave is suspicious of Bohuš and Julie, especially as they have come from Paris, where the Count's son is said to be allied with the Jacobins. To everyone's surprise, the Count himself now appears, confirming that he no longer regards Bohuš as his son, and that his heir will be his nephew Adolf. Adolf and the Burgrave rejoice, while Bohuš and Julie, hidden among the crowd, are horrified at the turn that events have taken.\n\nIn the school, Benda rehearses a chorus of children and townsfolk, together with Terinka and Jiří as soloists, in a cantata which will celebrate Adolf's new position. After the rehearsal, Terinka and Jiří declare their love, but Benda returns and announces that his daughter must marry the Burgrave. An argument develops, but suddenly the people return, alarmed at the rumour that sinister Jacobins have arrived in the town. The townsfolk run away in terror as Bohuš and Julie arrive to ask Benda if he can accommodate them for a few days. He is inclined to refuse, but when they reveal that they are Czechs who have sustained themselves in foreign countries through singing the songs of their native land, he, Terinka and Jiří are overcome with emotion and are happy to shelter them. The Burgrave comes to woo Terinka, but she rejects him. When Jiří defies him, the Burgrave threatens to force him into the army, but suddenly Adolf enters, wanting to find out if the \"Jacobin\" (Bohuš) has been arrested. The Burgrave prevaricates, but Bohuš himself arrives and reveals who he is. He and Adolf quarrel, and Adolf orders Bohuš's arrest.\n\nAt the castle, Jiří tries to see the Count to tell him that his son has been imprisoned, but is himself arrested at the behest of Adolf and the Burgrave. Lotinka admits Julie and Benda, and goes to fetch the Count. Julie hides, and Benda tries to prepare the old man for a reconciliation with Bohuš. The Count, however, is still angry with his son for marrying and leaving Bohemia and for his alleged Jacobin sympathies. Benda departs, and the Count laments his lonely life and wonders whether he has, after all, misjudged his son. Offstage, Julie sings a song that the late Countess used to sing to Bohuš when he was a child, and the Count, recognising it and overcome with emotion, asks Julie where she learnt it. Once he discovers that it was his son who taught it to her, his anger returns, but Julie is able to convince him that Bohuš, far from being a Jacobin, supported the Girondins and had been condemned to death by the Jacobins. She now reveals that Bohuš is in prison and that she is his wife, but the celebrations are about to start, and she leaves.\n\nThe children and townsfolk rejoice, and the Count announces that he will present his successor to them. Adolf is overjoyed, but the Count first enquires of him and the Burgrave whether there are any prisoners that he can pardon as part of the festivities. They reluctantly admit that there are, and Bohuš and Jiří are summoned. The Burgrave realises that the game is up as the Count denounces the scheming Adolf and embraces Bohuš and Julie. Bohuš praises the loyalty of Jiří and Terinka, and the Count joins their hands. Benda gives them his blessing, and the opera ends with a minuet, a polka and a chorus praising the Count and his new-found happiness with his son and his family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018789", "title": "Radio &amp; Records", "text": "Radio &amp; Records\n\nRadio & Records (R&R) was a trade publication providing news and airplay information for the radio and music industries. It started as an independent trade from 1973 to 2006 until VNU Media took over in 2006 and became a relaunched sister trade to \"Billboard\", until its final issue in 2009.\n\nThe company was founded in 1973 and published its first issue on October 5 of that year. Founders included Bob Wilson and Robert Kardashian. The publication was issued in a weekly print edition, and it also issued a bi-annual Directory. R&R published its print edition from 1973 through August 4, 2006. Its weekly columns and features were intended to inform and educate the radio industry by each format, in addition to format-specific charts based on radio airplay. The charts eventually became populated by data from Mediabase, a company that monitors and tracks radio airplay in cities across the U.S. From 1987 to 2002 it was owned by Westwood One, which collaborated with \"Radio & Records\" to use its charts and format editors for WWOne's syndicated radio programs.\n\nOn July 6, 2006, VNU, the parent company of \"Billboard\" and its sister publication \"Billboard Radio Monitor\", announced the acquisition of Radio & Records, and a month later on August 1, officially took over ownership. R&R then fell under the operations of the Billboard Information Group.\n\nOn July 12, 2006, VNU announced that Radio & Records and \"Billboard Radio Monitor\" would be integrated into one publication called R&R. The new R&R published charts based on Nielsen BDS data. Both Billboard Radio Monitor and R&R ceased publication as separate trades, with Monitor issuing its last edition on July 14, 2006 after 13 years, and R&R ending their 33-year run as an independent trade with its August 4, 2006 edition.\n\nRadio & Records was relaunched as a magazine under new owners VNU Media on August 11, 2006, as \"R&R\". The company, which has since changed its name to The Nielsen Company, currently publishes 6 daily email publications, 35 weekly email publications, and 4 websites, each serving segments of the radio and records industries.\n\nLike \"Billboard\", which is also owned by VNU Media, Radio & Records used data from Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems to develop the charts showing which records were played each week by leading radio stations. Prior to the merger, Radio & Records had used monitored charts and playlists from Mediabase. The format charts used during its run included CHR/Top 40, Rhythmic, Gospel, Urban, Country, Adult Contemporary, Rock, Christian, Latin and Smooth Jazz.\n\nIn 2000 Radio & Records entered the Spanish music business purchasing weekly trade publication Radio Y Musica and Radio y Musica Convention from Alfredo Alonso.\n\nOn June 3, 2009, R&R announced that they were immediately ceasing operations after the release of the 6/5/09 issue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018791", "title": "The Girl Can't Help It", "text": "The Girl Can't Help It\n\nThe Girl Can't Help It is a 1956 musical comedy starring Jayne Mansfield in the titular role, Tom Ewell, Edmond O'Brien, Henry Jones, and Julie London. The picture was produced and directed by Frank Tashlin, with a screenplay adapted by Tashlin and Herbert Baker from an uncredited 1955 novel, \"Do Re Mi\" by Garson Kanin. Filmed in DeLuxe Color, the production was originally intended as a vehicle for the American sex symbol Jayne Mansfield, with a satirical subplot involving teenagers and rock 'n' roll music. The unintended result has been called the \"most potent\" celebration of rock music ever captured on film.\n\nThe original music score, including the title song performed by Little Richard, was by Bobby Troup, with an additional credit to Ray Anthony for the tune \"Big Band Boogie\". Tom Ewell had portrayed Marilyn Monroe's leading man in \"The Seven Year Itch\" the previous year.\n\nA slot machine mobster, Marty \"Fats\" Murdock (Edmond O'Brien), wants his blonde girlfriend, Jerri Jordan (Jayne Mansfield), to be a singing star, despite her seeming lack of talent. He hires alcoholic press agent Tom Miller (Tom Ewell) to promote Jordan, both because of his past success with the career of singer Julie London (a fiction of the script) and because he never makes sexual advances towards his female clients.\n\nMiller sets to work by showing Jordan off around numerous night spots; his machinations arouse interest in Jordan and soon offers of contracts follow. However, Miller realizes that Jordan really just wants to be a homemaker and tries to persuade Murdock not to push Jordan into a show-business career. He thinks he's succeeded when he reveals to Murdock that Jordan's singing is so bad it shatters light bulbs, but Murdock suggests that Jordan would be perfect for a song he composed while in prison, \"Rock Around the Rock Pile\" (a parody of \"Rock Around the Clock\"). Miller reluctantly records Jordan performing the part of a prison siren in Murdock's song and heads to Chicago to promote it to Wheeler (John Emery), a former mob rival of Murdock who now has a monopoly over the jukebox industry.\n\nSuspicious of Miller's reluctance to promote Jordan and of the obvious attraction between Miller and Jordan, Murdock has his associate Mousie (Henry Jones) wiretap a phone call between the pair. Feeling pity for them, Mousie edits out the romantic portions of their conversations and convinces Murdock that their relationship is strictly business.\n\nIn Chicago, Wheeler is impressed by the song and Jordan's voice and offers to sign both Jordan and the songwriter. However, when Miller reveals that the songwriter is Murdock, Wheeler throws him out of his office and vows never to play the song. A furious Murdock bullies bar owners into buying jukeboxes from him instead and successfully promotes his and Jordan's song. To prevent Murdock from stealing his business, Wheeler arranges to have Murdock assassinated at the rock show where Jordan will be making her debut.\n\nOn his way to the show, Murdock confesses to Mousie that he doesn't want to marry Jordan. Mousie confesses that he altered the tape of Jordan and Miller's phone call and encourages Murdock to let Jordan marry Miller. Backstage at the show, Jordan confesses her love to Miller and they kiss. Jordan also admits that she is a talented singer, who lied because she did not want a show business career; she goes on stage and performs a song about her love for Miller. When Murdock arrives, Miller declares to him that he and Jordan are in love; the delighted Murdock surprises Miller by shaking his hand and offering to be the best man.\n\nBefore Miller and Murdock can tell Jordan the good news, Wheeler's assassins shoot at Murdock. Miller fights them off and shoves Murdock on stage to perform his song, reasoning that the assassins won't shoot Murdock in front of so many witnesses. Wheeler arrives and, impressed by the audience's response to Murdock, calls off the assassination and signs Murdock instead. The film ends with Miller and Jordan kissing on their honeymoon, as Murdock and Mousie perform on a TV show in the background.\n\nThe film was not received well by critics. Bosley Crowther of the New York Times noted that Jayne Mansfield's performance was underwhelming, stating, “Her range, at this stage, appears restricted to a weak imitation of Marilyn Monroe”.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nThe movie's influence on rock music is significant. The film reached Liverpool, England, in the early summer of 1957. The cameo performances of early rock 'n' roll stars such as Little Richard, Eddie Cochran, and Gene Vincent and His Bluecaps fascinated a 16-year-old John Lennon by showing him, for the first time, his \"worshipped\" American rock 'n' roll stars as living humans and thus further inspiring him to pursue his own rock 'n' roll dream. On July 6, 1957, 15-year-old Paul McCartney was introduced to Lennon after the latter had performed at a village church garden party with his skiffle group The Quarrymen. McCartney demonstrated his musical prowess to Lennon by performing \"Twenty Flight Rock\" in a manner similar to how he had seen it played by Eddie Cochran in \"The Girl Can't Help It\". This led to Lennon inviting McCartney to join the group. McCartney talks about the movie in the documentary series \"The Beatles Anthology\".\n\nOn September 18, 1968, The Beatles interrupted recording \"Birthday\" at Abbey Road Studios so they could go back to Paul McCartney's house to watch the British TV premiere of the film.\n\nAlso, some film buffs have pointed to Elvis Presley's famous performance of the song \"Jailhouse Rock\" in MGM's movie of the same name (often cited as the first music video), released one year after \"The Girl Can't Help It\", as bearing a remarkable resemblance to the theme and performance of a song called \"Rock Around the Rockpile\" from the earlier movie. In that performance, Edmond O'Brien plays a character who seeks to escape an assassination attempt by jumping on stage and singing the lyrics, \"rock, rock, rock around the rockpile,\" while backed up by The Ray Anthony Band wearing striped inmate uniforms. O'Brien, then 42 years old, even awkwardly attempts some of the hip-swiveling and leg motions for which Elvis had already became famous, as he had appeared already 10 times, to cumulative audiences in excess of 180 million viewers, and on national television, before and during the filming of \"The Girl Can't Help It\", the production of which commenced in mid-September 1956. Other film buffs point to the famous acrobatic dancer and Presley contemporary, as well as MGM star, Russ Tamblyn (\"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\"), who visited Presley at his suite at the Knickerboker Hotel on the night before the filming of the \"Jailhouse Rock\" scene. Presley had had trouble that day at the rehearsals in interpreting what the MGM choreographer, Alex Romero, demanded of him, and Tamblyn's advice at the suite that night helped him perform the first part of that dance sequence (which, incidentally, was witnessed by the then-MGM megastar Gene Kelly). In fact, \"The Girl Can't Help It\"'s producers had sought to enlist Presley, whose manager, Colonel Tom Parker, however, had demanded too much money. Two uncredited composers on \"The Girl Can't Help It\", Hugo Friedhofer and Lionel Newman, had also composed music for the Elvis classic movie, \"Love Me Tender\", in the same year, 1956.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018797", "title": "Alençon lace", "text": "Alençon lace\n\nAlençon lace (, ) or point d'Alençon () is a needle lace that originated in Alençon, France. It is sometimes called the \"Queen of lace.\" Lace making began in Alençon during the 16th century and the local industry was rapidly expanded during the reign of Louis XIV by Jean-Baptiste Colbert, who established a Royal Workshop in the town to produce lace in the Venetian style in 1665. The purpose of establishing this workshop was to reduce the French court's dependence on expensive foreign imports. Marthe La Perrière had modified the Venetian technique and Alençon emerged as a unique style around 1675 after Colbert's monopoly ended.\n\nThough the demand for lace went into sharp decline following the French Revolution, it recovered some of its popularity during the Second French Empire. St.Marie-Azélie Guérin Martin, the mother of St. Therese of Lisieux was a famous lace-maker at Alençon. It entered terminal decline at the end of the 19th century with changes in fashion and the development of cheaper, machine-made lace.\n\nDino making survived on a small scale and the technique was preserved by Carmelite nuns in Alençon. In 1976 a National Lace Workshop was established in the town to ensure that this lace-making technique survives. There is a permanent exhibition of lace and a display showing how it is made in the Musée des Beaux Arts et de la Dentelle, located in the town centre and adjoining the Workshop. The workshops themselves are open to the public only on certain days of the year.\n\nUNESCO recognised the unusual craftsmanship of this lace and added it to its Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in November 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018799", "title": "Pizarro brothers", "text": "Pizarro brothers\n\nThe Pizarro brothers were Spanish conquistadors who came to Peru in 1530. They all were born in Trujillo, Spain. They were four brothers:\n\n\nAll of them played a major part in the capture (1531–38) and rule of the Inca Empire. However, after the death of legal governor Francisco, their legitimate claims were practically forfeit. Juan had died during the ten-month-long siege of Cuzco and Hernando was sent back as envoy to Spain and imprisoned in 1540, after accusations of corruption and tax evasion pointed towards the Pizarro administration. After Francisco's assassination in 1541, power was usurped by Cristóbal Vaca de Castro as new governor of \"New Castile\". In 1544 the king of Spain, who had also granted Francisco governorship in 1528, sent his own envoy Blasco Núñez Vela, as viceroy of Peru. Blasco imprisoned Castro but was the very same year detained and later killed on the behalf of Gonzalo Pizarro, who gathered his supporters and seized much of Peru. When Blasco's successor, Pedro de la Gasca defeated and had Gonzalo executed in 1548, the reign of the Pizarro brothers had definitely passed.\n\nThe family group involved in the conquest of the Incas also included a maternal half-brother of Francisco,\n\n\nand a cousin of the Pizarro brothers,\n\n\nHernando had two full sisters, Inés Pizarro y de Vargas and Isabel Pizarro y de Vargas, who married Gonzalo de Tapia.\n"}
{"id": "2018800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018800", "title": "Usk, British Columbia", "text": "Usk, British Columbia\n\nUsk is a hamlet in British Columbia, Canada just off Highway 16 north-east of Terrace on the north bank of the Skeena River. Once famous for berry-growing, a flood in the 1930s destroyed most of the community. A few people still live there now. Access is by the Usk Ferry, a reaction ferry, or passenger-only cablecar when the river is iced over. The Usk station is served by Via Rail's Jasper – Prince Rupert train.\n\nBetween Usk and Kitselas, further upstream, is Kitselas Canyon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018802", "title": "Commonwealth of World Citizens", "text": "Commonwealth of World Citizens\n\nThe Commonwealth of World Citizens (later named 'Mondcivitan Republic' after the Esperanto) was founded by Hugh J. Schonfield, an associate of H.G. Wells, in 1956. The organisation describes itself as a servant-Nation.\n\nHugh Schonfield was a biblical scholar, who was later best known for his book \"The Passover Plot.\" Schonfield first felt the need for an organisation for the service of all nations as far back as 1938.\n\nFrom 1938 to 1950 Schonfield examined various aspects of the project, including questions of international law. Schonfield came up with the idea of a body of persons from different countries which would have relations with the governments of other countries, without that organisation holding any territory itself. When the United Nations was formed, Schonfield wrote to the Secretary-General and to all the states party to the charter of his desire to form his Mondcivitan Republic. \n\nIn the summer of 1951, a General Assembly of the organisation's members was held in Paris, which appointed a Secretariat as the acting administration with offices in London. By 1952 the organisation had members in 14 countries, by 1954 in 25 countries and by 1955 in 30 countries. The second General Assembly in 1953 set up a commission to draft the text of the constitution of the organisation. Following amendments at the third General Assembly in 1955, the organisation's provisional Constitution was approved for adoption. In the same year humanitarian activities were initiated by the creation of the World Service Trust as a specialised agency of the organisation.\n\nCaresse Crosby merged her group with the Commonwealth of World Citizens.\n\nThe organisation arose from the need felt by members throughout the world to give organic expression to the idea of the fundamental unity of the human race by developing a common way of life and government, which experimentally would be a preparation by example for a co-operative World community embracing all peoples.\n\nThe organisation was to consist of all its members at any given time, without regard for colour or ethnic origin. In its political expression it was a free and self-governing organisation and \"world community\".\n\nThe new organisation expressed the goal of world unity and human fraternity. The idea was that the organisation should advocate for international reconciliation and the resolution of international problems and conflicts. The loyalty it demanded was higher than that given to any state, requiring in the individual full dedication to the principles and purposes of the new nation, yet at the initial stage without forfeiting state citizenship.\n\nFor the members, state citizenship was to be always secondary to membership within the organisation. Any member was expected to be primarily concerned with the affairs and policies of the organisation. Taking part in war, aggression of oppression was strictly prohibited and the member was supposed to be prepared to suffer the penalties. All members were expected to live and abide by a set of seven principles:\n\nWith members in 33 countries it was decided in 1956 that the \"Mondcivitan Republic\" should be proclaimed in being \"de facto\" and that all governments should be advised accordingly and furnished with a copy of the constitution. A Constituent Assembly of the organisation's members was convened at the Temple of Peace, Cardiff, headquarters of the United Nations Association in Wales. The organisation's constitution was adopted on August 29 and the flag of the organisation hoisted over the building. A council was elected to prepare the way for parliamentary government.\n\nIn 1958 a democratic election was held giving opportunity to all members in the countries where they resided to elect deputies to the first parliament which met in Vienna in May 1959. Up to this time the organisation had used the title, \"Commonwealth of World Citizens\" which was abandoned in favour of \"The Mondcivitan Republic\". Hugh Schonfield, the pioneer of the enterprise, was elected acting president and the organisation chose an executive committee headed by a young member, Donald Hanby who was referred to as the \"prime minister\".\n\nIn 1963, the organisation held its second \"parliament\". The term of this body was to be for five years. In accordance with the constitution, a presidium of five was elected under the name of the Supreme Council, each member of which would hold the office of president for one year in turn. Those elected, in the order of their presidency, were Frieda Bacon, Justo Priesto, Nguyen-Huu, Anthony Brooke and Hugh J. Schonfield, the last named to take office at the end of August 1967. The post of \"prime minister\" was relinquished and replaced under the constitution with that of \"commissioner-general\" and Donald Hanby was elected to that office.\n\nAt this time, the International Arbitration League, founded at the beginning of the 20th century by the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Sir William Randal Cremer, decided that its work could best be continued by the \"Mondcivitan Republic\" and the two organisations fused. The work of the World Service Trust continued and a housing agency, the Cremer Housing Association, was formed, which later provided new premises for use by the organisation.\n\nIn 1971, the provisional constitution was suspended to make way for formulating a full constitution. To enable the organisation to ensure the best means of governance, an executive council was appointed to take full responsibility for the organisation's affairs in the interim period. It was hoped that a full constitution and self-government could be achieved by 1975, but this did not happen.\n\nIn 1972 Hugh Schonfield's book about the fundamental ideas behind the organisation, The \"Politics of God,\" was published and received much interest, particularly because it had been preceded by the best-selling The Passover Plot, which had created much discussion and aroused interest in the concept of Messianism.\n\nThe Community school project was started as an experiment by the organisation's membership. It was intended to provide a viable alternative to the prevalent educational concepts, with primary aim to give each child freedom, experience, resources and love. It was believed that this should take place in, and be directly concerned with, the community as a whole, encouraging children to take an active interest in serving and changing the community for the betterment of the whole of mankind. Various methods of achieving these aims were implemented. The school was supported by donations from members and charged no fees. Many of the children were \"problem\" children from the neighbourhood of the school who went on to lead productive lives.\n\nThe World Service Trust was founded in 1955 as a special agency of the organisation for the purpose of giving impartial aid to people and countries in circumstances of poverty, famine, disease and epidemics, as well as natural disasters. The secondary organisation was also designed to assist education and improve standards of living.\n\nIn 1990 the secondary organisation became a foundation and was renamed \"The Hugh and Helene Schonfield World Service Trust\". The Schonfields contributed to it financially. \n\nThe organisation fell into decline following the 1980s. Its archives are now deposited with the Bishopsgate Institute in London.\nIts activities became more centred in Germany as the community initiated by Wilhelm Haller felt a more decentralised and less bureaucratic approach was necessary. A new initiative was started in 2004 with the founding of the 'International Leadership and Business Society', intended to encourage the application of the original Mondcivitan principles in business and everyday life. The Hugh & Helene Schonfield World Service Trust continued to work particularly with its responsibility for the archiving and publicising of the work of the late Hugh J. Schonfield and research into the concepts of Messianism, Humanitism and \"Servant-Nationhood\" and methods to find their practical realisation.\n\nIn 2014 a revival of the movement was started in an attempt to find a current interpretation. This has led to the establishment of a Facebook page. \n\n\nMore information is available at:\n"}
{"id": "2018804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018804", "title": "Argentan lace", "text": "Argentan lace\n\nArgentan lace or Point d'Argentan is a needle lace from the 18th century. Argentella is derived from Argentan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018810", "title": "Destiny (Janáček)", "text": "Destiny (Janáček)\n\nDestiny (also known as \"Fate\", ) is an opera in three acts by Leoš Janáček to a Czech libretto by the composer and Fedora Bartošová. Janáček began the work in 1903 and completed it in 1907. The inspiration for the opera came from a visit by Janáček in the summer of 1903, after the death of his daughter Olga, to the spa at Luhačovice. There, Janáček met Kamila Urválková, who had been the subject of an opera by Ludvík Čelanský, \"Kamila\", where she felt that Čelanský had falsely depicted her personality. After learning that Janáček was a composer, Urválková persuaded Janáček to write another opera to counteract Čelanský's portrait of her.\n\nJanáček submitted the opera to the Brno Theatre in 1906, and to the Vinohrady Theatre in Prague in 1907, but both theatres rejected the score. The score stayed with the Vinohrady Theatre even after Janáček had threatened lawsuits against the theatre and after the Brno theatre made offers of a possible production.\n\nThe work did not receive a hearing until after Janáček's death, in 1934 on Brno Radio.\n\n\"Osud\" was given in concert form in Brno in 1934, 1948 and 1954, all conducted by Břetislav Bakala. The first staging was in 1958 in Brno, conducted by František Jílek, as part of a complete cycle of operas at the 1958 Janáček Festival, in commemoration of the 30th anniversary of Janáček's death. However, the structure of the plot was altered from the original to give the story a \"flashback\" format, where the story begins with Act 3 and interpolates Act 1 and Act 2 as the \"flashbacks\", before returning to finish Act 3. One day after the Brno stage premiere, a version where the libretto was considerably revised (by Kurt Honolka) was produced at Stuttgart Opera.\n\nThe first UK staging was in 1984 at English National Opera, in a translation by David Pountney, but with Janáček's original plot structure intact. The first US production was in July 2003 at the Bard Summerscape Festival. Scholars have criticised weaknesses in the plot as the reason for the opera's neglect.\n\nMíla and the composer Živný were once lovers, but Míla's mother ended the relationship in hopes of a more advantageous match for her daughter. Alas, Míla was already pregnant and is now a single mother, unlikely to marry anyone else. She and Živný meet again for the first time amid the amusements of a spa town. They sneak off together and rekindle their love, but her mother tracks them down in the crowd and predicts disaster.\n\nFour years later Živný and Míla are married, but her mother lives with them and has become mentally fragile. While their young son Doubek plays, the couple read through the unfinished opera Živný began during their separation. It is filled with bitterness against Míla, portraying her as faithless. Míla's mother, losing her mind completely, repeats snatches of music from the opera before rushing to throw herself off a balcony. Attempting to restrain her mother, Míla too is pulled over, and both are killed.\n\nEleven years later, Živný's opera is at last to be performed, although it remains unfinished. He rehearses a chorus from the opera with his students, among them Doubek, now a young man. Another student, Verva, guesses that the hero of the opera is the composer himself. Through the music, Živný again relives his love for Míla and his cruelty to her. Tormented by regret, he asks Doubek to fetch a glass of water and then collapses. The end of the opera must remain in God's hands.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018823", "title": "Chihiro Yonekura", "text": "Chihiro Yonekura\n\nWhile Yonekura was attending university, she sent off several demonstration tapes to recording companies. She was scouted out, and received the opportunity to do the opening song \"Arashi no Naka de Kagayaite\" for the anime \",\" as well as the ending song, \"10 Years After\". She debuted with a single containing both, which was successful. That same year she released three other singles and an album. Yonekura quickly gained a large fan base, and many shows selected her songs for opening and ending themes. She has now been singing and touring for 10 years. To celebrate her success, she released an album in 2005 entitled \"Cheers\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018830", "title": "The Excursions of Mr. Brouček to the Moon and to the 15th Century", "text": "The Excursions of Mr. Brouček to the Moon and to the 15th Century\n\nThe Excursions of Mr. Brouček to the Moon and to the 15th Century (Czech: \"Výlety páně Broučkovy\") is the complete title of Leoš Janáček’s fifth opera, based on two Svatopluk Čech novels, \"Pravý výlet pana Broučka do Měsíce\" (1888) (\"The True Excursion of Mr. Brouček to the Moon\") and \"Nový epochální výlet pana Broučka, tentokráte do XV. století\" (1889) ('‘The Epoch-making Excursion of Mr. Brouček, this time to the 15th Century'’). The librettists for Part 1 were František Gellner, Viktor Dyk, František Sarafínský Procházka and others, while Part 2 was written by F. S. Procházka.\n\nThis two-part satirical opera was premiered at the National Theatre in Prague on April 23, 1920, the only Janáček opera not premiered in Brno.\n\nMr. Brouček (translated as “Mr. Beetle” (literally little beetle)) is a Philistine landlord in Prague who experiences a series of fantastic events as he is swept away (due in large part to excessive drinking) first to the moon and then to 15th-century Prague, during the Hussite uprising against the Holy Roman Empire in 1420 (see Synopsis). In both excursions, Brouček encounters characters who are transformed versions of his earthly acquaintances.\n\nDue to the popularity of the original novels by the iconic Czech writer, Svatopluk Čech, the opera was met with much scrutiny. Janáček experienced a number of setbacks in the creation and rehearsal of the work, especially in dealing with librettists (See Background). The composer's aim in \"The Excursions of Mr. Brouček\" was apparently quite specific: “I want us to be disgusted with such people, to stamp on them and strangle them when we meet them,” speaking of Brouček. Janáček's campaign, along with Čech's, was against the pettiness of the bourgeoisie, specifically of Czechoslovakia. However, according to Desmond Shawe-Taylor, who saw the opera performed in Czechoslovakia, most observers reacted with cheerful laughter and even felt a bit sorry for the poor fellow Brouček. He became almost lovable rather than despised, as Janáček had originally intended, and his shortcomings, failings, and ordinariness tend to be seen as qualities common to regular citizens of all lands.\n\nThe composition of Janáček's \"The Excursions of Mr. Brouček to the Moon\" was a long process complete with no fewer than seven librettists. The original concept of the opera was to be based on a still popular novel series of the same name by Svatopluk Čech (1846–1908). After beginning the composition, Janáček set out to find a librettist who would fit his interpretation and realization of Čech's stories.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Janáček sought to write an opera based on Čech's novels; however, Čech outrightly denied him the rights to his stories. Janáček eventually put the project aside until Čech's death in 1908. At this time, Janáček was reminded of his previous desire to set the story and sent letters to Artuš Rektorys, a friend of his in Prague, asking him to check the availability of the rights now that Čech had died. Rektorys responded with news that Čech's family was hesitant to release the rights, but after hearing from Janáček himself, they agreed to give him sole use of the novels. Shortly after being granted permission to begin composition, another composer, Karel Moor had also written to Rektorys inquiring about Janáček's \"Brouček\". Moor claimed he was given sole permission to the stories by Čech's younger brother, Vladimír. This matter was quickly attended to and it was found that Moor had not received valid permission. This did not stop him from producing an opera; it reached the stage in 1910 some ten years before Janáček's, but with none of the success or longevity.\n\nIn March 1908, Janáček had set out to find a suitable librettist. Rektorys had recommended Karel Mašek; however, Mašek was not overly willing to undertake the assignment, a precursor to future trouble with the piece. After many discussions and a warning from Mašek that he was very much preoccupied, Janáček had sent his needs to Mašek with a deadline for Act I's completion. By July 1908 it had become increasingly clear that Mašek and Janáček had two very different ideas as to the outcome of \"Brouček\". Mašek wrote that Janáček's ideas were too far from the original novel, which portrayed Brouček as haughty. Other conflicting views include the addition of two characters not in the original piece, the Young Waiter and Mazal. With the Young Waiter, Mašek conceded, but said this about Mazal:\n...I can’t bring myself to add this part to Čech’s work in addition to Mazal at the Vikàrka. Čech’s Mr. Brouček would never have fraternized with Mazal and sat with him in the same pub.\nThese disagreements paired with Mašek's over-commitment with other works at the time led to his self-dismissal from the project in October of the same year. Janáček rebounded quickly from the loss of the librettist and started investigating a replacement.\n\nIn November 1908, Josef Holý was invited to the project, but he refused due to lack of interest in the material and said “If there is not the will or the right mood, it would not turn out well, however I tried, and so I ask you to count me out.” With Holý gone, Janáček turned to Dr. Zikmund Janke, an ear, nose and throat doctor working both in Prague and Luhačovice.\n\nAs with Mašek, there was a general disagreement between what Janáček had in mind and what Dr. Janke envisioned. Janáček was very amiable with colleagues and accepted what Janke had given him, including his harsh words. At this point, Janke had written an entire first act and started on the second when Janáček sent him a new outline to follow with new characterizations for ten of the roles. Out of all that was written thus far, only two lines of a drinking song survived the final cuts of Janke's work in the first act. In 1910, Janáček discovered through letters with Artuš Rektorys that Josef Holý, who originally turned down the project, had produced a ballet entitled \"The Moon\". This shows that Holý had more interest than he had previously let on, as the ballet was conceptualized on Čech's story of Brouček. In April 1911 Janáček reconnected with Holý asking for help with a song during the moon scene.\n\nThe next librettist was introduced to Janáček by Holý to help spread the work load around. František Gellner, a satirical poet, would eventually contribute the most work to the piece that still survives today of all the librettists that worked on the project. They worked together from June 1912 until June 1913, where a standstill took place and Janáček set to work on other projects. Gellner did write an ending to the piece, so why the pause happened is really only known to Janáček, as conceptually the structure was finished with only details remaining. However, the work resumed in November 1915 when Janáček decided that \"Brouček\" was worth finishing and promptly set to work finding the next librettist in line for the job.\n\nThe position went to Josef Peška, one of the men who helped secure \"Jenůfa\" in Prague. With great enthusiasm he joined the list of writers who had accepted the work without reading the previously written libretto or musical score. Once Peška had read all the provided materials he sent a prompt response to Janáček reminding him to observe other people's renditions of the same piece. Most importantly he told Janáček a piece of information that will come back as critics review the opera after it reaches the stage, and that is that one needs to know Čech's story in order to understand the humor in Janáček and Gellner's version. He wrote a very private version, where one must have preexisting knowledge of the storyline to fully appreciate the piece. In addition he sent him a list of new librettists who could help complete the project, with F.S. Procházka at the top.\n\nIt is unclear whether Janáček sent Gellner's ending to the opera to Procházka, because he created one of his own, starting with Act 3 until the end. Janáček gave his librettist complete freedom in range when it came to writing. He would provide an action, then state his indifference to how the action is accomplished, only that it needed to be. When something did not work for him, he would simply rewrite it himself. With this practice, Janáček wrote a larger piece of the work than most of the librettists did.\n\nThe piece was finished in 1916 with only details remaining, including the ending written by Gellner, and then adjusted by Janáček. A friend of Janáček, Jiří Mahen, was then enlisted to help overhaul sections of the opera. This position was used for editing purposes, but mostly the work that Janáček had provided, not necessarily the work of the other librettists. Mahen was uninformed as to how many others had worked on the piece, and was also unaware that it was actually completely done and set to music. After spending much time on the opera, Mahen was also surprised to learn that not only had the work been finished, but that Viktor Dyk had been penned as \"the\" librettist.\n\nJanáček explained this in a letter to Mahen (naturally, he demanded satisfaction) saying that Dyk had approved of the original version Janáček had in mind, that so many others tried to change and had then supplied a more appropriate ending that fits more to Čech's ending of the story. Dyk and Janáček had worked diligently changing around music, text, scenes, characters, etc. to their liking, keeping only bits and pieces of what others had done. Mašek's work was reduced to two lines of work and Dr. Janke's work to a drinking song. The rest was removed in letters between Dyk and Janáček from Brno to Prague and vice versa.\n\nViktor Dyk was arrested for resistance activities against the Austro-Hungarian Empire, so again Janáček was in need of a new partner. Instead of finding a stranger to the piece, he went back to F.S. Procházka and asked his help in fine-tuning a few songs and scene changes, which he gladly accepted. Up until this point the opera ended when Mr. Brouček returns from his 'moon voyage' only to find out that it was a drunken dream, but after reteaming with Procházka, Janáček posed the idea to start dramatizing the second Čech novel, \"The Excursions of Mr. Brouček to the XV Century\". The two quickly leapt on this idea and began writing at once. By the end of 1918, they had compressed the entire opera into three acts, Act 1 in Prague in 1920, Act II on the moon and Act 3 in Prague in 1420. They even added a new set of characters that stayed with the opera's theme of recurring characters through this new third act (see list of characters).\n\nIn October 1918 Janáček had learned that \"Brouček\" would be performed at the National Theatre in Prague, given some adjustments to be made to costumes and set pieces. With the new trimmed-down version with three acts, there were fewer scene changes to be made, which pleased National Theatre Director Schmoranz. After discussions, casting and orchestra rehearsal, there very few changes still needing to be made (most were vocal range issues — Janáček wrote very high tessitura for singers).\n\nThe UK premiere took place on 5 September 1970 at the King's Theatre in Edinburgh. The opera did not receive its first American performance until its premiere at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. in 1996, although it had received a concert performance by the San Francisco Opera Ensemble on 23 January 1981. Indiana University gave the opera its American television premiere in December 1981 with Joseph Levitt (tenor), Adda Shur (soprano), Samuel Cook (tenor), Martin Strother (baritone), and Philip Skinner (baritone) from the Indiana University Opera Theater and conducted by Bryan Balkwill. It was performed by English National Opera at the London Coliseum in 1978 directed by Colin Graham, and again in 1992 in a David Pountney production conducted by Sir Charles Mackerras; and by Opera North at the Grand Theatre Leeds in October 2009, in a production by John Fulljames.\n\nThe stage premiere of the Ur-version of \"Brouček\" (without the excursion to the 15th century) took place at the Janáček Theatre Brno on 19 November 2010 as part of the Janáček Biennale, conducted by Jaroslav Kyzlink, with Jaroslav Březina in the title role.\n\nMr. Matěj Brouček is a rather unkempt drunken landlord in late 19th-century Prague. On a moonlit night in 1888, Mr. Brouček stumbles down Vikárka street after a drinking binge at the Hradčany tavern. In his impaired state, he encounters Málinka. She is upset and dramatically suicidal after discovering that her lover, Mazál (who happens to be one of Brouček's tenants) has been cheating on her. In an ill-advised attempt to calm Málinka, Brouček agrees to marry her. He quickly realizes the error in this and retracts his offer, leaving Málinka to return to her bohemian lover. Brouček decides he has had enough of this stress, and dreams of a more relaxed life on the moon.\n\nBrouček is quickly disillusioned by what he finds in his lunar paradise. He “lands” in the middle of an avant-garde colony of lunar artists and intellectuals, whom the uncultured Brouček clearly despises. He finds himself in the home of an avant-garde artist, Blankytny (a parallel character to Mazál). Blankytny sings a heartfelt ode of platonic love to the lunar maiden, Etherea. This signals the arrival of Etherea and her ‘sisters’ who commence with a song preaching the benefits of a healthy lifestyle. Ironically, Brouček catches the eye of the maiden, who becomes instantly infatuated with the exotic stranger. She whisks him away aboard mythical Pegasus, leaving behind Blankytny in disbelief and despair.\n\nEtherea and Brouček land in the Lunar Temple of the Arts, where a group of inhabitants have gathered. They are immediately startled and frightened at the sight of Brouček, but soon see him as the latest vogue. The locals proceed to present Brouček with the latest in lunar art and treat him to a “meal” of sniffing flowers. Brouček is not at all pleased with this display of art, nor is he nourished by the fragrances. He is soon caught sneaking a bite of pork sausage; the crowd quickly turns on him; and he is forced into a furious escape aboard Pegasus. As he flees, the lunar artists sing praises to art.\n\nAs the moon scene transforms back into the tavern courtyard in Prague, Mazál and Málinka are returning home, and the artists are enjoying a final drink. A young waiter laughs at the drunken Brouček who is being carried off in a barrel. Málinka is apparently recovered from her turmoil, as she and Mazál sing a duet of their love for each other.\n\nSet in the Castle of Wenceslas IV, Mr. Brouček and his fellow drinkers debate the particulars of the medieval tunnels that were believed to exist beneath the city of Prague. Once again, an inebriated Brouček staggers toward his home and is interrupted. He finds himself somehow in one of these dark tunnels, where he encounters apparitions from the past. One of these ghostly figures is Svatopluk Čech, the author of the Brouček stories and a famous Czech poet. Čech expresses his regret over the decline of moral values in the Czech nation. He sings about the loss of true heroes and yearns for a rebirth of his nation. Ironically, Čech's lament is directed toward Brouček himself and toward the satirical nature of this very opera.\n\nMr. Brouček is transported back in time and finds himself in the Old Town Square in 1420. This is a tumultuous period in 15th-century Prague, when the Czech people, led by Jan Žižka, were under siege by the German armies of the Holy Roman Empire. Brouček is quickly confronted by Hussite rebels, who accuse him of being a German spy, due to his poor Czech grammar laden with German expressions. Brouček somehow convinces the rebels that he is on their side and is allowed to join them.\n\nBrouček is brought to the house of Domšik, a sacristan, and his daughter Kunka. Brouček now finds himself in the midst of an impending battle for the future of the Czech nation, signified by the powerful singing of battle hymns by the gathered masses. The rebels ask Brouček to assist in the defense of Prague, to which he is characteristically averse. As the battle begins, our hero flees the scene.\n\nIn Old Town Square, the people of Prague celebrate their hard-fought victory, but lament the death of Domšik. Brouček is found in hiding and accused of treason. He is appropriately sentenced to death by burning...in a beer barrel.\n\nBack in 1888 Prague, just outside the Vikárka Inn (Home of the Hradčany Tavern), Mr. Würfl, the landlord of the Inn and the maker of the infamous pork sausage from the moon, hears moans coming from the cellar. He discovers Mr. Brouček in a beer barrel, visibly relieved to be alive and back home. Our shameless hero boasts to Würfl that he single-handedly liberated the city of Prague.\n\n\n\nJanáček's technique of composition in \"Brouček\" may not be clearly or easily defined, but there are several aspects that come to the forefront as one begins to look deeper into some of the composer's compositional ideas, regarding both music and speech/language.\n\nThe smallest building block of Janáček's later music, including this opera, is the motif. His definition is different from, and probably stricter than, what most music scholars might consider as a definition of a motif. Janáček's motifs have a clear beginning and end, and the dynamic is constant throughout the short group of, perhaps, three to five notes. The note values must be equal, and a motif may begin on any beat, but may not end on a downbeat. Janáček's methods of alteration of a motif are varied, but no matter what he does to the melody, the harmony, key, tempo, mode, register, or any of the contextual material, the rhythm remains unaltered, thereby, in his opinion, maintaining the original motif as a recognizable entity. Example 1 (see Musical examples below) shows a motif from \"Brouček\" and illustrates some alterations of the same motif. Example 2 is another motif used in the opera. Janáček often employs short musical phrases that extend beyond his unique definition of a motif, creating what Cooper calls a motive.\n\nA motive includes different note values, and its iterations may end on a downbeat. It turns out that most of Janáček's small operatic elements, whether instrumental, vocal, or both, are motives. An example of a motive in \"Brouček\" is the use of high violins and flutes punctuating a pedal point a half step apart (Part 1) to indicate the moon up in the heavens where Brouček imagines he can escape from the cares of the world. Although for the most part, motives behave like motifs, and are quite similar in their usage, Janáček would have thought of them separately.\n\nA third and larger building block in \"Brouček\" is what Dieter Stroebel calls a melos, which describes a segment of music that is longer and more melodious than those of the motif or motive, such as Example 3.\n\n\"“The best way of becoming a good opera composer is to study analytically the melodic curves and contours of human speech.”\" – Janáček\nIt is well known that Janáček's music was greatly influenced by the nature and sounds of Czech speech and language. One may begin to clearly recognize this influence as it appears in the relationship between the musical motif and Czech words. For example, when a word in Czech changes tense, it often changes the sound of the vowel in that word, paralleling Janáček's contour alteration of a short motif. Also, in Czech, the first syllable of a word is stressed, allowing distinction of each word by the beginning sound. The avoidance of ending a motif on the downbeat could be seen as analogous Czech speech avoiding stress on any syllable other than the first. Third, the final syllable of a Czech word is to receive full value without changing the pitch or weakening the sound. This closely relates to Janáček's idea of maintaining a single dynamic in his motifs. Janáček also had a strong interest in the melody of speech (see quote above): intonation, stress, length, and pitch.\n\nThe introduction to Part 1 is not unlike many of Janáček's opera introductions, preludes, or overtures. Made up of several short musical items and motives that will show up later in the opera, the music is propelled by the abrupt juxtaposition of these ideas, which often come in a different order than they will appear throughout the opera proper. There are three melodies of importance in the introduction to Part 1 of \"Brouček\". The first is a light, rhythmically uncertain figure (Example 4) that leads to quickly to the stocky bassoon melody (Example 5), which is a caricature of Brouček. This melody appears many times subsequently and in different forms. The third is the tender melody first introduced by the flute and violins (Example 3), which represents the young lovers Málinka and Mazal. This melody is also altered several times, and there is an allusion to Blankytný (= Mazal) and Etherea (= Málinka) on the moon. All three motives are present in the closing moments of Part 1, an orchestral interlude that brings Brouček back to earth from his dream.\n\nThroughout \"The Excursion to the Moon\", Janáček makes extensive use of waltzes and waltz-like melodies, which were apparently misheard by the Russian composer Dmitri Kabalevsky, who considered them “à la Strauss”. However, Janáček's bright and humorous melodies are very different from those of Strauss, as they tend to be much less elegant and often serve the intent of parody or mockery. It is speculated that Janáček also intended the use of waltzes to denote the class of citizen that Brouček represents – the middle-/upper-class dance pointing to the characteristics of the middle-/upper-class Brouček. Even from the opening of the opera, faint allusions of a waltz can be heard between statements of the light 2/4 melody. The prelude dissolves into the opening scene, which begins with the bickering of Málinka and Mazal set to a waltz. A fantastic example of a waltz as a parody is the Child Prodigy's singing of the moon anthem, which actually is a spoof of the Czech national song. The “audience” within the opera hears it as a serious patriotic anthem, while the opera house audience perceives it as a parody anthem. Janáček uses the music of a waltz at the end of the first dream to break the tension of the moon population's threats against Brouček and help resolve the plot. Many other waltzes can be found in the first part of the opera, some more deliberate than others, and Janáček made very purposeful use of each one as a device to aid in communicating unspoken, often satirical content. Though Janáček frequently uses the waltz in an ironic or parodic light, they seem to flow and function entirely within the musical framework of the opera.\n\nOverall, Part 2 of the opera, \"The Excursion of Mr. Brouček to the Fifteenth Century\", is distinctly different in musical style from Part 1. The starkly different nature of the situations of each part and the several years that separated the actual composition of the two parts are likely reasons for this difference. It opens with jarring rhythms and the sounds of warfare. Two main themes are present in this introduction that reappear in different forms all through Part 2 (Examples 6 and 7). Also present in this part of the opera are Hussite chorales and hymns, one of which can be heard building as Brouček and Domšík go into the Týn Church on the Old Town Square. The chorale then culminates in a proud statement in C major.\n\nOne of Janáček's compositional procedures is the significant use of the pitch Ab/G# in the last forty minutes of the opera. The key of Ab minor plays an important role in many of Janáček's compositions, including operas, string quartets, song cycles, piano miniatures, sonatas and orchestral works, no matter whether it is found in comic, tragic, funny, serious, or ironic passages. He preferred to make use of a single tonal area in scenes of steady emotion, or of a single set of characters on stage. This led to his adoption of often assigning a single pitch area to an entire scene, “by which, remarkably, he generates speedy and substantial change and enormous tension and emotion,\" according to Cooper. Though the listener may not easily recognize the frequent use of the pitch Ab/G# as it is clouded by different harmonies, the single pitch plays a crucial role in connecting differing ideas throughout Part 2. Example 8 points to an ill-tempered Brouček leaping up to Ab on his main point. Later in Part 2, as Brouček pleads for mercy during his condemnation scene, he explains that he “wasn’t born yet,” and that he is “a son of the future,” both ending on Ab (Example 9).\n\nDue to the brevity of his motifs and the way Janáček made use of them and their derivatives, a listener may have difficulty finding something to grasp in the music. Without some study of the score, the logic of his use of motifs and their developments are not aurally so apparent. For this reason, even the well-informed Dmitri Kabalevsky found little in \"Brouček\" of which he could sedulously approve.\n\nSome critics have also pointed out that the moon excursion has a basic flaw in the plot: there is no real “hero” to balance out Brouček, who is the “villain” on the moon. Richard Bradshaw, who conducted the professional premiere in the United States, said of \"Brouček\", “The two ‘excursions’ have been described as one flawed masterpiece made up of two operas.”\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018831", "title": "Aither", "text": "Aither\n\nAithḗr may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018850", "title": "Pakistan Navy Atlantic shootdown", "text": "Pakistan Navy Atlantic shootdown\n\nOn 10 August 1999, a Breguet Atlantic maritime patrol aircraft of the Pakistan Naval Air Arm was shot down by a MiG 21 fighter of the Indian Air Force over the Rann of Kutch, on the border between India and Pakistan. The episode took place just a month after the Kargil War, aggravating already tense relations between the two countries.\n\nForeign diplomats based in Pakistan escorted to the site by the Pakistan Army noted that the plane may have crossed the border. They also believed that India's reaction was unjustified. Pakistan later lodged a compensation claim at the International Court of Justice, blaming India for the incident, but the court dismissed the case, ruling that the Court had no jurisdiction in the matter.\n\nThe French-built Breguet Br.1150 Atlantic, c/n 33, flight Atlantic-91, of 29 Squadron, was one of the Pakistan Navy's frontline aircraft, used primarily for patrol and reconnaissance. Atlantic-91 left Mehran naval base in Pakistan at 9:15 am PKT (9:45 IST). Indian Air Force ground radar picked up the plane as it approached the India-Pakistan border. Two IAF MiG-21 interceptor aircraft of No. 45 Squadron, from the Indian airbase at Naliya in the Kutch region, were scrambled. After a series of manoeuvres—with conflicting versions of events from both sides—the two jets were given clearance to shoot down the Pakistani plane. At 11:17 am IST (10:47 am PKT), nearly two hours after takeoff from Pakistan, the Atlantic was intercepted and an infrared homing R-60 air-to-air missile was fired at it by Squadron Leader P.K. Bundela, hitting the engine on the port side of the plane.\n\nThe event immediately sparked claims and counter-claims by both nations. Pakistan claimed that the plane was unarmed and the debris was found on Pakistan's side of the border, and there was no violation of Indian airspace. According to the official Pakistan version of events, the plane was on a routine training mission inside Pakistan air space. The Pakistani Prime Minister stated during the funeral service of the airmen that the shooting was a barbaric act.\nThe Indian Air force claimed that the aeroplane did not respond to international protocol and that it acted in a \"hostile\" manner, adding that the debris of a downed aircraft could fall over a wide radius. Indian sources also stated that Pakistan's Information Minister, Mushahid Hussein, was initially quoted as saying that the aircraft was on a surveillance mission.\nIndia also alleged that the plane violated a bilateral agreement, signed by India and Pakistan in 1991, under which no military aircraft were to come within 10 km of the border (although Pakistan claimed the Atlantic was not a combat aircraft). Indian experts also questioned why a training mission was being carried out so close to the border, when all air forces conduct training flights in clearly demarcated training areas located well away from international boundaries. According to them, the Pakistani claim was untenable since the primary role of the Atlantic is for operations over the sea and that to carry out a training flight over land deep inside foreign territory was an indication of its use in a surveillance role. India displayed part of the wreckage of the Pakistani naval aircraft at New Delhi airport the next day. Pakistan stated that the wreckage was removed from its side of the border by Indian helicopters.\n\nWhile Pakistan said that the plane was unarmed and the debris was within Pakistani territory, India maintained that warnings had been given to the Atlantic and that its flight trajectory meant it could have fallen on either side of the border. According to the Indian version of events, the MiGs tried to escort it to a nearby Indian base, when the Pakistani aircraft turned abruptly and tried to make a dash for the border; it was only then that it was fired upon. India claimed that the debris was found in a radius of 2 km on either side of the border and that the intrusion took place 10 km inside the Kori Creek, which is Indian territory. Pakistan requested that the matter be taken up in the UN. Indian officials claimed that there had been previous violations in the area and pointed out that in the previous year a Pakistani unmanned surveillance aircraft had intruded 150 km inside the Indian border, coming close to the Bhuj air base before the IAF spotted it and brought it down with several missiles.\n\nIndian analysts state \"flare-ups\" in the Rann of Kutch region were routine, and despite bilateral agreements, both India and Pakistan had conducted air intrusions in the past. Thus, the fact that the Atlantic was shot down, despite coming close to the Indian border, came as a surprise. Indian officials add that Pakistan military aircraft had violated Indian airspace at least 50 times since January 1999, showing videotapes of Pakistani Atlantics \"buzzing\", or flying provocatively near the Indian Navy's warships in the Indian Ocean. Some Indian analysts stated that the Atlantic was nearly destroyed in 1983 on a similar encounter and noted other close encounters and violations from Pakistani naval planes.\n\nSome experts stated that the Atlantic was probably conducting a \"probe\" on India's air defence system, mainly the radar equipment in the border area; they advised that it was not part of any planned aggressive military action by Pakistan. Foreign diplomats who visited the crash site noted that the plane \"may have strayed into restricted space\", and that Islamabad was unable to explain why it was flying so close to the border; they added that India's reaction to the incident was not justified. Many countries, the G8, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, as well as the western media questioned the wisdom behind Pakistan's decision to fly military aircraft so close to the Indian border.\n\nOn the day following the attack, an IAF helicopter carrying journalists to the site of the attack was attacked by the Pakistan Marines with a surface-to-air missile. Pakistani officials asserted that two Indian jets had intruded into Pakistani airspace near the Atlantic wreckage site, along the border between the Indian state of Gujarat and Pakistan's Sindh Province, and were then fired upon by Pakistan marines. No damage was recorded as the missiles miss the target. The IAF thus aborted their mission and could safely return. The helicopter carrying the journalists also returned without any damage.\n\nFollowing this, and the rising tensions in the area coupled by the fact that the Sir Creek was a disputed territory, both the countries' militaries near the Rann of Kutch and nearby were put on high alert. Pakistan sent a company of marines, equipped with both laser guided and infrared homing shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles, to the site near the border. Coming barely weeks after the Kargil Conflict where both nuclear armed countries fought high altitude warfare, this incident was seen with growing concern around the world. The US State Department termed the subcontinent as being in a state of \"continued high-stakes tension.\"\n\nOn 21 September 1999, Pakistan lodged a compensation claim at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague, accusing India of shooting down a military aircraft. Pakistan sought about US$60 million in reparations from India and compensation for the victims' families. India's attorney general, Soli Sorabjee, argued that the court did not have jurisdiction, citing an exemption it filed in 1974 to exclude disputes between India and other Commonwealth States, and disputes covered by multi-lateral treaties. In the buildup to the case, India also contended that Pakistan had violated the 1991 bilateral agreement between Pakistan and India on air violations, which states: \"Combat aircraft (including, Bombers, Reconnaissance aircraft, Jet military trainers and Armed helicopters) will not fly within 10 km of each other's airspace including air defence identification zone.\"\n\nOn 21 June 2000, the 16-judge Bench headed by Gilbert Guillaume of France ruled, with a 14–2 verdict, upholding India's submission that the court had no jurisdiction in this matter. Pakistan's claims were dropped, without recourse to appeal, and the outcome was seen as a decision highly favourable to India. The Pakistan government had spent close to 25 million Pakistani rupees (approx. $400,000) on the case.\n\nIn India, the incident made the two pilots of the MiG-21s into instant heroes. On 8 October 2000, the prestigious Vayusena medal was awarded to Squadron Leader P. K. Bundela. The medal was also awarded to Wing Commander V. S. Sharma (the fighter controller who tracked the Atlantic, guided the pilot and ordered him to attack the plane) and Squadron Leader Pankaj Vishnoi, the helicopter pilot who recovered a part of the Atlantic's debris from the marshy border regions of the Rann.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018851", "title": "Šárka (Janáček)", "text": "Šárka (Janáček)\n\nŠárka is an opera in three acts by Leoš Janáček to a Czech libretto by Julius Zeyer, based on Bohemian legends of Šárka in \"Dalimil's Chronicle\". Written in 1887, the opera lay unproduced for many years and was first performed at the \"Divadlo na Hradbách\" (today's Mahen Theatre) in Brno on 11 November 1925 in honour of Janáček’s 71st birthday.\n\nThe premiere of the Ur-version (1887) of \"Šárka\" took place on 26 November 2010 at the Reduta Studio Theatre Brno as part of the Janáček Biennale, conducted from the piano by Ondrej Olos, with Lucie Kašparová in the title role. This first version (of which 30% of the music is retained in the score generally performed today) was sent to Dvořák for comment, but rested in the Janáček archive until 2010; the final version, with fewer motives and longer set-pieces, presages his mature works.\n\nThe composer had never completed the work, but, after the success of his later operas, \"Šárka\" was revised and the orchestration completed by his pupil Osvald Chlubna who had been given the task in preparation for the opera's eventual publication.\n\nIn 2000, Jiří Zahrádka edited a new edition of the score. A recording was made later that year based on this edition, with Sir Charles Mackerras conducting the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra and with Eva Urbanová in the title role; it was issued the following year (Supraphon SU 3485-2-631).\n\nThe premiere stage setting designed the architect and painter Vlastislav Hofman.\n\nBefore the opera begins, during Libuše's reign, women experienced a golden age and the female population had become the privileged members of society, but after her death this was not the case, causing a revolt that produced a female army, of whom Šárka was the fiercest warrior.\n\nAs the opera opens, the morale of the male troops is flagging, yet is restored by the young Ctirad, who guards Libuše's tomb. The women enter the sepulchre, but are scared by the appearance of Ctirad, and swear vengeance. Šárka plans to trap the young male warrior, and the maidens tie her to a tree, apparently open and helpless. Ctirad finds her, takes pity and unties her, falling in love with Šárka, but she also falls in love with him. As they sleep in each other's arms, Šárka remembers her resolve and uses her horn to call for the maidens to come and kill Ctirad and his warriors. During the funeral for Ctirad, Šárka, grief-stricken, throws herself onto his pyre and dies in the flames, the chorus sings a lament for the lovers.\n\nCzech Bedřich Smetana composed the tone poem Šárka as the third part of his cycle \"Má Vlast\", which does not contain the final suicide narrated in the opera.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2018859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018859", "title": "Wilton Persons", "text": "Wilton Persons\n\nWilton Burton \"Jerry\" Persons (January 19, 1896 – September 5, 1977) served as the White House Chief of Staff to President Dwight D. Eisenhower from October 7, 1958 until January 20, 1961.\n\nPersons graduated from Auburn University in 1916. He was a career United States Army officer who had entered the U.S. Army Coast Artillery in 1917 and advanced through the ranks to major general in 1944. He had served in both the American Expeditionary Force in World War I and in Europe in World War II. He headed the office of legislative liaison for the Department of Defense between 1948 and his retirement in 1949. He retired with the rank of major general, and became superintendent of Staunton Military Academy.\n\nPersons was called back to active duty as a special assistant to General Dwight D. Eisenhower at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers in Europe from 1951–1952 and was active on behalf of Eisenhower's presidential campaign in 1952. He became a deputy assistant to the president in 1953 and then was made an assistant to the president in 1958. He served throughout the Eisenhower presidency, handling congressional liaison before he replaced Sherman Adams in 1958 as, effectively, Eisenhower's chief of staff. \n\nFollowing the 1960 presidential election, Persons was heavily involved as Eisenhower's representative in the transition of government between the Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy administrations. He met frequently with Clark Clifford, President-elect Kennedy's transition representative, to work out the details for a smooth transfer of government.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018867", "title": "Electoral division of Port Darwin", "text": "Electoral division of Port Darwin\n\nPort Darwin is an electoral division of the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory of Australia. It was first created in 1974, and is an entirely urban electorate, covering only 11 km² and taking in the Darwin central business district, as well as the suburb of Larrakeyah and part of Stuart Park. There were 5,281 people enrolled in the electorate as of August 2016.\n\nPort Darwin has almost always been a safe seat for the Country Liberal Party, although it was one of only two seats the party did not hold in the first parliament from 1974 to 1977. It was widely considered as CLP heartland, and was their safest seat in Darwin for many years. The strength of the CLP vote in the seat was seen at the 2000 by-election caused by the resignation of controversial former Chief Minister Shane Stone, when a struggling CLP still managed to easily fend off any challenge in the seat. After the Labor Party victory at the 2001 election, it became the only CLP-held seat west of Palmerston, and the only CLP seat in the capital. As a result, there were very few signs in the lead-up to the 2005 election that sitting member Sue Carter was in danger, with most commentators expecting her to win another term. However, on election day, there was a surprise significant and unprecedented swing to the ALP across the Territory. Though the result was so close that it was not known for several days after the election, Carter was ultimately defeated by Labor opponent Kerry Sacilotto by 73 votes. Sacilotto actually won just enough primary votes to take the seat without the need for preferences. She held the seat until the 2008 election, when John Elferink regained the seat for the CLP.\n\nElferink seemingly consolidated his hold on the seat in 2012. However, he retired ahead of the 2016 election. At that election, Paul Kirby became only the second Labor member ever to win it, amid the CLP's collapse in the Darwin area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018869", "title": "Umi Tenjin", "text": "Umi Tenjin\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018875", "title": "Zellweger", "text": "Zellweger\n\nThe name Zellweger is a noble lineage of the Appenzell area, Switzerland, and may refer to:\n\nPeople with the surname Zellweger:\n\nFurthermore, the name Zellweger may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2018882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018882", "title": "Applewild School", "text": "Applewild School\n\nApplewild School is an independent, coeducational, day and junior boarding school centrally located in Fitchburg, Massachusetts. Founded in 1957, it has approximately 200 students aged 4 to 15, with a Preschool for children 2.9 years and older on two locations: the Main Campus is located in Fitchburg, Massachusetts and Applewild Preschool at Devens is located in Devens, Massachusetts. The average class size is 14 students. The school's motto is \"A Belief in the Future.\" The school is accredited by the Association of Independent Schools of New England and belongs to the National Association of Independent Schools.\n\nApplewild School sits on a campus in the Massachusetts countryside, with seven buildings. The campus is located on a hill next to a Massachusetts Audubon Society wildlife sanctuary (Flat Rock) and abuts the North County Land Trust's Crocker Conservation Land.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018888", "title": "Bistorta vivipara", "text": "Bistorta vivipara\n\nBistorta vivipara (synonym Persicaria vivipara) is a perennial herbaceous flowering plant in the knotweed and buckwheat family Polygonaceae, commonly known as alpine bistort. Scientific synonyms include \"Bistorta vivipara\" and \"Polygonum viviparum\". It is common all over the high Arctic through Europe, North America, and temperate and tropical Asia. Its range stretches further south in high mountainous areas such as the Alps, Carpathians, Pyrenees, Caucasus, and the Tibetan Plateau.\n\nMolecular phylogenetic work has demonstrated that the genus \"Bistorta\" represents a distinct lineage within the family Polygonaceae. The genus \"Bistorta\" contains at least 42 accepted species.\n\nAlpine bistort is a perennial herb that grows to tall. It has a thick rhizomatous rootstock and an erect, unbranched, hairless stem. The leaves are hairless on the upper surfaces, but hairy and greyish-green below. The basal ones are longish-elliptical with long stalks and rounded bases; the upper ones are few and are linear and stalkless. The tiny flowers are white or pink in the upper part of the spike with five perianth segments, eight stamens with purple anthers and three fused carpels. The lower ones are replaced by bulbils. Flowers rarely produce viable seeds and reproduction is normally by the bulbils, which are small bulb-like structures that develop in the axils of the leaves and may develop into new plants. Very often, a small leaf develops when the bulbil is still attached to the mother plant. The bulbils are rich in starch and are a preferred food for rock ptarmigans (\"Lagopus mutus\") and reindeer; they are also occasionally used by Arctic people. Alpine bistort flowers in June and July.\n\nAlpine bistort grows in many different plant communities, very often in abundance. Typical habitats include moist short grassland, yards, the edges of tracks, and nutrient-rich fens.\n\nAs with many other alpine plants, Alpine bistort is slow-growing and produces embryonic buds one year that grow and open a few years after their formation, with an individual leaf or inflorescence taking three to four years to reach maturity from the time the buds are formed.\n\nAlpine bistort has been shown to form an ectomycorrhizal root symbiosis with fungi.\n"}
{"id": "2018889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018889", "title": "Amphionides", "text": "Amphionides\n\nAmphionides reynaudii is the sole representative of the order Amphionidacea, and is a small (less than one inch long) planktonic crustacean found throughout the world's tropical oceans, the larvae mostly in shallow waters, and the adults at greater depth.\n\n\"Amphionides\" grows to a length of . Morphologically, \"Amphionides\" is somewhat unusual, with many body parts being reduced or absent. For example, it has only one pair of mouthparts – the maxillae – the mandibles and maxillules being vestigial.\n\nMales and females differ in the form of the antennae, and also by the presence in males of the eighth thoracic appendage, albeit in a reduced form. This is the site of the male gonopore (the female's gonopore is on the sixth thoracic appendage). The first pleopod of the female is greatly enlarged and almost encloses the enlarged carapace. This is assumed to be a chamber in which the eggs are fertilised and retained until hatching. The more streamlined carapace and pleopods of the male make it more hydrodynamic, so fewer males are caught than females.\n\n\"A. reynaudii\" has a cosmopolitan distribution in the world's tropical oceans. It is planktonic, inhabiting waters less than deep as a larva, but more often at depths of as an adult.\n\nOriginally described from its larvae, \"Amphionides\" was originally thought to be a shrimp. The adult form was not observed until 1969 to be that described by Carl Wilhelm Erich Zimmer in 1904, and only in 1973 was \"Amphionides\" placed in its own order by Donald I. Williamson. The specific epithet \"reynaudii\" was given by Henri Milne-Edwards in honour of a friend of his, possibly Count François Dominique Reynaud de Montlosier. The generic name used by Milne-Edwards, \"Amphion\", was invalid as a junior homonym of \"Amphion\" Hübner, 1819, a genus of hawk moths.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018890", "title": "Seyahatnâme", "text": "Seyahatnâme\n\nSeyāḥat-nāme (Persian/Ottoman Turkish: سياحت نامه, \"book of travels\") is the name of a literary form and tradition whose examples can be found throughout centuries in the Middle Ages around the Islamic world, starting with the Arab travellers of the Umayyad period. In a more specific sense, the name refers to the travel notes by the Ottoman Turkish traveller Evliya Çelebi (1611–1682).\n\nThe \"Seyahâtnâme\" of Evliya Çelebi is an outstanding example of this tradition.\n\nThe author's personal name is unknown, and “Evliya” is only his pen name, which he adopted in honor of his teacher, Evliya Mehmed Efendi. Evliya Çelebi's father was the chief jeweller to the courts, and thanks to the talent of his father Evliya was allowed to enjoy the favor of the court. Because of his gift in reciting the Quran, Evliya was presented to Sultan Murad IV and admitted to the palace, where he received extensive training in calligraphy, music, Arabic grammar, and tajwid. Shortly before Murad IV's expedition to Baghdad in 1638, Evliya was appointed a sipahi of the Porte. Despite his diverse talents and the opportunity to climb the social ladder, Evliya had a keen interest in geography and invested his wealth into life goal of traveling. He set out on a journey to assemble a complete description of the Ottoman Empire and its neighbors and to provide a complete record of his travels as a first-person narrative.\n\nIn his ten-volume Seyâhatnâme, Evliya describes in Volume I: the capital city of Istanbul (his birthplace) and its surroundings; in II: Bursa, İzmir, Batum, Trabzon, Abkhazia, Crete, Erzurum, Azerbaijan, Georgia, etc.; in III: Damascus, Syria, Palestine, Urmia, Sivas, Kurdistan, Armenia, Rumelia (Bulgaria and Dobruja), etc.; in IV: Van, Tabriz, Baghdad, Basra, etc.; in V: Van, Basra, Hungary, Russia, Anatolia, Bursa, the Dardanelles, Adrianople, Moldavia, Transylvania, Bosnia, Dalmatia, Sofia; in VI: Transylvania, Albania, Hungary, Nové Zámky, Belgrade, Herzegovina, Ragusa (Dubrovnik), Montenegro, Kanizsa, Croatia; in VII: Hungary, Buda, Erlau, Temesvár, Transylvania, Wallachia, Moldavia, the Crimea, Kazak, South Russia, the Caucasus, Dagestan, Azak; in VIII: Azak, Kafa, Bahçesaray (Crimea), Istanbul, Crete, Macedonia, Greece, Athens, the Dodecanese, Peloponnesus, Albania, Valona, Ochrida, Adrianople, Istanbul; in IX: (Pilgrimage to Mecca) south-west Anatolia, Smyrna, Ephesus, Rhodes, south Anatolia, Syria, Aleppo, Damascus, Medina, Mecca, Suez; in X: Egypt (with historical excursus), Cairo, Upper Egypt, Sudan, Abyssinia.\n\nEvliya prefers legend to bare historical fact, and at times exaggerates or creates anecdotes designed for comic effect. His Seyâhatnâme thus appears as a work of 17th-century light literature, which was intelligible to a wide circle thanks to the mixed use of the colloquial Turkish of the 17th century with occasional borrowings of phrases and expressions from the ornate style. Such attempt to appeal to a wide audience may explain the author's lack of concern for historical truth. He even recorded certain occurrences as though he had seen or experienced them himself even though a close examination reveals that he knows of them only from hearsay or literary sources, which he does not cite.\n\nIn spite of these reservations, Evliya's Seyâhatnâme offers a wealth of information on cultural history, folklore, and geography. The significance of the work lies in the fact that it reflects the mental approach of the 17th century Ottoman Turkish intellectuals in their attitudes to the non-Muslim Occident, and sheds light on the administration and internal organization of the Ottoman empire of that time.\n\nBecause of the value of his work, the generic term of \"Seyâhatnâme\" is often used to refer to Evliya Çelebi's books in particular, as far as the Turkish language and studies are concerned.\n\nAside from several translations into modern Turkish, substantial portions of Evliya's Seyâhatnâme have been translated into Arabic, Armenian, Bosnian, Greek, Hungarian, Romanina, Russian, and Serbian. The most recent English translation is Robert Dankoff and Sooyong Kim's 2010 translation, \"An Ottoman Traveller: Selections from the Book of Travels of Evliya Çelebi\", which includes sections from all volumes.\n\nA related genre, specific to the journeys and experiences of Ottoman ambassadors, is the \"sefâretnâme\" (سفارت نامه), whose examples were edited by their authors with a view to their presentation to the Sultan and the high administration, thus also bearing a semi-official character, although they remained of interest for the general reader as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018903", "title": "Eucarida", "text": "Eucarida\n\nEucarida is a superorder of the Malacostraca, a class of the crustacean subphylum, comprising the decapods, krill, \"Amphionides\" and Angustidontida. They are characterised by having the carapace fused to all thoracic segments, and by the possession of stalked eyes.\n\nEucarida is a diverse and abundant group, comprising the following four orders:\n\nThe members of the Euphausiacea are commonly called krill and are all marine shrimp-like species whose pleopods (abdominal appendages) function as swimmerets. They swarm and mostly feed on plankton. This group is composed of only 90 species, some of which are the most abundant species on the planet; in fact, it is estimated that the biomass of the Antarctic krill \"Euphausia superba\"' is 500 million tons.\n\nDecapoda is a group with 15,000 species which have 5 pairs of thoracopods and a well-developed carapace that covers the gills (which are exposed in krill). They include lobsters, crabs, shrimp and prawns. The decapods are further subdivided on the basis of the gill structure into two suborders Dendrobranchiata (prawns) and Pleocyemata, which is further subdivided into several infraorders, such as the Caridea (true shrimp), the Stenopodidea (boxer shrimp) and the Anomura and the Brachyura (crabs) and so forth.\n\nIn addition, there is an enigmatic eucarid species, \"Amphionides reynaudii\", which is the sole representative of its order, but due to the loss of several features resulting from its small size, its classification has been unclear.\n\nLastly, there is an extinct order that contains only one family, Angustidontidae, which in turn contains two genera, \"Angustidontus\" and \"Schramidontus\".\n\nThe phylogeny of the Malacostraca is debated. In particular, the monophyly of Eucarida is also under question:\n"}
{"id": "2018913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018913", "title": "Small supernumerary marker chromosome", "text": "Small supernumerary marker chromosome\n\nHumans typically have 22 pairs of autosomal chromosomes in their cells, and a pair of sex chromosomes. About 2.7 million individuals have an extra, 47th autosomal chromosome called a small supernumerary marker chromosome (sSMC). These small supernumerary marker chromosomes can originate from any of the 24 different human chromosomes. About 70% of the cases with sSMC are de novo (new mutations), 30% are inherited within a family.\n\nAbout 30% of the carriers of a sSMC are clinically abnormal. The main problem in connection with a sSMC appears when the diagnosis of the presence of a sSMC is made prenatally. Until recently there was no possibility to make clear predictions about the outcome of the pregnancy. However, research is being carried out into the link between the presence of a sSMC in individuals and any consequent symptoms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018917", "title": "Fauziah Latiff", "text": "Fauziah Latiff\n\nSiti Fauziah Sheikh Abdul Latiff, better known as Fauziah Latiff, is a Malaysian singer and actress. One of Latiff's first public performance was at a charity concert at Stadium Merdeka in 1987. Talent scouts from Happy Records spotted her and offered her her first recording contract. She is referred to as \"Jee\" by her fans.\n\nLatiff has released more than seventeen albums. Her first single was \"Di Gamit Memori\".\n\n\nFauziah is one of the three judges of Malaysian Idol, a reality singing competition that is part of the Idol series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018920", "title": "Nzérékoré Region", "text": "Nzérékoré Region\n\nThe Nzérékoré Region is a region in the southern part of Guinea. Its capital and largest city is Nzérékoré. It is one of the eight regions of Guinea. It is bordered by the countries of Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Ivory Coast, and the Guinean regions of Kankan and Faranah.\n\nThe prefectures of Nzérékoré Region include: \n\nNzérékoré Region is traversed by the northwesterly line of equal latitude and longitude.\n\nThe region includes several forested highlands, including the Nimba Range, Simandou Massif, and Ziama Massif.\n\nThe region contains the headwaters of several rivers. The Milo, Sankarani, and Dion rivers flow northward to become tributaries the Niger River. The Moa, Lofa, St. Paul, St. John, Cavalla, and Sassandra rivers flow southwards through Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Ivory Coast to empty into the Atlantic Ocean.\n"}
{"id": "2018921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018921", "title": "The First Wives Club", "text": "The First Wives Club\n\nThe First Wives Club is a 1996 American comedy film based on the best-selling 1992 novel of the same name by Olivia Goldsmith. The film was produced by Scott Rudin and directed by Hugh Wilson. It stars Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn, and Bette Midler as three divorcées who seek revenge on their ex-husbands for having left them for younger women. The supporting cast comprises Stephen Collins, Victor Garber and Dan Hedaya as the three leads' ex-husbands, and, Marcia Gay Harden, Elizabeth Berkley and Sarah Jessica Parker as their lovers, respectively. Supporting roles are played by Maggie Smith, Bronson Pinchot, Rob Reiner, Eileen Heckart, and Stockard Channing; cameo appearances include Gloria Steinem, Ed Koch, Kathie Lee Gifford, and Ivana Trump.\n\nThe film became a surprise box-office hit following its North American release, eventually grossing $181,490,000 worldwide, mostly from its domestic run, despite receiving mixed reviews. It developed a cult following particularly among middle-aged women, and the actresses' highest-grossing project of the decade helped revitalize their careers in film and television. Composer Marc Shaiman was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Music Score, while Hawn was awarded a Blockbuster Entertainment Award and both Midler and Parker received Satellite Award nominations for their portrayals.\n\nAt Middlebury College in 1969, four young friends, Annie MacDuggan, Elise Elliot, Brenda Morelli, and Cynthia Swann, are graduating. Excited for the future and the potential it holds, the girls enthusiastically make a champagne toast celebrating their graduation as well as their friendship. As graduation gifts, valedictorian Cynthia presents the girls with matching Bvlgari pearl necklaces. As the graduates take a commemorative picture of the four of them (presumably for the last time), Cynthia makes Annie, Brenda and Elise promise that they will always be there for each other throughout the remainder of their lives.\n\nIn the present time, the four friends have lost touch with one another, as evident when Cynthia (Stockard Channing) is tearfully gazing at the picture of the four of them on that graduation day. Now wealthy and living in a luxurious penthouse, she gives her maid her own Bulgari pearl necklace (matching the three she gave to her friends on graduation day), and has the maid mail letters to them. She later walks outside on the balcony of her penthouse in a floor length fur coat, with a cigarette and a drink, and then dies by suicide after learning through the tabloids that her ex-husband Gil (whom Cynthia made wealthy through her connections, according to narrator Annie) married his much younger mistress the day before.\n\nCynthia's suicide is subsequently splashed all over the news. The surviving three former friends, shocked by the tragic event, all attend her funeral. After the funeral, the three friends reconnect over a long lunch to catch-up on their lives post-graduation. As it turns out, Cynthia's former friends aren't doing much better. Annie (Diane Keaton) is separated, suffering extreme self-esteem issues, and going through therapy with her husband. Brenda (Bette Midler) is divorced, left for a younger woman, depressed, and struggling financially. Elise (Goldie Hawn), whose husband also left her for a younger woman, is now an aging alcoholic movie actress who has become a plastic-surgery addict to keep her career afloat.\n\nShortly after Cynthia's funeral, at which the three remaining friends are reunited for the first time since college, Annie's husband, Aaron (Stephen Collins), leaves her for their younger therapist (Marcia Gay Harden) and asks her for a divorce after spending a night together (and leading Annie to believe it would reconcile them); Brenda has a rather unpleasant encounter at a clothing store with her ex, Morty (Dan Hedaya) and his airheaded younger mistress Shelly (Sarah Jessica Parker), and Elise finds out that her soon-to be ex-husband, Bill (Victor Garber), is requesting alimony and half of their marital assets claiming that Elise owes her fame to him. Also, during a meeting with a director for a possible leading lady movie role, she discovers that she is only to play the lead female's mother; she later learns the lead female is Bill's current girlfriend.\n\nShortly thereafter, the three friends receive the letters that Cynthia mailed to them before her suicide. After each one reads her letter from Cynthia, and feeling that they have been taken for granted by their husbands, the women decide to create the First Wives Club, aiming to get restitutions from their exes. Annie's lesbian daughter Chris (Jennifer Dundas) also gets in on the plan by asking for a job at her father's advertising agency so she can supply her mother with inside information, as payback for Aaron's unfairness toward Annie.\n\nBrenda finds out through her uncle Carmine (Philip Bosco), who has Mafia connections, that Morty is guilty of income tax fraud, while Annie makes a plan to revive her advertising career and buy out Aaron's partners. Elise starts to liquidate all of the marital assets she and Bill collected during their marriage, agreeing to split the proceeds of the liquidation between the two of them. However, as their plan moves through, things start to fall apart when they find out that Bill has no checkered past and nothing for them to use against him. Elise, feeling sorry for herself, gets drunk, which only results in her and Brenda hurling vicious insults at each other, and the women drift apart. When Annie starts thinking about closing down the First Wives Club, her friends come back, saying that they want to see this to the end, and Bill hasn't done anything blatantly wrong, but only as far as he knows. As a result, the wives manage to uncover information revealing that Bill's mistress (Elizabeth Berkley) is actually a minor.\n\nDeciding that revenge would make them no better than their husbands, they instead use these situations to push their men into funding the establishment of a nonprofit organization dedicated to aiding abused women, in memory of Cynthia. The film ends with a celebration at the new Cynthia Swann Griffin Crisis Center for Women. Elise starts a relationship with a cast member in her play, Brenda and Morty reconcile and Annie rebuffs Aaron's attempt at reconciliation. While outside the center Bill meets Shelly and the two start to flirt. The film concludes with the three women joyfully singing \"You Don't Own Me\".\n\n\nThe film project originally belonged to Sherry Lansing, who bought the unpublished manuscript of the novel in 1991, after many publishers had rejected it, and handed it over to producer Scott Rudin when she became CEO of Paramount Pictures in 1992. \"It was one of the single best ideas for a movie I've ever heard,\" she said in a 1996 interview with \"The New York Times\". \"The situation of a woman getting left for a younger version of herself was far too common. But we didn't want a movie about women as victims. We wanted a movie about empowerment.\" Rudin consulted Robert Harling to write the screenplay, whose script was reworked by Paul Rudnick when Harling left to direct 1996's \"The Evening Star\", the sequel to the 1983 drama \"Terms of Endearment\". Rudnick, however, felt the final script was \"incomprehensible\": \"To figure out the structure of that movie would require an undiscovered Rosetta Stone,\" he told \"The New York Times\".\n\nDiane Keaton was the first actress reported to have landed one of the starring roles, having previously worked with Rudin on the film \"Mrs. Soffel\" (only to later work with him again in \"Marvin's Room\"), followed by Bette Midler who had originally auditioned for the \"more glamorous role\" of Elise. Although Rudin originally intended to cast Jessica Lange in the latter role, the team decided to rewrite the character of the book in favour of a \"glitzier\" version which eventually went to eleventh-hour addition Goldie Hawn. Actor Mandy Patinkin dropped out shortly before shooting started and was replaced by Stephen Collins when he decided to leave the project in favour of his musical ambitions, while Dan Hedaya won the role of Morty over Héctor Elizondo. Elizabeth Berkley only took her part to \"work with the best actresses around,\" and Timothy Olyphant, who had impressed with local stage work, made his screen debut as director Brett Artounian in the film.\n\nCameos of note include Ivana Trump (who famously stated in the film, \"Don't get mad, get everything.\"), Gloria Steinem, and Kathie Lee Gifford as themselves, as well as author Olivia Goldsmith, director Hugh Wilson as a commercial director, and Heather Locklear as the younger lover of James Naughton's character Gil. Additionally, Jon Stewart was hired to play the lover of Goldie Hawn's character Elise; however, he never actually made it to the film. \"I played her boyfriend and apparently they felt that that was not inherently part of the storyline and so she broke up with me before the movie started,\" he joked on \"Larry King Live\" in 2006.\n\nPrincipal photography took place over three months at the Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York City between December 4, 1995, and March 19, 1996. Among the 60 sites showcased on screen are Christie's auction house, the Bowery Bar, a suite at The Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, Café des Artistes, the King Cole Bar at the St. Regis Hotel, Frank E. Campbell's funeral home, and Barneys. Other familiar sites include the Chrysler Building, the NoHo neighborhood, both 5th and 7th Avenues, Riverside Drive, and Central Park.\n\nProduction designer Peter Larkin took much inspiration from Hollywood's romantic comedies of the 1930s, incorporating a post-Great Depression view on style and luxury, widely popularized through these films. \"Those sets looked better than real New York penthouses and nightclubs ever could,\" he said upon creation. \"In this film I wanted settings that had that kind of striking nature.\"\n\n\"The First Wives Club\" received mixed reviews from film critics. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported that based on 72 reviews, 50% of critics gave the film a positive rating, with an average score of 5.65/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"First Wives Club\" is headlined by a trio of comedic dynamos, but the script lets them down with tepid plotting and a fatal lack of satirical bite.\" On Metacritic, which uses a normalized rating system, the film holds a 58/100 rating, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\" based on 21 critics.\n\nEdward Guthmann of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called the film a \"terrific comedy\" and \"a glamorous revenge romp, a \"9 to 5\" mixed with \"Auntie Mame\"\", giving \"each star the opportunity to do her best work in a long, long time.\" He added that \"what's surprising isn't that each of them is so delightfully good but that they work together so well.\" In his review for \"Variety\", Leonard Klady found that director \"Hugh Wilson wisely gets out of the way of his performers, providing a simple glossy look enhanced by cameraman Donald Thorin, designer Peter Larkin and the costumes of Theoni V. Aldredge\". He noted that \"with its combination of comic zingers and star turns, [the] pic shapes up as one of the more commercial fall [1996] entries\", that \"at its core, is a celebration of its star trio as consummate performers. In that respect, \"First Wives Club\" is a highly enjoyable movie romp.\"\n\nJanet Maslin from \"The New York Times\" remarked that the film \"freely overhauls the amusing beach book by Olivia Goldsmith, eliminating the sex, adding more slapstick and tailoring the leading roles to suit three divas in starring roles.\" While she felt that \"Bette Midler, Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn make a spirited, surprisingly harmonious trio,\" reeling off \"one-liners with accomplished flair, even when the film turns silly and begins to, pardon the expression, sag\", she found that the film fared \"better with sight gags and quick retorts than with plot development\". Roger Ebert, writing for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave \"The First Wives Club\" two out of four stars. He declared the film \"heavy on incident but light on plot\", filled with \"heartfelt talks with slapstick and sitcom situations.\" Owen Gleiberman, writer for \"Entertainment Weekly\", wrote that \"paced like a Chris Farley movie and photographed like a denture-cream commercial, \"The First Wives Club\" is the sort of overbright plastic-package comedy that tends to live or die by its jokes, its farcical audacity — anything but its 'conviction'.\" He gave the film a C+ rating.\n\nThe film's Total Lifetime Grosses for the Worldwide box office are $181.5 million. At the Domestic North American box office, the film has a Total Lifetime Gross of $105.5 million. The film has a Foreign Total Lifetime Gross of $76 million.\n\nAt the Domestic North American box office, the film reached the Rank of Number 1, making $18.9 million in its opening weekend over September 20–22, 1996, and the film remained at the Number 1 position for three consecutive weeks.\n\nIn the Yearly Chart for Domestic North American Box Office 1996, The First Wives Club is ranked at Number 11, and in the Yearly PG Rated 1996 Chart, the film is ranked at Number 1. On the Worldwide Yearly Chart 1996, the film is ranked at Number 11.\n\nFor years there have been rumors of a sequel to the film. Although columnists Stacy Jenel Smith and Marilyn Beck reported in a 2002 article that producer Scott Rudin would refuse to work on a sequel, the actresses have made various statements to the contrary. In a \"Chicago Sun-Times\" interview in 2003, Keaton expressed her readiness to appear in a second film. A year later, writer Paul Rudnick reportedly started writing a draft, entitled \"Avon Ladies of the Amazon\", and in 2005, Midler confirmed to \"USA Today\" that there was indeed a manuscript but that \"the strike kept it from happening.\" However, as Hawn declared in a 2006 interview with the \"New York Daily News\", Paramount Pictures declined the trio's services due to their demand for an increase in fees: \"I got a call from the head of the studio, who said, 'Let's try to make it work. But I think we should all do it for the same amount of money.' Now, if there were three men that came back to do a sequel, they would have paid them three times their salary at least.\" On February 25, 2011, Goldie Hawn posted a picture on Twitter of the three at a lunch confirming that they had all signed on for a sequel, and the next day re-tweeted a message from Bravo TV confirming this again. In 2016, Hawn confirmed that Netflix was working on a sequel, though she also admitted that \"the script isn't working.\"\n\nA musical stage version of the film opened at The Old Globe Theatre in San Diego, California on July 17, 2009, in previews, through August 23, 2009, prior to a projected Broadway engagement. The book was by Rupert Holmes, with a score by the \"one-time only reunited\" Holland–Dozier–Holland songwriting team from 1960s Motown soul music fame. Francesca Zambello directed the San Diego production. The creators and Zambello were engaged for the project in 2006. An industry reading of the musical was held in February 2009, with principals Ana Gasteyer, Carolee Carmello and Adriane Lenox.\n\nThe principal cast in the San Diego production originally included Karen Ziemba as Annie, Adriane Lenox as Elise, Barbara Walsh as Brenda, John Dossett as Aaron, Kevyn Morrow as Bill, Brad Oscar as Morty, Sara Chase as Trophy Wife, and Sam Harris as Duane. Lisa Stevens choreographed, with scenic design by Peter J. Davison and costumes by Paul Tazewell. On June 16, 2009, Lenox dropped out of the production due to health concerns and was replaced by Sheryl Lee Ralph. The production's tryout received mixed to negative reviews, but the production sold approximately 29,000 tickets in its 5-week run. The ticket demand was so strong early on that the show's run was extended an extra week prior to its opening night.\n\nProducers announced November 11, 2009, that Francesca Zambello withdrew as director, and they would secure a new director prior to any Broadway run.\n\nThe originating producers, Jonas Neilson and Paul Lambert, teamed with Elizabeth Williams and John Frost, and have since brought on Simon Phillips to direct.\n\nA newly adapted version of \"First Wives Club The Musical\" began previews at Chicago's Oriental Theatre on February 17, 2015, with the opening on March 11 and running through March 29. The production aimed for Broadway in the 2015-2016 season. The new production is directed by Simon Phillips, choreographed by David W. Connolly, and has a new book written by Linda Bloodworth-Thomason. The newly adapted version features new songs by the composers Holland-Dozier-Holland, the trio that wrote lots of Motown hits during the 60s. The show also contains a few of their classic hits, such as \"Reach Out...I'll Be There,\" \"Stop! In the Name of Love\" and \"I Can't Help Myself (Sugar Pie, Honey Bunch).\" Faith Prince, Christine Sherrill, and Carmen Cusack lead the cast as Brenda, Elise, and Annie respectively. Complete casting was announced in January 2015.\n\nTV Land announced in March 2016, that it had ordered a pilot for a television adaptation of the film, to be written by Rebecca Addelman and executive produced by Jenny Bicks and Karen Rosenfelt. However, the network failed to pick up the pilot. The project went to the Paramount Network for redevelopment in early 2017. In October 2017, \"Girls Trip\" Tracy Oliver was tapped to write the series.\n\n\n\n\n\nAmerican Film Institute recognition:\n\nThe official soundtrack titled \"Music From The Motion Picture The First Wives Club...And Then Some\" was released on September 17, 1996, shortly before the film's premiere. It peaked at number 90 on the \"Billboard 200\" chart.\n\n\nThe film's original score, composed by Marc Shaiman, was also released on November 26, 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018922", "title": "Comedy on the Bridge", "text": "Comedy on the Bridge\n\nComedy on the Bridge (\"Veselohra na mostě\" in Czech) is a radio opera in one act by Bohuslav Martinů to a Czech libretto by the composer, based on the comedy by Václav Kliment Klicpera and composed in 1935 in Polička. It has later been staged successfully, in America and Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe composer at this time in his career was able to explore the possibilities of new media for opera in two works composed in 1935 in response to commissions from Czechoslovak Radio: \"Hlas lesa\" (\"The Voice of the Forest\"), and \"Veselohra na mostě\" (\"Comedy on the Bridge\"). The latter's \"simplicity of means and effective characterization fulfil perfectly the requirements for radio opera\".\n\nThe first performance was a broadcast by Czech Radio, Prague on 18 March 1937. The first staged performance was at Hunter College, New York City on 28 May 1951, which the composer attended, where the work received an award for \"best new opera\" from the New York Music Critics Circle. \n\nThe opera has received two productions at the National Theatre in Prague, in 1961 and 1975.\n\nMartinů arranged three sections of the opera (the instrumental opening, the song of Popelka, and the finale) into a \"Little Suite\" for chamber orchestra, including piano.\n\nThe setting is on a bridge over a river, during the first half of the 19th century. The river separates two opposing armies during an unspecified conflict. Josephine Popelka has earlier been to the battlefield and buried her brother. On her return, the enemy sentry lets her pass, but holds her papers from his commanding officer. Without the proper papers, the sentry on her own side denies her request to pass, and Josephine must remain on the bridge. \n\nAt the same time, Bedron, the village brewer, is allowed on to the bridge from his own side, but is prevented from crossing over at the other side. With Josephine and Bedron detained on the bridge, Bedron casually makes a pass at Josephine. Josephine's fiancé Johnny then appears, and accuses her of being unfaithful. Eva, Bedron's wife, in turn arrives and she joins the argument. \n\nThe schoolmaster then joins the scene, trying to solve a riddle that he heard from Colonel Ladinsky, an officer on his own side: 'a deer is in a field, surrounded by a wall too high and steep to jump or climb. How does the deer escape?' The riddle parallels the characters' situation. Then, offstage, battle sounds are heard. The two couples settle their differences peaceably. Then they hear news of battlefield victory on their side. Colonel Ladinsky appears and tells Josephine her brother is alive; it turns out that she buried another deceased soldier. The colonel also reveals the answer to the riddle: the deer does not escape. Everyone laughs and celebrates the victory.\n\nA recording in French from 1963 was issued by Le Chant du Monde, 1963, featuring Nadine Sautereau, Jane Berbié, Jacques Mars, Bernard Demigny, Jean Giraudeau, Gérard Friedmann, with the Orchestre Lyrique de l'ORTF conducted by Manuel Rosenthal.\n\nSupraphon recorded the opera in 1984 with Jarmila Krátká, Anna Barová, Vladimir Krejčik, René Tuček, Richard Novák, with the Brno Janáček Chamber Opera Orchestra conducted by František Jílek.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018925", "title": "APX", "text": "APX\n\nIn computational complexity theory, the class APX (an abbreviation of \"approximable\") is the set of NP optimization problems that allow polynomial-time approximation algorithms with approximation ratio bounded by a constant (or constant-factor approximation algorithms for short). In simple terms, problems in this class have efficient algorithms that can find an answer within some fixed multiplicative factor of the optimal answer.\n\nAn approximation algorithm is called an formula_1-approximation algorithm for input size formula_2 if it can be proven that the solution that the algorithm finds is at most a multiplicative factor of formula_1 times worse than the optimal solution. Here, formula_1 is called the \"approximation ratio\". Problems in APX are those with algorithms for which the approximation ratio formula_1 is a constant formula_6. The approximation ratio is conventionally stated greater than 1. In the case of minimization problems, formula_1 is the found solution's score divided by the optimum solution's score, while for maximization problems the reverse is the case. For maximization problems, where an inferior solution has a smaller score, formula_1 is sometimes stated as less than 1; in such cases, the reciprocal of formula_1 is the ratio of the score of the found solution to the score of the optimum solution.\n\nA problem is said to have a polynomial-time approximation scheme (PTAS) if for \"every\" multiplicative factor of the optimum worse than 1 there is a polynomial-time algorithm to solve the problem to within that factor. Unless P = NP there exist problems that are in APX but without a PTAS, so the class of problems with a PTAS is strictly contained in APX. One such problem is the bin packing problem.\n\nA problem is said to be APX-hard if there is a PTAS reduction from every problem in APX to that problem, and to be APX-complete if the problem is APX-hard and also in APX. As a consequence of P ≠ NP ⇒ PTAS ≠ APX, if P ≠ NP is assumed, no APX-hard problem has a PTAS. In practice, reducing one problem to another to demonstrate APX-completeness is often done using other reduction schemes, such as L-reductions, which imply PTAS reductions.\n\nOne of the simplest APX-complete problems is MAX-3SAT-3, a variation of the boolean satisfiability problem. In this problem, we have a boolean formula in conjunctive normal form where each variable appears at most 3 times, and we wish to know the maximum number of clauses that can be simultaneously satisfied by a single assignment of true/false values to the variables.\n\nOther APX-complete problems include:\n\n\nPTAS (\"polynomial time approximation scheme\") consists of problems that can be approximated to within any constant factor besides 1 in time that is polynomial to the input size, but the polynomial depends on such factor. This class is a subset of APX.\n\nUnless P = NP, there exist problems in APX that are neither in PTAS nor APX-complete. Such problems can be thought of as having a hardness between PTAS problems and APX-complete problems, and may be called APX-intermediate. The bin packing problem is thought to be APX-intermediate. Despite not having a known PTAS, the bin packing problem has several \"asymptotic PTAS\" algorithms, which behave like a PTAS when the optimum solution is large, so intuitively it may be easier than problems that are APX-hard.\n\nOne other example of a potentially APX-intermediate problem is min edge coloring.\n\nOne can also define a family of complexity classes formula_1-APX, where formula_1-APX contains problems with a polynomial time approximation algorithm with a formula_12 approximation ratio. One can analogously define formula_1-APX-complete classes; some such classes contain well-known optimization problems. Log-APX-completeness and poly-APX-completeness are defined in terms of AP-reductions rather than PTAS-reductions; this is because PTAS-reductions are not strong enough to preserve membership in Log-APX and Poly-APX, even though they suffice for APX.\n\nLog-APX-complete, consisting of the hardest problems that can be approximated efficiently to within a factor logarithmic in the input size, includes min dominating set when degree is unbounded.\n\nPoly-APX-complete, consisting of the hardest problems that can be approximated efficiently to within a factor polynomial in the input size, includes max independent set in the general case.\n\nThere also exist problems that are exp-APX-complete, where the approximation ratio is exponential in the input size. This may occur when the approximation is dependent on the value of numbers within the problem instance; these numbers may be expressed in space logarithmic in their value, hence the exponential factor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018928", "title": "Dave Flemming", "text": "Dave Flemming\n\nDavid Braxton Flemming (born May 31, 1976) is an American sportscaster, currently working as a play-by-play announcer for the San Francisco Giants of Major League Baseball as well as college football, college basketball, and \"Monday Night Baseball\" on ESPN.\n\nFlemming grew up in Alexandria, Virginia, listening to current Giants partner Jon Miller call Baltimore Orioles games. In 2004, Flemming began his first full year as an announcer for the team, working with Miller, Duane Kuiper and Mike Krukow on San Francisco station KNBR and the Giants Radio Network. He currently splits time between the Giants' radio and television broadcasts.\n\nAfter graduating from St. Stephen's & St. Agnes School in 1994, Flemming received bachelor's and master's degrees in classics from Stanford University and a master's degree in broadcast journalism from the S.I. Newhouse School of Communications at Syracuse University. While at Stanford, Flemming broadcast Stanford Cardinal baseball, men's and women's basketball, and football and served as Sports Director at KZSU. In 2000, he broadcast play-by-play for the Visalia Oaks and served as the assistant General Manager, before moving on to the Pawtucket Red Sox.\n\nFlemming called games for three seasons on the eight-station PawSox Radio Network. His rise in the baseball broadcasting industry was fast, as he went from Class-A ball (Visalia) in 2000 to Triple-A from 2001–2003 (Pawtucket) and finally the Giants.\n\nIn seventeen seasons calling Giants games, Flemming has been a part of many memorable on-air moments.\n\nOn April 27, 2003, in his second ever major league broadcast, working as a fill-in for Jon Miller, Flemming broadcast the Phillies' Kevin Millwood's no-hitter against the Giants. In some ways it was an indication of the moments to come.\n\nBarry Bonds provided several of those. On May 28, 2006, Flemming had the chance for his voice to go into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum when he was set to call Barry Bonds' 715th home run, passing Babe Ruth for second place on the all-time home run list. However, as he was making the call, his microphone went dead:\n\nFlemming, unaware of the problem, continued to make the call, but all listeners heard was about ten seconds of dead air. Only Duane Kuiper's call on Fox Sports Net's broadcast was sent to the Hall of Fame. On September 23 of the same year, during Flemming's third-inning call of a game against the Milwaukee Brewers at Miller Park, Bonds hit a home run off left-hander Chris Capuano. This was Bonds' 734th career homer (26th for the season), which broke Hank Aaron's record for National League home runs. (Aaron hit his last 21 homers as an American League player.) Eventually on August 4, 2007, Flemming was able to call Bonds' record-tying 755th home run in San Diego on the radio against the San Diego Padres.\n\nThat call of #755 proved to be a notable one in a weekend of milestone moments for Bonds and Alex Rodriguez. Later that week, the New York Times sports media critic Richard Sandomir wrote of the collection of broadcasts that past weekend,\n\n\"But the best one on radio or TV came from Dave Flemming, the Giants’ radio announcer, who said clearly and excitedly on KNBR: \"Bonds swings, 2-1 pitch. He drives one to left. Going back on the ball is Hairston. It's gone. Off the facing of the second deck. And Barry Bonds has equaled baseball's all-time home run record: 755 for Bonds.\"\n\nOn July 14, 2006, for a Friday night home game, Flemming made his television broadcast debut for the Giants. Since then, he has appeared both on NBC Sports Bay Area and KNTV during the baseball season.\n\nOther milestone broadcasts Flemming contributed to include the calls of Greg Maddux and Randy Johnson's 300th pitching victories, and the Giants' Jonathan Sánchez's no hitter against the San Diego Padres on July 11, 2009.\n\nOn November 1, 2010, during the seventh inning in Game 5 of the World Series at Rangers Ballpark, Flemming made the winning home run call that eventually sealed the Giants' win, and thus the World Series:\n\nOn June 13, 2012, Flemming made the radio call of the final out of Matt Cain's perfect game, the first in the history of the Giants. In 2013 Flemming (along with Kuiper and Miller) won an Emmy for his coverage of the perfect game.\n\nLater that season, on October 28, 2012, Flemming made the call for the final out of the 2012 World Series.\n\nFlemming was again a part of the broadcasts for the 2014 postseason, and the Giants' third World Series win of the decade. In his time in San Francisco, he has won three Northern California Emmys for sports play-by-play.\n\nStarting in 2008, Flemming began broadcasting Stanford Cardinal football and basketball. He spent three years as the voice of Stanford basketball on the radio, and six years in that capacity with Stanford football before leaving the Stanford broadcasts to concentrate on his network work.\n\nThe period Flemming served as the voice of Stanford football coincided with perhaps the most successful stretch in the school's football history. Flemming's first broadcast on the Stanford radio network was the epic upset of #1 ranked USC on October 6, 2007. Over the next six seasons, Flemming was behind the microphone for the record performances of Toby Gerhart and Andrew Luck, and for three BCS bowl appearances, including a Rose Bowl victory over Wisconsin on January 1, 2013.\n\nFlemming became a regular \"College Basketball on ESPN\" announcer in 2010, after having called a couple of games for the network the previous season. He primarily works Big 10 games for ESPN, teaming with Dan Dakich and other analysts.\n\nHe also calls baseball for ESPN and ESPN Radio, including MLB playoffs every year since 2013. He worked a season calling college football games for the Pac-12 Network in 2012 before shifting to \"College Football on ESPN\" in 2013. Also in 2013, Flemming began calling NBA games on ESPN Radio and contributing to Little League World Series coverage on ESPN and ABC. His LLWS work continues to this day. In 2015, Flemming began calling NFL games for ESPN Radio as well. In 2016, he began calling select \"Monday Night Baseball\" games for ESPN, as well as \"College Football Thursday Primetime\" games.\n\nFlemming and his wife, Jessica, live in San Francisco with their identical twin daughters Katie and Carter and their son David Henry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018929", "title": "Arno Bay, South Australia", "text": "Arno Bay, South Australia\n\nArno Bay (formerly Bligh) is a small fishing and tourist town on the east coast of Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, located on the Lincoln Highway about halfway between Whyalla and Port Lincoln. First proclaimed under the name Bligh in 1883, the current name dates back to 1940. It is a recreational town with a number of marine and nature based attractions, including fishing, surfing and swimming.\n\nThe area which is now known as Arno Bay was opened up by pastoralists in 1863, with the area being named 'Salt Creek Cove' in these early days. Of the variety of ventures that occurred before the town was built, the sinking of 'The Arno Bay Mine' was possibly the least successful, with water halting all operations. The small town was initially proclaimed in 1882 by G. H. Ayliffe under the name of 'Bligh', after Captain William Bligh, although locals resisted the name change, continually referring to the town as 'Arno Bay' until the official name change.\n\nThe town was expected to become a port and a jetty was built in 1880 in anticipation of this. The port was not huge, but nonetheless continued importing fertilisers and exporting cereal crops that were being grown in the district. By 1911, the town had grown substantially, with a school, post office, hotel and new hall established in this period.\n\nThe town continued to grow as a port until the point where it was exporting 11,000 tonnes of grain in 1940. In the same year, the decision was finally made to alter the town's official name to 'Arno Bay', named after a sandhill well and not the Italian 'Arno River' as had been suggested.\nThe period of high export came to an abrupt end in 1963 when the storage silos were built, and ocean shipping became redundant to the large trucks that were now the main mechanism of transport.\n\nThis signalled the end of Arno Bay as a port, causing the population to drop slowly, eventually leading to its current position as a tourist fishing town.\n\nArno bay lies on the eastern Eyre Peninsula, and sits on the Spencer Gulf, a body of water that stretches up to Port Augusta in the north. The town itself lies on the bay of the same name, which is dominated by a mixture of white, sandy beaches, cliffs, and mangrove systems. Of particular note is 'Redbanks', a sedimentary cliff structure which is designated a geological monument by the Geological Society of Australia.\n\nThe climate is much like that of Port Lincoln, which is only 118 km to South. The Mediterranean-like climate, with its hot, dry summers and cool, wet winters is typical for most of the Eyre Peninsula.\n\nThe town still retains it position as a minor service centre for the surrounding agricultural communities, but in nowhere near the capacity of mid-1900's. Cereal crops and sheep are still the major produce of the inland area, as well as minor amounts of other produce.\n\nFishing has been a minor part of the economy in the past, and recently, aquaculture has come to prominence in the bay, with Yellowtail Kingfish, mulloway and tuna held in large cages. These are farmed on 7 licenses covering 130 hectares in the bay. The aquaculture in the bay is still in development, and further expansions are expected in the future.\n\nTourism is now one of the largest components of the town's economy, with tourists typically drawn by the areas fishing, water sport and seaside atmosphere. A boat ramp is located in the town, with whiting, snapper, tommy ruff, garfish, salmon and may other popular species caught in the bay, with most of these also available off the town jetty and beach. For boat anglers, the 'Redbanks' region has been known to produce large Mulloway and Snapper, as well as offering scenery in the form of the imposing cliffs. The local aquaculture industry also promotes tourism, with tours through facilities where finfish are raised.\n\nFor tourist facilities, Arno Bay has a beachfront caravan park, hotel, general stores, post office, playground and motor garage outlet, however no fuel station. An all-weather boat ramp, with floating pontoon and a refurbished town jetty launching facilities for boat based fishermen.\n\nA number of sporting venues and clubs include a dried-up swamp that serves as a golf course, bowling green, oval, tennis, netball, and squash courts, dirt circuit and in summer yacht racing each Sunday.\n\nIn the , there were 428 persons (273 in the town proper) usually resident in Arno Bay: 55.4% being males and 44.6% females. Of the total population in Arno Bay there were no Indigenous persons.\n\nIt was found that 18.0% of the population usually resident in Arno Bay were children aged between 0–14 years, and 29.7% were persons aged 55 years and over. The median age of persons in Arno Bay was 41 years, compared with 37 years for persons in Australia.\n\nIn the Census, 92.1% of persons usually resident in Arno Bay were Australian citizens, 5.6% were born overseas and none were overseas visitors. Of those who were in permanent residence, 87.9% of them stated they were born in Australia. Other common responses were: England 1.4%, Seychelles 1.4%, New Zealand 1.2%, United States of America 0.7% and Papua New Guinea 0.7%.\n\nThe most common responses for religious affiliation for persons usually resident in Arno Bay were: No Religion 29.9%, Uniting Church 24.5%, Anglican 11.7%, Catholic 9.8% and Lutheran 7.9%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018930", "title": "Kankan Region", "text": "Kankan Region\n\nThe Kankan Region is located in eastern Guinea. It is bordered by the countries of Mali and Côte d'Ivoire and the Guinean regions of Nzérékoré and Faranah.\n\nPrefectures of Kankan Region include: \nKankan Region is traversed by the northwesterly line of equal latitude and longitude.\n\nMajor towns include: Bohodou.\n"}
{"id": "2018933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018933", "title": "Micranthes hieraciifolia", "text": "Micranthes hieraciifolia\n\nMicranthes hieraciifolia (common names: \"hawkweed-leaved saxifrage\", \"hawkweed-leaf saxifrage\", \"stiff stem saxifrage\" or \"stiff-stemmed saxifrage\") is a species of flowering plants. It is native to Europe, North America and temperate Asia, being distributed throughout the high Arctic and some alpine areas like Norway and the Carpathian Mountains, with a few isolated populations in the Central Eastern Alps of Austria and the Massif Central of France. It is generally uncommon.\n\nIt grows to a height of 10–20 cm. The leaves are oblong to rhombic, thick, and remotely toothed. The stem is single, stout and thick, and densely glandular. The flowers are produced in dense clusters, small and inconspicuous, with greenish to purplish petals.\n\nIt grows in meadows, on solifluction soil, and in places with well-developed moss.\n"}
{"id": "2018947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018947", "title": "Faranah Region", "text": "Faranah Region\n\nThe Faranah Region is located in east-central Guinea. It is bordered by the countries of Sierra Leone and Mali and the Guinean regions of Kankan, Mamou, Nzérékoré, and Labé.\n\nPrefectures of Faranah Region include: \n\nFaranah Region is traversed by the northwesterly line of equal latitude and longitude.\n"}
{"id": "2018948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018948", "title": "HLM", "text": "HLM\n\nHLM () is the acronym of \"Habitation à Loyer Modéré\" (\"rent-controlled housing\"), a form of private or Public housing in France, Algeria, Senegal, and Quebec.\n\nHLMs constitute 16% of all housing in France. There are approximately four million such residences, housing an estimated 10 million people. The standard of living in the HLM housing projects is often the lowest in the country.\n\n72% of HLMs built before 2001 (and 95% of those built between 2001 and 2011) are small buildings or individual houses. The average size of buildings is 20 apartments. Construction of HLM is mainly financed by funds collected on Livret A, a type of savings account regulated by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. In 2011, the French people have placed 280 billion euros on this type of savings account.\n\nHLM should not be confused with public housing in France; many HLM organizations are completely private, although many are also public.\n\nThe HLM system was created in 1950 in response to France's postwar housing crisis. The low level of construction during and between the two world wars, the rural exodus that had started to take place in France (directed mainly at Île-de-France, the Paris region) and the baby boom, contributed to a deficit of an estimated four million residences. Eugène Claudius-Petit, the Minister for Reconstruction and Urbanisation, promoted a scheme of massive construction of socially subsidised residences to address this problem. The new system took its foundations from the HBM (\" – \"inexpensive housing\") system, which had been created in 1889 and financed mainly by charitable sources rather than the state.\n\nThe level of social construction did not significantly rise until minister Pierre Courant launched an ambitious plan in 1956, warranted by the increased rate of immigration from France's former colonies. Courant's plan had the goal of construction of at least 240,000 residences each year, and it was an unexpected success: from 1956 on, there were more than 300,000 new residences built annually, with a good number of them HLM. In 1964, there were 95,000 new HLM apartments. The residences were often constructed in large complexes, by \" (\"the way of the crane\"). The new, large apartment buildings were perfectly rectangular, to allow a crane to roll along a track and place components on both sides of the building simultaneously, saving both time and effort.\n\nThe greatest increase in the number of HLMs came in the late 1960s and early 1970s, when many planned communities, or ZUP (\": \"priority urbanisation zones\") were constructed. They were built mostly in the suburbs of Paris. A total of 195 ZUP were created, producing over two million new, mostly HLM, residences.\n\nThe emphasis shifted to improving the standard of living in the residences already in existence. In 1968, for example, only 41% of the HLM apartments had toilet and sanitary facilities. By the end of the 1970s, the figure had risen to about 80%. New HLM sites, with more rooms per residence, were built in smaller cities and towns, and numerous programmes were launched to combat poverty, unemployment and delinquency in ZUP communities. In 2001, each HLM residence had, on average, 2.4 persons living in it (compared to 3.2 in 1954), four rooms (three in 1954), and 96% of all HLM apartments had toilet and sanitary facilities, compared to only 10% in 1954.\n\nHLM high-rise estates, or \", are often referenced in French popular culture, as they are known for their enduringly high rates of poverty and unemployment as well as the concentration of first and second-generation immigrants in the communities. Many, if not most, well-known French hip hop artists come from the ZUP around Paris, including Sniper, 113, and Kery James. Rohff is known for his songs portraying life in the HLMs. The Tryo hit \"L'hymne de nos campagnes\" begins: \"Si tu es né dans une cité HLM...\", \"If you were born in a HLM...\" (Mamagubida, 1998). British Sea Power also reference HLMs in their song \"Living Is So Easy.\"\n\nThe popular singer Renaud wrote the song \"Dans mon HLM\" talking about life in HLMs and describing the typical neighbors you could find there back in the eighties. \n\nIn the postwar period, the HLM program was nearly synonymous with modernist high-rise apartment blocks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018949", "title": "Maritime Union of Australia", "text": "Maritime Union of Australia\n\nThe Maritime Union of Australia (MUA) was a union which covered waterside workers, seafarers, port workers, professional divers, and office workers associated with Australian ports. The MUA was formed in 1993 with merger of the Seamen's Union of Australia and the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia. \n\nIn 2017 the MUA had about 16,000 members. It was affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Australian Labor Party and the International Transport Workers Federation. From 2000 until its merger in 2018, Paddy Crumlin was National Secretary of the MUA and since 2010 he has been President of the ITF. He also holds the position of chair of the Dockers Section.\n\nIn late 2015, the MUA and the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) commenced merger talks. On 29 February 2016, at the MUA national conference, delegates voted unanimously in favour of the merger. The Fair Work Commission approved the merger in March 2018. The merged union was named the Construction, Forestry, Maritime, Mining and Energy Union. \n\nThe Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia traces its roots to the formation on the Australian waterfront in September 1872 of two unions in Sydney, the Labouring Men's Union of Circular Quay and the West Sydney Labouring Men's Association, which merged ten years later to form the Sydney Wharf Labourers' Union. In 1884 the Melbourne Wharf Labourers' Union was formed with the support of Melbourne Trades Hall representatives, after shipowners refused to allow waterfront workers to attend Eight-hour Day celebrations. With Federation in 1901 and the impending introduction of an arbitration system, the national Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia was formed in 1902 under the leadership of Billy Hughes. \n\nThe Communist Party of Australia was formed in October 1920, and achieved some influence in the trade union movement, especially in New South Wales. Though its influence had dwindled to an insignificant sect by the mid-1920s, it kept positions in particular trade unions, including the Waterside Workers' Federation. The union was regarded as militant and disruptive to the economy, and has suffered numerous attempts to suppress its activities. In 1928, the Nationalist government of Stanley Bruce enacted the \"Transport Workers Act 1928\" requiring workers to have a license, known as the \"dog collar\", to work on the wharves. Employment of non-union labour and members of the Permanent & Casual Wharf Labourers Union almost killed off the Waterside Workers' Federation. \n\nIn 1950 the WWF absorbed its industrial opposition the Permanent & Casual Wharf Labourers Union of Australia and in 1991 it amalgamated with the Australian Foremen Stevedore Association but retained the name Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia.\n\nThe Federated Seamens Union of Australasia (SUA) was formed in 1876 by the amalgamation of the Sydney Seamen's Union and the Melbourne Seamen's Union, adopting the name Seamen's Union of Australia in 1906.\n\nFrom December 1935 to February 1936 there was a long strike against an unsatisfactory award and poor working conditions. The strike failed, and the union was left divided and crippled.\n\nIn 1998 the Maritime Union of Australia was involved in a waterfront dispute when Patrick Corporation attempted to sack 1400 waterfront workers across Australia and introduce non-union contract labour. \n\nOn August 6, 2015, just before midnight, Hutchison Ports, located in Sydney and Brisbane, sacked 97 workers by text message and email - 57 in Sydney and 40 in Brisbane. This led to one of the longest running community assemblies in modern times.\n\nIn 2009 the union ran a campaign entitled \"Time for a Sea Change in Australian Shipping\" calling on the government to revitalize Australian shipping by giving tax incentives for the industry to invest in new ships, providing training for new seafarers, and introducing pro-union laws. According to Glenn Milne, a Union Strategy document which was leaked in March 2008 reveals the union also wants a return to pattern bargaining.\n\nAt the same time, in April 2008 the union began pushing for access to Howard Government strategy documents, which it believes will show ministers conspired with Patrick Corporation to smash the union. The timing of this move was potentially damaging for the union as Julia Gillard was in the process of talking to employers, in an attempt to rewrite the Howard Government's workplace relations system. One editorial in the \"Australian Financial Review\" said that Paddy Crumlin had done the workplace relations debate a \"big favour\" by trying to \"revive the ghosts of the [1998 waterfront dispute]\" because the union's power could show Labor that industries such as cafes, restaurants and accommodation needed flexibility but were being \"shut out of consideration because their lobbies are less powerful\".\n\nSince late 2015, the MUA and CFMEU have been in merger talks to create \"Australia's most powerful union\".\n\nOn 29 February 2016, at the MUA national conference, delegates voted unanimously in favour of a merger with the CFMEU.\n\nThe Fair Work Commission approved the merger in March 2018.\n\nNotable officials include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018953", "title": "Joachim Vadian", "text": "Joachim Vadian\n\nJoachim Vadian (November 29, 1484 – April 6, 1551), born as Joachim von Watt, was a humanist, scholar, mayor and reformer in St. Gallen.\n\nVadian was born in St. Gallen into a family of wealthy and influential linen merchants. After having gone to school in St. Gallen, he moved to Vienna at the end of 1501, where he took up studies at faculty of arts the university, in particular under Conrad Celtis and Matthias Qualle.\n\nIn Vienna, he changed his name to \"Joachimus Vadianus\"; like so many other humanists, he preferred a Latin name to express his admiration for the classic masters. He evaded the outbreak of the bubonic plague of 1506/07 by moving to Villach where he worked as a teacher and studied music. A study trip through northern Italy brought him to Trent, Venice, and Padua, where he met the Irish scholar Mauritius Hibernicus.\n\nIn 1509 completed his studies with the degree of Master of Arts and returned for a short while to St. Gallen, where he studied the scriptures in the library of the abbey of St. Gall. He returned to Vienna, where he had some success as a writer. From 1512 on, he held the chair of poetry at the university of Vienna—he had gained some reputation as the author of Latin poems. In 1513, he visited Buda, and the following year, he was named \"poeta laureatus\" by emperor Maximilian I. In 1516, he was even named a Dean of the University of Vienna.\n\nIn the following years, Vadian studied medicine and sciences, in particular geography and history under Georg Tannstetter, called Collimitius. In 1517, he was graduated as a doctor of medicine, and subsequently moved back to his hometown, St. Gallen. On that voyage, he visited many of his humanist acquaintances in Leipzig, Breslau, and Kraków. In 1518, he climbed the Pilatus mountain near Lucerne, the first documented ascent to its top.\n\nIn St. Gall, he was appointed city physician and on August 18, 1519, he married Martha Grebel, the sister of Conrad Grebel who would later become a leading figure of the Anabaptist movement. In 1521, he succeeded his father Leonhard, who had died on 20th December 1520, as a member of the city council. The beginning of the Reformation in Switzerland (he was a friend of Huldrych Zwingli) made him, who had never had a theological schooling, study ecclesiastic texts. From 1522 on, he sided with the new, reformed interpretation and henceforth was its most important proponent in St. Gallen. When he was elected mayor of the city in 1526, he led the conversion of St. Gallen to Protestantism, and managed to maintain that new state even after the victory of the Catholic cantons in the Second war of Kappel. Vadian wrote several theological texts after 1522, helping disseminate the reformatory views.\n\nHe died in St. Gallen. In his testament, he donated his large private library to the city. His collection became the nucleus of the cantonal library of St. Gallen, which is named \"\"Vadiana\"\".\n\nModern critical edition with German translation in 3 vols: \"Joachim Vadianus, De Poetica\" by Peter Schäffer (Humanistische Bibliothek, Reihe II: Texte, 21, I-III). Wilhelm Fink, Munich 1973-1977, vol. 1 ; vol. 2 ; vol. 3 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018957", "title": "Dzi bead", "text": "Dzi bead\n\nDzi bead (Tib. གཟི།; pronounced \"zee\"; alternative spelling: \"gzi\") is a type of stone bead of uncertain origin worn as part of a necklace and sometimes as a bracelet. In several Asian cultures, including that of Tibet, the bead is considered to provide positive spiritual benefit. These beads are generally prized as protective amulets and are sometimes ground into a powder to be used in traditional Tibetan medicine. Beads subject to this process have small \"dig marks\" where a portion of the bead has been scraped or ground away to be included in the medicine. Some dzi exhibit grinding and polishing of one or both ends, again the result of reduction for use in traditional Tibetan medicine or, in some cases, due to the bead's use as a burnishing tool in the application of gold leaf to thanka paintings or gilt bronze statuary.\n\nThe most highly prized dzi beads are those of ancient age, made of natural agate. The original source of these beads is a mystery. While the traditional, ancient-style beads are greatly preferred, new modern-made dzi are gaining popularity among Tibetans.\n<Br>\nIn recent years, the anointing of the dzi bead with a herbal connection oil, along with wearing with correlating gemstones as a necklace was introduced in \"The Complete Book of Dzi Beads\", by author Tilii Bolin.\n\nThe meaning of the Tibetan word \"dzi\" [གཟི།] translates to \"shine, brightness, clearness, splendor.\" In Mandarin Chinese, dzi are called \"heaven's bead\" or \"heaven's pearl\" (天珠; tiān zhū).\n\nDzi beads are made from agate, and may have decorative symbols composed of circles, ovals, squares, waves or zig zags, stripes, lines, diamonds, dots, and various other archetypal and symbolic patterns. Colors mainly range from brown to black, with the pattern usually in ivory white. Dzi beads can appear in different colours, shapes, and sizes; the surface is usually smooth and waxy, presumably resulting from wear over a long period of time.\n\nSometimes the natural patterns (usually \"layered\" swirls) of the agate can be seen underneath or behind the decorative symbols and designs, and sometimes not. Some dzi beads exhibit what are referred to as \"blood spots,\" which are tiny red dots in the white areas, indicative of iron content. This is a highly desirable characteristic among collectors, but relatively rare. Another desirable effect is \"Nāga skin,\" in which the surface of the bead exhibits tiny circular weathering marks that resemble scales. Some dzi beads are simply polished agate, with no other decoration than the natural banding of the stone.\n\nThe number of \"eyes,\" circular designs on the stone, is considered significant. The symbolic meaning of these beads is based on the number and arrangement of the dots. \n\nDzi stones made their first appearance between 2000 and 1000 BC, in ancient India: a few hundred thousand were supposedly brought back by Tibetan soldiers from Persia during a raid. The malicious effect of the “evil eye” was taken very seriously by these people. Dzi were considered to counteract the evil eye. The artisans who made the dzi created amulets with “eyes” on them as a “fight fire with fire” form of protection. Artisans used agate as the base stone, and then embellished the beads lines and shapes using ancient methods that remain mysterious. Treatments may have included darkening with plant sugars and heat, bleaching and white line etching with natron, and protecting certain areas with grease, clay, wax or a similar substance. A hole was drilled before the bead was decorated as drilling caused most breakage during the production process, and holes were also useful for stringing and dipping numerous beads as a step in coloration. The earliest holes were conical and done with solid drill bits drilling from both ends and, hopefully, meeting near the center of the bead. Very small drill tips of chipped flint were used without abrasives and numerous other materials, regardless of hardness, when used with abrasives. Neolithic era beads were also drilled with hollow, tubular abrasion driven bits of reed and, later, during the Chalcolithic, copper. These drilled a hole with a core of agate inside the tubular drill. Tubular bit holes were parallel walled rather than conical, but also done from both ends. Both methods required arduous work done with a bow drill, with time and effort being determined by hardness of abrasive, from ground sand (quartz) to corundum.\n\nAlthough the geographic origin of dzi beads is uncertain, it is accepted that they are now called \"\"Tibetan beads,\"\" just like \"\"Tibetan coral,\"\" which also came to Tibet from elsewhere. Tibetans cherish these beads and consider them hereditary gems. In this way they have survived thousands of years, being worn by hundreds of individual people. Dzi are found primarily in Tibet, but also in neighbouring Bhutan, Nepal, Ladakh and Sikkim.Although Dzi type agate beads were made in the Indus Valley during the Harappan period and at various locations rich in agate deposits in India, such as in Khambhat, since their Neolithic periods, the earliest archaeologically controlled find of an agate bead with Dzi style decoration of straight and curved lines and circular eye found has been from a Saka culture excavation (Uigarak) in Kazakhstan, dated 7th - 5th C. BCE. These were said to be imports from India, reflecting long distance trade with the more nomadic Saka or Scythian tribes.\n\nSometimes shepherds and farmers find dzi beads in the soil or in the grasslands. Because of this, some Tibetans traditionally believe or believed that dzi are naturally formed, not man-made\n\nSince knowledge of the bead is derived from several differing oral traditions, the beads have provoked controversy regarding their source, their method of manufacture and even their precise definition. In Tibetan culture these beads are believed to attract local protectors, dharmapalas or deities or maybe beneficial ghosts, ancestors or even bodhisattvas. Because of this, dzi beads are always treated with respect.\n\nIt has been reported that modern era dzi style beads were made in Idar Oberstein, Germany at least as early as the 19th C. The German agate-cutters at Idar-Oberstein plied their trade since the Roman Period. They brought the coloring of agates to a science and the cutting and drilling to the mechanical level of perfection for which Germans are known.\n\nDue to the questionable origin of most hand made dzi beads and the high demand for them, there has been relatively recent reproduction reported in Asia. The most convincing replica of ancient dzi beads came from Taiwan during the 1990s. China has also produced some good-quality dzi beads over the last three years. However, the number of modern dzi that would be accepted as beautiful by the Tibetan community is very small, making these beads highly desirable. From photos of contemporary Tibetans decked out in ceremonial garb, including numerous dzi beads, their taste and choice is more toward new, shiny and big than small and muted by the patination of age, and it is perhaps because of superficial and naive attraction to the unblemished, considered by many as \"Pure\" dzi, that they have allowed most of their truly ancient - vagaries and accidents of time, nature, and culture effected - heirlooms to be bought and/or exchanged for replicas. When one reads of the still current amuletic \"charging\" of newer dzi beads by Lamas to make them \"pure\" and give them supernatural power to replace that lost by taking small chips, \"digs,\" from a bead to be ingested as an ingredient in a curative potion, it is not difficult to understand how they fail to appreciate the \"scarred\" beauty of age and experience and even see it as a \"useful\" defacement, but a defacement nonetheless. Superstitious ritual and belief integral to creating these scars are, then, equally so in causing the loss in their desirability. This is distinctly similar to other tribal art wherein cultural belief and ritual are essential to empowering artistic creation. In the opinion of this writer, the \"pure\" dzi are the empty canvas, the marble block, and the markings of natural and cultural experience create the one of a kind masterpieces.\n\nThis is a superficial view of a European on ancient culture. The older the bead, the more expensive it is. Therefore, they are presented by grandparents at the birth of grandchildren, providing them with a future. Buying new beads is a long-term investment. For 15 years, the cost of beads increases 4 times\n\nA nice dzi should be made of good quality agate with the cutting, drilling and decorating taking many days. Modern methods and technology such as lasers, modern sugars and chemicals, and vacuum chambers can produce very good results. The waxy appearance is still desirable but is sometimes lacking. Some especially well-made new dzi are accepted by Tibetans because it is safe to wear them in public since they look like ancient dzi. Some claim the new dzi function with the same efficacy as the old ones; others believe the protective energies of ancient dzi can move into a new dzi, if the stone is of the same quality or better and the two beads are kept together or when binding rituals are performed.\n\nDzi are also popular in China, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Genuine ancient dzi are too expensive for most Tibetans; those who have not owned dzi for generations can no longer afford to buy them. Some of the new dzi have become highly collectible resulting in much higher prices. As was true in ancient days, only a handful of artisans know how to make superior beads today. Less than a dozen people are manufacturing truly high-quality and beautiful beads; not much is known about who they are or where their workshops are.\n\nWith a few exceptions, new beads are not considered to have the mystic associations of the ancient beads, but it is considered possible to give new dzi similar powers with some time and effort: 1) by taking them to be blessed by a lama or guru; 2) taking them on pilgrimages to holy places such as stupas and shrines; and 3) reciting mantras, as well as taking religious vows with them. An advantage of new dzi beads is that they do not carry any of the bad karma of previous owners. It is considered possible to rid a stone of bad energy by submerging it in saltwater for several hours, and then fanning incense over it. The dzi should be treated with respect from that time on. Sun basking and herbal smudging are also said to purify the beads. Spirit aroma offering and recitation of Cintamani dharani are considered helpful in charging the bead as well.\n\nImitation dzi are created from materials other than agate or chalcedony. They can be made of glass, resin, lampwork, wood, bone, plastic, metal, or non-traditional etched stones. Imitation dzi have a long history, some dating back a couple of hundred years. The older mock dzi have some collectible value. Some of the resin mock dzi have a filling of lead to add weight.\n\nSome people would also call the modern machine-carved and machine-drilled, highly polished new dzi \"mock dzi.\" Almost invariably mass-produced, these are available for less than two dollars, and are often sold by the strand. The etching on these cheap beads has been done very quickly, and the decorations do not penetrate into the inner core of the bead. These are usually targeted for sale to mainland Chinese customers as lucky feng shui charms.\n\nMarket value for ancient beads can easily reach into hundreds of thousands of US dollars - especially for beads with more \"eyes.\" Tiny red spots caused by iron inclusion in the agate also increase the value. New dzi prices range from about ten to two thousand US Dollars, depending on quality and luster.\n\nSimilar to dzi beads are the so-called chung dzi, which have been imported to Tibet since ancient times. These can be plain, naturally banded agate beads, or etched beads (often with black and white striped patterns). Some are carnelians or black agate with thin white etching patterns resembling the back of a turtle, which is an ancient pattern that dates back to the era of the Harappan Indus culture. Ancient Roman agate beads as well as etched Bactrian, Middle Eastern, Chinese, Afghan, Yemeni, and Indian agate and carnelian beads made their way into Tibet. All these are considered chung dzi (in Tibetan, \"chung\" means ordinary or common). Chung dzi are believed to have similar properties to real \"eyed\" dzi; they are less valuable, but they are highly prized by Tibetans and also considered a variety of dzi.\n\nAnother similar type of bead is called Luk Mik (\"goat’s eye\") - it is a naturally formed \"one-eyed\" coin-shaped agate (pictured). Luk Mik are the preferred dzi for travelling in Tibet.\n\nThe antique Pyu and Phumtek beads of Burma are also similar in some ways to dzi: they share some of the dzi bead patterns, but instead of agate, the Phumtek are generally made from petrified opalized palm wood, while Pyu beads are often made of red or orange carnelian with some thin white alkali-etched lines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018960", "title": "The Curse of the Jade Scorpion", "text": "The Curse of the Jade Scorpion\n\nThe Curse of the Jade Scorpion is a 2001 American crime comedy film written, directed and starring Woody Allen. The cast also features Helen Hunt, Dan Aykroyd, Elizabeth Berkley, John Schuck, Wallace Shawn, David Ogden Stiers and Charlize Theron. The plot concerns an insurance investigator and an efficiency expert who are both hypnotized by a crooked hypnotist into stealing jewels. The film bears much more in common with Allen's earlier screwball comedy films than with other films made by him around the same time.\n\n\"The Curse of the Jade Scorpion\" received mixed reviews from critics.\n\nIn 1940, C.W. Briggs (Woody Allen) is an insurance investigator in New York City who is highly successful, owing to his many connections and ability to think like a criminal. His work does not impress Betty Ann Fitzgerald (Helen Hunt), an efficiency expert who butts heads with C.W. over his old-fashioned views. Her advice is usually followed, however, because she secretly is in a relationship with her boss, Chris Magruder (Dan Aykroyd), who constantly reassures her that they will be free to pursue their relationship in public once he finalizes his divorce with his wife.\n\nWhile attending a dinner with some employees, Voltan (David Ogden Stiers), a stage magician calls on Betty Ann and C.W. to be in his hypnotism act. Using the words \"Madagascar\" and \"Constantinople\" on them, respectively, as trigger words to put them in a trance, the two are given the suggestion that they are newlyweds who are madly in love before being reawakened. When C.W. returns home for the evening, he receives a call from Voltan, who uses C.W.'s trigger word to put him back in a trance and orders him to steal jewels for him. C.W. has no recollections of these crimes after he is woken up and is determined to prove himself by solving the crimes. He starts investigating Betty Ann on the grounds of her suspicious behavior (actually related to her affair with Chris) and sneaks into her house one evening. There, he witnesses Chris telling her that he has reconciled with his wife and will not have a divorce. When Magruder leaves, Betty Ann becomes drunk in a fit of depression and tries to jump out of a window. C.W. stops her and spends the night keeping her from other self-destructive activities.\n\nEventually, investigations start picking up evidence pointing to C.W., leading to his arrest. He manages to escape to Betty Ann's place, where she grudgingly hides him. Thinking that C.W. is no longer available, Voltan calls Betty Ann, using her trigger word of \"Madagascar\" to put her in a hypnotic state and steal for him. On her return, still in a trance, the subliminal suggestion of being in love leads her to seduce C.W. Eventually his co-workers and friends George Bond (Wallace Shawn) and Alvin \"Al\" (Brian Markinson) recall the initial hypnotism and realize that it is the cause of the robberies. George, an amateur magician, frees C.W. of the trigger word and restores his memories. C.W. realizes what has happened and goes back to Betty Ann's apartment to find her missing. He then realizes that she must have been hypnotized again and manages to locate the site where the still-hypnotized Betty Ann is delivering the jewels to Voltan. Voltan discovers C.W. and holds him at gunpoint. However, C.W. deduces that a small-time criminal like Voltan would not have the nerve to do something as drastic as murder. Voltan tries escaping, but the police catch him shortly after. The still-hypnotized Betty Ann expresses her love for C.W. who takes advantage of her state to passionately kiss her before erasing her memories of the event.\n\nBack at work, the employees talk about Betty Ann and Chris going on a romantic getaway. C.W. goes to Chris to inform him of his resignation. An apologetic Chris understands and lets him know that if C.W. leaves, the company will give him his blessing and if he stays, Chris will give him a raise. He also promises C.W. that if he stays, he will make sure that Betty Ann will no longer interfere with his work, letting him know that he intends on forcing her to retire after they get married, as he does not want his wife to be working with him. This visibly disturbs C.W., who then heads to Betty Ann's office to let her know of his resignation and say goodbye. The two have a parting drink during which Betty Ann playfully insults C.W. a few more times and he expresses his amazement that an intelligent woman like Betty Ann would be with Chris, stating that she refuses to be vulnerable even at the price of finding true love and happiness. Outside, Al says that he will quit if C.W. does, and the rest of the staff hail him as a hero. C.W. dismisses his success as luck. When Al notes that hypnotism can make people do things that they do not want to do, George reveals that a hypnotized would not do anything that they would not when in a normal state, leading everyone to realize that both C.W. and Betty Ann have secret criminal instincts. Al then privately gets C.W. to admit that he loves Betty Ann. At Al's urging, C.W. decides to go after Betty Ann, who is about to leave for Paris with Chris. C.W. proceeds to propose to Betty Ann, confess his love for her, and convince her that she loves him, too. She repeatedly rejects and insults C.W. while Chris tries to get C.W. to leave. As Betty Ann and Chris are about to leave, a desperate C.W. uses her trigger word to hypnotize Betty Ann. Betty Ann, who is now in an amorous state, dreamily tells Chris that she is staying with C.W. and announces that the two are getting married, confessing to C.W. that she fell in love with him the moment that they met. A frantic Chris runs to stop his divorce while Al presents C.W. with the jade scorpion as a gift. C.W. and Betty Ann decide to go to her apartment to have sex. As they are leaving, Al notes that it was lucky that George forgot to deprogram Betty Ann, but George reveals that he had done that the night before. Meanwhile, Betty Ann continues to gush out her love for C.W., and C.W. promises her that he will be able to make her love him for real. Betty Ann notes that anything is possible, pointing out that she was able to make C.W. fall in love with her without using his trigger word. At that moment, he realizes that Betty Ann is no longer hypnotized and finds her grinning knowingly. Understanding that she is going with him willingly, the two head off with Betty Ann putting her arm around him.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews from critics. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 45%, based on 122 reviews, with the site's critical consensus rating, \"The writing for \"Scorpion\" is not as sharp as Woody Allen's previous movies as most of the jokes fall flat.\" Metacritic gives the film an average score of 52 out of 100, based on 31 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nAllen himself seems to be in relative agreement with some critics, remarking that it is perhaps his worst movie. Allen has said he felt he let down the rest of the cast by casting himself as the lead. He explained that part of the problem was the period setting and the set building expense which made it too expensive to go back and re-shoot anything. Allen re-shot the entirety of his 1987 drama \"September\" after he felt he got the casting wrong. Allen remarked he offered the role of C.W. Briggs to both Jack Nicholson and Tom Hanks, but had to take it when both refused.\n\nWith its production budget of $33 million, it is Allen's most expensive film. In relation to most of his most successful productions, the film fared poorly in American theaters with ticket sales of over seven million dollars. Its worldwide gross was $18.9 million. However, in the ten years since its release, it is beginning to enjoy a new generation of cult status comedic recognition. Roger Ebert wrote, \"There are pleasures in the film that have little to do with the story. Its look and feel is uncanny; it's a tribute to a black-and-white era, filmed in color, and yet the colors seem burnished and aged. No noir films were shot in color in the 1940s, but if one had been, it would have looked like this. And great attention is given to the women played by Hunt, Berkley and Theron; they look not so much like the women in classic film noir as like the women on film noir posters—their costumes and styles elevate them into archetypes. Hunt in particular has fun with a wisecracking dame role that owes something, perhaps, to Rosalind Russell in \"His Girl Friday\".\"\n\nFrench singer-songwriter Dimie Cat pays a tribute to the film in the song \"Woody Woody\", from her album \"ZigZag\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2018961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018961", "title": "Call screening", "text": "Call screening\n\nCall screening is the process of evaluating the characteristics of a telephone call before deciding how or whether to answer it.\n\nSome methods may include:\n\n\nIn addition, in the US and Canada, Call Screen is the name of a calling feature offered by the telephone companies that allows a customer to establish a list of numbers; anyone calling the customer from those numbers will receive an automatic message indicating that the call is not being accepted. Another name, not usually used for marketing purposes, is \"Selective Call Rejection\". There are also devices such as the TeleZapper for screening telephone calls.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018964", "title": "Alexandre bis", "text": "Alexandre bis\n\nAlexandre bis (\"Alexander Twice\" in English; \"Dvakrát Alexandr\" in Czech) is a surrealist comic opera in one act by Bohuslav Martinů, (H. 255), composed in 1937 to an original libretto written in French by André Wurmser. \n\nThe opera was intended by Martinů, who was then living in Paris, for performance at the Paris World Exhibition of 1937. However, various delays (including the intervening World War II) prevented its performance during the composer's lifetime.\n\nThe opera's first performance was given at the Opera House, Mannheim, on 18 February 1964, when it was conducted by Georg Calder. Shortly afterwards it was given its first performance in Martinů's native Czechoslovakia by the Brno Janáček Opera. \n\nThe opera is subtitled 'The Tragedy of a Man who Had His Beard Cut', and the surrealist libretto is set in Paris about 1900. Although Martinů had asked Wurmser for a libretto including a singing cat, he compromised on Wurmser's suggestion of a singing portrait, which acts as narrator to a tale of bourgeois infidelity.\n\n\nA recording of the work was issued by Supraphon in 1994, conducted by František Jílek.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018974", "title": "Boké Region", "text": "Boké Region\n\nThe Boké Region is located in western Guinea. It is bordered by the countries of Senegal and Guinea-Bissau and the Guinean regions of Kindia and Labé. Its capital is the city of Boké.\n\nPrefectures of Boké Region include: \n\nThe Boké Region is the home to a great part of Guinea's aluminium (or bauxite) reserves. At least two of the country's largest mining facilities are located there:\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2018976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018976", "title": "Dionysian Mysteries", "text": "Dionysian Mysteries\n\nThe Dionysian Mysteries were a ritual of ancient Greece and Rome which sometimes used intoxicants and other trance-inducing techniques (like dance and music) to remove inhibitions and social constraints, liberating the individual to return to a natural state. It also provided some liberation for those marginalized by Greek society: women, slaves, outlaws, and non-citizens. In their final phase the Mysteries shifted their emphasis from a chthonic, underworld orientation to a transcendental, mystical one, with Dionysus changing his nature accordingly. By its nature as a mystery religion reserved for the initiated, many aspects of the Dionysian cult remain unknown and were lost with the decline of Greco-Roman polytheism; modern knowledge is derived from descriptions, imagery and cross-cultural studies.\n\nThe Dionysian Mysteries of mainland Greece and the Roman Empire are thought to have evolved from a more primitive initiatory cult of unknown origin (perhaps Thracian or Phrygian) which had spread throughout the Mediterranean region by the start of the Classical Greek period. Its spread was associated with the dissemination of wine, a sacrament or entheogen with which it appears always to have been closely associated (though mead may have been the original sacrament). Beginning as a simple rite, it evolved quickly within Greek culture into a popular mystery religion, which absorbed a variety of similar cults (and their gods) in a typically Greek synthesis across its territories; one late form was the Orphic Mysteries. However, all stages of this developmental spectrum appear to have continued in parallel throughout the eastern Mediterranean until late in Greek history and forcible Christianization.\n\nThe ecstatic cult of Dionysus was originally thought to be a late arrival in Greece from Thrace or Asia Minor, due to its popularity in both locations and Dionysus' non-integration into the Olympian Pantheon. After the deity's name was discovered on Mycenean Linear B tablets, however, this theory was abandoned and the cult is considered indigenous, predating Greek civilization. The absence of an early Olympian Dionysus is today explained by patterns of social exclusion and the cult's marginality, rather than chronology. Whether the cult originated on Minoan Crete (as an aspect of an ancient Zagreus) or Africa – or in Thrace or Asia, as a proto-Sabazius – is unanswerable, due to lack of evidence. Some scholars believe it was an adopted cult not native to any of these places and may have been an eclectic cult in its earliest history, although it almost certainly obtained many familiar features from Minoan culture.\n\nThe original rite of Dionysus (as introduced into Greece) is associated with a wine cult (not unlike the entheogenic cults of ancient Central America), concerned with the grapevine's cultivation and an understanding of its life cycle (believed to have embodied the living god) and the fermentation of wine from its dismembered body (associated with the god's essence in the underworld). Most importantly, however, the intoxicating and disinhibiting effects of wine were regarded as due to possession by the god's spirit (and, later, as causing this possession). Wine was also poured on the earth and its growing vine, completing the cycle. The cult was not solely concerned with the vine itself, but also with the other components of wine. Wine includes other ingredients (herbal, floral and resinous) adding to its quality, flavour and medicinal properties. Scholars have suggested that, given the low alcoholic content of early wine, its effects may have been due to an additional entheogenic ingredient in its sacramental form. Honey and beeswax were often added to wine, introducing an even older drink (mead). Károly Kerényi postulated that this wine lore superseded (and partly absorbed) earlier Neolithic mead lore involving bee swarms associated by the Greeks with Dionysus. Mead and beer (with its cereal base) were incorporated into the domain of Dionysus, perhaps through his identification with the Thracian corn deity Sabazius.\n\nOther plants believed to be viniculturally significant were also included in wine lore such as ivy (thought to counteract drunkenness—thus the opposite of the grapevine—and seen as blooming in winter instead of summer); the fig (a purgative of toxins) and the pine (a wine preservative). The bull (from whose horn wine was drunk) and goat (whose flesh provided wineskins, and whose browsing pruned the vines) were also part of the cult, eventually seen as manifestations of Dionysus. Some of these associations had been linked with fertility deities (like Dionysus) and became part of his new role. An understanding of vinicultural lore and its symbolism is key to understanding the cult which emerged from it, assuming a significance other than winemaking that would encompass life, death and rebirth and providing insight into human psychology.\n\nAssuming the Dionysus cult arrived in Greece with the importation of wine, it probably first emerged about 6000 BC in one of two places—the Zagros Mountains and borderlands of Mesopotamia and Persia (with a rich wine culture via Asia Minor), or from wild vines on the mountain slopes of Libya and other regions in North Africa. The latter provided wine to ancient Egypt wine from about 2500 BC, and was home to ecstatic rites involving animal possession—notably the goat and panther men of the Aissaoua Sufi cult of Morocco (although this cult may have been influenced by the Dionysian one). In any case Minoan Crete was the next link in the chain, importing wine from the Egyptians, Thracians and Phoenicians and exporting it to its colonies (such as Greece). The Mysteries probably took shape in Minoan Crete from about 3000 to 1000 BC, since the name \"Dionysus\" exists nowhere other than Crete and Greece.\n\nThe rites were based on a seasonal death-rebirth theme, common among agricultural cults such as the Eleusinian Mysteries. The Osirian Mysteries paralleled the Dionysian, according to contemporary Greek and Egyptian observers. Spirit possession involved liberation from civilization's rules and constraints. It celebrated that which was outside civilized society and a return to primordial nature—which would later assume mystical overtones. It also involved escape from the socialized personality and ego into an ecstatic, deified state or the primal herd (sometimes both). In this sense Dionysus was the beast-god within, or the unconscious mind of modern psychology. Such activity has been interpreted as fertilizing, invigorating, cathartic, liberating and transformative, and so appealed to those on the margins of society: women, slaves, outlaws and \"foreigners\" (non-citizens, in Greek democracy). All were equal in a cult that inverted their roles, similar to the Roman Saturnalia. Although the Greek Dionysian rites were associated with women, the cult officers' titles were of both genders—belying the claim that the cult was solely for women.\nThe trance induction central to the cult involved not only chemognosis, but an \"invocation of spirit\" with the bullroarer and communal dancing to drum and pipe. The trances are described in familiar anthropological terms, with characteristic movements (such as the backward head flick found in all trance-inducing cults) found today in Afro-American Vodou and its counterparts. As in Vodou rites, certain rhythms were associated with the trance. Rhythms are also found preserved in Greek prose referring to the Dionysian rites (such as Euripides' \"The Bacchae\"). This collection of classical quotes describes rites in the Greek countryside in the mountains, to which processions were made on feast days:\n\nThis practice is demonstrated in Greek culture by the Bacchanals of the Maenads, Thyiades and Bacchoi; many Greek rulers considered the cult a threat to civilized society and wished to control it (if not suppress it altogether). The latter failed; the former would succeed in the foundation of a domesticated Dionysianism as a state religion in Athens. This was but one form of Dionysianism—a cult which assumed different forms in different localities (often absorbing indigenous divinities and their rites, as did Dionysus himself). The Greek Bacchoi claimed that, like wine, Dionysus had a different flavour in different regions; reflecting their mythical and cultural soil, he appeared under different names and appearances in different regions.\n\n\nMusk, civet, frankincense, storax, ivy, grapes, pine, fig, wine, honey, apples, Indian hemp, orchis root, thistle, all wild and domestic trees, black diamonds.\n\nThe bull and goat and their \"enemies\", the panther (or any big cat – after the Greeks colonized part of India, Shiva's tiger sometimes replaced the traditional panther or leopard) and the serpent (probably derived from Sabazius, but also found in North African cults); in addition, the fawn/deer, the fox, the dolphin, the lion, the bat and the bee.\n\nAn ancient Roman inscription written in Ancient Greek dated to 253 – 255 AD were discovered in the Great Basilica at the Plovdiv (ancient Philippopolis). The inscription refers to the Dionysian Mysteries and also mentions Roman Emperors Valerian and Gallienus. It has been found on a large stele which was used as construction material during the building of the Great Basilica.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2018989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018989", "title": "Saxifraga cernua", "text": "Saxifraga cernua\n\nSaxifraga cernua, the drooping saxifrage, nodding saxifrage or bulblet saxifrage, is a flower common all over the High Arctic. It stretches further south in mountainous areas of the Alps, Norway, Iceland, Siberia and Alaska.\n\nIt grows to 10–20 cm tall, the stem having 3–7 leaves. The basal and lower stern leaves are kidney-shaped, 3–5 lobed on long petioles. The flowers are mostly single, terminal, petals white, much longer than the sepals. Reproduction by means of brownish-red bulbils in the axils of the upper stem leaves.\n\nThis plant grows in moist sandy and mossy places, on ledges and in snow beds.\n\nIt became a protected species in the UK in 1975 under the Conservation of Wild Creatures and Wild Plants Act.\n"}
{"id": "2018992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018992", "title": "What Men Live By (opera)", "text": "What Men Live By (opera)\n\nWhat Men Live By (\"Čím lidé žijí\" in Czech) is an opera in one act by Bohuslav Martinů to an English libretto by the composer, based on \"Where Love Is, There God Is Also\" (1885) by Leo Tolstoy, though he chose to use the more universal title of a different Tolstoy story \"What Men Live By\" (1886). It was composed in 1951-1952 when the composer was living in the U.S.A, and described by him as a 'pastoral-opera'.\n\nThe opera was premiered as a television broadcast in New York in May 1953. The first staged performance took place on 31 July 1954 in Interlochen, Michigan, by the National Music Camp company. Correspondence of the composer shows that he preferred semi-staging for the work which \"positively rebels against the full trappings of operatic presentation\", and \"produced an unpretentious work of quiet, ecstatic beauty and radiant charm\". \nAfter the student staging with piano in 1954, the first performance with orchestra took place in New York the following year, and professional productions were mounted in Plzen and Brno using Czech translation. \nThe opera was nominated in the 'Rediscovered Work' Award in the International Opera Awards in 2015, through three Prague concert performances at the Rudolfinum in 2014 at the Martinů Music Days, with Jiří Bělohlávek conducting the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra.\nA film of the opera, with soundtrack by the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by Jiří Bělohlávek in 2014, directed Jiří Nekvasil, was released in 2018.\n\nThe orchestral score requires 1 flute, 2 oboes, 3 clarinets, 2 bassoons, 2 horns, 1 trumpet, 1 trombone, timpani, percussion (various instruments), piano and strings (6 violins I, 6 violins II, 4 violas, 3 violoncellos, 2 double basses). Apart from the vocal soloists, a small chorus (or a vocal quartet or quintet) is also required.\n\n"}
{"id": "2018996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018996", "title": "William Higgins", "text": "William Higgins\n\nWilliam Higgins may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019000", "title": "The Real Blonde", "text": "The Real Blonde\n\nThe Real Blonde is a 1997 film directed and written by Tom DiCillo. It stars Matthew Modine, Catherine Keener, and Maxwell Caulfield. The film is a satire on New York's fashion and entertainment industries.\n\nJoe is an aspiring actor working as a bus boy in a high-class restaurant. His longtime girlfriend Mary works as a cosmetician for the fashion industry and largely supports him with her steady income. Joe is more concerned with expressing himself than getting a paying job, and has been unwilling to accept roles that do not live up to his artistic standard. Mary supports Joe, but urges him to accept any role to get his foot in the door. Meanwhile, his co-worker Bob lands a lucrative role on a soap opera. Bob is a classically trained actor, but is willing to overlook the quality of the material for the money. He also has a fetish for natural blonde women, leading him to date Sahara, a naive model, and then dump her after discovering that her hair is dyed.\n\nJoe swallows his artistic pride and meets with an agent, Dee Dee Taylor, who arranges for him to be an extra in a Madonna video. Mary is harassed as she walks to work each day and begins taking a self-defense and anger management class on the advice of her therapist. The instructor encourages her to express her anger, and she finds the class extremely empowering. Bob is successful in his soap opera role and begins a relationship with his costar Kelly, a \"real blonde\".\n\nAt the Madonna video, the director treats Joe and the other extras like cattle. Joe meets Madonna's body double, Tina, a friendly aspiring actress, and gets himself fired for protesting an anti-Semitic statement made by the assistant director. Joe's firing sparks an argument between Joe and Mary. The pressure of Joe's career is straining their relationship, and they have not had sex in a long time. Mary's instructor, Doug, gives her a ride home from her class and makes a pass at her. She rebuffs him, but lies to cover up the incident to Joe. Meanwhile, Bob suffers from erectile dysfunction and is unable to have sex with Kelly. She mocks his inadequacy and leaves him.\n\nDee Dee takes pity on Joe and allows him to audition for the role of a \"sexy serial killer\". He reads his lines with Tina and begins to improvise his dialogue. He impresses the producers and lands the role. Tina invites him out for a drink and he resists her advances with some difficulty. Mary meets with her therapist and tells him about her experience with her self-defense instructor. He tells her that she must become comfortable with men showing their attraction to her and begins sharing his own sexual fantasies about her. She storms out of the session. Meanwhile, Bob is negotiating a longtime contract on the soap opera, but Kelly continues to taunt him on set. Bob threatens to quit the show and then forces the producer to kill off Kelly's character.\n\nBob goes back to dating Sahara, with whom he is miserable. Joe breaks the big news about his role to Mary and they rejoice. Mary asks him if she is wrong for feeling angry when men hit on her. Joe supports her and threatens to beat up her therapist if he ever sees him again. They have sex for the first time in months and drift off to sleep, happy and satisfied. Mary wraps her hand around Joe's finger, revealing that his improvised monologue had been about his feelings for her.\n\n\nMaxwell Caulfield does, in fact, have a background in soap operas, appearing as Miles Colby in \"Dynasty\" and its prime-time spin-off \"The Colbys\" and later the British soap opera \"Emmerdale\".\n\nBridgette Wilson guest starred in four episodes of \"Saved by the Bell\" the sitcom which starred Elizabeth Berkley and launched her acting career.\n\nThe movie received mixed reviews from critics and currently holds a 34% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with an average score of 5.4.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019003", "title": "Trans-Amazonian Highway", "text": "Trans-Amazonian Highway\n\nThe Trans-Amazonian Highway (official designation BR-230, official name Rodovia Transamazônica), was introduced on September 27, 1972. It is 4,000 km long, making it the third longest highway in Brazil. It runs through the Amazon forest and the Brazilian states of Paraíba, Ceará, Piaui, Maranhão, Tocantins, Pará and Amazonas, from the proximities of Saboeiro up until the town of Lábrea.\n\nThe highway was intended to integrate these regions with the rest of the country, and with Colombia, Peru and Ecuador. Another main goal of the project was to alleviate the effects of the drought affecting the Northeast region of the country by providing a route to largely empty land in the middle of the rainforest, which could be settled. It was originally planned to be a fully paved highway 5200 kilometers long. However, these plans were modified following its inauguration.\n\nIn particular, because of high construction costs and in the late 1970s, only a part of the highway was paved, from its beginning to 200 km ahead of Marabá. The lack of a fully sealed road caused many problems. Travel on the non-paved stretches of the highway is extremely difficult during the region's rainy season between October and March. In the wet season cars often get stuck in the poorly constructed road and in the dry season there are often pot holes in the dry mud roads that damage vehicles.\n\nConstruction of the highway was very challenging because of the remoteness of the site. Workers building the road were frequently isolated and without communication. Occasional visits to nearby cities provided the only outside contact. However, severe techniques and procedures that evolved during the construction of Belém-Brasília Highway (BR-153) were then used. According to , roughly 800 km of the highway is due to be paved in the next 4 years, improving transport links in the central region of Pará state. The Brazilian Government are now planning to pave with tarmac the whole highway. As of December 2009, paving was underway between the town of Ruropolis and Itaituba and north to Santarém. This will connect soy plantations with overland trucking routes to the south of Brazil. The road has been left untouched however at points further west of Itaituba, at times narrowing to roughly 2 meters wide.\n\nAccess to the construction sites was mostly accomplished by small airplanes using temporary airstrips and boats. Today construction vehicles can be seen traversing the road east and west bringing dirt and gravel to prepare for paving operations.\n\nIt has indirectly caused a great deal of Deforestation in Brazil, as roads make it easier to transport timber. Satellite images demonstrate how roads increase deforestation. Access roads branch perpendicularly off BR-230 allowing deeper penetration into the surrounding jungle areas. Originally, the roads were to open up land for agriculture by settlers, the government motto \"land without men for men without land\" was coined to describe the development of the Amazon. However, loggers have used these roadways to further deforest the surrounding jungle.\n\nVarious conservation units have been created along the route of the highway in an effort to halt deforestation or to manage forestry sustainably. In the western section from Lábrea to Humaitá, the fully protected Mapinguari National Park is south of the highway and the sustainable use Balata-Tufari National Forest is to the north.\nEast of Humaitá the Humaitá National Forest lies to the south of the highway, then the Campos Amazônicos National Park and Juruena National Park. \n\n"}
{"id": "2019007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019007", "title": "Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore", "text": "Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore\n\nThe Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) Singapore is the curatorial division of LASALLE College of the Arts, dedicated to supporting innovative and emerging creative practices. Focusing on art and design from the present, it provides an active site for contemporary culture in Singapore. It comprises five galleries that span a total of 1,500 square metres, one of the largest spaces devoted to contemporary art in Singapore. It engages local and international audiences in critical viewing and discussion through a diverse programme of exhibitions, projects, publications and events.\n\nThe ICA Singapore provides a cultural and educational tool for students and the wider public to advance their knowledge and appreciation of the contemporary local, regional and international arts.\n\nThe Dr Earl Lu Gallery was established by LASALLE College of the Arts in 1986, in recognition of a major contribution of artworks by philanthropist and artist Dr Earl Lu, it presented exhibitions of traditional and contemporary arts, often with a focus on practices from Asia. From 2001 to 2004, under the directorship of Binghui Huangfu, the gallery worked closely with LASALLE’s Contemporary Asian Art Centre, a research facility directed by T.K. Sabapathy that sought to advance knowledge and collaboration between artists across Asia through dialogue, research and publications. In 2004, Dr Earl Lu Gallery was renamed the Institute of Contemporary Arts Singapore and repositioned as a centre of Singapore and international contemporary art. In 2007, the institute moved along with LASALLE College of the Arts from the Goodman Road campus to a new campus on McNally Street, where it is based today.\n\nSince its establishment, the ICA Singapore has presented exhibitions of international contemporary art. These include solo exhibitions by Yeo Hwee Bin (2000), On Kawara (2004), Antony Gormley (2005), Lim Tzay Chuen (2005), Roberto Chabet (2011), Ian Woo (2011), Jeremy Sharma (2012) Milenko Prvacki (2012), Shubigi Rao (2013), Tang Da Wu (2013), Jack Tan (2015), Marco Fusinato (2015) and Ana Prvački (2015–16). Group exhibitions include \"Text & Subtext: International Contemporary Asian Women Artists Exhibition\" (2000), \"Sight and Sight: Translating Cultures\" (2003), \"Lost to the Future: Contemporary Art from Central Asia\" (2013), \"Sound: Latitudes and Attitudes\" (2014), \"Countershadows (tactics in evasion)\" (2014), \"Artists Imagine a Nation: SG50: Pictures of People and Places from the Collections of Koh Seow Chuan and Friends\" (2015), \"Rendez-Vous\" (2015) and \"Sous la Lune/Beneath the Moon\" (2015–16).\n\nPast directors of the ICA Singapore include Binghui Huangfu (1996–2003), Eugene Tan (2003–08) and Charles Merewether (2010–13). The current director of ICA Singapore is Melbourne-born curator Bala Starr.\n\nIn February 2016, two items that were part of the group show \"Fault-lines: Disparate and desperate intimacies\" were removed from artist Loo Zihan's installation \"Queer objects: An archive for the future\". This action was agreed after discussion between ICA Singapore staff, curator Wong Binghao, and Loo Zihan, and was due to the nature of the objects, which could potentially be considered offensive to some members of the public. The items were a penis sheath and a butt plug. The ICA Singapore, curator and artist emphasised that the decision was taken to make the exhibition accessible to all, including students of the LASALLE College of the Arts, half of whom are under 18 years old.\n"}
{"id": "2019013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019013", "title": "Bishop of Bedford", "text": "Bishop of Bedford\n\nThe Bishop of Bedford is an episcopal title used by a Church of England suffragan bishop who, under the direction of the Diocesan Bishop of St Albans, oversees 150 parishes in Luton and Bedfordshire.\n\nThe title, which takes its name after the town of Bedford, was created under the Suffragan Bishops Act 1534. The first three suffragan bishops were appointed for the Diocese of London, but through reorganisation within the Church of England in 1914, Bedford came under the Diocese of St Albans.\n\nRichard Atkinson, formerly Archdeacon of Leicester, was consecrated by Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury, in St Paul's Cathedral on 17 May 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019025", "title": "Desperately Seeking Susan", "text": "Desperately Seeking Susan\n\nDesperately Seeking Susan is a 1985 American comedy-drama film directed by Susan Seidelman and starring Rosanna Arquette and Madonna. Set in New York, the plot involves the interaction between two women – a bored housewife and a bohemian drifter – linked by various messages in the personal column of a newspaper.\n\nThe film was Madonna's first major screen role and also provided early roles for a number of other well-known performers, such as John Turturro, Laurie Metcalf, Aidan Quinn, and Steven Wright. \"The New York Times\" named it one of the ten best films of 1985.\n\nRoberta, an unfulfilled housewife in Fort Lee, New Jersey, is fascinated by messages between lovers Susan and Jim in the personals section of a New York City tabloid, particularly an ad from Jim with the headline “Desperately Seeking Susan”, seeking a rendezvous in Battery Park.\n\nIn an Atlantic City hotel, the itinerant Susan reads the ad after a tryst with mobster Meeker. She steals a pair of ornate Egyptian earrings from his coat before departing; the sinister Nolan notices Susan's embellished tuxedo jacket as she leaves. Arriving in New York City, Susan dons one of the earrings, stashing the other in her suitcase in a Port Authority locker. She asks to stay with her friend Crystal, a magician's assistant at the Magic Club, and learns Meeker was killed at the hotel.\n\nHoping to spot the lovers, Roberta goes to Battery Park and sees Jim reunite with Susan before leaving with his band for Buffalo. Roberta follows Susan to a vintage store, watching her trade in her jacket before losing sight of her, and buys the jacket. Finding Susan's locker key, she posts another “Desperately Seeking Susan” ad to meet with her to return it. Concerned about the ad and Susan's connection to Meeker's death, Jim asks his friend Dez to check on her.\n\nWaiting for Susan at Battery Park and wearing her jacket, Roberta is accosted by Nolan, mistaking her for Susan. Susan spots Roberta, but is arrested for not paying her cab fare. Dez arrives and rescues Roberta, who hits her head and loses her memory. Also mistaking Roberta for Susan, Dez takes her to the Port Authority to collect Susan's suitcase, finding the other earring, and lets her stay at his apartment.\n\nRoberta, believing she must be Susan, retraces Susan's steps with Nolan in pursuit. She arrives at the Magic Club – narrowly missing Susan, who has been released from jail and discovered her suitcase gone – and is hired as Crystal's replacement. After Roberta's disastrous first performance, Nolan attacks her, demanding the earrings, but he escapes as the police arrive. Roberta hits her head again, regaining her memory, but is mistaken for a prostitute and arrested.\n\nSearching for Roberta, her husband Gary finds his way to the vintage store and is put in touch with Susan, who believes Roberta and Dez are connected to Meeker's death and want to frame her. Susan accompanies Gary home, where they get high. Roberta calls from jail, but hangs up when Susan and Gary answer. After calling Dez to bail her out, they find his apartment ransacked by Nolan, and sleep together.\n\nAt Gary's house, Susan sees a TV report about Meeker and Nolan having stolen the earrings, once belonging to Nefertiti. She realizes the truth from Roberta's diary, and posts an ad to meet her at the Magic Club. Dez attacks an intruder in his apartment who turns out to be Jim, and confesses to his relationship with “Susan” as Roberta slips away. She reads the ad, as do Jim and Dez; they arrive at the Magic Club, along with Gary, his sister Leslie, and Nolan.\n\nDuring her act, Roberta recognizes Nolan, who flees backstage. Dez leaves as Roberta tries to explain the events of her disappearance to Gary, finally voicing her unhappiness and ending their marriage. Nolan threatens Susan at gunpoint, but is knocked out by Roberta.\n\nLater, Roberta finds Dez at work in a theater projection booth. She “introduces” herself and they kiss, as Jim and Susan reunite in the theater below. A final newspaper headline reveals that Roberta and Susan returned the earrings.\n\nThe filmmakers initially wanted Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn to play Roberta and Susan, but the director decided to cast newcomers Arquette and Madonna instead and the studio wanted the film to have younger actors in order to appeal to younger filmgoers. Bruce Willis was up for the role of Dez and Melanie Griffith was up for the part of Susan. Madonna barely beat out Ellen Barkin and Jennifer Jason Leigh for the part. Suzanne Vega also auditioned for the role.\n\nThe Statue of Liberty can be seen in the film when it was still covered in scaffolding during its two-year renovation. Costume designer Santo Loquasto designed Susan's distinctive jacket (supposedly first worn by Jimi Hendrix), basis of the plot of mistaken identity.\n\nThe film was inspired in part by the 1974 film \"Céline et Julie vont en bateau\" (\"Céline and Julie Go Boating\"). It also has an alternate ending included on the DVD, in which Susan and Roberta are invited to Egypt after helping return the earrings. They are depicted next to the pyramids on camels. Seidelman cut this scene, saying that it was unnecessary and audiences at the test screenings thought the film should have already ended much earlier (as explained on the DVD). The 1964 science fiction film \"The Time Travelers\" is playing in scenes 6 and 23 (melts at the end of the movie). All the scenes featuring Dez working as a projectionist were filmed at Bleecker Street Cinema. The scene with Roberta and Gary in their kitchen shows Roberta watching Alfred Hitchcock's \"Rebecca\".\n\nThe movie was filmed during the late summer and early fall of 1984, early in Madonna's rise to popularity, and was intended to be an R-rated feature. After the success of her 1984–85 hits \"Like a Virgin\" and \"Material Girl\" from her \"Like a Virgin\" album, the film was trimmed in content by Orion Pictures to get a PG-13 rating in order to also market the film to Madonna's teenage fan base.\n\nThe interior/exterior shots of The Magic Club were filmed at the Audubon Ballroom in Harlem. Some scenes were filmed at Danceteria, a club that Madonna frequented and which gave her a start in the music business.\n\nSeparated-at-birth triplets Robert Shafran, Eddy Galland, and David Kellman have a cameo role, reportedly at Madonna's personal invitation.\n\nThe soundtrack was released on both vinyl and CD together with the soundtrack to the film \"Making Mr. Right\". The soundtrack does not feature any of the other songs in the film including Madonna's \"Into the Groove,\" which can be found on the European 1985 re-release of her \"Like a Virgin\" album. The film captures the feel of the underground Bohemian/new wave scene of the early to mid-1980s New York City, a scene that helped Madonna get her big break in the music business. Madonna recorded a song for the movie, titled \"Desperately Seeking Susan.\" It ended up not being used in the film, and a demo she just finished at the time called \"Into the Groove\" was used instead. The demo version can only be heard in the movie. The song was a huge commercial success but was not included on the film's soundtrack, despite being heard in the film, because licensing restrictions involving Madonna's record label prohibited her songs from being mixed in with other artists. The video for \"Into the Groove\" consists of clips from the film compiled by Doug Dowdle of Parallax Productions.\n\nDesperately Seeking Susan\nMaking Mr. Right\nIn her review for \"The New Yorker\", critic Pauline Kael referred to Madonna as \"an indolent, trampy goddess.\" \"The New York Times\" film critic Vincent Canby named the film as one of the 10 best films of 1985.\n\nRosanna Arquette won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her portrayal of Roberta; the fact that the award was for a \"supporting role\" reflected the surge in popularity that Madonna was experiencing at the time, since in terms of billing, number of scenes, lines of dialogue, and plot, Arquette was the film's lead. She was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Comedy or Musical. Madonna also received positive reviews for her portrayal of Susan.\n\nAs of January 2020, \"Desperately Seeking Susan\" holds a rating of 83% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 29 reviews. The critical consensus reads; \"\"Desperately Seeking Susan\" works with its fairy tale depiction of New York and the fun, frothy chemistry generated by its two leads.\"\n\nThe film was developed into a stage musical that premiered at London's Novello Theatre on November 15, 2007, following previews from October 16, 2007. It features music and lyrics by Blondie and Deborah Harry, including a new song written especially for the show. The production was directed by Angus Jackson, with book and concept by Peter Michael Marino and sets and costumes by Tim Hatley. Produced by Susan Gallin, Ron Kastner, Mark Rubinstein and Old Vic productions, the musical starred Emma Williams as Susan, Kelly Price as Roberta, and Steven Houghton as Alex. Marino presented his solo comedy \"Desperately Seeking the Exit\", which is based on his experiences, at the 2012 Edinburgh Festival Fringe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019037", "title": "Brendan Smyth (politician)", "text": "Brendan Smyth (politician)\n\nBrendan Michael Smyth (born 27 July 1959) is a former Australian politician, who was a member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly representing the electorate of Brindabella for the Liberal Party from 1998 until 2016. From 2002 to 2006 Smyth was the ACT Leader of the Opposition and served briefly as the Deputy Chief Minister during 2000 and 2001. He has held the ACT portfolios Urban Services, Business, Tourism and the Arts, and Police and Emergency Services.\n\nPrior to his election to the ACT Legislative Assembly he served briefly as the Member for Canberra in the Australian House of Representatives, also representing the Liberals.\n\nSmyth was born in Sydney and moved to Canberra in May 1969. He worked at the National Library of Australia until 1995 when, representing the Liberal Party, he contested the 1995 by-election for the House of Representatives seat of Canberra. Normally a safe Labor seat, its previous member Ros Kelly had left under a cloud, having been forced to resign her ministry a year earlier over the sports rorts affair, and Smyth received a 16.1% swing to claim the seat.\n\nAt the Australian federal election on 2 March 1996, Smyth contested the new federal House of Representatives seat of Namadgi, essentially the southern portion of his old seat, even though it had been drawn with a notional Labor majority of 10.9 percent. He was defeated by Labor's Annette Ellis. To date, he is the last non-Labor member to represent an ACT-based seat.\n\nHe subsequently shifted to territory politics, winning election to the Legislative Assembly in the 1998 election representing the Tuggeranong-based multimember electorate of Brindabella. He was the Opposition Leader for the ACT Liberal Party in the 2004 ACT elections, but lost the election.\n\nSmyth resigned from the ACT Legislative Assembly on 15 July 2016, to take up a newly created government position as Commissioner for International Engagement for the ACT. The ensuing casual vacancy was filled by conducting a countback of votes at the 2012 ACT election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019041", "title": "Dzūkian dialect", "text": "Dzūkian dialect\n\nDzūkian dialect, known in academic works as Southern Aukštaitian dialect, is one of the three main sub-dialects of the Aukštaitian dialect of Lithuanian language. Dzūkian dialect is spoken in Dzūkija, southern Lithuania. Its most distinctive feature is replacing \"t\", \"d\" before \"i\", \"į\", \"y\", \"ie\" and \"č\", \"dž\" with \"c\" and \"dz\" (\"cik\" instead of \"tik\" – just, \"dzidumas\" instead of \"didumas\" – size, \"pync\" instead of \"pinti\" – to braid, \"sveciai\" instead of \"svečiai\" – guests). Since the region borders Slavic lands, the dialect has many Slavic loanwords and barbarisms.\n"}
{"id": "2019044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019044", "title": "Acacio Gabriel Viegas", "text": "Acacio Gabriel Viegas\n\nAcacio Gabriel Viegas (1 April 1856—February 21, 1933) was a medical practitioner who was credited with the discovery of the outbreak of bubonic plague in Bombay, India, in 1896. His timely discovery helped save many lives in the city and was credited with the inoculation of 18,000 residents. He was also the president of the Bombay Municipal Corporation.\n\nAcacio Viegas was born on 1 April 1856 in Arpora, Goa. After the completion of his primary education, he joined St Xavier's High School, Bombay, where he completed his matriculation in 1874 with a distinction. He then enrolled in the Grant Medical College, securing a First Class at the L.M. & S. degree examination held in 1880. Viegas then set up practice at Mandvi in the south Bombay area.\n\nNot satisfied with serving the public only through medicine, he successfully contested the civic election from 1888 till 1907. In 1906 he became the President of the Municipal Corporation, enjoying the distinction of being the first native Christian to do so.\n\nHe was an active member of the Standing Committee and the Improvement Trust. He then focused his attention to improving the living conditions of the city's poor and down-trodden. He also tried to minimise the increases of public utility costs. As president, Viegas promoted medical relief and introduced compulsory free education.\n\nViegas was also a member of the Bombay University Syndicate, and was the pioneer of the Faculty of Scientific Technology. He also introduced Portuguese into the syllabus and supported the creation of special colleges for women. He was also an examiner in Medicine at the degree level and Foundation-Fellow of the College of Physicians and Surgeons.\n\nIn 1896, a mysterious disease hit the city in the Nowroji Hill slums. The disease spread rapidly affecting many city residents and became an epidemic. Those in the medical field were puzzled by this disease which saw a mass exodus from the city. The city's commerce was badly hit, and the flourishing textile industry was grounded.\n\nViegas correctly diagnosed the disease as bubonic plague and tended to patients at great personal risk. He then launched a vociferous campaign to clean up slums and exterminate rats, the carriers of the plague.\n\nTo confirm Viegas' findings, four teams of independent experts were brought in. With his diagnosis proving to be correct, the Governor of Bombay invited W M Haffkine, who had earlier formulated a vaccine for cholera, do the same for the epidemic. Haffkine's vaccine saved thousands of lives with Viegas personally inoculating around eighteen thousand residents.\n\nAfter his death in 1933, a life-size statue of him was erected in the Cowasji Jehangir Hall opposite Metro Cinema on his birth centenary in 1956, by the Governor of Bombay Presidency, Harekrushna Mahtab, as a tribute to the services rendered to the city. A street in the Dhobitalao area is also named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019048", "title": "Mike Parker Pearson", "text": "Mike Parker Pearson\n\nMichael 'Mike' Parker Pearson, FSA, FSA Scot, FBA (born 26 June 1957) is an English archaeologist specialising in the study of the Neolithic British Isles, Madagascar and the archaeology of death and burial, and is known for his catchphrase \"The Dead Don't Bury Themselves\". A professor at the UCL Institute of Archaeology, he previously worked for 25 years as a professor at the University of Sheffield in England, and was the director of the Stonehenge Riverside Project. A prolific author, he has also written a variety of books on the subject.\n\nParker Pearson gained his BA in archaeology from Southampton University in 1979. Supervised by Ian Hodder as a post-graduate at Cambridge, Parker Pearson was a contemporary of Sheena Crawford, Daniel Miller, Henrietta Moore, Christopher Tilley and Alice Welbourn; these students were influenced by Hodder's ideas, then a pioneering part of the post-processualist current within archaeological theory. He went on to gain his PhD at the University of Cambridge in 1985, producing a thesis on burials and bog bodies in Iron Age Denmark.\n\nA media personality, Parker Pearson has appeared several times in the Channel 4 show \"Time Team\" in particular in one looking at the excavation of Durrington Walls. He also appeared in the National Geographic Channel documentary \"Stonehenge Decoded\", along with the PBS programme \"Nova: Secrets of Stonehenge\".\n\nParker Pearson was born in 1957. He would later inform interviewers that he first took an interest in the past when searching for fossils in his father's driveway gravel aged 4, extending that interest into the human past aged 6 when he read a library book entitled \"Fun with Archaeology\". Deciding to study the subject at the undergraduate level, he attended the University of Southampton, attaining a first class BA with honours in Archaeology in 1979.\n\nParker Pearson became interested in Marxism. In the 1984 anthology \"Ideology, Power and Prehistory\", edited by Daniel Miller and Christopher Tilley, Parker Pearson published a paper in which he examined the pre-state societies of Jutland from a Marxist perspective. At the start of this paper, he noted that it had repercussions for Marxism in that its findings discerned \"a certain blurring between capitalism and non-capitalism.\" He obtained his PhD from King's College, University of Cambridge in 1985, for a thesis which he had titled \"Death, society and social change: the Iron Age of southern Jutland 200 BC – 600 AD\" in which he discussed what was known about the bog bodies of Denmark; it would remain unpublished.\n\nFrom 1984 through to 1990, Parker Pearson worked as an Inspector of Monuments for English Heritage, and in 1989 he received membership to the Institute for Archaeologists. In 1990, he secured an academic teaching position at the Department of Archaeology at the University of Sheffield, where he would work for the next 21 years. In 1991 he was admitted as a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, and in 1996 then became a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.\n\nFrom 2003 through to 2009, Parker Pearson directed the Stonehenge Riverside Project. The project garnered three major archaeological awards: the Andante Travel Archaeology Award (2008), the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries Award (2009), and the UK Archaeological Research Project of the Year (2010). His work in leading the project also led to Parker Pearson being personally awarded the UK Archaeologist of the Year award in 2010.\n\nParker Pearson and his team of researchers played a key role in the discovery of a new henge site along the River Avon that links to Stonehenge. This new site was uncovered through excavation during the Stonehenge Riverside Project and was given the name \"Bluestonehenge\" or \"Bluehenge\" because traces of bluestones were found during the excavation.\n\nFrom 2006 through to 2009, he served as the Vice-President of the Prehistoric Society. Interacting with various parts of the media, Parker Pearson has published articles in a variety of different sources, such as on the BBC website, has given interviews to groups such as Pagans for Archaeology and most recently discussed his career in an interview with \"Papers from the Institute of Archaeology\".\n\nIn 2012, Parker Pearson left the University of Sheffield and began teaching at the Institute of Archaeology, University College London, as Professor of British Later Prehistory.\n\nOn 16 July 2015, he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019050", "title": "Richard Inwood", "text": "Richard Inwood\n\nRichard Neil Inwood (born 4 March 1946) is a retired Bishop suffragan of Bedford.\n\nInwood was born in Burton-on-Trent and studied chemistry at University College, Oxford and theology at the University of Nottingham. Before ordination, he spent a year teaching in north-west Uganda and worked as a research and development chemist with Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) in Manchester for nearly two years. He served in Sheffield, London, Bath and Yeovil before his appointment in 1995 as Archdeacon of Halifax. He was consecrated a bishop by Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury at Southwark Cathedral on 7 March 2003. \n\nFrom 9 April 2014 until 8 April 2015, he was Acting Bishop of Southwell and Nottingham at the request of the Archbishop of York. As acting bishop, Inwood attracted media attention in June 2014 for revoking the permission to officiate of a gay priest, Jeremy Pemberton, who had legally married his partner in spite of a pastoral statement issued by the church's bishops. In August 2014, Pemberton had an offer of work at Sherwood Forest Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust withdrawn following Inwood's refusal to grant the relevant licence.\n\nInwood is the co-author of \"Moved by Steam: Beside the tracks and on the trains 1962-67\" with Mike Smith (Kettering, 2009 ). His wife, Liz, is a mathematics teacher and examiner.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019062", "title": "Xylene cyanol", "text": "Xylene cyanol\n\nXylene cyanol can be used as a electrophoretic color marker, or tracking dye, to monitor the process of agarose gel electrophoresis and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Bromophenol blue and orange G can also be used for this purpose.\n\nOnce mixed with the sample, the concentration of xylene cyanol is typically about 0.005% to 0.03%.\n\nIn 1% agarose gels, xylene cyanol migrates at about the same rate as a 4 to 5 kilobase pair DNA fragment, although this depends on the buffer used. Xylene cyanol on a 6% polyacrylamide gel migrates at the speed of a 140 base pair DNA fragment. On 20% denaturating (7 M urea) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), xylene cyanol migrates at about the rate of 25 bases oligonucleotide. \n\n"}
{"id": "2019070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019070", "title": "Bishop of Hertford", "text": "Bishop of Hertford\n\n\"Not to be confused with the Diocesan Bishop of Hereford.\"\n\nThe Bishop of Hertford is an episcopal title used by a suffragan bishop of the Church of England Diocese of St Albans, in the Province of Canterbury, England. The suffragan See was created by Order in Council of 5 July 1889, but remained dormant until first filled in December 1967. The title takes its name after Hertford, the county town of Hertfordshire. The suffragan Bishop of Hertford, along with the suffragan Bishop of Bedford, assists the diocesan Bishop of St Albans in overseeing the diocese.\n\nOn 5 March 2015, it was announced that Michael Beasley was to become the next suffragan bishop.\n"}
{"id": "2019081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019081", "title": "Entertainment-Education", "text": "Entertainment-Education\n\nEntertainment-Education (EE) is a communication strategy that aims to alleviate a social issue or educate the public through a custom-tailored piece of entertainment. It is defined by a set of techniques and methodologies which all aim to use various levels of mass media to communicate social and behavior change. \n\nOn the impact-entertainment spectrum, EE is balanced between Social impact entertainment (SIE) and Social and behavior change communication (SBCC). The primary distinction that can be drawn to SIE is that in Entertainment-Education, the \"impact issue\" usually comes first; the characters and story are built around the issue. In SIE, the story usually originates projects, and impact issues are woven into or extracted out of an existing narrative.\n\nAs of 2009, Entertainment-Education is defined as: \"\" a theory-based communication process for purposefully embedding educational and social issues in the creation, production, processing and dissemination process of an entertainment program, in order to achieve desired individual, community, institutional, and societal changes among the intended media user population.\"\" \n\nIn 1950, the UK-based radio soap opera The Archers broke ground by being specifically designed to educate the British people about farming issues and to help increase productivity in the postwar era of rationing and food shortages. It is the longest-running Soap Opera in the world, and is still broadcast today with millions of listeners.\n\nMiguel Sabido, a Mexican TV producer, further formalized the field. He initially called it \"Entertainment with a proven social benefit\" in the 1960s, which Everett Rogers re-branded as \"Entertainment and Education\" in 1979, and Patrick Coleman simplified as \"Entertainment-Education\", which is the presently used term. \n\nWhile the field has evolved in the last 50 years, it is still strongly based on Sabido's specific approach. Nowadays, many practitioners in Entertainment-Education come from a background of public health, health communication and behavior change communication. \n\nSabido pioneered his method in 1967 by leveraging the Mexican tabloid \"Casos de Alarma\" to encourage readers to join the social security system of Mexico. The release of the Peruvian telenovela \"Simplemente María\" (1969) validated his assumptions about using mass media for social change, as the sale of sewing machines increased dramatically after the telenovela aired. Sabido went on to produce \"Ven conmigo\", which was widely successful with a 32 point share and resulted in a million people enrolling in the adult education system of Mexico after the series' 1-year runtime. The Sabido-produced, family planning-themed telenovelas \"Acompáñame\", \"Vamos juntos\", \"caminemos\" and \"Nosotros los Mujeres\" followed soon after in the 1970s, which collectively resulted in a 34 percent decline of the population growth rate of Mexico.\n\nThe United Nations awarded Mexico with their Population Prize after that run; United States Agency for International Development's Thomas Donnelly wrote: \"\"The Televisa family planning soap operas have made the single most powerful contribution to the Mexican population success story.\"\" David Poindexter of Population Communications International saw great promise in this approach, and introduced him to US-American psychologist Albert Bandura. Bandura was able to explain some of Sabido's enormous impact through his social learning theory and later went on to publish many papers on the effects of serial (radio and television) dramas.\n\nIn a series of strategic meetings in the 1970s and 80s, Poindexter invited Sabido to teach his method world-wide in India, China, the Philippines, Egypt, and the Netherlands. Together with Sonny Fox, the president of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, they then organized so-called \"Soap Summits\" that brought together the CEOs of large American broadcasters, as well as introduce American TV writers to the methods of Entertainment-Education.\nSince the early days in the 1980s, a number of organizations have flourished, led by Poindexter-heritage non-profits PCI Media and Population Media Center on the actively producing side, jointly having made 140 shows that reached more than 2 Billion people and had enormous impact on prevention of HIV/AIDS, family planning and women's rights.\n\nIn an effort to systematize health communications in Hollywood content and under leadership of Sonny Fox and Norman Lear, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention teamed up with USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, jointly creating Hollywood, Health and Society. HH&S advises Writers Guild of America West writers in the inclusion of health-related topics in mainstream television and film.\n"}
{"id": "2019094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019094", "title": "Nation of Yahweh", "text": "Nation of Yahweh\n\nThe Nation of Yahweh is a predominantly African American offshoot of the Black Hebrew Israelite religious movement which was founded in 1979 in Miami by former Nation of Islam minister, Hulon Mitchell Jr., who went by the name Yahweh ben Yahweh. Its goal is to move African Americans, who it believes are the original Israelites, to Israel. The group accepts Yahweh ben Yahweh as the Son of God. In this way, its beliefs are unique and distinct from those of other Black Hebrew Israelite groups. Its founder was involved in a number of legal issues and the group has faced accusations of being a black supremacist cult by the Southern Poverty Law Center and as a cult by \"The Miami Herald\".\n\nThe organization describes itself as follows: \"In 1979, Yahweh Ben Yahweh came to Miami and became the Spiritual Leader and Founder of The Nation of Yahweh. Although He took a vow of poverty, in seven years He guided The Nation to amass a $250,000,000 empire. Under His direction, The Nation has grown to encompass disciples, followers, and supporters in over 1,300 cities within the U.S. and 16 other countries.\"\n\nThe SPLC has criticized the beliefs of the Nation of Yahweh as racist, stating that the group believes that blacks are the true Israelites and whites are devils. The SPLC also claims that the group believes that Yahweh ben Yahweh had a Messianic mission to vanquish whites and that it held views similar to those of the Christian Identity movement, which believes that \"Aryans\" are the true Israelites and non-whites are devils. The SPLC quotes Tom Metzger of White Aryan Resistance as saying, \"[Groups like the Nation of Yahweh are] the Black counterpart of us.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League has criticized the Nation of Yahweh and some other Black Hebrew sects, stating, \"In 1987, ADL reported on Black sects holding these views [arguing that today's Jews are not the \"chosen people\" described in the Bible, ... instead that the label applies to people of African descent], such as the Yahwehs and the Original African Hebrew Israelite Nation of Jerusalem.\"\n\n\"We may be rabbis and nuns here,\" he told \"The New York Times\" with a wide smile, \"but we don't believe in celibacy.\"\n\nMost followers were men; the main elders were men as well. Yahweh ben Yahweh’s wife, Linda Gaines (Judith Israel) became a significant helper and leader. Gaines collected money, handled finances and the possessions of full-time workers. She had a bodyguard and was high up in the following.\n\nDespite the death of its leader Yahweh ben Yahweh in 2007, the Nation of Yahweh is still active. Its members claim to have abandoned their past racism and the leader's daughter has apparently stated that all people are children of God. An attorney who is also a member of the group, Wendelyn Rush, insists that its current war with the U.S. government is a non-violent verbal battle. The group is currently spread throughout the US and no longer concentrated in one location (formerly Miami-Dade County, Florida, USA). It claims that its present literature downplays and has nearly erased all past racism.\n\nThe Nation of Yahweh is a purchaser of national infomercial time. The Nation airs a weekly half-hour program on stations across the United States, usually on weekends during little-watched early morning hours, that combines Bible studies with discussions about the Nation itself.\n\nThe Yahweh ben Yahweh group appeared in the news again in 2012 after \"Michael the Black Man\" (real name Maurice Woodside), a former member of the group who is now a conservative activist, was invited to speak at a rally for Rick Santorum's presidential campaign during which he said that Democrats were akin to Nazis. Woodside has since become a vocal supporter of Donald Trump, but continues to defend Yahweh ben Yahweh and the Nation's beliefs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019098", "title": "Johan Ludwig Lund", "text": "Johan Ludwig Lund\n\nJohan Ludwig Gebhard Lund (primarily known as J. L. Lund), (16 October 1777 – 3 March 1867), Danish painter, was born in Kiel, Duchy of Holstein, to master painter Hans Giewert Lund and his wife Maria Magdalena Christina Bremer. An adherent of romanticism, he is known for his history paintings.\n\nHe came to Copenhagen to train as an artist, and in 1797, at the age of 22, he started his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Art (\"Det Kongelige Danske Kunstakademi\") with the support of Johan Frederik Clemens, acclaimed royal engraver and influential member of the Academy. He came quickly into contact with the rich and powerful of that time, which had a decided influence on his artistic development. He studied under neoclassicist Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard at the Academy from 1797–1799, and taught drawing privately during his student years. He received the Academy’s small silver medallion in 1798 and the large silver medallion in 1799, but never competed for the gold medallion.\n\nHe was friends with Caspar David Friedrich, another student at the Academy and likeminded fellow-romanticist, and traveled with him to Dresden, Germany in 1799 to continue his studies at the Dresden Academy. From there he went on to Paris, where he studied under Jacques-Louis David from 16 September 1800 to April 1802. During this time, he also took excursions to Switzerland and Lake Maggiore (August–October 1801).\nHe went on to Italy in 1802, first to Florence and then to Rome, where he lived from 1802 to 1810. In Florence he was deeply affected by the religious art prior to Raphael’s time. He was part of the expatriate colony of Danish and German artists and scientists in Italy, which included Friederike Brun, Charlotte Humboldt, Georg Zoëga and Bertel Thorvaldsen. Cultured, talented and sociable, he secured himself many important contacts during this time, including those within the Danish royal house.\n\nFrom 1804 to 1807, he received stipends from the Academy, inclusive a travel allowance to support his stay in Italy, between 1804 and 1806.\n\nDuring that time and also years later during a subsequent stay in Rome, he associated himself with the German painters known as the Nazarenes, a group of romantic painters headed by Johann Friedrich Overbeck and Peter Cornelius. He studied with them the early Italian style of painting, which was then considered primitive.\n\nIn 1803 and 1804 he painted a large picture, \"\"Andromache i Afmagt ved Synet af Hectors mishandlede Lig\"\" (\"Andromache, Powerless at the Sight of Hector’s Maligned Corpse\") which was seized by English pirates in 1807 on its voyage to Denmark. It was during the Napoleonic Wars when England and Denmark were enemies. This painting is now in the Danish Ambassador’s residence in Rome. A companion piece painted between 1807 and 1811, \"\"Pyrrhus og Andromache ved Hectors Grav\"\" (\"Pyrrhus and Andromache at Hector’s Grave\"), was contributed to the Danish Royal Painting Collection, now the Danish National Gallery (\"Statens Museum for Kunst\"), by Baron Schubart, General Consul in Livorno.\n\nThese paintings helped establish himself as an idealistic and romantic painter, in contrast to rival neoclassicist Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg’s realistic approach to the visual arts. The two artists represented, for many years, opposing viewpoints and cultural ideals in the Danish art scene.\n\nIn 1809 he began attempts to secure the Academy professorship vacated by his former teacher Abildgaard upon his death in 1806. He returned to Denmark in 1810 along with Frederikke Brun in order to more actively pursue the teaching position.\n\nHe began exhibiting at Charlottenborg in 1812 and exhibited there routinely until 1861. The Academy also invited him to apply for membership in 1812. He submitted the painting \"\"Habor og Signe\"\" (Hagbard and Signy) for consideration, and he was accepted into the Academy in 1814. While his Nordic-themed painting received praise, it was not displayed in the large painting gallery. While he received the Academy's endorsement to become member, he did not receive their recommendation to become either royal history painter or professor.\n\nThe Academy, considering not only Lund’s bid for the position, but also that of his rival Eckersberg as well as that of Christian Gotlieb Kratzenstein-Stub, wished to postpone a decision until Eckersberg returned home from his student travels. Lund lost his patience with these delays and traveled back to Rome where he lived from 1816 to 1819. He had now decided to establish himself as an altar painter, and as a member of the Nazarenes.\n\nIn 1818 with support from Prince Christian Frederik, he was finally named professor at the Academy along with Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg. Kratzenstein-Stub ceased being under consideration upon his death in 1816.\n\nHe then returned to Copenhagen accompanied by Bertel Thorvaldsen in 1819, and married Augusta Lorentzen, daughter of the organist, Johan Henrich Lorentzen, and his wife, Frederikke Vilhelmine Lintrup, on 24 December 1820.\n\nThe hiring of the two counterparts to the School of Model Painting brought new vitality to the Academy. But while Eckersberg’s star and realism were on the ascent, and he would come to be remembered as the father of the Golden Age of Danish Painting, Lund’s star and romanticism were primarily on the descent.\n\nBut during his 42 years at the Academy Lund had a strong influence on his many students. He encouraged them to study 17th century Dutch landscape art, which could be readily seen in Copenhagen. His Romantic approach to art was greatly appreciated by a group of young landscape painters who were younger than Eckersberg’s pupils; they aimed to produce evocative landscapes in reaction to Eckersberg’s precise depictions of nature. This trend culminated in the large-scale landscapes of the Nationalist Romantic style, His closest students include historical painter Ditlev Blunck, and landscape painters Johan Thomas Lundbye, Dankvart Dreyer, P.C. Skovgaard, and Vilhelm Kyhn.\n\nHe served as Treasurer of the Academy 1821-1832 and again 1854-1866. He stopped teaching in 1861, and was eventually titled \"etatsråd\" (state advisor or council). He was never named to the highest post at the Academy, Director of the Academy, unlike Eckersberg, his old rival, who served in that capacity from 1827 to 1829.\n\nHe had a cheerful and positive personality and was fresh and full of life to the age of 89. He died of natural causes without any sign of sickness during his sleep.\n\nLund kept his international orientation throughout his life in contrast to the growing nationalism and regionalism in the arts. He continued to keep his contacts in Germany and Italy.\n\nHis main works were historical paintings with historical, mythological and biblical themes, such as the five large paintings at Christiansborg Palace in Copenhagen, which depicted Denmark’s various cultural time periods. These include \"\"Christendommens indførelse i Danmark\"\" (\"Christianity’s Introduction in Denmark\") painted in 1827, until then the largest oil painting to have been painted in Denmark. Again his assignment was matched by a comparable one given to Eckersberg. in which he painted the Oldenborg royal family line in eight large pictures, presumably to replace those painted by Abildgaard and destroyed in the fire of 1794.\n\nThe other painting in Lund’s series are \"\"Nordisk offerscene fra den Odinske periode\"\" (\"Nordic Sacrificial Scene from the Period of Odin\") painted in 1831, \"\"Solens tilbedelse\"\" (\"Worship of the Sun\") painted in 1834, \"\"Procession ved Kristi Legemsfest fra den katolske tid i Danmark\"\" (\"Corpus Christi Procession from Denmark’s Catholic Period\") painted in 1834, and \"\"'Luthersk gudstjeneste\"\" (\"Lutheran Church Service\") painted in 1843.\n\nLund’s and Eckersberg’s paintings survived the fire at Christiansborg in 1884.\n\nHe is also well known for his altarpieces and paintings of religious themes, which were influenced by his admiration for such Renaissance painters as Fra Angelico, Perugino and Raphael.\n\nHis small landscapes also received favour from art historian, critic and advocate of a national art movement, Niels Lauritz Høyen. He painted few portraits. He designed the main curtain of the Royal Theatre (\"Det kongelige teater\") with a view of the Acropolis in 1828, which still hangs to this day. A preliminary sketch of the project is in the Theatre Museum. The Royal Theatre owns other artpieces of his.\n\nEarly Italian art, his contact with the Nazarenes, fellow countryman and expatriate Bertel Thorvaldsen, and for romanticism’s ideals, all left an indelible influence on his artistic production.\n\nThe Royal Library houses a collection of his letters, inclusive correspondence with younger artists that bears witness to his influence on them.\n\nHe is portrayed as an old man in a painting by one of his students, Professor August Schiøtt, a prodigious portraitist. This portrait, considered one of his best, led to Schiott’s membership in the Academy in 1854.\n\nLund’s works appear in various Danish art museums, including the Danish National Gallery (\"Statens Museum for Kunst\"). His works are also in the collections of several Danish castles, as well as religious works to be found at various Danish churches.\n\nHe was an educated, cultured and diligent man and artist, with good contacts. He left a lasting impression by his many monumental paintings still widely on display, and by the effect he had on a generation of artists due to his long professorship at the Academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019107", "title": "Faust Symphony", "text": "Faust Symphony\n\nA Faust Symphony in three character pictures (), S.108, or simply the \"Faust Symphony\", was written by Hungarian composer Franz Liszt and was inspired by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's drama, \"Faust\". The symphony was premiered in Weimar on September 5, 1857, for the inauguration of the Goethe–Schiller Monument there.\n\nThe first clue as to the work's structure is in Liszt's title: \"A Faust Symphony in Three Character Sketches after Goethe: (1) Faust, (2) Gretchen, (3) Mephistopheles.\" Liszt does not attempt to tell the story of Goethe's drama. Rather, he creates musical portraits of the three main protagonists. By doing so, though this symphony is a multi-movement work and employs a male chorus in its final moments, Liszt adopts the same aesthetic position as in his symphonic poems. The work is approximately seventy-five minutes in duration.\n\nThis large-scale movement (usually lasting around 30 minutes) is a very loose sonata-form with a short central development and a protracted recapitulation. One might say that this movement represents the very synthesis of the whole symphony, since many of its themes and motives appear throughout the score in various guises, a process of thematic transformation which Liszt mastered to the highest level during his Weimar years. The basic key of the symphony (C minor) is already rather blurred by the opening theme made up of augmented triads and containing all twelve notes of the chromatic scale consecutively (this is the first published use of a twelve-tone row, other than a simple chromatic scale, in any music). This theme evokes the gloomy Faust, a dreamer, in everlasting search for truth and knowledge. Next follows the so-called 'Nostalgia' theme introduced by the oboe. At the end of a slow crescendo, there appears a violent Allegro agitato ed appassionato theme, depicting Faust's insatiable appetite for the pleasures of life – this theme establishes a gingery C minor threatened with collapse under the weight of highly chromatic elements. A melody of the oboe and clarinet represents the hero's 'painful delights'. The last theme is pentatonic and resolute. From all these elements Liszt weaves a musical structure of power and grandeur, in which some critics recognise the composer's self-portrait.\n\nThis slow movement is in the key of A major. Following the introduction on the flutes and clarinets, we are given the pure oboe's melody figurated by the viola's tender decorations, which expresses Gretchen's virginal innocence. A dialogue between clarinet and violins describes her naively plucking the petals of a flower, in a game of 'he loves me, he loves me not'. She is obsessed by Faust, and therefore we may hear Faust's themes being introduced progressively into the music, until his and Gretchen's themes form a passionate love duet. This draws the second movement to a peaceful and short recapitulation.\n\nAn alternative interpretation of the Gretchen movement is that, as Lawrence Kramer writes, \"What we have been calling Gretchen's music is really Faust's.\" The entire Gretchen movement could be seen as representing her from the perspective of Faust. Consequently, the listener really learns more about Faust than about Gretchen. In Goethe's drama, she is a complex heroine. In Liszt's symphony, she is innocent and one-dimensional—a simplification that could arguably exist exclusively in Faust's imagination. The listener becomes aware of this masquerade when the \"Gretchen\" mask Faust is wearing slips with the appearance of the Faustian themes in bars 44 through 51 and bar 111 to the end of the movement.\n\nSome critics suggest that, like Gretchen, Mephistopheles can be seen as an abstraction—in this case, one of the destructive aspects of Faust's character, with Faust mocking his humanity by taking on Mephistopheles' character. Regardless of which interpretation a listener chooses, since Mephistopheles, Satan, the Spirit of Negation, is not capable of creating his own themes, he takes all of Faust's themes from the first movement and mutilates them into ironic and diabolical distortions. Here Liszt's mastery of thematic metamorphosis shows itself in its full power – therefore we may understand this movement as a modified recapitulation of the first one. The music is pushed to the very verge of atonality by use of high chromaticism, rhythmic leaps and fantastic scherzo-like sections. A modified version of Faust's second and third themes then creates an infernal fugue. Mephistopheles is, however, powerless when faced with Gretchen's innocence, so her theme remains intact. It even pushes the Spirit of Negation away towards the end of the work.\n\nIt is here that the two versions of the \"Faust\" Symphony merit different interpretations. Liszt's original version of 1854 ended with a last fleeting reference to Gretchen and an optimistic peroration in C major, based on the most majestic of themes from the opening movement. Some critics suggest this conclusion remains within the persona of Faust and his imagination. When Liszt rethought the piece three years later, he added a 'chorus mysticus', tranquil and positive. The male chorus sings the words from Goethe's \"Faust\":\n\nThe tenor soloist then rises above the murmur of the chorus and starts to sing the last two lines of the text, emphasizing the power of salvation through the eternal feminine. The symphony ends in a glorious blaze of the choir and orchestra, backed up by sustained chords on the organ. With this direct association to the final scene of Goethe's drama we escape Faust's imaginings and hear another voice commenting on his striving and redemption.\nThe text of the chorus is also the end of Gustav Mahler's eighth symphony.\n\nThe work is scored for an orchestral complement of piccolo, two flutes, two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons, four French horns, three trumpets, three trombones, tuba, timpani, cymbals, triangle, organ, harp, and strings. A tenor soloist and TTB male choir (two tenor parts and single bass part) are also employed in the final movement.\n\nHector Berlioz, who wrote his own version of \"Faust\" and became the eventual dedicatee of Liszt's \"Faust\" Symphony, introduced Liszt to Goethe's \"Faust\" in the 1830s through the French translation of Gérard de Nerval. Although sketches exist from the 1840s, he was hesitant about composing this work. He commented wryly to one correspondent, \"The worst Jesuit is dearer to me than the whole of your Goethe.\" In an 1869 letter, Liszt makes a revealing comparison between Faust and Manfred:\n\nIn my youth I passionately admired Manfred and valued him much more than Faust, who, between you and me, in spite of his marvellous prestige in poetry, seemed to me a decidedly bourgeois character. For that reason he becomes more varied, more complete, richer, more communicative ... (than Manfred) ... Faust's personality scatters and dissipates itself; he takes no action, lets himself be driven, hesitates, experiments, loses his way, considers, bargains, and is interested in his own little happiness. Manfred could certainly not have thought of putting up with the bad company of Mephistopheles, and if he had loved Marguerite he would have been able to kill her, but never abandon her in a cowardly manner like Faust.\n\nDespite Liszt's apparent antipathy toward the character of Faust, his residency in Weimar surrounded him with Goethe and the Faust legend at practically every turn. He had barely served out his first year as Kapellmeister when Grand Duke Carl Alexander decreed that the city would celebrate the centennial of Goethe's birth on August 28, 1849. During this celebration Liszt conducted, among other things, excerpts from Robert Schumann's \"Scenes from Goethe's Faust\" for orchestra and choir. After the centennial remembrance, he helped in the creation of a Goethe Foundation; this culminated in the publication of Liszt's brochure \"De la Fondation-Goethe à Weimar\". In the summer of 1850 Gérard de Nerval himself stayed as Liszt's guest. There was much talk about \"Faust\" and the topic would spill over into their subsequent correspondence\n\nThe performance of Berlioz's \"La Damnation de Faust\" in 1852, conducted by the composer, encouraged Liszt further, though he still hesitated, writing Princess Carolyne von Sayn-Wittgenstein, \"Anything having to do with Goethe is dangerous for me to handle.\" However, the final catalyst for the symphony came in a two-month period between August and October 1854. This period coincided with a visit to Weimar by English novelist Mary Ann (Marian) Evans, better known by her pen name George Eliot. Her consort George Henry Lewes was gathering information for his biography of Goethe. During visits to Liszt's residence, the Altenburg, Lewes and Eliot had several discussions with both him and Princess Carolyne about Goethe and his place in German literature. Once Liszt began writing, it was all-consuming; the work was produced in a white heat of inspiration.\n\nThe symphony was revised three years after it was completed. Additional parts for heavy brass were added, as was a \"Chorus Mysticus\" to the finale; in the latter, words from Faust Part II are sung by a male chorus and a tenor soloist to music from the middle movement. Other minor changes were made but much of the original score remained unchanged. In 1880, Liszt added some ten bars to the second movement.\n\nAfter its première under Liszt's baton in 1857, the symphony (in its revised version with final chorus and tenor solo) received a second performance under Hans von Bülow in 1861, the year the score was published. Richard Wagner witnessed the performance in Weimar: \"Bülow, who had been chosen to conduct Liszt’s Faust Symphony, seemed to me the wildest of all. His activity was extraordinary. He had learned the entire score by heart, and gave us an unusually precise, intelligent, and spirited performance with an orchestra composed of anything but the pick of German players.\" In later years von Bülow was highly critical of the work: \"I have given that nonsense a thorough going-over! It was indescribably painful. It's sheer rubbish, absolute non-music! I don't know which was greater, my horror or my disgust! Suffice it to say that to cleanse my palate I picked up Ivan the Terrible [by Anton Rubinstein] - it seemed like pure Brahms, by comparison! No, \"Faust\" is an aberration: let us drop the subject once and for all.\" Thereafter, apart from one or two sporadic performances, the symphony was neglected for roughly 50 years. Lack of interest was so great that the orchestral parts were not published until 1874. Felix Weingartner became the work's first modern interpreter (giving a performance with the Berlin Staatskapelle in 1892) but he stood practically alone in his advocacy of the score until modern times, when Thomas Beecham and Leonard Bernstein, among others, began championing the piece.\n\nLiszt transcribed the complete score for two pianos, and the middle movement alone (\"Gretchen\") for solo piano. The transcription of 'Gretchen' was recorded by Leslie Howard as part of his set of complete recordings of Liszt's solo piano music.\n\nFollowing Liszt's tradition of transcribing orchestral works such as Beethoven's nine symphonies, the Hungarian pianist Ervin Nyiregyházi transcribed the Faust Symphony for solo piano, which he performed at a recital in Novato, California on April 30, 1978. More recently, part of August Stradal's solo piano arrangement of the Faust Symphony has been recorded.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019131", "title": "Spacetime symmetries", "text": "Spacetime symmetries\n\nSpacetime symmetries are features of spacetime that can be described as exhibiting some form of symmetry. The role of symmetry in physics is important in simplifying solutions to many problems. Spacetime symmetries are used in the study of exact solutions of Einstein's field equations of general relativity. Spacetime symmetries are distinguished from internal symmetries.\n\nPhysical problems are often investigated and solved by noticing features which have some form of symmetry. For example, in the Schwarzschild solution, the role of spherical symmetry is important in deriving the Schwarzschild solution and deducing the physical consequences of this symmetry (such as the nonexistence of gravitational radiation in a spherically pulsating star). In cosmological problems, symmetry plays a role in the cosmological principle, which restricts the type of universes that are consistent with large-scale observations (e.g. the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker (FLRW) metric). Symmetries usually require some form of preserving property, the most important of which in general relativity include the following:\n\n\nThese and other symmetries will be discussed below in more detail. This preservation property which symmetries usually possess (alluded to above) can be used to motivate a useful definition of these symmetries themselves.\n\nA rigorous definition of symmetries in general relativity has been given by Hall (2004). In this approach, the idea is to use (smooth) vector fields whose local flow diffeomorphisms preserve some property of the spacetime. (Note that one should emphasize in one's thinking this is a diffeomorphism—a transformation on a differential element. The implication is that the behavior of objects with extent may not be as manifestly symmetric.) This preserving property of the diffeomorphisms is made precise as follows. A smooth vector field on a spacetime is said to \"preserve\" a smooth tensor on (or is invariant under ) if, for each smooth local flow diffeomorphism associated with , the tensors and are equal on the domain of . This statement is equivalent to the more usable condition that the Lie derivative of the tensor under the vector field vanishes:\n\non . This has the consequence that, given any two points and on , the coordinates of in a coordinate system around are equal to the coordinates of in a coordinate system around . A \"symmetry on the spacetime\" is a smooth vector field whose local flow diffeomorphisms preserve some (usually geometrical) feature of the spacetime. The (geometrical) feature may refer to specific tensors (such as the metric, or the energy-momentum tensor) or to other aspects of the spacetime such as its geodesic structure. The vector fields are sometimes referred to as \"collineations\", \"symmetry vector fields\" or just \"symmetries\". The set of all symmetry vector fields on forms a Lie algebra under the Lie bracket operation as can be seen from the identity:\n\nthe term on the right usually being written, with an abuse of notation, as\n\nA Killing vector field is one of the most important types of symmetries and is defined to be a smooth vector field that preserves the metric tensor:\n\nThis is usually written in the expanded form as:\n\nKilling vector fields find extensive applications (including in classical mechanics) and are related to conservation laws.\n\nA homothetic vector field is one which satisfies:\n\nwhere is a real constant. Homothetic vector fields find application in the study of singularities in general relativity.\n\nAn affine vector field is one that satisfies:\n\nAn affine vector field preserves geodesics and preserves the affine parameter.\n\nThe above three vector field types are special cases of projective vector fields which preserve geodesics without necessarily preserving the affine parameter.\n\nA conformal vector field is one which satisfies:\n\nwhere is a smooth real-valued function on .\n\nA curvature collineation is a vector field which preserves the Riemann tensor:\n\nwhere are the components of the Riemann tensor. The set of all smooth curvature collineations forms a Lie algebra under the Lie bracket operation (if the smoothness condition is dropped, the set of all curvature collineations need not form a Lie algebra). The Lie algebra is denoted by and may be infinite-dimensional. Every affine vector field is a curvature collineation.\n\nA less well-known form of symmetry concerns vector fields that preserve the energy-momentum tensor. These are variously referred to as matter collineations or matter symmetries and are defined by:\n\nwhere are the energy-momentum tensor components. The intimate relation between geometry and physics may be highlighted here, as the vector field is regarded as preserving certain physical quantities along the flow lines of , this being true for any two observers. In connection with this, it may be shown that \"every Killing vector field is a matter collineation\" (by the Einstein field equations, with or without cosmological constant). Thus, given a solution of the EFE, \"a vector field that preserves the metric necessarily preserves the corresponding energy-momentum tensor\". When the energy-momentum tensor represents a perfect fluid, every Killing vector field preserves the energy density, pressure and the fluid flow vector field. When the energy-momentum tensor represents an electromagnetic field, a Killing vector field does \"not necessarily\" preserve the electric and magnetic fields.\n\nAs mentioned at the start of this article, the main application of these symmetries occur in general relativity, where solutions of Einstein's equations may be classified by imposing some certain symmetries on the spacetime.\n\nClassifying solutions of the EFE constitutes a large part of general relativity research. Various approaches to classifying spacetimes, including using the Segre classification of the energy-momentum tensor or the Petrov classification of the Weyl tensor have been studied extensively by many researchers, most notably Stephani \"et al.\" (2003). They also classify spacetimes using symmetry vector fields (especially Killing and homothetic symmetries). For example, Killing vector fields may be used to classify spacetimes, as there is a limit to the number of global, smooth Killing vector fields that a spacetime may possess (the maximum being 10 for four-dimensional spacetimes). Generally speaking, the higher the dimension of the algebra of symmetry vector fields on a spacetime, the more symmetry the spacetime admits. For example, the Schwarzschild solution has a Killing algebra of dimension 4 (three spatial rotational vector fields and a time translation), whereas the Friedmann-Lemaître-Robertson-Walker (FLRW) metric (excluding the Einstein static subcase) has a Killing algebra of dimension 6 (three translations and three rotations). The Einstein static metric has a Killing algebra of dimension 7 (the previous 6 plus a time translation).\n\nThe assumption of a spacetime admitting a certain symmetry vector field can place restrictions on the spacetime.\n\nThe following spacetimes have their own distinct articles in Wikipedia:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019137", "title": "Naimee Coleman", "text": "Naimee Coleman\n\nNaimee Coleman is an Irish singer/songwriter from Dundrum, Dublin, Ireland. \nAfter signing with EMI, she recorded her first solo album, \"Silver Wrists\", in Abbey Road Studios. The follow-up, \"Bring Down the Moon\", came 4 years later.\n\nOn the strength of these records, she toured throughout Europe, the US and as far afield as Japan, where her singles topped airplay charts. While touring, Naimee has shared the stage with and opened up for artists such as Van Morrison, Susanne Vega, Jackson Browne, 10,000 Maniacs, Sinéad O'Connor and Sting. She has written with Howard Jones, Phill Thornally (The Cure), Pam Rose, Maiah Sharpe and Aurora. In 2000, Naimee appeared on Aurora's UK top 5 cover of Duran Duran's \"Ordinary World\" as a guest vocalist.\n\nShe provided the vocals for Cass & Slide's \"Perception\" (Vocal Mix) in 2000 and has also done vocals for Aurora, most notably on the songs \"Ordinary World\" (2000) and \"Sleeping Satellite\" (2003). She is currently in the process of finishing her third album, \"Survive\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019138", "title": "Gaston III", "text": "Gaston III\n\nGaston III may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2019139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019139", "title": "Alan Moorehead", "text": "Alan Moorehead\n\nAlan McCrae Moorehead, (22 July 1910 – 29 September 1983) was a war correspondent and author of popular histories, most notably two books on the nineteenth-century exploration of the Nile, \"The White Nile\" (1960) and \"The Blue Nile\" (1962). Australian-born, he lived in England, and Italy, from 1937.\n\nAlan Moorehead was born in Melbourne, Australia. He was educated at Scotch College, with a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Melbourne. He travelled to England in 1937 and became a renowned foreign correspondent for the London \"Daily Express\". Writer, world traveller, biographer, essayist, journalist, Moorehead was one of the most successful writers in English of his day. He married Lucy Milner, who at the \"Daily Express\" in 1937 \"presided over a women's page free of the patronising sentimentality which marked much writing for women at the time\".\n\nDuring World War II he won an international reputation for his coverage of campaigns in the Middle East and Asia, the Mediterranean and Northwest Europe. He was twice mentioned in despatches and was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire. According to the critic Clive James, \"Moorehead was there for the battles and the conferences through North Africa, Italy and Normandy all the way to the end. The hefty but unputdownable \"African Trilogy\", still in print today, is perhaps the best example of Moorehead's characteristic virtue as a war correspondent: he could widen the local story to include its global implications.\" And James further affirmed, \"His copy was world-famous at the time and has stayed good; he was a far better reporter on combat than his friend Ernest Hemingway.\" Moorehead's 1946 biography of Montgomery also remains well considered – \"Moorehead was well able to see – as Wilmot calamitously didn't – that Eisenhower was Montgomery's superior in character and judgment.\"\n\nIn 1956, his book \"Gallipoli\" about the Allies' disastrous First World War campaign at Gallipoli, received almost unprecedented critical acclaim (though it was later criticised by the British Gallipoli historian Robert Rhodes James as \"deeply flawed and grievously over-praised\"). In England, the book won the \"Sunday Times\" thousand-pound award and gold medal was the first recipient of the Duff Cooper Memorial Award. The presentation of the latter was made by Sir Winston Churchill on 28 November 1956.\n\nIn 1966, Moorehead and his wife, younger son and daughter (Caroline Moorehead) made what became for him the first of an annual series of visits to Australia. There he had completed a television script for his manuscript \"Darwin and the Beagle\", but tragedy struck before the book was published. That December, suffering from headaches, he went into London's Westminster Hospital for an angiogram which precipitated a major stroke. It was followed by an operation, in which brain damage occurred, affecting the communicating nerves. At 56, Moorehead, one of the great communicators of his time, could neither speak, read, nor write.\n\nThrough his talented wife Lucy, however, his writing voice went on. \"Darwin and the Beagle\" was brought out as a beautifully illustrated book in 1969 and in 1972, she gathered together her husband's scattered autobiographical essays and published them as \"A Late Education\". Moorehead died in London in 1983, and is buried at Hampstead Cemetery, Fortune Green.\n\nHis professional and personal correspondence — diaries, magazine and journal essays, press cuttings, book serialisations, reviews of his works, the background notes, drafts and proofs of his writings, and material relating to his unpublished writings — have been preserved. During the 1960s, two major American universities pressed Moorehead to deposit his private papers as a core of their collections of contemporary writers. Instead, in 1971, Alan and Lucy Moorehead brought his papers to Australia to present them in person to the National Library.\n\n\n\"Incomplete – to be updated\"\n"}
{"id": "2019154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019154", "title": "Di Nü Hua", "text": "Di Nü Hua\n\nDi Nü Hua is a fictional Chinese story about Princess Changping of the Ming Dynasty and her husband/lover, Zhou Shixian. The first known story was a Kunqu script written in the Qing Dynasty, while the second version was a Cantonese opera from the early 1900s later found in Japan and Shanghai. Little information is available from this early 1900s version. The contemporary prevailing version, not meant to be historically accurate, comes from the second Cantonese opera script.\n\nThe story unfolds as Princess Changping and Zhou Shixian are introduced to each other, participating in an arranged marriage.\n\nThey meet and get engaged with the blessing of their parents. Her father, the emperor, is overthrown by Li Zicheng. To save herself, the Princess hides as a nun in a monastery, but she happens to meet Zhou again. After being found by the new regime, (the Qing dynasty), she follows Zhou's plan to eventually commit suicide. Zhou formulates a plan to make sure that her father is properly buried (without asking for a proper burial ceremony) while her little brother is released to safety. Zhou returns alone to negotiate with the new regime using the bargaining power vested in him by a written request from her. Once the new regime makes good on these promises, the couple return to her former home for a wedding ceremony. They take poison on their wedding night in the palace garden where they first meet.\n\nBased on the Kunqu version and other publications, Playwright Tang Ti-sheng adaptation of this into a Cantonese opera script debuted in the Lee Theatre on 7 June 1957. Actresses Yam Kim Fai and Bak Sheut Sin were members of the original cast in leading roles. These two actresses played the leads until 1961 and then only sporadically from 1962 to 1970.\n\nIn October 2007, Yuen Siu Fai, as the Princess's father in 2006/7 performances in Hong Kong and Macau (40 total) schooled one academic on a radio broadcast. The talk show is available online (in Cantonese). Translation: This title has become this popular today mostly by word of mouth since the mid-1960s; staged at Kai De Amusement Park Cantonese Opera Theatre. The performances of Chor Fung Ming throughout the 1970s and 1980s in newly developed satellite cities and towns were very well received. The role of male lead is extremely heavy by design and demonstrates the ‘masculine’ traits of Yam style (e.g. Chinese: 走鑼邊花). The more organic actors/actresses in this role would find it more emotionally demanding. It was non-stop and exhausting after intermission.\n\nWhile most well-known Tang works cater to the female leads, this is an exception. The importance of Zhou Shixian, instead of the Princess, in this 1957 version is also unique compared to other versions such as \"Eternal Regret of Dynasty Ming\" (Chinese: 《明末遺恨》) and \"How Jing-ngo Slew the Tiger\" (Chinese: 《貞娥刺虎》), both of Peking opera.\n\nFrom 28 November 2019 to 14 December 2019, the Loong Kim Sang performance commemorated 30 years since the passing of her mentor Yam Kim Fai.\n\nAccording to Yu Kuizhi, this production was inspired by the (late 2006 to early 2007) performances at the Lyric Theatre, Hong Kong.\n\nYu talked specifically how much the 2006 performance of Loong Kim Sang impressed him and addressed Loong as sensei (meaning accomplished, to show respect to someone who has achieved a certain level of mastery in an art form or some other skill) throughout that event.\n\nA film starring some of the Cantonese opera original cast was released in 1959, while the album of full 4-hour stage version was released in 1960. In 1976, the film titled Prince Chang Ping was directed by John Woo, starring the Chor Fung Ming (Young Phoenix) Cantonese Opera Troupe along Leung Sing Bor and Lang Chi Bak. A live recording of the stage performance by Chor Fung Ming (Young Phoenix) Cantonese Opera Troupe in December 2007 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of debut is available in DVD/CD.\n\nTV stations, in Hong Kong as well as Taiwan, have a few productions, sometimes renamed, relating to the 1957 version. In 1981, ATV Home adapted the play into a television drama titled \"Princess Cheung Ping\" (Chinese: 武侠帝女花), in a \"wuxia\" setting, starring Damian Lau, Michelle Yim and David Chiang. In 2003, TVB produced \"Perish in the Name of Love\", a television series loosely based on the original play. Steven Ma and Charmaine Sheh starred in the leading roles.\n\n1959 film\n1976 film\n"}
{"id": "2019157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019157", "title": "Teun A. van Dijk", "text": "Teun A. van Dijk\n\nTeun Adrianus van Dijk (born May 7, 1943 in Naaldwijk, the Netherlands), is a scholar in the fields of text linguistics, discourse analysis and Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA).\n\nWith Walter Kintsch he contributed to the development of the psychology of text processing. Since the 1980s his work in CDA focused especially on the study of the discursive reproduction of racism by what he calls the 'symbolic elites' (politicians, journalists, scholars, writers), the study of news in the press, and on the theories of ideology, context and knowledge.\n\nHe founded six international journals: \"Poetics\", \"Text\" (now called \"Text & Talk\"), \"Discourse & Society\", \"Discourse Studies\", \"Discourse & Communication\", of which he still edits the last three.\n\nTeun A. van Dijk was a professor of discourse studies at the University of Amsterdam from 1968 until 2004, and since 1999 he has taught at the Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona. In 2017 he founded the Centre of Discourse Studies in Barcelona. \n\nHe has widely lectured internationally, especially in Latin America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019165", "title": "Text linguistics", "text": "Text linguistics\n\nText linguistics is a branch of linguistics that deals with texts as communication systems. Its original aims lay in uncovering and describing text grammars. The application of text linguistics has, however, evolved from this approach to a point in which text is viewed in much broader terms that go beyond a mere extension of traditional grammar towards an entire text. Text linguistics takes into account the form of a text, but also its setting, i. e. the way in which it is situated in an interactional, communicative context. Both the author of a (written or spoken) text as well as its addressee are taken into consideration in their respective (social and/or institutional) roles in the specific communicative context. In general it is an application of discourse analysis at the much broader level of text, rather than just a sentence or word.\n\nMuch attention has been given to the sentence as a self-contained unit, and not enough has been given to studying how sentences may be used in connected stretches of language. It is essentially the presentation of language as sets of sentences.\n\nText is extremely significant in communication because people communicate not by means of individual words or fragments of sentences in languages, but by means of texts. It is also the basis of various disciplines such as law, religion, medicine, science, and politics.\n\n\"A text is an extended structure of syntactic units [i. e. text as super-sentence] such as words, groups, and clauses and textual units that is marked by both coherence among the elements and completion ... [Whereas] a non-text consists of random sequences of linguistic units such as sentences, paragraphs, or sections in any temporal and/or spatial extension.\" (Werlich, 1976: 23)\n\n\"A naturally occurring manifestation of language, i. e. as a communicative language event in a context. The \"surface text\" is the set of expressions actually used; these expressions make some knowledge \"explicit\", while other knowledge remains \"implicit\", though still applied during processing.\" (Beaugrande and Dressler, 1981: 63)\n\n\"[A term] used in linguistics to refer to any passage- spoken or written, of whatever length, that does form a unified whole [….] A text is a unit of language in use. It is not a grammatical unit, like a clause or a sentence; and it is not defined by its size [….] A text is best regarded as a \"semantic\" unit; a unit not of form but of meaning.\" (Halliday and Hasan, 1976: 1–2)\n\n\"A text is made up of sentences, but there exist separate principles of text-construction, beyond the rules for making sentences.\" (Fowler, 1991: 59)\n\n\"[Text is] a set of mutually relevant communicative functions, structured in such a way as to achieve an overall rhetorical purpose.\" (Hatim and Mason, 1990)\n\nText linguists generally agree that text is the natural domain of language, but they still differ in their perspectives of what constitutes a text. This variance is mainly due to the different methods of observations of different linguists, and as such, the definition of text is not yet concrete.\n\nThere is a text and there is other text that accompanies it: text that is 'with', namely the con-text. This notion of what is 'with the text', however, goes beyond what is said and written: it includes other non-verbal signs-on-the total environment in which a text unfolds. (Halliday and Hasan, 1985: 5)\n\nAccording to Halliday, text is a sign representation of a socio-cultural event embedded in a context of situation. Context of situation is the semio-socio-cultural environment in which the text unfolds. Text and context are so intimately related that neither concept can be comprehended in the absence of the other.\n\nThis is the meaning that the social actions and the engagements of the participants are giving to the understanding of the text.\n\nThis is the meaning that the roles of and relationships among participants give to the understanding of the text. These relationships may be permanent or temporary. The contribution to meaning by social statuses of the participants also fall within this feature.\n\nThis is the meaning that the language, written or spoken, gives to the understanding of the text. This includes the symbolic organization of the text, as well as its intended function within the context.\n\nTexture is the basis for unity and semantic interdependence within text. Any text that lacks texture would simply be a bunch of isolated sentences that have no relationship to each other. (Crane, 1994) A feature of texture is \"sequential implicativeness\", as suggested by Schegloff and Sacks (1974). This refers to the property of language that each line in a text is linked from or linked to the previous line. As such, language contains a linear sequence, and this linear progression of text creates a context of meaning. This contextual meaning, at the paragraph level, is referred to as \"coherence\", while the internal properties of meaning are referred to as \"cohesion\". (Eggins, 1994: 85) There are two aspects of coherence, namely, \"situational\" coherence and \"generic\" coherence. There is situational coherence when field, tenor, and mode can be identified for a certain group of clauses. On the other hand, there is generic coherence when the text can be recognized as belonging to a certain genre. Thereby, cohesion is the result of \"semantic ties\", which refers to the dependent links between items within a text. These ties come together to create meaning. Texture is, therefore, created within text when the properties of coherence and cohesion are present.\n\nMost linguists agree on the classification into five text-types: narrative, descriptive, argumentative, instructive, and comparison/contrast (also called expositive). Some classifications divide the types of texts according to their function. Others differ because they take into consideration the topic of the texts, the producer and the addressee, or the style. Adam and Petitjean, (1989) proposed analyzing of overlaps of different text types with text sequences. Virtanen (1992) establishes a double classification (discourse type and text type) to be used when the Identification text-text type is not straightforward.\n\nAs a science of text, text linguistics describes or explains among different types of text the:\nText linguistics is the study of how texts function in human interaction. Beaugrande and Dressler define a text as a “communicative occurrence which meets seven standards of textuality” – Cohesion, Coherence, Intentionality, Acceptability, Informativity, Situationality and Intertextuality, without any of which the text will not be communicative. Non-communicative texts are treated as non-texts.\n\nSurface texts are the exact words that people see or hear. Cohesion concerns the ways in which the components of the surface text are connected within a sequence. Grammatical forms and conventions are adhered to by surface components and therefore cohesion rests upon grammatical dependencies. The grammatical dependencies in surface texts are major signals for sorting out meanings and uses. Cohesion encompasses all of the functions that can be used to signal relations among surface elements.\n\nSuch a text can be divided up into various dependencies. Someone might construe it as a notice about \"slow cars\" that are \"held up\", so that conclusions could be drawn about the need to drive fast to avoid being held up. However, it is more likely for one to divide the text into \"slow\" and \"cars held up', so that drivers will drive slowly to avoid accidents or take alternative routes to avoid being caught in the slow traffic. A science of text should explain how ambiguities such as this are possible, as well as how they are precluded or resolved without much difficulty. For efficient communication to take place there must be interaction between cohesion and other standards of textuality because the surface alone is not decisive.\n\nCoherence concerns the ways in which concepts and relations, which underlie the surface text, are linked, relevant and used, to achieve efficient communication.\nSurface texts may not always express relations explicitly therefore people supply as many relations as are needed to make sense out of any particular text. In the example of the road sign \"SLOW CARS HELD UP', \"cars\" is an object concept and \"held up\" an action concept, and the \"cars\" are the link to \"held up'. Therefore, \"slow\" is more likely to be interpreted as a motion than as the speed at which cars are travelling.\nTypes of relations include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Cause\", \"enablement\" and \"reason\" have forward directionality with the earlier event causing, enabling or providing reason for the later event. \"Purpose', however, has a backward directionality as the later event provides the purpose for the earlier event.\n\nMore than just a feature of texts, coherence is also the outcome of cognitive processes among text users. The nearness and proximity of events in a text will trigger operations which recover or create coherence relations.\n\nIn the explicit text, there is a set of actions (making, stealing and calling); the only relations presented are the agent and the affected entity of each action. However, a text receiver is likely to assume that the locations of all three events are close to one another as well as occur in a continuous and relatively short time frame. One might also assume that the actions are meant to signal the attributes of the agents; the Queen is skilled in cooking, the Knave is dishonest and the King is authoritative. As such, coherence encompasses inferencing based on one's knowledge.\n\nFor a text to make sense, there has to be interaction between one's accumulated knowledge and the text-presented knowledge. Therefore, a science of texts is probabilistic instead of deterministic, that is, inferences by users of any particular text will be similar most of the time instead of all of the time. Most text users have a common core of cognitive composition, engagement and process such that their interpretations of texts through \"sensing\" are similar to what text senders intend them to be. Without cohesion and coherence, communication would be slowed down and could break down altogether. Cohesion and coherence are text-centred notions, designating operations directed at the text materials.\n\nIntentionality concerns the text producer's attitude and intentions as the text producer uses cohesion and coherence to attain a goal specified in a plan. Without cohesion and coherence, intended goals may not be achieved due to a breakdown of communication. However, depending on the conditions and situations in which the text is used, the goal may still be attained even when cohesion and coherence are not upheld.\n\nEven though cohesion is not maintained in this example, the text producer still succeeds in achieving the goal of finding out if the text receiver wanted a piggyback.\n\nAcceptability concerns the text receiver's attitude that the text should constitute useful or relevant details or information worth accepting. Text type, the desirability of goals and the political and sociocultural setting, as well as cohesion and coherence, are important in influencing the acceptability of a text.\n\nText producers often speculate on the receiver's attitude of acceptability and present texts that maximize the probability that the receivers will respond as desired by the producers. For example, texts that are open to a wide range of interpretations, such as \"Call us before you dig. You may not be able to afterwards\" require more inferences about the related consequences. This is more effective than an explicit version of the message that informs receivers the full consequences of digging without calling, because receivers are left with great uncertainty as to the consequences that could result; this plays to people's risk aversion.\n\nInformativity concerns the extent to which the contents of a text are already known or expected as compared to unknown or unexpected. No matter how expected or predictable content may be, a text will always be informative at least to a certain degree due to unforeseen variability. The processing of highly informative text demands greater cognitive ability but at the same time is more interesting. The level of informativity should not exceed a point such that the text becomes too complicated and communication is endangered. Conversely, the level of informativity should also not be so low that it results in boredom and the rejection of the text.\n\nSituationality concerns the factors which make a text relevant to a situation of occurrence. The situation in which a text is exchanged influences the comprehension of the text. There may be different interpretations with the road sign\n\nHowever, the most likely interpretation of the text is obvious because the situation in which the text is presented provides the context which influences how text receivers interpret the text. The group of receivers (motorists) who are required to provide a particular action will find it more reasonable to assume that \"slow\" requires them to slow down rather than referring to the speed of the cars that are ahead. Pedestrians can tell easily that the text is not directed towards them because varying their speeds is inconsequential and irrelevant to the situation. In this way, the situation decides the sense and use of the text.\n\nSituationality can affect the means of cohesion; less cohesive text may be more appropriate than more cohesive text depending on the situation. If the road sign was \"Motorists should reduce their speed and proceed slowly because the vehicles ahead are held up by road works, therefore proceeding at too high a speed may result in an accident', every possible doubt of intended receivers and intention would be removed. However, motorists only have a very short amount of time and attention to focus on and react to road signs. Therefore, in such a case, economical use of text is much more effective and appropriate than a fully cohesive text.\n\nIntertextuality concerns the factors which make the utilization of one text dependent upon knowledge of one or more previously encountered text. If a text receiver does not have prior knowledge of a relevant text, communication may break down because the understanding of the current text is obscured. Texts such as parodies, rebuttals, forums and classes in school, the text producer has to refer to prior texts while the text receivers have to have knowledge of the prior texts for communication to be efficient or even occur. In other text types such as puns, for example \"Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana', there is no need to refer to any other text.\n\nRobert-Alain de Beaugrande was a text linguist and a discourse analyst, one of the leading figures of the Continental tradition in the discipline. He was one of the developers of the Vienna School of Textlinguistik (Department of Linguistics at the University of Vienna), and published the seminal \"Introduction to Text Linguistics\" in 1981, with Wolfgang U. Dressler. He was also a major figure in the consolidation of critical discourse analysis.\n\nText linguistics stimulates reading by arousing interest in texts or novels. Increases background knowledge on literature and on different kinds of publications. Writing skills can be improved by familiarizing and duplicating specific text structures and the use of specialized vocabulary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019168", "title": "Geoffrey II", "text": "Geoffrey II\n\nGeoffrey II may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2019181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019181", "title": "Tsuyoshi Kikuchi", "text": "Tsuyoshi Kikuchi\n\nKikuchi turned pro on February 26, 1988, his debut was against veteran wrestler Mitsuo Momota. Like many, Kikuchi spent his early years wrestling in opening and low midcard matches, paying his dues. By late 1990, Kikuchi began moving up the card and before long was becoming a Jr. Title contender. His first title shot was on July 12, 1990 when he challenged Masanobu Fuchi for the World Junior Heavyweight Championship but he came up short. He challenged for the title four more times between January 26, 1991 to February 28, 1993 coming up short each time. By 1991, Kikuchi also began teaming with future legend: Kenta Kobashi. The two first received a shot at the vacated All Asia Tag Team Championship on April 6, 1991 against The British Bruisers but lost. A few months later on June 1, 1991 they received another shot against then-champions Doug Furnas and Dan Kroffat but failed to win the titles. Kikuchi and Kobashi also entered the 1991 World's Strongest Tag Determination League but finished 11th place with 4 points.\n\nOn May 25, 1992 Kikuchi and Kobashi again challenge Furnas and Kroffat for the All Asia Tag Team Titles and this time was victorious as Kikuchi won his first title. Along with the title win, the match won numerous honors as the Wrestling Observer Newsletter gave it 5 Stars and named it the 1992 Match of the Year. During the title reign, Kikuchi also enjoyed success in the Junior Division by winning the yearly January 3 Junior Heavyweight Korakuen Hall Battle Royal on January 3, 1993 and also won a Junior Heavyweight Tournament on January 31, 1993. After a year as champions, Kikuchi and Kobashi lost the titles on June 2, 1993 to The Patriot and The Eagle. Following the title loss, Kikuchi and Kobashi broke up with Kobashi forming a successful team with Mitsuharu Misawa while Kikuchi remained in the midcard.\n\nFrom 1993–1996, Kikuchi largely remained in the midcard with little to no direction, and continued to receive shots at the Jr. title and All Asia Tag titles but continually failed to win either. On July 24, 1996, Kikuchi defeated Fuchi to finally win the World Junior Heavyweight Championship. He went on to make two successful title defenses and hold the title throughout the remainder of 1996 before eventually losing the title to Yoshinari Ogawa on January 15, 1997. \n\nAfter losing the title, Kikuchi's spent the remainder of his All Japan tenure wrestling in opening and low card matches as he wrestled young up and comers or aging legends. Also with the exception of a failed Jr. Heavyweight title shot on January 22, 2000, he for the most part was out of the title loop. In June 2000, Kikuchi left All Japan with the majority of the native roster and joined Misawa's new promotion:Pro Wrestling NOAH.\n\nKikuchi debuted for Noah at their first show on August 5, 2000. For the most part, his time in NOAH was like the end of his All Japan tenure as he spent it in opening matches and in the low midcard. Despite this, Kikuchi did occasionally receive title shots as he entered a tournament to crown the first GHC Junior Heavyweight Champion in 2001 making all the way to the semi-finals before losing to eventual winner: Yoshinobu Kanemaru. In 2002, Kikuchi began teaming with Kanemaru as the two invaded New Japan Pro Wrestling and defeated Jyushin Thunder Liger and Minoru Tanaka to win the IWGP Junior Tag Team Championship. The two held onto the title for four months and made four successful title defenses before eventually losing the title to Liger and Koji Kanemoto on January 26, 2003.\n\nAfter losing the titles, Kikuchi once again returned to opening matches, over the next few years, he occasionally got title shots at the GHC Jr. Title, the GHC Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship and GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship but came up short each time. In 2010, Kikuchi along with a few others were released from Noah.\n\nAfter leaving Noah, Kikuchi became a freelancer doing shows for All Japan and Dragon Gate. On September 20, 2010, Kikuchi challenged Kaz Hayashi for the World Junior Heavyweight Championship but lost. In November, Kikuchi returned to All Japan to participate in the 2010 World's Strongest Tag Determination League teaming up with Tamon Honda. On January 3, 2011, Kikuchi and Honda challenged Seiya Sanada and Manabu Soya for the All Asia Tag Team Championship but lost. In January 2011, Kikuchi also debuted in DDT. In the spring, Kikuchi returned to New Japan for their NEVER brand by taking part in the Road to the Super Juniors tournament where the two winners qualified for the 2011 Best of the Super Juniors. On April 7, Kikuchi defeated Ken Ohka in the first round. Then on April 8, he defeated Kazuhiro Tamura in the semifinals, but lost in the finals later that night to Daisuke Sasaki. In April, Kikuchi returned to All Japan to take part in the 2011 Jr. Tag League teaming with Masanobu Fuchi.\n\nHe defeated Craig Classic for the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship on January 1, 2012 at the Korakuen Hall in a Zero1 show. On February 1, 2012, he became a double champion, teaming with Takuya Sugawara, and defeating Ikuto Hidaka and Takafumi Ito to win the NWA International Lightweight Tag Team Championship. However, Kikuchi lost the title to his tag-team partner Sugawara on March 2 at 11th Anniversary show. Shortly thereafter, Kikuchi and Sugawara were stripped of the NWA International Lightweight Tag Team titles.\n\nOn August 11, 2017, Kikuchi took part in a mini-tournament for the new WEW Junior Heavyweight Championship for Pro Wrestling A-Team. He defeated Takumi Sakurai to qualify for the four-way elimination-style tournament final, in which he defeated Nobutaka Moribe, Masamune, and HASEGAWA, to win the tournament and title, to become the inaugural champion.\n\nSince 2015, Kikuchi works most often, usually monthly, in Professional Wrestling Dewa, an independent organization based in northeastern Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKikuchi owns \"Kotetsu\", a restaurant in Tomiya, Miyagi. It is frequented by wrestlers when in the area and the walls are adorned with wrestler photographs and autographs, pictures from Kikuchi's career, and posters for his upcoming appearances. \n\n"}
{"id": "2019182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019182", "title": "IBM Deep Thunder", "text": "IBM Deep Thunder\n\nDeep Thunder is a research project by IBM that aims to improve short-term local weather forecasting through the use of high-performance computing. It is part of IBM's \"Deep Computing\" initiative that also produced the Deep Blue chess computer.\n\nDeep Thunder is intended to provide local, high-resolution weather predictions customized to weather-sensitive specific business operations. For example, it could be used to predict the wind velocity at an Olympic diving platform, destructive thunderstorms, and combined with other physical models to predict where there will be flooding, damaged power lines and algal blooms. The project is now headquartered at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, New York.\n\nThe Deep Thunder project is headed by Lloyd Treinish, who joined IBM in 1990, after working for 12 years at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.\n\nThe project began in 1995 as an outgrowth from a project designed to help provide accurate weather forecasts for the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games. In collaboration with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, IBM scientists built one of the first parallel processing supercomputers to be used for weather modeling, based on the IBM RS/6000 SP. It was installed at the National Weather Service office in Peachtree City, Georgia in 1996, where it ran for several months and produced multiple forecasts daily. After a few years of development, the team set up an implementation in New York City in 2001 to test the project. The group is currently working on establishing the Rio de Janeiro operations center. \n\nThe name Deep Thunder arose after the IBM Deep Blue system played and defeated the world chess champion Garry Kasparov in May, 1997. In the following November, a journalist used the name Deep Thunder in an article, which stuck with the developers. Current members of Deep Thunder are Lloyd Treinish, Anthony Praino, Campbell Watson and Mukul Tewari.\n\nDeep Thunder uses a 3D telescoping grid where data from one model feeds into another and is verified with historical data. For example, they start off with a global model from NOAA, and as they zoom in the resolution decreases exponentially, down to models with resolutions of 1 kilometer, and sometimes as small as 1 meter. Using this method, IBM is able to cut down on the amount of processing required. IBM uses many sources of data to feed Deep Thunder, including public satellite sources, and many other private sources, as well as whatever local sensors and data a location may have.\n\nThe Watson computer system will be used to generate the Deep Thunder weather forecasts. Input data will be collected from over 200,000 Weather Underground personal weather stations, weather satellite data, smartphone barometer and data from other sources.\n\nIBM worked with a North American utility company that has over 90,000 poles, wires, and transformers to develop a prediction service that can pinpoint where incoming storms will bring down trees and power lines. The service can be used to call in the needed number of repair crews and station them near where the damage will occur, drastically decreasing downtime.\n\nDeep Thunder could be used to determine optimal times to plant, irrigate, and harvest crops, based on the dynamic environmental conditions of individual farm locations. Precision agriculture using Deep Thunder could lead to better price points for crops by saving water, by allocating labor more effectively, and by improving supply chain efficiency. Using these methods of predictive weather farming, crop losses from weather can be cut by over 25%. The island nation of Brunei is working with Deep Thunder to develop precision weather forecast models to increase rice production.\n\nDeep Thunder was used during the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games to accurately predict that there would be no rain during the closing ceremony. \nIt is also intended to be used for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe Jefferson Project at Lake George (New York) is a global example of sustained protection of freshwater ecosystems. The project uses Deep Thunder to predict the weather at an unprecedented 333 m resolution, simulating complex airflow patterns over the lake that are crucial to lake currents and nutrient cycling.\n\nNew York City was the first city to test a full scale implementation of Deep Thunder. IBM is experimenting with using a mobile app to distribute location-specific predictions and to issue alerts. Data from the app can be used by maintenance crews to determine if wind levels are too high to work, or it could be used to get a weather forecast at a certain address.\n\nIBM is currently expanding the project to Rio de Janeiro in order to predict floods, and anticipate where storms might trigger mudslides. The city is collaborating with IBM on a multimillion-dollar plan to improve emergency responsiveness, by providing comprehensive information about rainfall estimates, wind speed and direction, probabilities of landslides and floods to responders. It is expected to be utilized during the 2014 FIFA World Cup and 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe Dublin City Council is working with IBM to help make Dublin, Ireland the third city in the world to implement the Deep Thunder forecasting model in an attempt to predict and issue warnings about incoming flash floods that are impacting businesses and homeowners.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019189", "title": "Muiris Ó Fithcheallaigh", "text": "Muiris Ó Fithcheallaigh\n\nMuiris Ó Fithcheallaigh, or Maurice O'Fihely, in Latin \"Mauritius de Portu Hibernicus\" or \"Mauritius Hibernicus\"; c. 1460 – March 25, 1513) was an Irish Franciscan theologian and Archbishop of Tuam.\n\nAccording to James Lynch, Fihely was a native of Clonfert in Galway, but according to James Ware and Anthony à Wood he was a native of Baltimore, County Cork.\n\nPart of his education was received at the University of Oxford, where he joined the Franciscans. Later he studied at the University of Padua, where he obtained the degree of Doctor of Divinity. After his ordination he was appointed professor of philosophy at Padua.\n\nO'Fihely acted for some time as corrector of proofs to two well-known publishers at Venice, Scott and Locatelli —in the early days of printing a task usually entrusted to very learned men— and he was one of the first Irishmen to engage with the new technology of the printing press. O'Fihely was acknowledged as one of the most learned men of his time. In 1506 he was appointed as Archbishop of Tuam and was consecrated at Rome by Pope Julius II.\n\nIn 1513 he received a Scholastic Accolade from the Church, styled as \"Doctor Flos Mundi\", and has been the only Irish person to receive one so far.\n\nHe did not return to Ireland till 1513, in the meantime attending as Archbishop of Tuam the first two sessions of the Fifth Lateran Council (1512). On leaving for Ireland to take formal possession of his see, O'Fihely procured from the pope an indulgence for all those who would be present at his first Mass in Tuam. However, he was destined not to reach Tuam, for he fell ill in Galway and died there in the Franciscan convent.\n\nHe was a student of the works of Duns Scotus and wrote a commentary on them which was printed at Venice about 1514.\n\nÓ hAodha, Ruairí, 'Maurice O'Fihely: Printer, Publisher and Archbishop of Tuam', in \"Journal of the Old Tuam Society\" Vol. 7. (Tuam: 2010)\n\n"}
{"id": "2019194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019194", "title": "Gerald Gazdar", "text": "Gerald Gazdar\n\nGerald James Michael Gazdar (born 24 February 1950) is a linguist and computer scientist.\n\nHe was educated at Heath Mount School, Bradfield College, the University of East Anglia (BA, 1970) and the University of Reading (MA, PhD).\n\nGazdar was appointed a lecturer at the University of Sussex in 1975, and became Professor of Computational Linguistics there in 1985. He retired in 2002.\n\nGazdar defined Linear Indexed Grammars and pioneered, along with his colleagues Ewan Klein, Geoffrey Pullum and Ivan Sag, the framework of Generalized Phrase Structure Grammars.\n"}
{"id": "2019199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019199", "title": "Symphony No. 2 (Brahms)", "text": "Symphony No. 2 (Brahms)\n\nSymphony No. 2 in D major, Op. 73, was composed by Johannes Brahms in the summer of 1877, during a visit to Pörtschach am Wörthersee, a town in the Austrian province of Carinthia. Its composition was brief in comparison with the 21 years it took Brahms to complete his First Symphony. \n\nThe symphony is scored for 2 flutes, 2 oboes, 2 clarinets, 2 bassoons, 4 horns, 2 trumpets, 3 trombones, tuba, timpani, and strings.\n\nThe cheery and almost pastoral mood of the symphony often invites comparisons with Beethoven's Sixth Symphony, but, perhaps mischievously, Brahms wrote to his publisher on November 22, 1877, that the symphony \"is so melancholy that you will not be able to bear it. I have never written anything so sad, and the score must come out in mourning.\"\n\nThe premiere was given in Vienna on 30 December 1877 by the Vienna Philharmonic under the direction of Hans Richter; Walter Frisch notes that it had originally been scheduled for 9 December, but \"in one of those little ironies of music history, it had to be postponed [because] the players were so preoccupied with learning \"Das Rheingold\" by Richard Wagner.\" A typical performance lasts between 40 and 50 minutes.\n\nIn the Second Symphony, Brahms preserved the structural principles of the classical symphony, in which two lively outer movements frame a slow second movement followed by a short scherzo:\n\nThe cellos and double-basses start the first-movement sonata form in a tranquil mood by introducing the first phrase of the principal theme, which is continued by the horns. The woodwinds develop the section and other instruments join in gradually progressing to a full-bodied forte (at bar 58). At bar 82, the violas and cellos introduce the movement's second \"Lullaby\" theme in F-sharp minor, which eventually moves to A major. After a development section based mostly on motives of the principal theme group, the recapitulation begins at bar 302, with the second theme returning at bar 350. Towards the conclusion of the movement, Brahms marked bar 497 as \"in tempo, sempre tranquillo\", and it is this mood which pervades the remainder of the movement as it closes in the home key of D major.\n\nThe second theme's opening bars are recognizable for their passing resemblance to \", Op. 49, the tune commonly referred to as \"Brahms's Lullaby\". It is introduced at bar 82 and is continually brought back, reshaped and changed both rhythmically and harmonically.\n\nThis movement is characterised by the use of developing variation. A brooding theme introduced by the cellos from bars 1 to 12, with a counter-melody in the bassoons, begins the second movement (also in sonata form). A second theme, marked \", appears in bar 33. After a brief development section, the recapitulation is highly modified. The movement then finishes with a coda-like section in which the main theme is reintroduced in the end.\n\nThe third movement minuet opens with pizzicato cellos accompanying a lilting oboe melody in G major. A contrasting section in time marked \"Presto ma non assai\" begins in the strings, and this theme is soon taken over by the full orchestra (minus trumpets). Bar 107 returns to the main tempo and gentle mood, but the idyll setting is again disrupted in bar 126 when the earlier \"Presto\" marking makes a re-entry, this time in a variation. Brahms yet again diverts the movement back into its principal tempo (bar 194) and thereafter to its peaceful close.\n\nThe third movement contains very light articulated sections, very similar in character to the Slavonic Dances of Brahms' contemporary, Dvořák. This lighter element provides a contrast to the previous two movements.\n\nMysterious \"sotto voce\" strings open the final \"Allegro con spirito\", again in sonata form. The full orchestra suddenly announces the arrival of the main theme, unveiling \"...the blazing sunrise of the most athletic and ebulliently festive movement Brahms ever wrote\". As the initial excitement fades, violins introduce a new subject in A major marked \"largamente\" (to be played broadly). The wind instruments repeat this until it develops into a climax. Bar 155 of the movement repeats the symphony's first subject again, but instead of the joyful outburst heard earlier, Brahms introduces the movement's development section. A mid-movement \"tranquillo\" section (bar 206, and reappearing in the coda) elaborates earlier material and slows down the movement to allow a buildup of energy into the recapitulation. The first theme comes in again (bar 244) and the familiar orchestral forte is played. The second theme also reappears in the tonic key. Towards the end of the symphony, descending chords and a mazy run of notes by various instruments of the orchestra (bars 395 to 412) sound out the second theme again but this time drowned out in a blaze of brass instruments as the symphony ends in a triumphant mood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019201", "title": "Gilberto Simoni", "text": "Gilberto Simoni\n\nGilberto Simoni (born 25 August 1971 in Palù di Giovo, Trentino) is an Italian former professional road bicycle racer, most recently for . Simoni is twice winner of the Giro d'Italia cycling race (2001 and 2003 editions). Simoni might have won a third Giro, but in 2002 he tested positive for cocaine and was withdrawn from the race by his Saeco team – he was later cleared of any doping violation by the Italian Cycling Federation. Simoni is a native of Palu di Giovo, and was considered a climbing specialist. His final race as a professional road cyclist was the 2010 Giro d'Italia, which he finished in 69th place overall, 2:40:14 behind another two-time winner Ivan Basso.\n\nSimoni was born in Palù di Giovo, in Trentino, and began competing as an amateur with the goal of someday winning the Giro d'Italia. Simoni confirmed his potential in 1993, when he won both the amateur version of the Giro d'Italia (known as the Baby Giro) and the Italian Road Cycling Championship. Prior to his retirement in 2010, Simoni would reveal to the Italian newspaper \"La Gazzetta dello Sport\" that the Giro was the one race that attracted him to cycling and which motivated him as a professional. \"It was the Giro that brought me to cycling when I was a child\", he said. \"It triggered my dreams.\"\n\nSimoni turned professional in 1994 with the team, but suffered through an inauspicious rookie season, having to cope with the deaths of both his father and older brother. It was only three years later in 1997 that Simoni won his first professional race, a stage of the Giro del Trentino, while riding for the team of sports director Giancarlo Ferretti.\n\n1998 was another disappointing season for Simoni, and his results sheet was barren after a year spent with the team. He briefly quit cycling and worked as a bicycle mechanic for 1984 Giro d'Italia winner Francesco Moser. However, a resurgent Simoni joined the team in 1999 and finished a surprising third on the general classification of that year's Giro d'Italia. In a race that saw another mercurial Italian climber thrown off the Giro for doping (Marco Pantani), Simoni was criticized in some sectors of the press for claiming a podium finish without having earned the placing. But he proved his critics wrong by winning a stage in the Tour de Suisse and again finishing on the final podium.\n\nThe 2000 season started well for Simoni: he'd transferred to the top-ranked team of two-time Giro d'Italia winner Giuseppe Saronni and went on to again finish on the podium of the Giro d'Italia. Simoni cemented his reputation as a climbing specialist by winning the dramatic Alto de El Angliru stage of that year's Vuelta a España.\n\nSimoni started the 2001 Giro d'Italia as Lampre's undisputed leader and hope for the general classification, which he won with a comfortable margin.\n\nFollowing his Giro victory Simoni moved to the team with the goal of repeating his Giro success of the previous year. However, traces of cocaine were found in his blood and he was disqualified despite his protestations of innocence. It was later determined that the cocaine in his blood came from candies that his aunt had bought for him from Peru.\n\nIn 2003, the Saeco team came to the Giro d'Italia with the sole purpose of supporting Simoni. After competing with a resurgent Stefano Garzelli, Yaroslav Popovych and Marco Pantani in the high mountains in a hailstorm, Simoni achieved his second Giro d'Italia victory. His pursuit was documented in the film \"The Quest\".\n\nFollowing his successful performance in the Giro, he set his aims on the Tour de France and in several interviews challenged the incumbent Lance Armstrong to a battle in the mountains. His performance was lacking, although he was able to gain a stage win.\n\nSimoni failed to defend his title in the 2004 Giro d'Italia with the emergence of his teammate Damiano Cunego. After some public dispute, Simoni reconciled with Cunego and agreed to continue on the same team, which became . In the 2005 Giro d'Italia the team took advantage of the publicity and played up the rivalry between Simoni and Cunego, boasting their strength for the Giro. The early part of the Giro saw Cunego lose significant time in the early mountain stages – he was later diagnosed with Epstein-Barr viral infection – firmly establishing Simoni as the team leader for the Giro. However, Simoni failed to dislodge Paolo Savoldelli in the last mountain stage, even with an epic performance which saw him and Danilo Di Luca work together to gain time on Savoldelli. Suffering from cramps, he also failed to win that stage.\n\nSimoni was slated to join Giancarlo Ferretti's Sony-Ericsson team, which was supposed to be the continuation of the Fassa Bortolo team. However, it later turned out that Ferretti had fallen victim to a fraud, and the team did not in fact exist. After a strong performance in which he finished second in the Giro di Lombardia (which was won by Cunego in the previous edition), Simoni signed a contract to join .\nOn the urging of his frame sponsor, Scott USA, Simoni began competing in mountain bike marathon events during the 2006 off-season for road bicycle racing. He quickly garnered impressive results by winning the Italian National Championship for Mountain Bike Marathon.\n\nSimoni was embroiled in public row with fellow Italian Ivan Basso of . Simoni alleged that Basso offered him a stage win in the 2006 Giro d'Italia into Aprica five kilometers from the finish after the two cyclists had broken away from the main field. Basso has denied any such offer, and went on to win the stage by 77 seconds. Simoni retracted his accusations several days later.\n\nIn dramatic fashion, with Leonardo Piepoli's support he won the epic stage 17 to Monte Zoncolan in the 2007 Giro d'Italia.\n\nAfter a lengthy search for a team for 2010, that included negotiations with his previous team as well as with and , Simoni re-joined his former Lampre \"squadra\", rechristened as . The 2010 Giro d'Italia was the final race of his career. He finished 69th overall, 2:40:14 behind two-time winner and compatriot Ivan Basso. Simoni was characteristically frank about his last bid for glory, which poignantly saw him beaten in the sprint for the Cima Coppi KOM prize by the Swiss Johann Tschopp, at the summit of the Passo di Gavia in the penultimate Giro stage. Mobbed at the finish line by Italian media looking for one final quote from a rider who rarely hesitated to speak his mind, Simoni mused:\n\n\"Perhaps if I'd played more of a bluffing game, I might have had something left for the finish but never mind. That's bike racing. I'm just glad the Giro is over. I've had enough now.\"\n\nThe Trentinese explained that his curtain call did not go as planned, though he still claimed to have enjoyed closing-out his storied career by finishing a three-week Grand Tour, one of the most challenging events for an endurance road cyclist:\n\n\"I've known it was time to retire for awhile It's been on my mind for the last two years. I knew this Giro was my last race. I've been a professional for 17 years, and it really is time to quit. I honestly thought I'd go better than I did in this Giro. I knew I couldn't win it like in 2003 or 2007 (Monte Zoncolan stage), but I didn't expect to suffer so much and for so long during the three weeks. It's been a strange goodbye. I've ridden the Giro almost as an outsider, without the pressure to win and do well. It's hurt but I've been able to enjoy it. Before the finish today, the whole thing flashed before my eyes.\"\n\nCycling columnist Samuel Abt of the \"International Herald Tribune\" described Simoni as \"an inspiration to all retirees who wonder what they will do now with so much time on their hands.\" He pointed out that \"instead of taking up golf or lurking at home and watching television\", the first thing Simoni did \"after saying goodbye to the workplace [was] rejoin it.\"\n\nBut after finally calling it quits on a professional career that included nearly 600 classified results in UCI-sanctioned events, Simoni was vague concerning his plans for his life after cycling, though he hinted at not being in a rush or under any economic or psychological pressure to immediately engage in a new venture. Prior to the 2010 Giro's final stage, Simoni declared his intention to slow down the pace of decision-making in his life: \"I don't want to think about my future just yet,\" he said. \"I won't need to rush things anymore. I won't need to race against time. I can take my time and enjoy the rest of my life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019202", "title": "Louis Hjelmslev", "text": "Louis Hjelmslev\n\nLouis Trolle Hjelmslev (; 3 October 189930 May 1965) was a Danish linguist whose ideas formed the basis of the Copenhagen School of linguistics. Born into an academic family (his father was the mathematician Johannes Hjelmslev), Hjelmslev studied comparative linguistics in Copenhagen, Prague and Paris (with Antoine Meillet and Joseph Vendryes, among others). In 1931, he founded the Cercle Linguistique de Copenhague. Together with Hans Jørgen Uldall he developed a structural theory of language which he called glossematics, which further developed the semiotic theory of Ferdinand de Saussure. Glossematics as a theory of language is characterized by a high degree of formalism. It is interested in describing the formal and semantic characteristics of language in a strict separation from sociology, psychology or neurobiology, and has a high degree of logical rigour. Hjelmslev regarded linguistics — or glossematics — as a formal science. He was the inventor of formal linguistics. Hjelmslev's theory became widely influential in structural and functional grammar, and in semiotics.\n\nThe Linguistic Circle of Copenhagen was founded by Hjelmslev and a group of Danish colleagues on 24 September 1931. Their main inspiration was the Prague Linguistic Circle, which had been founded in 1926. It was, in the first place, a forum for discussion of theoretical and methodological problems in linguistics. Initially, their interest lay mainly in developing an alternative concept of the phoneme, but it later developed into a complete theory which was coined \"glossematics\", and was notably influenced by structuralism. Membership of the group grew rapidly and a significant list of publications resulted, including an irregular series of larger works under the name \"Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de Copenhague\". A \"Bulletin\" was produced, followed by an international journal for structuralistic research in language, \"Acta Linguistica\" (later called \"Acta Linguistica Hafniensia\"), which was founded with the members of the Prague Linguistic Circle. It was, at that time, the sole journal explicitly dedicated to structuralism. With one short break from 1934 to 1937, while he lectured at the university of Aarhus, Hjelmslev acted as chairman of the Circle until shortly before his death in 1965.\n\nHjelmslev published his first paper at the age of 25. His first major book, \"Principes de grammaire générale\", which he finished in 1928, is an invaluable source for anyone interested in Hjelmslev's work. During the 1930s Hjelmslev wrote another book, \"La catégorie des cas\", which was a major contribution to linguistics. In this book, Hjelmslev analysed the general category of case in detail, providing ample empirical material supporting his hypotheses. It is important to read Hjelmslev's work as a continuous evolving theory on the epistemology of linguistics. He made his first academic journey at 1921 to Lithuania to study Lithuanian, an experience which can be traced throughout his works.\n\nHis most well-known book, \"Omkring sprogteoriens grundlæggelse\", or in English translation, \"Prolegomena to a Theory of Language\", first published in 1943, critiques the then-prevailing methodologies in linguistics as being descriptive, even anecdotal, and not systematising. He proposed a linguistic theory intended to form the basis of a more rational linguistics and a contribution to general epistemology. Like Ferdinand de Saussure (1857–1913), he accepted language as a system of signs, from the point of view of language use. He argued that a theory of semiotics should be consistent within itself, comprehensive, and as simple as possible.\n\nHjelmslev's sign model is a development of Saussure's bilateral sign model. Saussure considered a sign as having two sides, \"signifier\" and \"signified\". Hjelmslev's famously renamed signifier and signified as respectively \"expression plane\" and \"content plane\", and also distinguished between form and substance. The combinations of the four would distinguish between \"form of content\", \"form of expression\", \"substance of content\", and \"substance of expression\". In Hjelmslev's analysis, a sign is a function between two forms, the content form and the expression form, and this is the starting point of linguistic analysis. However, every sign function is also manifested by two substances: the content substance and the expression substance. The content substance is the physical and conceptual manifestation of the sign. The expression substance is the physical substance wherein a sign is manifested. This substance can be sound, as is the case for most known languages, but it can be any material support whatsoever, for instance, hand movements, as is the case for sign languages, or distinctive marks on a suitable medium as in the many different writing systems of the world.\n\nIn short, Hjelmslev was proposing an open-ended, scientific method of analysis as a new semiotics. In proposing this, he was reacting against the conventional view in phonetics that sounds should be the focus of enquiry. Some have interpreted his work as if Hjelmslev argued that no sign can be interpreted unless it is contextualisedtreating his functives, \"expression\" and \"content\" as the general connotative mechanisms (for instance by Algirdas Julius Greimas)for Hjelmslev the point of view of the linguist on meaning is that of the form of content. Even if the content substance is important, one has to analyse it from the point of view of the form. Not only do pictures and literature manifest the same organising principles, but, more broadly, seeing and hearing, though certainly not identical, interact in surprisingly complex ways at deeper levels of the sign hierarchy which Hjelmslev sought to understand.\n\nHjelmslev made a bold proposal to transform technical analysis into a broad enquiry, emphasising that the true focus of linguistics should be the language and the human culture that continually reinvents it, and all society's memory of its accumulated knowledge preserved through language. This was a challenging but constructive argument at the time, and remains one that still has relevance today. Most conspicuously, Hjelmslev's lines of inquiry have been taken up by Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari (see the \"Postulates of Linguistics\" and \"Geology of Morals\" chapters of \"A Thousand Plateaus\"), and subsequently their followers.\n\nHjelmslev introduced the terms \"glosseme\", \"ceneme\", \"prosodeme\" and \"plereme\" as linguistic units, analogous to \"phoneme\", \"morpheme\", etc.\n\nAlso, his most famous work, \"Prolegomena to a Theory of Language\", is mostly concerned with the formal definition of a terminology for the analysis of any level of a system of signs, and as such there exists an exclusively Hjelmslevian terminology for that.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019207", "title": "Charles J. Fillmore", "text": "Charles J. Fillmore\n\nCharles J. Fillmore (August 9, 1929 – February 13, 2014) was an American linguist and Professor of Linguistics at the University of California, Berkeley. He received his Ph.D. in Linguistics from the University of Michigan in 1961. Fillmore spent ten years at The Ohio State University and a year as a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University before joining Berkeley's Department of Linguistics in 1971. Fillmore was extremely influential in the areas of syntax and lexical semantics.\n\nA three–day conference was held at UC Berkeley in celebration of his 80th birthday in 2009. Fillmore received the 2012 Lifetime Achievement Award of the Association for Computational Linguistics. He died in 2014.\n\nFillmore spent three years in the U.S. Army stationed in Japan, where he intercepted coded Russian conversations on short-wave radio and taught himself Japanese. Following his discharge, he taught English at a Buddhist girls' school while also taking classes at Kyoto University.\n\nHe returned to the US, receiving his doctorate at the University of Michigan and then teaching at The Ohio State University in Columbus. At the time, he was still a proponent of Noam Chomsky's theory of generative grammar during its earliest transformational grammar phase. In 1963, his seminal article \"The position of embedding transformations in a Grammar\" introduced the transformational cycle. The central idea is to first apply rules to the smallest applicable unit, then to the smallest unit containing that one, and so on. This principle has been a foundational insight for theories of syntax since that time.\n\nBy 1965, Fillmore had come to acknowledge that semantics plays a crucial role in grammar.\n\nIn 1968, he published his theory of Case Grammar (Fillmore 1968), which highlighted the fact that syntactic structure can be predicted by semantic participants. An action can have an agent, a patient, purposes, locations, and so on. These participants were called \"cases\" in his original paper, but later came to be known as semantic roles or thematic relations, which are similar to theta roles in generative grammar.\n\nFollowing his move to the University of California, Berkeley, in 1971, this theory eventually evolved into a broader cognitive linguistic theory called Frame Semantics (1976). A commercial event, for instance, crucially involved elements such as a seller, a buyer, some good, and some money. In language, such an event can be expressed in a variety of different ways, e.g. using the verb 'to sell' or the verb 'to buy'. According to frame semantics, meaning is best studied in terms of the mental concepts and participants in the minds of the speaker and addressee.\n\nAround the same time, Fillmore's Santa Cruz Lectures on Deixis, delivered in 1971 and published in 1975, contributed to establishing the field of linguistic pragmatics, which studies the relationship between linguistic form and the context of utterance.\n\nIn all of this research, he illuminated the fundamental importance of semantics, and its role in motivating syntactic and morphological phenomena. His collaboration with Paul Kay and George Lakoff was generalized into the theory of Construction Grammar. This work aimed at developing a complete theory of grammar that would fully acknowledge the role of semantics right from the start, while simultaneously adopting constraint-based formalisms as popular in computer science and natural language processing. This theory built on the notion of construction from traditional and pedagogical grammars rather than the rule-based formalisms that dominate most of generative grammar. One of Fillmore's most widely noticed works of the time (with Paul Kay and Cathy O'Connor) appeared in 'Language' in 1988 as \"Regularity and Idiomaticity in Grammatical Constructions: The Case of Let Alone\". Their paper highlighted the merits of such a theory of by focusing on the 'let alone' construction. Over time, construction grammar developed into a research area of its own, and a number of variants have been proposed over the years by different researchers.\n\nFillmore is now widely recognized as one of the founders of cognitive linguistics. The first chapter of “Cognitive Linguistics” by Cruse and Croft (2004), for instance, begins with a summary of Fillmore's work. Fillmore served as President of the Linguistic Society of America in 1991 and was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Chicago in 2000.\n\nHis legacy continues with his many notable students, including Adele Goldberg, Laura Michaelis, Christopher Johnson, Miriam R. L. Petruck, Len Talmy, and Eve Sweetser.\n\nIn the 1990s, Fillmore taught classes in computational lexicography at the University of Pisa, where he met Sue Atkins, who was conducting frame-semantic analyses from a lexicographic perspective. In their subsequent discussions and collaborations, Fillmore came to acknowledge the importance of considering corpus data. They discussed the \"dictionary of the future\", in which every word would be linked to example sentences from corpora.\n\nAfter 23 years at the University of California, Berkeley, Fillmore retired in 1994 and joined Berkeley's International Computer Science Institute. There, he started a project called FrameNet, an on-line structured description of the English lexicon implementing much of what he had earlier proposed more theoretically in his theory of Frame semantics, while implementing the idea of emphasizing example sentences from corpora. In FrameNet, words are described in terms of the frames they evoke. Data is gathered from the British National Corpus, annotated for semantic and syntactic relations, and stored in a database organized by both lexical items and Frames.\n\nFrameNet has inspired parallel projects, which investigate other languages, including Spanish, German, and Japanese.\n\nDue to the project's influence, issue 16 of the \"International Journal of Lexicography\" was devoted entirely to FrameNet. The project has been highly influential in computational linguistics and natural language processing as well. FrameNet led to the establishment of the task of shallow semantic parsing or automatic semantic role labelling (SRL). The first automatic SRL system was developed by Berkeley graduate student Daniel Gildea. Semantic Role Labelling has since become one of the standard NLP tasks. In recognition of his contributions to computational linguistics, Fillmore received the 2012 Lifetime Achievement Award of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Together with Collin F. Baker, he also received the 2012 Antonio Zampolli Prize, awarded by the European Language Resources Association.\n\nHis seminal publications include:\n\n\nFillmore was married to Lily Wong Fillmore, a linguist and professor emeritus at Berkeley.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019208", "title": "Otokichi", "text": "Otokichi\n\n, also known as Yamamoto Otokichi and later known as John Matthew Ottoson (1818 – January 1867), was a Japanese castaway originally from the area of Onoura near modern-day Mihama, on the west coast of the Chita Peninsula in Aichi Prefecture.\n\nOtokichi was from Mihama, Aichi Prefecture. In 1832, at age 14, he served as a crew member on a rice transport ship bound for Edo, the \"Hojunmaru\" (宝順丸), in length with a cargo of 150 tons and a crew of 14. The ship left on October 11, 1832, but was caught in a storm and blown off-course far out in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe ship, without a mast or a rudder, was carried across the northern Pacific Ocean by currents. It drifted for 14 months, during which the crew lived on desalinated seawater and on the rice of their cargo. Several crew members died of scurvy; only three survived by the time they arrived at Cape Alava, the westernmost point of Washington's Olympic Peninsula, in 1834. The three survivors were Iwakichi, 29; Kyukichi, 16; and Otokichi, then 15.\n\nThe three castaways were looked after and briefly enslaved by the Makah Indian tribe. They were later handed over to John McLoughlin, the Chief Factor (agent) for the Columbia District at the Hudson's Bay Company.\n\nMcLoughlin, envisioning an opportunity to use the castaways to open trade with Japan, sent the trio to London on the \"Eagle\" to try to convince the Crown of his plan. They reached London in 1835, probably the first Japanese to do so since Christopher and Cosmas in the 16th century.\n\nThe British Government ultimately denied interest in the enterprise, and the castaways were instead dispatched to Macau on board the \"General Palmer\", so that they could be returned to their home country.\n\nOnce in Macau, Otokichi, Kyukichi and Iwakichi were welcomed by Karl Gutzlaff, a German missionary and Chinese translator for the British Government. Gutzlaff, who had views on evangelizing Japan, enthusiastically learned the Japanese language from the trio, and with their help managed to make a translation of the Gospel of John into Japanese. The trio was joined in Macau by four more castaways from Kumamoto Prefecture in Kyūshū, who had been shipwrecked on the island of Luzon in the Philippines.\n\nAn opportunity to return them to Japan appeared, when the American trader Charles W. King offered to take them back to Japan, again with the hope of establishing trade relations with the country. In July 1837, the seven castaways left with Charles W. King on board the \"Morrison\" to Uraga at the entrance of Edo Bay. There the ship was fired on repeatedly, and King was not able to accomplish his objective to establish diplomatic contact. He then went to Kagoshima, but again met with cannon fire, and finally decided to abandon his efforts and go back to Canton. The castaways resigned themselves to a life in exile. Returning to Japan was problematic, for this was during Japan's period of isolation where leaving the country was an offense that was punishable by death.\n\nUnable to return to Japan, the castaways started a new life in Macau. They seem to have worked as translators for the British trade legation and British missionaries.\n\nOtokichi is next recorded to have been working for the British trading company Dent & Co. in Shanghai in 1843. He apparently also worked as a crewman on American ships, and worked at helping Japanese castaways to return to Japan on board Chinese or Dutch ships, the only ones allowed to visit the country. He also engaged in business on his own behalf.\n\nOtokichi married a Scotswoman in Macao who later died of illness. His second wife, Louisa Belder, was half-German and half-Malay, living in Singapore, with whom he had a son and three daughters. He became a naturalized British subject, taking the name John Matthew Ottoson. \"Ottoson\" is said to have been a transliteration of \"Oto-san\" (literally \"Mr. Oto\"), a respectful nickname used by his Japanese friends.\n\nOtokichi is known to have returned to Japan twice, first as a translator on board HMS \"Mariner\", which entered Uraga Port in 1849 to conduct a topographical survey. To avoid problems with Japanese authorities, he disguised himself as Chinese, and said that he had learned Japanese from his father, allegedly a businessman who had worked in relation with Nagasaki.\n\nThe second time, Otokichi went to Japan under his British name \"Ottoson\", in September 1854. He was a member of the British fleet under Admiral James Stirling. The fleet docked at Nagasaki and negotiated and signed the Anglo-Japanese Friendship Treaty on October 14. On that occasion, Otokichi met with many Japanese, including Fukuzawa Yukichi. He was apparently offered permission to live in Japan, but he chose to return to his family in Shanghai.\n\nToward the end of his life, Otokichi moved from Shanghai to Singapore, his wife's native island, where he became the first known Japanese resident of Singapore. The British had compensated him generously for his contribution to the treaty with Japan, and had done well in business deals in Shanghai. He apparently rented a luxurious colonial house on Orchard Road, which is where he died at the age of 49, in 1867. Otokichi was buried at the Japanese Cemetery of Singapore. Half of his remains were returned to his hometown of Mihama in Japan on February 20, 2005.\n\nThe story of the \"Hojunmaru\" castaways was adapted as the feature film \"Kairei\" in 1983. Despite starring country singer Johnny Cash as John McLoughlin, and having a reported budget of US$4,000,000, the film was not a commercial success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019211", "title": "Boston University Academy", "text": "Boston University Academy\n\nBoston University Academy (BUA) is a private high school operated by Boston University. Founded in 1993 and located on the Boston University campus, the Academy is geared toward college preparatory work. As part of its integration with the university, students are able to take college courses for credit their junior and senior years, and are guaranteed acceptance to Boston University upon maintaining a 3.0 grade point average in Boston University courses.\n\nBUA's student body is drawn from 55 communities: 52% come from public schools, 39% from independent schools, 7% from parochial schools and 2% are from home-school or international schools; 57% are students of color and 47% of students come from multilingual households (representing 26 languages). BUA provides need-based tuition assistance to approximately 31% of the students as of the 2019–2020 academic year.\n\nBoston University Academy student SAT scores are consistently high: Its reported average SAT score in 2019 of 1475 was among the highest of any public or private high school in Massachusetts. Forty-four percent of its graduating class of 2010 were National Merit Commended Scholars. (National Merit Commended Scholars generally score in the top 2% of all PSAT/NMSQT test-takers.)\n\nThe focus of the school, however, is not on standardized test taking or college admission. Rather, the school seeks to introduce its students to the rich western tradition while giving a solid background in academics.\n\nThe Academy is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges and is a member of both the Secondary School Admission Test Board and the Association of Independent Schools of New England.\n\nBoston University Academy was proposed and founded in 1993 by Peter Schweich, then the vice president of Boston University, and authorized by John Silber, then the president of Boston University. Peter Schweich was its first headmaster, and served in that role until 1999, when he was succeeded by interim head of school Dr. Jennifer Bond Hickman. Dr. James Tracy replaced Hickman and served until the spring of 2006, when he was replaced by Dr. James Berkman. On August 21, 2014, Berkman announced that he would retire after the 2014–2015 academic year. On November 14, 2014, Provost Jean Morrison announced the appointment of Dr. Ari Betof to replace Berkman effective July 1, 2015. In July 2018, Boston University announced the departure of Dr. Betof. Following his departure, Dr. Rosemary White succeeded him as interim head of school. Dr. White will serve as interim head of school until Christos J. Kolovos begins his tenure in fall 2020.\n\nWhen Boston University Academy was founded, it covered grades 9-12; an 8th grade of approximately 20 students was added in 1999. The 8th grade was dropped in 2005.\n\nTuition and fees for 2019-2020 is $. Thirty-six percent of students receive need based financial aid. The average financial aid award is $. Financial aid awards range from $ to $. The average income of families that receive financial aid is $.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019214", "title": "Dialectology", "text": "Dialectology\n\nDialectology (from Greek , \"dialektos\", \"talk, dialect\"; and , \"-logia\") is the scientific study of linguistic dialect, a sub-field of sociolinguistics. It studies variations in language based primarily on geographic distribution and their associated features. Dialectology treats such topics as divergence of two local dialects from a common ancestor and synchronic variation.\n\nDialectologists are ultimately concerned with grammatical, lexical and phonological features that correspond to regional areas. Thus they usually deal not only with populations that have lived in certain areas for generations, but also with migrant groups that bring their languages to new areas (see language contact).\n\nCommonly studied concepts in dialectology include the problem of mutual intelligibility in defining languages and dialects; situations of diglossia, where two dialects are used for different functions; dialect continua including a number of partially mutually intelligible dialects; and pluricentrism, where what is essentially a single genetic language exists as two or more standard varieties.\n\nHans Kurath and William Labov are among the most prominent researchers in this field.\n\nIn London, there were comments on the different dialects recorded in 12th-century sources, and a large number of dialect glossaries (focussing on vocabulary) were published in the 19th century. Philologists would also study dialects, as they preserved earlier forms of words.\n\nIn Britain, the philologist Alexander John Ellis described the pronunciation of English dialects in an early phonetic system in volume 5 of his series \"On Early English Pronunciation\". The English Dialect Society was later set up by Joseph Wright to record dialect words in the British Isles. This culminated in the production of the six-volume \"English Dialect Dictionary\" in 1905. The English Dialect Society was then disbanded, as its work was considered complete, although some regional branches (e.g. the Yorkshire Dialect Society) still operate today.\nTraditional studies in Dialectology were generally aimed at producing dialect maps, whereby imaginary lines were drawn over a map to indicate different dialect areas. The move away from traditional methods of language study, however, caused linguists to become more concerned with social factors. Dialectologists, therefore, began to study social, as well as regional variation. The \"Linguistic Atlas of the United States\" (the 1930s) was amongst the first dialect studies to take social factors into account.\n\nUnder the leadership of Harold Orton, the University of Leeds became a centre for the study of English dialect and set up an Institute of Dialect and Folk Life Studies. In the 1950s, the university undertook the Survey of English Dialects, which covered all of England, some bordering areas of Wales and the Isle of Man. In addition, the University undertook more than 100 dialect monographs before the death of Harold Orton in 1975. The Institute closed in September 1983 to accommodate budget cuts for the University, but its dialectological studies are now part of a special collection, the Leeds Archive of Vernacular Culture, in the University's Brotherton Library.\n\nThis shift in interest consequently saw the birth of Sociolinguistics, which is a mixture of dialectology and social sciences. However, Graham Shorrocks has argued that there was always a sociological element to dialectology and that many of the conclusions of sociolinguists (e.g. the relationships with gender, class and age) can be found in earlier work by traditional dialectologists.\n\nIn the USA, most dialectological works was on a regional basis before the advent of sociolinguistics. Hans Kurath published a \"Handbook of the Linguistic Geography of New England\" in 1939. Similar works were later published for the Middle Atlantic and South Atlantic states, for the North Central States, for the Upper Mid-West, for the Rocky Mountain States, for the Pacific Coast and for the Gulf States.\n\nJules Gillieron published a linguistic atlas of 25 French-speaking locations in Switzerland in 1880. In 1888, Gillieron responded to a call from Gaston Paris for a survey of the dialects of French, likely to be superseded by Standard French in the near future, by proposing the \"Atlas Linguistique de la France\". The principle fieldworker for the atlas, Edmond Edmont, surveyed 639 rural locations in French-speaking areas of France, Belgium, Switzerland and Italy. The questionnaire initially included 1400 items but this was later increased to over 1900. The atlas was published in 13 volumes between 1902 and 1910.\n\nThe first comparative dialect study in Germany was \"The Dialects of Bavaria\" in 1821 by Johann Andreas Schmeller, which included a linguistic atlas. \n\nIn 1873, a parson named L. Liebich surveyed the German-speaking areas of Alsace by a postal questionnaire that covered phonology and grammar. He never published any of his findings.\n\nIn 1876, Eduard Sievers published \"Elements of Phonetics\" and a group of scholars formed the Neogrammarian school. This work in linguistics affected dialectology in German-speaking countries. In the same year, Jost Winteler published a monograph on the dialect of Kerenzen in the Canton of Glarus in Switzerland, which became a model for monographs on particular dialects. \n\nAlso in 1876, Georg Wenker, a young schoolteacher from Düsseldorf sent postal questionnaires out over Northern Germany. These postal questionnaires contained a list of sentences written in Standard German. These sentences were then transcribed into the local dialect, reflecting dialectal differences. He later expanded his work to cover the entire German Empire, including dialects in the east that have become extinct since the territory was lost to Germany. Wenker's work later became the at the University of Marburg. After Wenker's death in 1911, work continued under Ferdinand Wrede and later questionnaires covered Austria as well as Germany.\n\nAfter completing his work in France, Edmond Edmont surveyed 44 locations in Corsica for the \"Atlas Linguistique de la Corse\".\n\nTwo students from the French atlas named Karl Jaberg and Jakob Jud surveyed Italian dialects in Italy and southern Switzerland in the \"Sprach- und Sachatlas Italiens und der Südschweiz\". This survey influenced the work of Hans Kurath in the USA.\n\nThe Linguistic Survey of Scotland began in 1949 at the University of Edinburgh. \n\nThe first part of the survey researched dialects of Scots in the Scottish Lowlands, the Shetland Islands, the Orkney Islands, Northern Ireland, and the two northern-most counties of England: Cumberland (since merged into Cumbria) and Northumberland. Three volumes of results were published between 1975 and 1985.\n\nThe second part studied dialects of Gaelic, including mixed use of Gaelic and English, in the Scottish Highlands and Western Isles. Results were published under Cathair Ó Dochartaigh in five volumes between 1994 and 1997.\n\nDialect researchers typically use predominantly interview questionnaires to gather data on the dialect they are researching. These are not to be confused with what is called written questionnaires, which have had some applications in dialectology as well and which, recently, have had a comeback in linguistics more generally. There are two main types of questionnaires; direct and indirect.\n\nResearchers using for their face-to-face interviews the direct method will present the subject with a set of questions that demand a specific answer and are designed to gather either lexical or phonological information. For example, the linguist may ask the subject the name for various items, or ask him or her to repeat certain words.\n\nIndirect questionnaires are typically more open-ended and take longer to complete than direct questionnaires. A researcher using this method will sit down with a subject and begin a conversation on a specific topic. For example, he may question the subject about farm work, food and cooking, or some other subject, and gather lexical and phonological information from the information provided by the subject. The researcher may also begin a sentence, but allow the subject to finish it for him, or ask a question that does not demand a specific answer, such as \"What are the most common plants and trees around here?\"\n\nSome have attempted to distinguish dialects from languages by saying that dialects of the same language are understandable to each other. The untenable nature of blunt application of this criterion is demonstrated by the case of Italian and Spanish cited below. While native speakers of the two may enjoy mutual understanding ranging from limited to considerable depending on the topic of discussion and speakers' experience with linguistic variety, few people would want to classify Italian and Spanish as dialects of the same language in any sense other than historical. Spanish and Italian are similar and to varying extents mutually comprehensible, but phonology, syntax, morphology, and lexicon are sufficiently distinct that the two cannot be considered dialects of the same language (but of the common ancestor Latin).\n\nAnother problem occurs in the case of diglossia, used to describe a situation in which, in a given society, there are two closely related languages, one of high prestige, which is generally used by the government and in formal texts, and one of low prestige, which is usually the spoken vernacular tongue. An example of this is Sanskrit, which was considered the proper way to speak in northern India, but only accessible by the upper class, and Prakrit which was the common (and informal or vernacular) speech at the time.\n\nVarying degrees of diglossia are still common in many societies around the world.\n\nA dialect continuum is a network of dialects in which geographically adjacent dialects are mutually comprehensible, but with comprehensibility steadily decreasing as distance between the dialects increases. An example is the Dutch-German dialect continuum, a vast network of dialects with two recognized literary standards. Although mutual intelligibility between standard Dutch and standard German is very limited, a chain of dialects connects them. Due to several centuries of influence by standard languages (especially in Northern Germany, where even today the original dialects struggle to survive) there are now many breaks in intelligibility between geographically adjacent dialects along the continuum, but in the past these breaks were virtually nonexistent.\n\nThe Romance languages—Galician/Portuguese, Spanish, Sicilian, Catalan, Occitan/Provençal, French, Sardinian, Romanian, Romansh, Friulan, other Italian, French, and Ibero-Romance dialects, and others—form another well-known continuum, with varying degrees of mutual intelligibility.\n\nIn both areas—the Germanic linguistic continuum, the Romance linguistic continuum—the relational notion of the term dialect is often vastly misunderstood, and today gives rise to considerable difficulties in implementation of European Union directives regarding support of minority languages. Perhaps this is no more evident than in Italy, where still today some of the population use their local language (\"dialetto\" 'dialect') as the primary means of communication at home and, to varying lesser extent, the workplace. Difficulties arise due to terminological confusion. The languages conventionally referred to as Italian dialects are Romance sister languages of Italian, not variants of Italian, which are commonly and properly called \"italiano regionale\" ('regional Italian'). The label Italian dialect as conventionally used is more geopolitical in aptness of meaning rather than linguistic: Bolognese and Neapolitan, for example, are termed Italian dialects, yet resemble each other less than do Italian and Spanish. Misunderstandings ensue if \"Italian dialect\" is taken to mean 'dialect of Italian' rather than 'minority language spoken on Italian soil', i.e. part of the network of the Romance linguistic continuum. The indigenous Romance language of Venice, for example, is cognate with Italian, but quite distinct from the national language in phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicon, and in no way a derivative or a variety of the national language. Venetian can be said to be an \"Italian dialect\" both geographically and typologically, but it is not a \"dialect of Italian\".\n\nA pluricentric language is a single genetic language that has two or more standard forms. An example is Hindustani, which encompasses two standard varieties, Urdu and Hindi. Another example is Norwegian, with Bokmål having developed closely with Danish and Swedish, and Nynorsk as a partly reconstructed language based on old dialects. Both are recognized as official languages in Norway.\n\nIn a sense, the set of dialects can be understood as being part of a single diasystem, an abstraction that each dialect is part of. In generative phonology, the differences can be acquired through rules. An example can be taken with Occitan (a cover term for a set of related varieties of Southern France) where 'cavaL' (from late Latin caballus, horse) is the diasystemic form for the following realizations\n\nThis conceptual approach may be used in practical situations. For instance when such a diasystem is identified, it can be used construct a diaphonemic orthography that emphasizes the commonalities between the varieties. Such a goal may or may not fit with sociopolitical preferences.\n\nOne analytical paradigm developed by linguists is known as the \"abstand and ausbau languages\" framework. It has proved popular among linguists in Continental Europe, but is not so well known in English-speaking countries, especially among people who are not trained linguists. Although only one of many possible paradigms, it has the advantage of being constructed by trained linguists for the particular purpose of analyzing and categorizing varieties of speech, and has the additional merit of replacing such loaded words as \"language\" and \"dialect\" with the German terms of ausbau language and abstand language, words that are not (yet) loaded with political, cultural, or emotional connotations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019219", "title": "Saucy Monky", "text": "Saucy Monky\n\nSaucy Monky are an indie pop band based in Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe band is fronted by Dublin-born singer and guitarist Annmarie Cullen (who formerly performed under the pseudonym Ann Marie Montade) and East Coast singer Cynthia Catania. Their rhythm section is Steve Giles (bass) and Megan Jane (drums).\n\nThe group was formed in 2001. Catania, explaining the origin of the band's name, said, \"We were looking around for a name and I had this book by Tina Brown and I think the title was \"Life as a Party\" and there was a phrase in it that had something to do with being a saucy monkey and in reference to life in U.K..\"\n\nTheir debut album \"Celebrity Trash\" was released in 2003 and spawned two hit radio singles in Ireland — \"Flicker\" and \"Don't Wanna Know Your Name\". In the summer of 2004 they released a remaking of the Divinyls song \"I Touch Myself\", which became another hit at Irish radio. The single was followed by their first full-length album, \"Turbulence\", in September by 429 Records.\n\nIn 2005, they signed a major distribution deal with the Savoy Label Group and re-released \"Turbulence\" in June 2005 across the United States. The first single to be released is \"Disco Ball (Boulevard Remix)\", a re-working of an older track from their first album. \"Disco Ball (Boulevard Remix)\" became a top 40 AAA radio hit.\n\nIn September 2005, the band signed a deal with Measured Records in the United Kingdom which saw the release of the single \"Good Day Down\" and the \"Turbulence\" album.\n\nIn February 2006, they released \"I Touch Myself\" as a single; the song was later used on an episode of the TV series \"Veronica Mars\". Other songs by the band have been featured on episodes of Nickelodeon series \"Drake & Josh\", \"Zoey 101\" and \"iCarly\".\n\nIn 2008, the band released the EP \"Between the Bars\". Notable tracks are \"All The Things Ya Know\", \"Acrobat\" and a cover of the Carpenters classic \"Superstar\". Recent placements include 4 songs on the independent soundtrack for \"And Then Came Lola\" (Wolfe Video), \"Blue Bloods\" (CBS) and \"Alcatraz\" (Fox). Catania and Cullen penned the theme song for 2011's \"Food for Thought with Claire Thomas\" on the ABC network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019227", "title": "Systemic functional linguistics", "text": "Systemic functional linguistics\n\nSystemic functional linguistics (SFL) is an approach to linguistics that considers language as a social semiotic system.\n\nIt was devised by Michael Halliday, who took the notion of system from J. R. Firth, his teacher (Halliday, 1961). Firth proposed that systems refer to possibilities subordinated to structure; Halliday \"liberated\" choice from structure and made it the central organising dimension of SFL. In more technical terms, while many approaches to linguistic description place structure and the syntagmatic axis foremost, SFL adopts the paradigmatic axis as its point of departure. \"Systemic\" foregrounds Saussure's \"paradigmatic axis\" in understanding how language works. For Halliday, a central theoretical principle is then that any act of communication involves choices. Language is above all a system; SFL maps the choices available in any language variety using its representation tool of a \"system network\". \n\n\"Functional\" signifies the proposition that language evolved under pressure of the functions that the language system must serve. Functions are taken to have left their mark on the structure and organisation of language at all levels, which is achieved via metafunctions. \"Metafunction\" is uniquely defined in SFL as the \"organisation of the functional framework around systems\", i.e., choices. This is a significant difference from other \"functional\" approaches, such as Dik's functional grammar (FG, or as now often termed, functional discourse grammar) and lexical functional grammar. To avoid confusion, the full designation—systemic functional linguistics—is typically used, rather than \"functional grammar\" or \"functional linguistics\".\n\nFor Halliday, all languages involve three simultaneously generated metafunctions: one construes experience of our outer and inner worlds (ideational); another enacts social relations (interpersonal relations); and a third weaves together these two functions to create text (textual--the wording). \n\nThe point of departure for Halliday's work in linguistics has been the simple question: \"how does language work?\". Across his career he has probed the nature of language as a social semiotic system; that is, as a resource for meaning across the many and constantly changing contexts of human interaction. In 2003, he published a paper setting out the accumulated principles of his theory, which arose as he engaged with many different language-related problems. These principles, he wrote, \"emerged as the by-product of those engagements as I struggled with particular problems\", as various as literary analysis and machine translation. Halliday has tried, then, to develop a linguistic theory and description that is appliable to any context of human language. His theory and descriptions are based on these principles, on the basis that they are required to explain the complexity of human language. There are five principles:\n\nAs the name suggests, the notion of \"system\" is a defining aspect of systemic functional linguistics. In linguistics, the origins of the idea go back to Ferdinand de Saussure, and his notion of paradigmatic relations in signs. The paradigmatic principle was established in semiotics by Saussure, whose concept of value (viz. \"valeur\"), and of signs as terms in a system, \"showed up paradigmatic organization as the most abstract dimension of meaning\". \"System\" is used in two related ways in systemic functional theory. SFL uses the idea of system to refer to language as a whole, (e.g. \"the system of language\"), a usage that derives from Hjelmslev. In this context, Jay Lemke describes language as an open, dynamic system. There is also J.R. Firth's notion of \"system\", in which linguistic systems furnish the background for elements of structure. Halliday argues that \"system\" in the sense Firth used it was a conception only found in Firth's linguistic theory.\n\nIn this use of \"system\", grammatical or other features of language are best understood when described as sets of options. According to Halliday, \"The most abstract categories of the grammatical description are the systems together with their options (systemic features). A systemic grammar differs from other functional grammars (and from all formal grammars) in that it is paradigmatic: a system is a paradigmatic set of alternative features, of which one must be chosen if the entry condition is satisfied.\"\n\n\"System\" was a feature of Halliday's early theoretical work on language. He considered it one of four fundamental categories for the theory of grammar—the others being \"unit\", \"structure\", and \"class\". The category of \"system\" was invoked to account for \"the occurrence of one rather than another from among a number of like events\". At that time, Halliday defined grammar as \"that level of linguistic form at which operate closed systems\". \n\nIn adopting a system perspective on language, systemic functional linguistics have been part of a more general 20th- and 21st-century reaction against atomistic approaches to science, in which an essence is sought within smaller and smaller components of the phenomenon under study. In systems thinking, any delineated object of study is defined by its relations to other units postulated by the theory. In systemic functional linguistics, this has been described as the trinocular perspective. Thus a descriptive category must be defended from three perspectives: from above (\"what does it construe?\" \"what effect does it have in a context of use?\"), below (\"how is this function realised?\") and round about (\"what else is in the neighbourhood?\" \"what other things does this thing have to interact with?\"). This gives systemic functional linguistics an affinity with studies of complex systems.\n\nThe label \"systemic\" is related to the system networks used in the description of human languages. System networks capture the dimension of choice at each stratum of the linguistic system to which they are applied. The system networks of the lexicogrammar make up systemic functional grammar. A system network is a theoretical tool to describe the sets of options available in a language variety; it represents abstract choice and does not correspond to a notion of actual choice or make psychological claims. Formally system networks correspond to type lattices in formal lattice theory, although they are occasionally erroneously mistaken for flowcharts or directed decision trees. Such directionality is always only a property of particular implementations of the general notion and may be made for performance reasons in, for example, computational modelling. System networks commonly employ multiple inheritance and \"simultaneous\" systems, or choices, which therefore combine to generate very large descriptive spaces.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019233", "title": "Larry Christiansen", "text": "Larry Christiansen\n\nLarry M. Christiansen (born June 27, 1956) is an American chess player of Danish ancestry. He was awarded the title Grandmaster by FIDE in 1977. Christiansen was the U.S. champion in 1980, 1983, and 2002. He competed in the FIDE World Championship in 1998 and 2002, and in the FIDE World Cup in 2013.\n\nChristiansen grew up in Riverside, California, United States. In 1971, he became the first junior high school student to win the National High School Championship. He went on to win three invitational U.S. Junior Championships in 1973, 1974, and 1975. In 1977, at age 21, he became a grandmaster without first having been an international master. Christiansen tied for first place with Anatoly Karpov at Linares 1981. He won the 2001 Canadian Open Chess Championship. He also won Curaçao 2008 and the Bermuda Open 2011.\n\nChristiansen played on the United States teams in the Chess Olympiad in 1980, 1982, 1984, 1986, 1988, 1990, 1992, 1996 and 2002. He won the team silver medal in 1990 and the team bronze in 1982, 1984, 1986 and 1996.\n\nChristiansen describes his playing style as \"aggressive-tactical\" and he lists his favorite opening as the Sämisch King's Indian.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019236", "title": "Scott Verplank", "text": "Scott Verplank\n\nScott Rachal Verplank (born July 9, 1964) is an American professional golfer, who has played on the PGA Tour and the PGA Tour Champions.\n\nBorn and raised in Dallas, Texas, Verplank was a leading member of the W.T. White High School golf team and a regular at Brookhaven Country Club in Dallas. He graduated from high school in 1982 and attended Oklahoma State University in Stillwater. At OSU, he was a member of the 1983 NCAA Championship team, finishing T3 alongside teammates Tommy Moore, Willie Wood, Andy Dillard, and Philip Walton. He went on later to win the 1984 U.S. Amateur at the Oak Tree Golf Club, and in 1986, win the NCAA individual title.\n\nPrior to his senior year at Oklahoma State, Verplank won the Western Open outside Chicago in August 1985; it was the first victory by an amateur on the PGA Tour in 29 years (Doug Sanders, 1956 Canadian Open). He defeated Jim Thorpe on the second extra hole of a playoff for the win at Butler National Golf Club in Oak Brook, Illinois.\n\nVerplank graduated and turned professional in 1986, using his two-year exemption on the PGA Tour; his first event as a pro was the U.S. Open at Shinnecock Hills in June, his sixth tour event He earned five wins on the PGA Tour, and two Ryder Cup appearances, in 2002 and 2006. Verplank has type 1 diabetes and uses an insulin pump during play. He was awarded the 2002 Ben Hogan Award, given by the Golf Writers Association of America to an individual who has continued to be active in golf despite a physical handicap or serious illness. Verplank has been featured in the top 20 of the Official World Golf Rankings, reaching as high as eleventh in 2001.\n\nHe hit a hole-in-one in the Ryder Cup, on the 14th hole during a singles match against Pádraig Harrington in 2006. The shot did not impact the overall result, however, as Europe had already won the trophy. Nonetheless, he was the first American player to card an ace during the Ryder Cup; his overall record in the competition is 4 wins and 1 loss.\n\nVerplank's most recent win was the 2007 EDS Byron Nelson Championship, in which he defeated Luke Donald by one stroke. As a Dallas native, Verplank called the EDS Byron Nelson Championship \"a fifth major,\" and also mentioned that \"Byron was with me today\" (the 2007 tournament was the first held after Nelson's death). His best finish in a major championship was a tie for fourth at the PGA Championship in 2011.\n\nIn December 2010, Verplank was named a 2011 winner of the NCAA Silver Anniversary Award, given annually to six former NCAA student-athletes for distinguished career accomplishment on the 25th anniversary of their college graduation.\n\nVerplank competed in the 2011 Arnold Palmer Invitational finishing T38 and then the following week at the Shell Houston Open in which Verplank finished T2 behind Phil Mickelson. Verplank had held a joint 54-hole lead with Mickelson and even held the lead on his own at a number of stages during the final round, however his lack of competitive golf proved costly throughout the final few holes and he was unable to close out the victory. This was his best finish on tour in 18 months since finishing T2 at the Deutsche Bank Championship in 2009. Verplank has amassed over $27 million in career earnings.\n\nVerplank played the 2013 season on a Major Medical Extension after hip and wrist injuries in 2012. He started the 2014 season in a similar fashion, but was not able to satisfy the medical exemption and used his career money list exemption for the remainder of the season. Verplank turned 50 in July 2014 and made his Champions Tour debut at the at Oak Tree National, near his residence in Edmond, Oklahoma.\n\n\nPGA Tour playoff record (2–4)\n\nLA = Low amateur<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nWD = withdrew<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut\nWD = withdrew\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nCancelled due to 9/11<br>\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" = Tied<br>\nNT = No tournament<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019238", "title": "NHS Digital", "text": "NHS Digital\n\nNHS Digital is the trading name of the Health and Social Care Information Centre, which is the national provider of information, data and IT systems for commissioners, analysts and clinicians in health and social care in England, particularly those involved with the National Health Service of England. The organisation is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and Social Care. \n\nNHS Digital provides digital services for the NHS and social care, including the management of large health informatics programmes. They deliver national systems through in-house teams, and by contracting private suppliers. These services include managing patient data including the Spine, which allows the secure sharing of information between different parts of the NHS, and forms the basis of the Electronic Prescription Service, Summary Care Record and Electronic Referral Service.\n\nNHS Digital is also the national collator of information about health and social care, and publishes over 260 statistical publications each year, including Official Statistics and National Statistics. It also runs \"The NHS Website\" (codice_1, formerly NHS Choices), which is the national website for the NHS in England.\n\nNHS Digital has taken on the roles of a number of predecessor bodies including the NHS Information Centre, NHS Connecting for Health, and parts of NHS Direct. The organisation produces more than 260 official and national statistical publications. This includes national comparative data for secondary uses, developed from the long-running Hospital Episode Statistics which can help local decision makers to improve the quality and efficiency of frontline care.\n\nThe organisation was created as a special health authority on 1 April 2005 by a merger of parts of the Department of Health, parts of the NHS Information Authority, and the Prescribing Support Unit.\n\nFollowing the Health and Social Care Act 2012, the HSCIC changed from a special health authority to an executive non-departmental public body on 1 April 2013. Effective at this time, HSCIC took over parts of the troubled NHS National Programme for IT from the agency NHS Connecting for Health (CfH) which ceased to exist. It also runs the Health Survey for England.\n\nOn 20 April 2016, it was announced that HSCIC would be rebranding, changing its name to NHS Digital in July 2016.\n\nNHSX, created in February 2019, has oversight of digital strategy and policy in NHS England. As a budget-holder, NHSX commissions projects from NHS Digital.\n\nNHS Digital runs the Spine service for the NHS, which is a central, secure system for patient data in England. This enables a number of services for patients, including:\n\nAs the HSCIC, the organisation ran the care.data programme, which was cancelled in 2016.\n\nNHS Digital collects the national 'Hospital Episode Statistics' (HES), which is a record of every 'episode' of admitted patient care (counted by completing care with a consultant, meaning that more than one episode can be associated with a single stay in hospital) delivered by the NHS in England, including those done under contract by private providers. This involves the tracking of around 16 million 'episodes' of care every year. This information is used for a range of statistical analysis, as well as for determining payments to providers. In addition to admitted patient care, HES also provides data for outpatient and emergency care encounters. The Emergency Care Data Set has been created to replace HES A&E data and provide better data on emergency care encounters.\n\nIn November 2019 it launched the National Record Locator, which spans different health economies and is intended to enable paramedics, community mental health nurses, children’s health teams and maternity services to access the records of mental health patients across England.\n\nA troubleshooting operation was established in 2018 to help NHS trusts when major IT deployments go wrong. Eight trusts needed emergency assistance in 2018 after a deployment led to severe service disruptions. Funding of £2 million a year for the service has been allocated and expansion is expected.\n\nNHS Digital compiles national data about the NHS and social care, with over 260 publications every year. In addition, they provide data analysis, and access to data and clinical indicators.\n\n\"The NHS Website\" (codice_1, formerly NHS Choices) is the public website for the NHS Services in England, and is run by a team at NHS Digital, mandated by DOH with input from Public Health England.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019247", "title": "Animalism (album)", "text": "Animalism (album)\n\nAnimalism is the fifth American album by the Animals, released in November 1966. The album includes a collaboration with Frank Zappa (\"All Night Long\"), with covers of B.B. King and Sam Cooke. It was issued only in the US.\n\n\"Animalism\" peaked at #33 on Billboard's Pop Albums chart. It was their last Top 40 album, as well as the last recording made by the original incarnation of the Animals prior to their breakup. A remastered bootlegged CD edition was issued by Flawed Gems in 2014 that included 11 bonus tracks.\n\n\n\n2014 CD reissue with bonus tracks\nAlbum credited only Eric Burdon, Chas Chandler, Dave Rowberry, Hilton Valentine, Barry Jenkins, and John Steel; Globalia.net credits others listed below for tracks 1 and 3 (LP and CD). The 2014 CD reissue has asterisks for tracks 1 and 3, but no explanation of them, so Globalia.net may be correct.\n\n2014 CD reissue bonus tracks (13-23)\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2019248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019248", "title": "Pepperoni roll", "text": "Pepperoni roll\n\nThe pepperoni roll is a snack popular in West Virginia and some nearby regions of the Appalachian Mountains such as Western Pennsylvania, Western Maryland, and Appalachian Ohio. It is ubiquitous in West Virginia, particularly in convenience stores, and is arguably the food most closely associated with the state.\n\nThe classic pepperoni roll consists of a fairly soft white yeast bread roll with pepperoni baked in the middle. During baking, the fats in the pepperoni (which are hard at room temperature) melt, resulting in a spicy oil suffusing into the bread. Pepperoni rolls are typically eaten as a snack or as the main dish of a lunch either unheated or slightly warmed.\n\nThe pepperoni roll was first sold by Giuseppe \"Joseph\" Argiro at the Country Club Bakery in Fairmont, West Virginia, in 1927.\nThe rolls originated as a lunch option for the coal miners of north-central West Virginia in the first half of the 20th century. Pepperoni rolls do not need to be refrigerated for storage and could readily be packed for lunch by miners. Pepperoni and other Italian foods became popular in north-central West Virginia in the early 20th century, when the booming mines and railroads attracted many immigrants from Italy. The pepperoni roll bears a resemblance to the pasty and sausage roll, which originated in the mining communities of Great Britain, as well as the Italian calzone.\n\nVariations on the original pepperoni roll may contain different types of cheese, peppers, etc. The pepperoni within can take several forms, including a single stick, several folded slices, or shredded or ground meat.\n\nPepperoni rolls faced a legal challenge in 1987 when the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) proposed reclassifying bakeries that manufactured the rolls as meat processing plants, thus subjecting them to stricter regulations. The bakery owners said, however, that the costs of meeting the new regulations would put them out of business. The USDA's proposal was quashed after Jay Rockefeller, U.S. Senator for West Virginia, intervened.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the U.S. military began including a version of the pepperoni roll in one of the MREs (Meals, Ready-to-Eat) provided to troops. In the late 2000s, the U.S. Army changed the pepperoni roll to its First Strike Ration. These rations are designed for light infantry, airborne, and special forces during a typical 72-hour patrol. The pepperoni roll's compact size and comparatively high nutritional return make it an ideal ration for these patrols. These rations were extensively employed during Operation Enduring Freedom. The military's rolls are made by a North Carolina company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019263", "title": "Froissart's Chronicles", "text": "Froissart's Chronicles\n\nFroissart's \"Chronicles (or Chroniques\") are a prose history of the Hundred Years' War written in the 14th century by Jean Froissart. The \"Chronicles\" open with the events leading up to the deposition of Edward II in 1326, and cover the period up to 1400, recounting events in western Europe, mainly in England, France, Scotland, the Low Countries and the Iberian Peninsula, although at times also mentioning other countries and regions such as Italy, Germany, Ireland, the Balkans, Cyprus, Turkey and North Africa.\n\nFor centuries the \"Chronicles\" have been recognized as the chief expression of the chivalric culture of 14th-century England and France. Froissart's work is perceived as being of vital importance to informed understandings of the European 14th century, particularly of the Hundred Years' War. But modern historians also recognize that the \"Chronicles\" have many shortcomings as a historical source: they contain erroneous dates, have misplaced geography, give inaccurate estimations of sizes of armies and casualties of war, and may be biased in favour of the author's patrons.\n\nAlthough Froissart is sometimes repetitive or covers seemingly insignificant subjects, his battle descriptions are lively and engaging. For the earlier periods Froissart based his work on other existing chronicles, but his own experiences, combined with those of interviewed witnesses, supply much of the detail of the later books. Although Froissart may never have been in a battle, he visited Sluys in 1386 to see the preparations for an invasion of England. He was present at other significant events such as the baptism of Richard II in Bordeaux in 1367, the coronation of King Charles V of France in Rheims in 1380, the marriage of Duke John of Berry and Jeanne of Boulogne in Riom and the joyous entry of the French queen Isabeau of Bavaria in Paris, both in 1389.\n\nSir Walter Scott once remarked that Froissart had \"marvellous little sympathy\" for the \"villain churls\". It is true that Froissart often omits to talk about the common people, but that is largely the consequence of his stated aim to write not a general chronicle but a history of the chivalric exploits that took place during the wars between France and England. Nevertheless, Froissart was not indifferent to the wars' effects on the rest of society. His Book II focuses extensively on popular revolts in different parts of western Europe (France, England and Flanders) and in this part of the \"Chronicles\" the author often demonstrates good understanding of the factors that influenced local economies and their effect on society at large; he also seems to have a lot of sympathy in particular for the plight of the poorer strata of the urban populations of Flanders.\n\nThe \"Chronicles\" are a very extensive work: with their almost 1.5 million words, they are amongst the longest works written in French prose in the late Middle Ages. Few modern complete editions have been published, but the text was printed from the late 15th century onwards. Enguerrand de Monstrelet continued the \"Chronicles\" to 1440, while Jean de Wavrin incorporated large parts of it in his own work. Robert Gaguin's \"Compendium super origine et gestis Francorum\" made ample use of Froissart. In the 15th and 16th centuries the Chronicles were translated into Dutch, English, Latin, Spanish, Italian and Danish. The text of Froissart's \"Chronicles\" is preserved in more than 150 manuscripts, many of which are illustrated, some extensively.\n\nJean Froissart came from Valenciennes in the County of Hainaut, situated in the western tip of the Holy Roman Empire, bordering France (it has been part of France since 1678). He seems to have come from what we would today call a middle-class background, but spent much of his adult life in courts, and took on the world-view of the late medieval feudal aristocracy, who initially represented his readership. He appears to have gained his living as a writer, and was a notable French poet in his day. At least by the end of his life he had taken holy orders, and received a profitable benefice.\n\nHe first wrote a rhyming chronicle for the English queen Philippa of Hainault, which he offered to her in 1361 or 1362. The text of this earliest historical work, which Froissart himself mentioned in the prologue of his \"Chronicles\", is usually considered to have been completely lost, but some scholars have argued that a 14th-century manuscript containing a rhyming chronicle, of which fragments are now kept in libraries in Paris and Berlin, may be identified as this so-called 'lost chronicle'.\n\nSome of the important events recorded in \"Froissart's Chronicles\":\n\nBook I 1322–1377\n\nBook II 1376–1385\n\nBook III 1386–1388\n\nBook IV 1389–1400\n\nFroissart began writing Book I possibly at the request of Robert de Namur, to whom the earliest version was dedicated. In the prologue of this version of the prose text, Froissart justified his new enterprise by his desire to improve on his first attempts to write a historical account of the early years of the Hundred Years' War. In particular he denounced his earlier rhyming chronicle, whose accuracy, he admitted, had not always been as good as such important matters as war and knightly prowess require. In order to improve the quality and historical accuracy of his work, Froissart declared his intention to follow now as his main source the \"Vrayes Chroniques\" of Jean Le Bel, who had expressed fierce criticism on verse as a suitable vehicle for serious history writing. Froissart also used other texts, such as the \"Life of the Black Prince\" by Chandos Herald, in particular for the Black Prince's campaign in Spain in 1366-1367. He furthermore inserted some official documents into his text, including the act of \"hommage\" by King Edward III to the French King Philip VI (1331) and the English version of the Peace Treaty of Calais (1360).\nLe Bel had written his chronicle for Jean, lord of Beaumont, uncle of Philippa of Hainault, who had been a supporter of Queen Isabella and the rebellion which led to the deposition of Edward II in 1326. Jean of Hainault had also taken part in several of the early battles of the Hundred Years' War, first on the English side, then on the French. His grandson, Guy II, Count of Blois later became the main patron of Froissart's \"Chronicles\". Jean Le Bel himself, throughout his work expressed great admiration for Edward III, in whose 1327 Weardale campaign against the Scots he had fought. For all these reasons Froissart must have highly valued Le Bel's chronicle as a source for reliable information about the events which led to the outbreak of the war between France and England and about the early phases of the Hundred Years' War. Comparison of Froissart's Book I with Le Bel's work shows that for the early parts of the \"Chronicles\" (up to c.1360) Froissart often directly copied and developed very large parts of Le Bel's text.\n\nFroissart seems to have written new drafts of Book I, which covers the period up to 1378/1379, at different points in time. Several of these variant versions are now known to scholars by the unique manuscripts which have transmitted their texts, such as the 'Amiens' (Amiens, Bibliothèque municipale, ms. 486), 'Valenciennes' (Valenciennes, Bibliothèque municipale, ms. 638), and 'Rome' versions of Book I, so named after manuscripts kept in the municipal libraries of Amiens and Valenciennes and in the Vatican Library. The so-called 'Rome' version of Book I (Vatican City, Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Reg. Lat. 869) has only partly survived and now only covers the period up to c.1350. \n\nThe order of the authorial versions of Book I has been discussed extensively by scholars in the last century and a half and there have been many fundamental disagreements. French scholars have often followed Siméon Luce, the French 19th-century editor of the \"Chronicles\", who thought that the 'Amiens' version was a more recent version that must have followed the 'A' and 'B' versions in the chronology. But research by Godfried Croenen has now firmly established that these earlier views are no longer tenable. Croenen has demonstrated that the so-called 'A' version that Luce had identified, is in fact a hybrid version composed by medieval scribes who put together the very beginning and end of the authorial 'A' version, combining it with a much larger part of the so-called 'B' version, and a fragment of the Grandes Chroniques de France covering the years 1350-1356. The authorial 'A' version, which is now largely lost except for the fragments from the beginning and end, is the first version of Book I written by Froissart and was probably composed by him between June and December 1381.\n\nThe 'Amiens' and 'Valenciennes' versions are both earlier than the so-called 'B' redaction. The 'Amiens' version and the abridgement of Book I (Paris, BnF, fr. 10144) were probably both written in the period 1384-1391, but the 'Amiens' version seems the earlier of the two. The 'B' redaction is the version of Book I that was edited by S. Luce for the Société d'Histoire de France and that represents what is often seen as the 'standard' version of Book I. Luce himself was convinced that the 'B' version represented the earliest completed state of Book I and that it was therefore earlier than the 'Amiens' text. The evidence from the text, however, argues strongly for a date of composition in or shortly after 1391, so certainly later than the 'Amiens' version, and before 1399.\n\nThe 'B' version was followed by the 'C' version of Book I, written sometime between 1395 and 1399, which was long considered lost; the 'C' version actually survives in a single manuscript now in the Newberry Library in Chicago. The 'Rome' version was written towards the end of Froissart's life, at the earliest in late 1404 and probably sometime before 1415.\nA first version of the second book of Froissart's \"Chronicles\", which in the author's mind never seems to have been a separate book but rather a continuation covering the period 1378-1385, was probably completed in the late 1380s. It does not seem to have been based on other pre-existing chronicles and is therefore entirely Froissart's own work. Book II, however, includes an extended account of the Flemish revolt against the count in the years 1379-1385, which Froissart had earlier composed as a separate text and which is known as his \"Chronicle of Flanders\". Froissart inserted several official documents into his \"Chronicle of Flanders\", which were also kept in Book II of the \"Chronicles\", including the text of Treaty of Tournai (1385) that re-established peace between the Flemish cities and their count.\n\nAs with Book I, Froissart also seems to have rewritten the later books of his \"Chronicles\". Apart from the \"Chronicle of Flanders\", at least three authorial versions of Book II survive. Most manuscripts of Book II contain one of the two earlier versions, which have an almost identical text, except for a small number of chapters in which there are substantial differences. The manuscripts of these two earlier versions have provided the basis for all the modern editions.\n\nThere is also a later version of Book II, which dates from after 1395 and survives only in the Newberry manuscript that also contains the 'C' version of Book I. The Newberry version of Book II is substantially different from the other known versions and is undoubtedly the result of an extensive authorial reworking of the text, which included the addition of important material that does not appear in the other versions. The Newberry text has not yet been fully edited but it has been partly transcribed for the Online Froissart.\n\nA first version of Book III, which covers the years 1385 to 1390, but which also includes extensive flashback to the earlier periods, was possibly completed in 1390 or 1391 and is the one found in nearly all the surviving manuscripts. A second version exists in a single manuscript (Paris, Bibliothèque nationale de France, MS fr. 2650). This second version is probably a later reworking by Froissart himself: it follows the pattern that can be seen in the different authorial versions of Book II, with many chapters remaining the same and some chapters having been extensively rewritten.\n\nBook IV, whose text goes up to the year 1400, remains incomplete and was probably, like the 'Rome' version of Book I, written after 1404. It is likely that the abrupt ending of Book IV is to be explained by Froissart's death, which may have occurred while he was writing this part of the \"Chronicles\". \nBook IV has been transmitted in 21 manuscripts, all representing a single authorial version. The text shows traces of having been worked over by a 'copy editor', who was not the author but someone who seems to have prepared a text, possibly autograph, for reproduction. Unlike the other three books of the \"Chronicles\", Book IV seems to have remained unknown for a long time, until it was discovered in the second half of the 15th century, when the first manuscript copies of the text were made and the text started to circulate in the court circles of the Dukes of Burgundy.\n\nThe \"Chronicles\" were almost immediately popular among the nobility, and many manuscripts were expensively illuminated. In the first quarter of the 15th century many illustrated copies of Book I, as well as some copies of Books II and III, were produced by the Parisian booktrade. Nearly half of these surviving copies can be linked to a particular \"libraire\", called Pierre de Liffol. Several artistic hands can be detected in these copies, but two anonymous miniature painters seem to stand out as regular collaborators in Liffol's production: the Boethius Master and the .\n\nThere was something of a revival in interest from about 1470 in the Burgundian Low Countries, and some of the most extensive cycles of Flemish illumination were produced to illustrate Froissart's \"Chronicles\". Several complete copies of the four books, as well as all the illustrated manuscripts of Book IV, date from this period. Whereas older illustrations are mostly rather simple and formulaic, with decorated backgrounds, the larger images of this later period are often full of detail, and have extensive views of landscape, interiors or cities in their backgrounds. Most of the images here come from this period. One of the most lavishly illuminated copies was commissioned by Louis of Gruuthuse, a Flemish nobleman, in the 1470s. The four volumes of this copy (BnF, Fr 2643-6) contain 110 miniatures painted by some of the best Brugeois artists of the day. Among them is Loiset Lyédet, who has been identified as the painter who executed the miniatures in the first two volumes. Those in the third and fourth volume have been attributed to a collaboration between the Master of Anthony of Burgundy, the Master of the Dresden Prayer Book and the Master of Margaret of York. Many of the illustrations to this entry come from this copy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019270", "title": "Strained tendon", "text": "Strained tendon\n\nStrained tendon is a German band whose music and artwork is experimental. It was founded in 1995 in the town of Winterberg, Germany.\n\nThe members are:\nTobias Basedow (piano, keyboard, voice, arrangement)<br>\nThomas Hetzler (guitar, voice, producer, artwork)\n\n"}
{"id": "2019278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019278", "title": "A Sea Symphony", "text": "A Sea Symphony\n\nA Sea Symphony is a composition for orchestra and chorus by Ralph Vaughan Williams, written between 1903 and 1909. Vaughan Williams's first and longest symphony, it was first performed at the Leeds Festival in 1910, with the composer conducting. The symphony's maturity belies the composer's relative youth when it was written (he was 30 when he first began sketching it). One of the first symphonies in which a choir is used throughout the work and is an integral part of the musical texture, \"A Sea Symphony\" helped set the stage for a new era of symphonic and choral music in Britain during the first half of the 20th century. The work is sometimes referred to as the Symphony No. 1.\n\nFrom 1903 to 1909, Ralph Vaughan Williams worked intermittently on a series of songs for chorus and orchestra that were to become his most lengthy project to date and his first true symphony. Originally titled \"The Ocean\", \"A Sea Symphony\" was first performed in 1910 at the Leeds Festival on the composer's 38th birthday. This is generally cited as his first large-scale work; although \"Grove\" lists some 16 other orchestral works composed by Vaughan Williams before he completed \"A Sea Symphony\", including two with chorus, the vast majority of those are juvenilia or apprentice works that have never been published and are long since withdrawn from circulation. Nevertheless, Vaughan Williams had never before attempted a work of quite this duration, or for such large forces, and it was his first of what would eventually be nine symphonies. Like Brahms, Vaughan Williams delayed a long time before composing his first symphony, but remained prolific throughout the end of his life: his final symphony was composed from 1956–58, and completed when he was 85 years of age.\n\nAt approximately 70 minutes, \"A Sea Symphony\" is the longest of all Vaughan Williams's symphonies. Although it represents a departure from the traditional Germanic symphonic tradition of the time, it follows a fairly standard symphonic outline: fast introductory movement, slow movement, scherzo, and finale. The four movements are:\n\n\nThe first movement lasts roughly twenty minutes; the inner movements approximately eleven and eight minutes, and the finale lasts roughly thirty minutes.\n\nThe text of \"A Sea Symphony\" comes from Walt Whitman's \"Leaves of Grass\". Though Whitman's poems were little known in England at the time, Vaughan Williams was attracted to them for their ability to transcend both metaphysical and humanist perspectives. Whitman's use of free verse was also beginning to make waves in the compositional world, where fluidity of structure was beginning to be more attractive than traditional, metrical settings of text. Vaughan Williams sets sections from the following poems in \"A Sea Symphony\":\n\n\nThe symphony is scored for soprano, baritone, chorus and a large orchestra consisting of:\n\nTo facilitate more performances of the work, the full score also includes the provision that it may be performed by a reduced orchestra of two flutes (second doubling piccolo), one oboe, cor anglais, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, tuba, timpani, percussion, one harp, and strings.\n\nThe chorus sings in all four movements. Both soloists are featured in the first and last movements, while only the baritone sings in the second movement. The scherzo is for the chorus and orchestra alone.\n\nComparisons to Stanford, Parry, and Elgar, as in the \"Grove\" article, are expected. Not only were the four writing during the same era and in the same country, Vaughan Williams studied with both Stanford and Parry at the Royal College of Music (RCM), and his preparations for composing \"A Sea Symphony\" included study of both Elgar's \"Enigma Variations\" (1898–99) and his oratorio \"The Dream of Gerontius\" (1900).\n\n\"A Sea Symphony\" is among the best-known of a host of sea-related pieces being written around the same time in England, some of the most famous of which are Stanford's \"Songs of the Sea\" (1904) and \"Songs of the Fleet\" (1910), Elgar's \"Sea Pictures\" (1899), and Frank Bridge's \"The Sea\" (1911). Debussy's \"La mer\" (1905) may also have been influential in this apparent nautical obsession.\n\nVaughan Williams studied with Ravel for three months in Paris in the winter of 1907–1908. Though he worked chiefly on orchestration, this was to provide quite a contrast to the Germanic tradition handed down through Stanford and Parry at the RCM, and perhaps began to give Vaughan Williams a greater sense for colour and a freedom to move chords as block units. His partiality towards mediant relationships, a unifying harmonic motive of \"A Sea Symphony\", may have been somewhat liberated by these studies, and this harmonic relationship is now considered symptomatic of his style in general. \"A Sea Symphony\" also makes use of both pentatonic and whole tone scales, now often considered idiomatic features of French music of the period. Almost certainly, this music was in Vaughan Williams's mind as he finished work on \"A Sea Symphony\" in 1908–1909, but Ravel paid him the great compliment of calling him “the only one of my students who does not write my music.”\n\nMusically, \"A Sea Symphony\" contains two strong unifying motives. The first is the harmonic motive of two chords (usually one major and one minor) whose roots are a third apart. This is the first thing that occurs in the symphony; the brass fanfare is a B flat minor chord, followed by the choir singing the same chord, singing \"Behold, the sea\". The full orchestra then comes in on the word \"sea\", which has resolved into D major.\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> { \\new ChoralStaff « \\new Staff \\relative c\" { \\clef treble \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\key d \\major \\tempo \"Moderato maestoso\" 4 = 59 \\partial 16*1 <f des bes>16 | <f des bes>2~ <f des bes>4. <f des bes>8 | <fis! d! a>2 } \\addlyrics { Be- hold, the sea } \\new Staff \\relative c' { \\clef bass \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\key d \\major <f des bes>16\\ff | <f des bes>2~ <f des bes>4. <f des bes>8 | <fis! d! a>2 } » } </score>\nThe second motive is a melodic figure juxtaposing duplets and triplets, set at the opening of the symphony (and throughout the first movement) to the words \"And, on its limitless heaving breast...\" In the common method of counting musical rhythms, the pattern could be spoken as 'one two-and three-two-three four', showing that the second beat is divided into eighth notes (for \"on its\") and the third beat is divided into triplets (for \"limitless\"). \n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c\" { \\clef treble \\numericTimeSignature \\time 4/4 \\key d \\major \\tempo 4 = 59 \\partial 2*1 \\autoBeamOff a4 b8 d | \\times 2/3 { cis b a } b8. a16 a4. } \\addlyrics { And on its lim- it- less, heav- ing breast } </score>\n\nThe impact of \"A Sea Symphony\" manifests itself not only in the life of the composer (his first symphony and first work of such an immense scale), but also in the newfound support and appreciation of the English symphony and 20th century English music in general. Hugh Ottaway's book, \"Vaughan Williams Symphonies\" presents the following observation in its introduction:\n\nIn the \"Grove\" article on Vaughan Williams, Ottaway and Frogley call the work:\n\nUrsula Vaughan Williams, in what has become the definitive biography of her husband Ralph Vaughan Williams, writes of his philosophy in a more general sense:\n\n\n\nThere are 20 recordings:\n"}
{"id": "2019284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019284", "title": "Crofters' Holdings (Scotland) Act 1886", "text": "Crofters' Holdings (Scotland) Act 1886\n\nThe Crofters Holdings (Scotland) Act 1886 () is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that created legal definitions of \"crofting parish\" and \"crofter\", granted security of land tenure to crofters and produced the first Crofters Commission, a land court which ruled on disputes between landlords and crofters. The same court ruled on whether parishes were or were not crofting parishes. In many respects the Act was modelled on the Irish Land Acts of 1870 and 1881. By granting the crofters security of tenure, the Act put an end to the Highland Clearances.\n\nThe Act was largely a result of crofters' agitation which had become well organised and very persistent in Skye and of growing support, throughout the Highlands, for the Crofters Party, which had gained five members of parliament in the general election of 1885. Agitation took the form of rent strikes (withholding rent payments) and occupying land which the landlords had reserved for hunting or sheep.\n\nThe Act itself did not quell the agitation. In particular it was very weak in terms of enabling the Crofters Commission to resolve disputes about access to land. It was enough however to make much more acceptable, politically, the use of troops in confrontations with agitators.\n\nThe Act was not fully effective in increasing the equality of land distribution in Scotland. By the year 2000, two-thirds of Scotland's land area was still owned by only 1 252 landowners out of a population of 5 million.\n\nDuring the Highland Clearances, the crofters had no official rights to the land; until 1886, it was legal to evict any crofter at the landlord's convenience. The Land Wars commenced in Scotland in 1874 with the successful legal case of the Bernera Riot on the island of Great Bernera in the Outer Hebrides. The crofters wanted recognition of their traditional rights to the land that they had enjoyed under the clan system from the Middle Ages. Through political and economic development the gentry began to take an alternate perspective on their tenantry:\n\nThe cultural force of \"\" <nowiki>[heritage]</nowiki> was pervasive in Gaeldom and was central to the social cohesion of the clan because it articulated the expectations of the masses that the ruling family had the responsibility to act as their protectors and guarantee secure possession of land in return for allegiance, military service, tribute and rental. It was a powerful and enduring belief which lived on long after the military rationale of clanship itself had disappeared and tribal chiefs had shed their ancient responsibilities and become commercial landlords.\n\nLand agitation in Scotland began because of the \"Home Rule\" movement in Ireland and information and opinions of this movement brought by fishermen to the Outer Hebrides. Believing that they were the rightful owners of the land, crofters used rent strikes and what came to be known as land raids: crofter occupations of land to which crofters believed they should have access for common grazing or for new crofts, but which landlords had given over to sheep farming and hunting parks (called deer forests). The strife grew more intense; the landlords hired warships for protection from the crofters. From time to time there were open uprisings and riots.\n\nIn 1884 suffrage was extended to men owning land worth at least £10 or paying £10 in rent annually. This included many Highland crofters.\n\nAt a political level the crofters wanted legal rights, so the ' ('Highland Land Law Reform Association') was established in 1885 in London. The Crofters' Party was established and elected five MPs in 1885. ' ('The people are stronger than the lord') was their best-known slogan.\n\nThe government feared that the \"Home Rule\" movement would spread to the (Gaelic-speaking areas in Scotland) from Ireland. The Napier Commission interviewed crofters all over the and made careful study of the crofters' position, publishing its report in 1884. William Gladstone tried to pass a new law granting crofters more rights, but it was voted down in May 1885. Gladstone left his post in 1885 but the other parties created a new government. Gladstone returned to power in January 1886, and the act was finally passed 25 June 1886.\n\nFor the first time in Scottish history, the Crofting Act of 1886 affirmed the rights of crofters to their land. It also granted a legal status to crofting towns.\nThe Act dealt with the following points especially:\n\nThe Act specified eight counties of Scotland as counties where parishes might be recognised as crofting parishes: Argyll, Caithness, Cromarty, Inverness, Orkney, Ross, Shetland, and Sutherland. Within these counties a crofting parish was a parish where there were year-by-year tenants of land (tenants without leases) who were paying less than £30 a year in rent and who had possessed effective common grazing rights during the 80 years since 24 June 1806.\n\nThe Crofters' Commission also was in charge of establishing fair rent and reevaluating rents every seven years. If crofters believed that the rent was too high they had the opportunity to go to the commission. Quite often the rents were lowered or even removed, if the crofters had already been paying too much. The Commission had the power to reform the Act and establish other Acts, as well as grant green land to crofters in order to enlarge small crofts.\n\nThere were different opinions about the Act. On the one hand crofters complained that the Act did not go far enough, because they were not granted automatic right to fertile land for expansion of their small crofts. Worse, the Act did not delineate the position of cotters, who had never had land. After a while, they saw that the Commission was willing to protect their rights, especially with regard to rent security. Unfortunately, the Commission was underfunded and there was not enough land to distribute to crofters. The Act did not resolve the greatest complaint of the crofters, that the land should be returned to them. There was no resolution of the issue where landlords and crofters wanted the same piece of land.\n\nOn the other hand, the landlords said that there was \"communism looming in the future\" and \"The Scotsman\" wrote that the Act was a \"great infringement on the rights of private property.'\"\n\nThe Act did not end the land agitation, because Arthur Balfour believed that the Act gave moral authority to the authorities to quell every uprising to reestablish \"law and order.\" For this reason, warships were sent to the Isle of Skye and Tiree.\n\nIn the years after the Act, ' (now called ', \"the Land League\") and the Crofters' Party the political influence that they had had, because they could not agree on the issue of land and how far to follow the \"Home Rule\" movement in Ireland on the issue of land ownership.\n\nThis opinion was raised again in the Crofting Act 1976 in which crofters gained the legal right to purchase their land for fifteen years' rent. However, by owning their own land, crofters lost the right to CCAGS (\"Crofting Counties Agricultural Grant Scheme\"). In the Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003 the right of purchase was given to community organizations even against the will of landowners, to advance social and economic development. The Crofting Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 granted equality between tenants and landowners, especially with regard to grants and obligations and clarified the details of residency requirements. Now, tenants or owners must live within of the croft. Crofts not in use may be granted to new tenants.\n\nLooking back in history, Hunter believes that the Act established an old-fashioned order, with a place for the tenantry quite different than as in Ireland where crofters could buy their land under \"Home Rule\" acts. The Act was neither effective in the development of crofting communities nor did it encompass the political and social beliefs of those communities. But according to Wightman, the Act paved the road to further land development in Scotland, although it did not affect areas outside the . Wightman also stated that the \"land question\" has yet to be resolved, as two-thirds of Scotland's land area is still owned by only 1 252 landowners out of a population of 5 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019285", "title": "White meat", "text": "White meat\n\nIn culinary terms, white meat is meat which is pale in color before and after cooking. A common example of white meat is the lighter-colored meat of poultry (light meat), coming from the breast, as contrasted with dark meat from the legs. Poultry white (\"light\") meat is made up of fast-twitch muscle fibres, while red (\"dark\") meat is made up of muscles with fibres that are slow-twitch. In traditional gastronomy, white meat also includes rabbit, the flesh of milk-fed young mammals (in particular veal and lamb), and pork.\n\nIn nutritional studies however, \"white meat\" includes poultry and fish, but excludes all mammal flesh, which is considered red meat. The United States Department of Agriculture classifies meats as red if the myoglobin level is higher than 65%. This categorization is controversial as some types of fish, such as tuna, are red when raw and turn white when cooked; similarly, certain types of poultry that are sometimes grouped as \"white meat\" are actually red when raw, such as duck and goose.\n\nWithin poultry, there are two types of meats—white and dark. The different colours are based on the different locations and uses of the muscles. White meat can be found within the breast of a chicken or turkey. Dark muscles are fit to develop endurance or long-term use, and contain more myoglobin than white muscles, allowing the muscle to use oxygen more efficiently for aerobic respiration. White meat contains large amounts of protein. \n\nDark meat contains 2.64 times more saturated fat than white meat, per gram of protein. One commentator wrote that dark meat contains more vitamins, while a New York Times columnist has stated the two meats are nearly identical in nutritional value, especially when compared with typical red meat. For ground-based birds like chicken and turkeys, dark meats occur in the legs, which are used to support the weight of the animals while they move. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, one ounce of boneless, skinless turkey breast contains about one gram of fat, compared with roughly two grams of fat for an ounce of boneless, skinless thigh. The numbers go up when the skin is kept in: a chicken thigh, with skin intact, has 13 grams of total fat and 3.5 grams of saturated fat per 3-ounce serving; this is about 20 percent of the recommended maximum daily intake. Birds which use their chest muscles for sustained flight (such as geese and ducks) have dark meat throughout their bodies.\n\nBecause of nutritional concerns, it can be preferable for meat producers to have their products considered white meat. The United States National Pork Board has marketed their product as \"Pork. The Other White Meat\". \n\nIn Israel, where Jewish dietary laws which forbid the consumption of pork are popularly practiced, \"white meat\" is the accepted euphemism for pork.\n\nThe health effects that correlate with white meat consumption have been studied as compared to red meat and vegetarian diets. There is a decreased incidence of stroke. There is no association with obesity or insulin resistance. White meat appears to have a neutral or favorable effect on blood coagulation profiles.\n"}
{"id": "2019294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019294", "title": "William R. Higgins", "text": "William R. Higgins\n\nWilliam Richard Higgins (January 15, 1945 – July 6, 1990) was a colonel in the United States Marine Corps who was captured in 1988 while serving on a United Nations (UN) peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. He was held hostage, tortured and eventually murdered by his captors.\n\nWilliam Higgins was born in Danville, Kentucky on January 15, 1945. He graduated from Southern High School in Louisville and earned his Bachelor's degree from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. A scholarship student in the Navy ROTC, he received the Marine Corps Association Award and was commissioned in the Marine Corps in 1967. He later obtained Master's degrees from Pepperdine University and Auburn University. He graduated from the Army Infantry Officers Advanced Course, the Air Force Command and Staff College, and the National War College.\n\nAs a lieutenant, he participated in combat operations during 1968 with C Company, 1st Battalion 3rd Marines in the Republic of Vietnam as a rifle platoon commander and rifle company executive officer, and was aide-de-camp to the Assistant 3rd Marine Division Commander.\n\nReturning to the States, Lt. Higgins served at Headquarters Marine Corps in 1969. In 1970, he served as the Officer-in-Charge of the Officer Selection Team in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nCaptain Higgins returned to Vietnam in 1972 as an infantry battalion advisor to the Vietnamese Marine Division, then in 1973 served as a rifle company commander with B Company, 1st Battalion 4th Marines.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1977, Captain Higgins served at the Staff Noncommissioned Officers Academy and Officer Candidate School, both in Quantico, Virginia.\n\nReturning to the Fleet Marine Force in 1977, Capt. Higgins was assigned to the 2nd Marine Division at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, where he again served as a rifle company commander with A Company, 1st Battalion, 2nd Marines. Upon promotion to major, he was reassigned as the Logistics Officer for Regimental Landing Team 2, 4th Marine Amphibious Brigade.\n\nAfter completion of the Air Force Command and Staff College at Maxwell Air Force Base in 1980, designated a distinguished graduate, Higgins returned to Washington, D.C. where he served at Headquarters as a Plans Officer until his selection to the Office of the Secretary of Defense.\n\nDuring 1981 and 1982, he served as Military Assistant to the Special Assistant to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense, then as Assistant for Interagency Matters to the Executive Secretary for the Department of Defense. After graduation from the National War College in 1985, he returned to the Pentagon as the Military Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, where he served until he was transferred to his United Nations assignment in July 1987. He was promoted to Colonel on March 1, 1989, while in captivity.\n\nOn February 17, 1988, Higgins disappeared while serving as the Chief, Observer Group Lebanon and Senior Military Observer, United Nations Military Observer Group, United Nations Truce Supervision Organization. Higgins was driving alone on the coastal highway between Tyre and Naqoura in southern Lebanon, returning from a meeting with a local leader of the Amal movement, when he was pulled from his vehicle by armed men who it is suspected were affiliated with Hezbollah. During his captivity, he was interrogated and tortured.\n\nAs a reaction to his abduction, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 618, demanding his release. A year and a half after his abduction, images of his body, hanged by the neck, were televised around the world from a videotape released by his captors. The exact date of Higgins' murder is uncertain; he was declared dead on July 6, 1990. His remains were recovered on December 23, 1991, by Major Jens Nielsen of the Royal Danish Army, who was attached to the United Nations Observation Group in Beirut. Higgins' remains were found beside a mosque near a south Beirut hospital. His remains were interred at Quantico National Cemetery, Triangle, Virginia, on December 30, 1991.\n\nOn February 16, 1992, Israeli troops assassinated Hezbollah leader Abbas al-Musawi avenging Higgins’ death. Hezbollah responded back one month later in Buenos Aires killing 29 people.\n\nHiggins' military decorations include: the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star with combat \"V\", Purple Heart, Meritorious Service Medal, Navy Commendation Medal with gold star and combat \"V\", Combat Action Ribbon, Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry with silver star, Staff Service Honor Medal, United Nations Medal, and numerous unit commendations and campaign ribbons.\n\nOn March 18, 1992, President George Bush awarded Higgins the Presidential Citizens Medal (posthumous). The medal was accepted by his wife, Robin, and daughter, Chrissy. Higgins was also survived by two sisters.\n\nOn February 17, 1994, the Secretary of the Navy announced a new \"Arleigh Burke\"-class guided missile destroyer would be named for Higgins. On October 4, 1997, the was christened by Higgins' widow, Robin Higgins and commissioned on April 24, 1999.\n\nIn April 2003, he was posthumously granted a Prisoner of War Medal. DoD General Counsel Judith A. Miller initially blocked the award in 1998 based on the claim that \"circumstances do not appear to meet the criteria established by Congress for award of the Prisoner of War Medal.\" The Navy later overruled her after it was determined that the 1989 expansion of the eligibility criteria allowed the award.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019297", "title": "Mihailo Lalić", "text": "Mihailo Lalić\n\nMihailo Lalić (; 7 October 1914, in Trepča, Andrijevica, Kingdom of Montenegro – 30 December 1992, in Belgrade, FRY) was a Montenegrin and Serbian writer.\n\nHe was born in Trepča (Andrijevica municipality) village in north-eastern Montenegro in 1914. His most important novels are \"Svadba\", \"Zlo proljeće\", \"Raskid\", \"Hajka\", \"Ratna sreća\", and his masterpiece, \"Lelejska gora\".\n\nHe won the NIN Award (\"NIN\" magazine's prize for the novel of the year) for \"Ratna sreća\" in 1973, and was the first recipient of \"Njegoš Award\" for \"Lelejska gora\". In his novels he depicted major events in modern history of Montenegro, World Wars in particular, and battling between communist Partisans and collaborationist Chetniks.\n\nHe lived in Herceg-Novi and Belgrade, and was a member of both the Montenegrin and Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, whose vice-president he was. He was also a member of SKOJ and Communist Party. He died in Belgrade in 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019300", "title": "Jo Lustig", "text": "Jo Lustig\n\nJo Lustig (1925–1999) was a music entrepreneur.\n\nJo was born on October 21, 1925 in Brooklyn, New York. At the age of 12 he saw Billie Holiday singing in a club and fell in love with music. He became an apprentice music journalist, meeting up with Gloria Swanson and Mel Brooks. Having gone solo, he handled publicity for Miles Davis, Dave Brubeck and others. After touring Europe with Nat “King” Cole in 1960, he decided to relocate to London.\n\nIn 1962 American folk singer Julie Felix decided to hitch-hike around Europe. In 1964 she finally arrived in Britain. Jo Lustig saw her potential and offered to become her agent. At this time Decca was emphatically uncool. When they signed Julie Felix it was the first time a British label acquired a major folk artist. Lustig promoted her to record an album and a single (“Someday soon”) and an appearance on the Eamonn Andrews TV show. She was the first British-based folk singer to fill the Albert Hall. In 1965 when Nico met Lustig at a party hosted by the co-producer of the Bond films, she said “I want to be a singer”. A few weeks later she was on “Ready Steady Go”, singing her first single, thanks to Jo.\nHowever, she was not successful, and in 1966 joined Andy Warhol at The Factory.\n\nIn 1968 Lustig spotted “The Pentangle”. In 1969 he gave them one of the first mystery album sleeves – a silhouette of the band (see \"The Pentangle\"). The cover of their second album \"Sweet Child\" was designed by Peter Blake, creator of The Beatles \"\"Sgt. Pepper\" cover. Lustig also brought Pentangle a U.S. concert tour beginning in February 1969 at the Fillmore East.\n\nIn 1970 Ralph McTell changed his manager Bruce May for Jo Lustig. In October he was able to fill the Royal Festival Hall. In 1972 Robin and Barry Dransfield's “Lord of all I Behold” was Melody Maker's Folk Album of the Year. Jo eagerly read the pop press and signed them up, even before the album was released. The two brothers were then signed to Warner Brothers in America, and were off on a big concert tour supporting another Lustig act, Ralph McTell. Unfortunately the brothers not only quarrelled with each other but Barry seemed to be psychologically unable to handle large-scale commercial fame. Jo tore up the contract in disgust. This gives a hint of how impatient and short-tempered Jo Lustig was. By the end of the 1972 McTell had also broken with Jo Lustig. Ralph's brother Bruce was in charge again. It is perhaps surprising that Jo never managed Donovan, the biggest of all British folk artists. The reason is that Mickie Most got there first, and managed Donovan well. Another casualty of Jo's aggressive publicity-seeking approach was Anne Briggs, who was so disgusted that she gave up singing altogether, citing Jo as one of the reasons. Shel Talmy described him as “one of my most unfavourite people”.\n\nAfter the departure of Martin Carthy and Ashley Hutchings, Steeleye Span were eager for commercial success. They sacked Sandy Roberton and signed up with Jo Lustig. He brought them a lucrative contract with Chrysalis, and lavish studio time. Within a year they had a hit, “Gaudete”. Somewhere along the line, Jo Lustig managed Irish harpist Mary O'Hara, who emerged after a decade in a convent to become a popular easy listening act. He also managed folk singer Richard Digance and, for a while, Jethro Tull (during the \"Songs from the Wood\" period). In 1974, the Chieftains were still semi-professional, despite having released “Chieftains 4” in 1974, to worldwide praise. In 1975 they became full-time musicians and took Jo Lustig as their manager. He brought them a contract with a major label, Island Records. By 1982 Richard and Linda Thompson were also managed by Jo, but it is not clear when this started. About 1980 Jo Lustig created his own record label called Luggage, but only one act is known to have appeared in it – the Home Service. Jo financed the first Home Service single in 1981. Despite containing talented musicians, the Home Service were not commercially successful. Perhaps this was the reason that he gave up folk bands, and became a film producer.\n\nIn 1985 Jo produced \"The Doctor and the Devils\" a historical thriller. In 1987 there came his best-known venture, \"84 Charing Cross Road\", in which he was associate producer. In 1989 he started to specialise in television documentaries about musicians, starting with \"The Unforgettable Nat 'King\"'. \"Blondes: Anita Ekberg\" was also in 1999. \"Diana Dors\" was on television in 1999. \"Maria Callas : life and art\" (1999) was produced by Jo for video release. He died of cancer on May 29, 1999 in Cambridge, England.\n"}
{"id": "2019302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019302", "title": "Albay Bikol language", "text": "Albay Bikol language\n\nAlbay Bikol, or simply Albayanon is a group of languages and one of the three languages that compose Inland Bikol. It is spoken in the southwestern coast of Albay and northwestern Sorsogon (Pio Duran, Jovellar).\nThe region is bordered by the Coastal Bikol and Rinconada Bikol speakers. The latter is the closest language of Albay Bikol and is mutually intelligible. They are both included in Inland Bikol group of languages.\n\nAlbay Bikol is the only sub-group of the Inland Bikol group with several languages with in it. The member languages in this sub-grouping lack stressed syllables, rare, if there is, and that makes them different and unique from other Bikol languages. The said feature of Albay Bikol is comparable to French language that rarely use stressed syllables.\n\n\"Were you there at the market for a long time?\" translated into Albay Bikol languages, Coastal Bikol and Rinconada Bikol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019307", "title": "Edel", "text": "Edel\n\nEdel is both a surname and a given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\nSurname:\n\nGiven name:\n\n"}
{"id": "2019310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019310", "title": "Papaver dahlianum", "text": "Papaver dahlianum\n\nPapaver dahlianum, commonly called the Svalbard poppy, is a poppy species common on Svalbard, north-eastern Greenland and a small area of northern Norway. It is the symbolic flower of Svalbard. Some sources regard this species as part of \"Papaver radicatum\".\n\nIt grows to 10–25 cm high, and has long-petiolated basal leaves forming a rosette; the leaves are pinnately dissected and coarsely hirsute. The flowering stems are slender, often arcuate, hirsute. The flower is 2–4 cm in diameter, with four yellow or white, slightly undulate petals, and two boat-shaped sepals, which are densely hirsute with dark brown hairs. The fruit is an obovoid capsule covered with stiff hairs, containing numerous seeds.\n\nThe poppy grows on gravel, roadsides, scree sleeps and ledges, and holds the altitude record for flowering plants in Svalbard. \n\nDespite the extreme northern latitude of the Svalbard poppy, if accepted as a separate species, \"Papaver radicatum\" is the most northerly growing plant known to the world, being found on Kaffeklubben Island.\n"}
{"id": "2019319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019319", "title": "Symphony No. 4 (Vaughan Williams)", "text": "Symphony No. 4 (Vaughan Williams)\n\nThe Symphony No. 4 in F minor by Ralph Vaughan Williams was dedicated by the composer to Arnold Bax.\n\nUnlike Vaughan Williams's first three symphonies, it was not given a title, the composer stating that it was to be understood as \"pure music\", without any incidental or external inspiration.\n\nIn contrast to many of Vaughan Williams's previous compositions, the symphony displays a severity of tone. The composer himself once observed of it, \"I'm not at all sure that I like it myself now. All I know is that it's what I wanted to do at the time.\" According to the letter written by Arthur Benjamin to Vaughan Williams on 21 April 1935 (BL MS Mus 1714/1/9, ff. 113–14), the British composer Sir William Walton admired the work greatly. Benjamin wrote: \"I met Willy Walton on the way to the Hall and he said — having been to the rehearsals — that we were going to hear the greatest symphony since Beethoven. Arnold, too, agreed. An alternative source states that Walton heard Constant Lambert saying it to Benjamin.\n\nOnly two symphonies of Vaughan Williams end loudly: No. 4 and No. 8.\n\nThe work was first performed on 10 April 1935 by the BBC Symphony Orchestra conducted by Adrian Boult. Its first recording, made two years later, featured the composer himself conducting the same orchestra in what proved to be his only commercial recording of any of his symphonies. It was released on 78-rpm discs in the U.K. by HMV and in the U.S. by RCA Victor, and has been reissued on LP and CD.\n\nThe United States premiere was given on 19 December 1935 by Artur Rodziński and the Cleveland Orchestra. The earliest American performance to have survived in recorded form was the broadcast of 14 March 1943 by the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Leopold Stokowski. It was the only time he ever conducted the work and his performance has been issued on CD by Cala Records.\n\nThe work is in four movements with the third and fourth linked:\n\n\nA typical performance takes about 32 minutes.\n\nOpening dissonance of the first movement:\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c\" { \\clef treble \\key f \\minor \\time 6/4 \\tempo \"Allegro\" 2. = 96 « { des2.~( des2 c4) } \\\\ { c,1.\\ff } » } </score>\nGerminal motive that develops out of the opening dissonance:\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> \\relative c\" { \\clef treble \\key f \\minor \\time 6/4 \\tempo \"Allegro\" 2. = 96 e2.-> ees-> | f-> e-> } </score>\nMotive built of fourths (measure 14–15):\n<score vorbis=\"1\"> { \\new PianoStaff « \\new Staff \\relative c' { \\clef treble \\key f \\minor \\time 6/4 \\tempo \"Allegro\" 2. = 96 \\partial 2*1 f2--\\ff | bes-- ees-- <ges des>--~ | <ges des>8 } \\new Staff \\relative c' { \\clef bass \\key f \\minor \\time 6/4 <c bes bes,>2-- | <f c ees, ees,>-- <f bes, bes, bes,>-- <des ges, f, f,>--~ | <des ges, f, f,>8 } » } </score>\n\nThe symphony is scored for a large orchestra including: 2 or 3 flutes (2nd doubling on piccolo), 2 or 3 oboes (2nd doubling on cor anglais), 2 clarinets (in B), bass clarinet (in B) (\"ad lib.\"), 2 bassoons, contrabassoon (\"ad lib.\"), 4 horns (in F), 2 trumpets (in C), 3 trombones, tuba, timpani, triangle, side drum, cymbals, bass drum, strings.\n\nHis student, the Australian composer Peggy Glanville-Hicks, claimed that he had borrowed the opening theme of the first movement from her Sinfonietta for Small Orchestra in D minor (1935), and that she in turn borrowed it back for her opera \"The Transposed Heads\" (1953). Glanville-Hicks did not complete her Sinfonietta until three months after the premiere of Vaughan Williams's symphony, but she was writing it at the same time as the composition of the symphony.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019323", "title": "Alain Bashung", "text": "Alain Bashung\n\nAlain Bashung (; born Alain Baschung, 1 December 1947 – 14 March 2009) was a French singer, songwriter and actor. Credited with reviving the French chanson in “a time of French musical turmoil”, he is often regarded in his home country as the most important French rock musician after Serge Gainsbourg. He rose to prominence in the early 1980s with hit songs such as \"Gaby oh Gaby\" and \"Vertige de l'amour\", and later had a string of hit records from the 1990s onward, such as \"Osez Joséphine\", \"Ma petite entreprise\" and \"La nuit je mens\". He has had an influence on many later French artists, and is the most awarded artist in the Victoires de la Musique history with 12 victoires obtained throughout his career.\n\nBashung’s \"Play blessures\" (1982), \"Osez Joséphine\" (1991), and \"Fantaisie militaire\" (1998) have made multiple French lists of the greatest albums. \"L'Imprudence\" (2002) and \"Bleu pétrole\" (2008), the last two studio albums released during his lifetime, also garnered acclaim. Bashung died at 61 after a two-year fight with lung cancer.\n\nAlain Baschung (he later dropped the \"c\" from his surname) was the son of a Breton mother working in a rubber factory and an Algerian father, whom he never knew. His mother remarried, and at the age of one, Bashung was sent to Wingersheim, near Strasbourg to live with his stepfather's parents. He spent his childhood in the countryside, in a rather conservative environment, alongside a grandmother who did not speak French. He discovered music during his childhood, notably Kurt Weill's \"Mahagonny\", and began to practice with a Rosebud harmonica offered to him when he was five. He also practiced basketball and cycling and sang in the church choir of Wingersheim.\n\nHe came back to Paris in 1959, where he discovered the great chanson artists, and then rock artists such as Gene Vincent, Buddy Holly (whom he admired deeply), and Elvis Presley. While studying (before dropping out after he was awarded a BTS in accountancy from the École nationale de commerce in 1965), he formed a band called \"Les Dunces\" playing folk music and rockabilly.\n\nHe later formed a band with musicians met in Royan, and then began to tour in restaurants, hotels and American military bases. He began his career with his first EP,\"Pourquoi rêvez-vous des États-Unis ?\" in 1966, which he wrote and composed. At the same time, he joined the RCA label to become a music arranger. He wrote songs for French artists. In June 1967, at the Palais des Sports of Paris, he was the opening act (alongside Noël Deschamps and Ronnie Bird) of artists such as the Pretty Things, the Troggs or Cream.\n\nIn 1968, he released his first single, \"Les Romantiques\" (which is now extremely hard to find) which was largely ignored by the public and unsuccessful. Around that time, he dropped the \"c\" from his name and spent some time at the house of fellow singer Christophe.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1974, he composed some of the music and cowrote three albums and three singles (including \"Marilou\") for French rock singer Dick Rivers. In 1973, he plays Robespierre in the musical \"La Révolution française\" by Claude-Michel Schönberg.\n\nIn 11 years, he released no less than four EPs and ten singles, one under the moniker of David Bergen, and two others in 1976 and 1977 as Hendrick Darmen, composer for a band called \"Monkey Bizness\". All of them failed to have any impact.\n\nHe then met sound engineer Andy Scott and lyricist Boris Bergman. Together, they realized his first album \"Roman-photos\", with a country and rockabilly sound, which was a commercial failure as punk rock was rising. In 1979, he produced another album, \"Roulette russe\", darker and leaning more openly toward rock. In 1980, he released the single \"Gaby oh Gaby\", which became his breakthrough success (selling more than a million copies).\n\nHis critical and commercial success was confirmed with his next album, \"Pizza\", which allowed him, thanks to his second hit success, \"Vertige de l'amour\", to tour in prestigious locations, such as the Olympia. However, he broke with Bergman at the time.\n\nIn 1982, Bashung released an album called \"Play blessures\", written by Serge Gainsbourg. The album, in contrast with its immediate predecessor, is dark, minimalistic and inaccessible. The album was intended to break away from his unexpected success. It was a commercial and, at first, critical failure, Bashung being called by some the \"Johnny Hallyday of new wave\". Yet, it is now considered a classic album in France.\n\nIn 1983, he produced another dark album, \"Figure imposée\", which also met with little success. However, in 1984 he made peace with Boris Bergman, and the lyricist wrote for him \"SOS Amor\" which was a surprise hit. In 1985, he sang \"Touche pas à mon pote\", a single for the association SOS Racisme.\n\nIn the wake of the success of \"SOS Amor\", he released in 1986 the album \"Passé le Rio Grande\", which allowed him to get his first Victoires de la musique award.\n\nIn 1989, he returned to a dark, experimental style with the album \"Novice\", from which the singles \"Bombez !\", \"Pyromanes\" and \"Étrange été\" were released. The album marked his first collaboration with lyricist Jean Fauque and his definitive breakup with Boris Bergman.\n\nIn 1991, he released another album with Fauque as lyricist, \"Osez Joséphine\", which also included some cover versions of classic American rock songs. The album helped him achieve mainstream success, selling 350.000 copies and \"Osez Joséphine\" became his first real popular success since \"Vertige de l'amour\". On the same album is featured \"Madame rêve\", another classic in a different, more atmospheric style, which would be a trademark of his future releases.\n\nIn 1992, he covered the French pop classic song \"Les Mots bleus\", from the album by the same name by Christophe, for an AIDS research support compilation. In 1994, he released \"Chatterton\", which he called a \"new age country\" album. For this album, he worked with artists such as Sonny Landreth, Ally McErlaine, Link Wray, Marc Ribot or Stéphane Belmondo. The single \"Ma petite entreprise\" was a new popular success. Following the album, he toured for two years and in 1995 released the double live album \"Confessions publiques\".\n\nFrom 1994 onwards, Bashung began to spend more time for his acting career (which he started in 1981 with \"Nestor Burma, détective de choc\"), for instance with \"Ma sœur chinoise\" by Alain Mazars.\n\nAfter recording a duet with Brigitte Fontaine, \"City\" for her \"Les Palaces\" album, he came back to music in 1998 with \"Fantaisie militaire\". For this album, he notably collaborated with Jean Fauque, Rodolphe Burger, Les Valentins, Jean-Marc Lederman and Adrian Utley of Portishead. The arrangements and strings were done by Joseph Racaille. The first single from the album was \"La nuit je mens\" which was another hit for Bashung. For the album, he received 3 more Victoires de la musique awards in 1999 (and in 2005, he received another for the \"best album of the last twenty years\"). For Bashung, it was a huge commercial and critical success.\n\nIn 2000, he released the compilation \"Climax\", on which some songs are rerecordings as duets with notable artists from the French scene (most famously, the song \"Volontaire\" from \"Play blessures\" with French band Noir Désir). That same year, he cowrote \"L'Eau et le vin\" for Vanessa Paradis' album \"Bliss\".\n\nIn 2002, he released another album, \"L'Imprudence\" to critical acclaim, which is considered one of the darker albums of his discography. The album is not easily accessible and features strings and electronic arrangements, with sometimes nearly spoken lyrics, and was inspired according to Bashung by old black and white movies. That same year, he recorded the album \"Cantique des cantiques\" with his new wife, singer Chloé Mons, the song was written for their wedding in 2001 by Rodolphe Burger, from a new translation of Solomon's Song of Songs by Olivier Cadiot. In 2003, he sang the French chanson classic \"Avec le temps\" by Léo Ferré for a tribute album to the late artist, \"Avec Léo !\" and wrote the preface to a book about that artist.\n\nIn 2004, the double live album \"La Tournée des grands espaces\" was released. In 2005, he sang \"Le Sud\" on a tribute album to Nino Ferrer, \"On dirait Nino\". In 2006, he recorded a Charles Trenet song, \"Que reste-t-il de nos amours ?\" as a duet with Françoise Hardy for her album \"(Parenthèses...)\".\n\nIn June 2006, in the Cité de la musique in Paris, he got the opportunity to sing for several days. There he brought on stage artists such as Christophe, Dominique A, Rodolphe Burger or Arto Lindsay.\nIn early 2007, after a small break, he was involved in the \"Les Aventuriers d'un autre monde\" tour alongside rock and pop artists Jean-Louis Aubert, Cali, Daniel Darc, Richard Kolinka and Raphaël. He sang for a couple of evenings in the Salle Pleyel in Paris, and played the role of Jack the Ripper for the song \"Panique Mécanique\" on Dionysos' album \"La Mécanique du Cœur\".\n\nThat same year, he played with Belgian singer Arno in the movie \"J'ai toujours rêvé d'être un gangster\", by Samuel Benchetrit. They appear as themselves, arguing over the authorship of a song.\nIn 2008, he sang \"L.U.V.\" as a duet with Daniel Darc for the latter's album, \"Amours suprêmes\". He was also involved in Étienne Daho's Daho Show, covering \"I Can't Escape from You\" as a duet with Daho. He also rerecorded Serge Gainsbourg's classic album, \"L'Homme à tête de chou\", for a show.\n\nOn 24 March 2008, he released the album \"Bleu pétrole\", collaborating notably with Gaëtan Roussel of French band Louise Attaque, Arman Méliès, M. Ward or Gérard Manset (covering the latter's song \"Il voyage en solitaire\" as the final song on the album). He then began to tour for the album. The 10 June 2008, he sang several times at the Olympia although he was undergoing a chemotherapy for his lung cancer. Jean Fauque claimed that a new album was underway.\n\nOn 1 January 2009, Bashung was made \"Chevalier\" (Knight) of the Légion d'honneur. On 28 February 2009, he received three prestigious Victoires de la Musique awards for his final album \"Bleu pétrole\". The 2009 award ceremony was his last public appearance. He appeared frail, but still performed \"Résidents de la République.\" He won the Best male artist of the year, Best album and Best tour awards.\n\nBashung died in Paris on 14 March 2009 from lung cancer at the age of 61 at the Hôpital Saint-Joseph in Paris. After a religious ceremony at the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés, he was buried on 20 March 2009 in the Père Lachaise Cemetery.\n\nOn 12 November 2009, the opening of a ballet using a rerecording of \"L'Homme à tête de chou\", a 1976 Serge Gainsbourg album, by Bashung as the soundtrack, occurred at the Maison de la Culture de Grenoble, with a choreography by Jean-Claude Gallotta who approached him in 2007 to adapt the work.\n\nOn 27 November 2009, a box set called \"À perte de vue\", which contained the entire output of Bashung so far (on 27 discs), was released. The box set features his twelve solo albums so far, his five live albums, his two duet albums with Chloé Mons, two albums of instrumentals and three albums of covers, duets and rarities. Alongside this box set a double live album documenting his last tour, called \"Dimanches à l'Élysée\" and recorded at the Élysée Montmartre on 14 December 2008, was released on 16 November. That same day, a live video recorded at the Olympia 10 and 15 June 2008 was released. This DVD was awarded the 2010 Victoires de la musique award for best musical DVD of the year. At the same Victoires ceremony, French singer Benjamin Biolay, who was awarded the Best male artist of the year award, paid tribute to Bashung.\n\nHe can be heard singing \"La nuit je mens\" in the closing scenes of the final episode of the French television series \"Les Bleus: premiers pas dans la police\" (2006–10). On 26 April 2011, a tribute album called \"Tels Alain Bashung\" was released. It features twelve covers of Bashung songs by various artists and bands, with a documentary called \"Alain Bashung - Faisons envie\" directed by Thierry Villeneuve. On 7 November 2011, his rerecording of \"L'Homme à tête de chou\" was released on Barclay Records.\n\nA multi-platinum artist, Bashung received three awards during the ceremony at the Paris Zenith, including best male artist, best album for \"Bleu Pétrole\" (Barclay/Universal) and best live show. He spent his career singing a pop-chanson repertoire. With 12 trophies won since 1993, he was the most awarded artist in the history of the Victoires de la Musique. Bashung, who had cancer, had to postpone several dates of his last tour. While receiving his award, he said he hoped that record companies would \"remain in a human dimension by making people happy with records.\"\n\nIn February 2010, the French edition of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine placed six of his albums in their list \"100 disques essentiels du rock français\" (100 Essential French Rock Albums) with two albums in the top 10, \"Osez Joséphine\" at number one, and \"Fantaisie militaire\" at number nine.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019327", "title": "Dušan Vukotić", "text": "Dušan Vukotić\n\nDušan Vukotić (7 February 1927 – 8 July 1998) was a Yugoslav and Croatian cartoonist, author and director of animated films of Montenegrin descent. He is the best known member of the Zagreb school of animated films.\n\nVukotić was born in Bileća, Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes to father Radovan Vukotić and mother Darinka Vučinić. His father Radovan was a Royal Yugoslav Army sub-colonel who got captured in the vicinity of Gornji Milanovac by the invading \"Wehrmacht\" force during the Nazi German invasion of Yugoslavia, spending the remainder of World War II in Osnabrück prison camp. His mother Darinka was a daughter of Milutin Vučinić, Montenegrin army officer and one time prime minister. His paternal grandfather Mojaš \"Kinjo\" Vukotić who died during the 1912-1913 Siege of Scutari was serdar Janko Vukotić's brother.\n\nIn 1953, Vukotić became one of the founding members of Zagreb Film. He worked there for over four decades and directed cartoons such as \"Cow on the Moon\".\n\nHe won an Oscar for best animated short in 1961 for \"Surogat\" (\"Ersatz\"), being the first foreigner to do so. Another of his films, \"Igra\" (\"The Game\"), was nominated for an Academy Award in 1964. \n\nAfter the 1960s, he rarely made short animated films, making three full-length movies - a fantasy tale for children, \"Sedmi kontinent\" (\"The Seventh Continent\", 1966), an action movie, \"Akcija Stadion\" (\"Operation Stadium\") about the resistance of Zagreb students to the Ustaša regime in 1941, and the science fiction/horror parody \"Gosti iz galaksije\" (\"Visitors from the Galaxy of Arkana\", 1981). In 1963, he was a member of the jury at the 3rd Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nHe also taught film directing at the Zagreb Academy for Dramatic Art from the founding of its Film department in 1967 until his retirement in the early 1990s.\n\nAfter 1973, he was a member of the Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nIn 1994 he received Lifetime Achievement Award at the World Festival of Animated Film - Animafest Zagreb.\n\nAt the time of his death, Vukotić was preparing a production of his new science fiction movie, co-written by the Croatian science fiction writer Aleksandar Žiljak.\n\nVukotić died in Krapinske Toplice near Zagreb at the age of 71.\n"}
{"id": "2019333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019333", "title": "Baishan", "text": "Baishan\n\nBaishan (, ) is a prefecture-level city in Jilin province of the People's Republic of China. \"\" literally means \"White Mountain\", and is named after Changbai Mountain (, also known as Paektu Mountain (Korean: )).\n\nBaishan is to be granted the title of China International Mineral Water City. In Baishan is the Baishan Dam.\n\nIn 1902, Qing imperial government set up the Linjiang County in today's Baishan region. During the Manchukuo period, Linjiang county was under the jurisdiction of Tonghua. In March 1959, Jilin provincial government promoted Linjiang County to a county-level city and renamed it as Hunjiang City, which is still under the administration of Tonghua Prefecture. In 1985, Hunjiang City developed into a prefecture-level city, administerring three districts and three counties including Fusong, Jingyu and Changbai. The city was renamed to Baishan in April, 1994 with the approval of the State Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019334", "title": "Bad Meets Evil", "text": "Bad Meets Evil\n\nBad Meets Evil is an American hip hop duo composed of Detroit-based rappers, Royce da 5'9\" (Bad) and Eminem (Evil). Bad Meets Evil was formed in 1998, thanks to the duo's mutual friend, Proof. Their discography consists of one extended play (EP) and four singles. In 1999, the duo released a double non-album single, \"Nuttin' to Do\" and \"Scary Movies\"; the former peaked at 36 on the Hot Rap Songs chart, while the latter peaked at 63 on the UK Singles Chart and was featured on the soundtrack of the 2000 horror comedy parody film \"Scary Movie\".\n\nThe duo broke up after a feud between Royce and the members of Eminem's group D12. The feud ended when Proof, a D12 member and Eminem's best friend, as well as a friend of Royce's, was killed in April 2006. After Royce's super-group Slaughterhouse signed to the Eminem-founded record label Shady Records, a reunion of Bad Meets Evil followed with the extended play \"\" (2011), which reached number one on the US \"Billboard\" 200 and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).The album is now eligible for platinum certification in US. The EP's lead single \"Fast Lane\" peaked at number 32 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, while the second single \"Lighters\", featuring Bruno Mars, peaked at number four on the same chart. The duo returned in 2014 for the 15-year anniversary album of Shady Records, \"Shady XV\", for \"Vegas\", and again in 2015 to record two tracks for the boxing film \"Southpaw\", titled \"All I Think About\" and \"Raw\". The duo have recently reunited for the song \"Not Alike\" on Eminem's album \"Kamikaze\" (2018). Eminem was also featured on Royce's song \"Caterpillar\" on his album \"Book of Ryan\" (2018). Most recently Royce featured on Eminem's album \"Music To Be Murdered\" By (2020) with three songs, \"You Gon' Learn\", \"Yah Yah\" and \"I Will\". Eminem also confirms on this album that the duo are still active (\"pack heat, but it's black ink\nEvil half of the Bad Meets\nEvil, that means take a back seat\").\n\nEminem met Royce da 5'9\" in 1997 when Royce was opening for entertainer Usher at the Palladium. Eminem and Royce da 5'9\", became quick friends before Eminem's rise to fame, and collaborated on the track which led to the duo's foundation, \"Bad Meets Evil\", for Eminem's 1999 major label debut \"The Slim Shady LP\". The duo's first work, a 1999 double-single, which was originally recorded in 1998, consisting of \"Nuttin' to Do\" and \"Scary Movies\", achieved respectable chart success, peaking at 36 on the Hot Rap Songs chart, while the latter peaked at 63 on the UK Singles Chart. A year later, the song \"Scary Movies\" was featured on the soundtrack of the horror comedy parody film \"Scary Movie\".\n\n\"Renegade\" was originally a song featuring Eminem recorded for Royce's first studio debut album \"Rock City\" (2002), but Royce's verses were later replaced with Jay-Z's for his 2001 album \"The Blueprint\". Jay-Z contacted Eminem for a collaboration and beat while the song was being made. Limited in time for production, Eminem sent Jay-Z the beat for \"Renegade\" with approval from Royce. However, Eminem was still featured on Royce's \"Rock City\" album, on the title track.\n\nDr. Dre heard one of Royce's mix tapes through Eminem, deciding to sign him to Aftermath Entertainment. Eminem secured him a ghostwriting position on Dre's second studio album, \"2001\". After his manager Kino stated: \"I've seen Em sit Dre down like a pupil and coach him on rhymes\" on a phone interview, Dr. Dre requested that Royce cut ties with his manager. Royce refused to fire his manager, thus his relationship with Dre ended.\n\nAfter Royce turned down Eminem's offer to join his Anger Management Tour as a hype man, Proof, member of Eminem's band D12 and his best friend, also a good friend of Royce's, took the place. Later, Royce wanted to continue working with Eminem, who was busy working with D12, which led Royce to believe that D12 was \"souring\" his relationship with Eminem. A feud with a series of diss tracks followed, resulting in the duo's break up.\n\nIn late 2003, D12's Proof confronted Royce outside a club in Detroit. Violence erupted between the rappers' entourage, leading to the police being called, and Proof and Royce's arrest. The two were detained overnight in adjacent cells where they talked out their differences and ended the feud. Royce and Eminem reconciled after Proof's death in April 2006. Eminem said: \"I think after we lost Proof, we realized how stupid this beef shit is.\"\n\nIn 2011, Royce's rap group Slaughterhouse signed to Eminem's founded label Shady Records. This led to a reunion of Bad Meets Evil with the debut extended play \"\", released on June 14, 2011 after 11 years of inactivity in the group. A chart success, it peaked at number one on the \"Billboard\" 200 and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).\n\n\"Fast Lane\" was released on May 3, 2011 as the lead single. It was recorded by Mike Strange at Effigy Studios (Ferndale, Michigan). Recorded a few months before its release, the song was written by Eminem, Royce da 5'9\" and Sly \"Pyper\" Jordan, who also sings the chorus to the song with additional vocals from Denaun Porter. Eminem requested that Sly perform the chorus, after hearing Dr. Dre's hit single \"Kush\". Supa Dups and Jason \"JG\" Gilbert produced the song; Eminem and Mike Strange mixed the song. JG and Supa Dups also sample their own vocals. According to Supa Dups, he was asked to make a beat with JG, without knowing it was for Bad Meets Evil. He said that \"[They] didn't even have Eminem in mind [when they made the beat].\" According to this interview with \"Mixtape Daily\", Supa Dups had little knowledge about the project, but simply submitted the beat to Eminem- Months after recording the song, on April 28, 2011, when it leaked onto the Internet, Supa Dups was impressed by the finished version, lyrically, and was proud to have participated in the project. The song peaked at number 34 on the Hot 100 chart.\n\nThe second single, \"Lighters\", was originally intended to be featured on Royce's fifth studio album, \"Success Is Certain\", but the single itself had ended up on \"Hell: The Sequel\". It was produced solely by Rochester, New York producer Battle Roy. After Royce had presented the track to Eminem, he was inspired to write and record the first verse, prompting Royce to write his the day afterwards. Bad Meets Evil then flew to Los Angeles, where R&B and pop singer Bruno Mars heard the song. Eminem and Mars then made minor changes to the musical arrangement. The song was recorded at Effigy Studios by Strange, Isolation Studios by Asar and Levcon Studios (Los Angeles, California) by Ari Levine of The Smeezingtons, a music production and songwriting group consisting of Philip Lawrence and Mars. Eminem, The Smeezingtons and Battle Roy produced the song. Battle Roy and Joe Strange also engineered the song. Luis Resto provided additional keyboards for the song. On May 25, 2011, when the track listing of \"Hell: The Sequel\" was announced, \"Lighters\" was revealed to the public to feature Mars. \"Lighters\" hit contemporary hit radio on July 5, 2011 as the second single from the EP. \"Lighters\" performed better on the charts than \"Fast Lane\", peaking at number four on the Hot 100 chart.\n\nBad Meets Evil released a new song, entitled \"Vegas\", for the compilation album \"Shady XV\", which was released on November 24, 2014 through Shady Records.\n\nIn 2015, two new Bad Meets Evil songs were released. The two songs, \"All I Think About\" and \"Raw\" appear on the \"Southpaw Soundtrack\", produced by Shady Records.\n\n\"\" was certified Gold by RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies in the US.\n\nIn 2018, two Bad Meets Evil songs were released \"Caterpillar\" which featured Eminem off Royce's Book of Ryan album and \"Not Alike\" which featured Royce off Eminem's \"Kamikaze\" album.\n\nIn 2020, Royce da 5'9\" got featured off Eminem's \"Music to Be Murdered By\" in three songs, which are \"You Gon' Learn\", \"Yah Yah\", and \"I Will\" (which also featured two former member of Slaughterhouse, Joell Ortiz and KXNG Crooked).\n"}
{"id": "2019344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019344", "title": "Pantao", "text": "Pantao\n\nPantao is a community in the western coastal area of Libon, Albay province in central Philippines.\n\nLike all of Albay, Bikol is the primary language. Some residents may also speak English or Tagalog. The dialect spoken in Pantao is akin to those spoken in the coastal towns of Camarines Sur, but also very similar to those spoken in Oas, Ligao, and Polangui.\n\nThe Pantao Regional Port is located in the center of the Bicol Peninsula. The Philippine Ports Authority(PPA) spent more than 82 million peso on this port in an attempt to boost the local infrastructure and raise Bicol from being the second poorest region in the Philippines. This centrally located haven is smaller than the main ports of Legazpi and Tabaco but provides the region with access to the Visayan and Mindanao markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019348", "title": "Vojo Stanić", "text": "Vojo Stanić\n\nVojo Stanić (Montenegrin: Vojo Stanić/Војо Станић, born 3 February 1924) is a Montenegrin painter and sculptor.\n\nVojo Stanić was born in Podgorica, and grew up in Nikšić. He completed \"Academy of Sculpture\" in Belgrade, after which he moved to Herceg Novi.\n\nDuring that time he turned to painting, enabling him to better express his peace-loving, Mediterranean spirit and interest in people. His paintings are small drama stories from everyday life, full of spirit. They bring back to life the spirit of Renaissance comedies, presenting human weaknesses and at the same time he shows understanding for them. Topics from cafes, sea or home are often a mixture of surreal details or imaginative relationship of characters and objects.\n\nHe is one of the most important modern Montenegrin painters, and is a member of CANU and DANU. He had several individual exhibits. The most important exhibit of his was at Venice Biennale in 1997.\n\nHis paintings are exhibited in a number of galleries in Montenegro, as well as in the permanent exhibit in the Art Museum in Cetinje.\n"}
{"id": "2019367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019367", "title": "Melanorosaurus", "text": "Melanorosaurus\n\nMelanorosaurus (meaning \"Black Mountain Lizard\", from the Greek \"melas/μέλας\", \"black\", \"oros/ὄρος\", \"mountain\" + \"sauros/σαῦρος\", \"lizard\") is a genus of basal sauropodomorph dinosaur that lived during the Late Triassic period. A herbivore from South Africa, it had a large body and sturdy limbs, suggesting it moved about on all fours. Its limb bones were massive and weighty, like sauropod limb bones.\n\n\"Melanorosaurus\" had a skull which measured approximately 250 mm. The snout was somewhat pointed, and the skull was somewhat triangular when seen from above or below. The premaxilla had four teeth on each side, a characteristic of primitive sauropodomorphs. The maxilla had 19 teeth on each side of the jaw.\n\n\"Melanorosaurus\" was around long, with a weight of .\n\nThe type specimens, syntypes SAM 3449 and SAM 3450, were described and named in 1924 by Haughton. They were collected from the Triassic Lower Elliot Formation, dating to the early Norian, on the north slope of the Thaba 'Nyama (Black Mountain) in Transkei, South Africa. The first complete skull referred to \"Melanorosaurus\", NM QR3314, was described in 2007. However, this specimen comes from the Upper Elliot, unlike the \"Melanorosaurus\" type material and NM QR1551, rendering its referral to the genus untenable.\n\n\"Melanorosaurus thabanensis\" was named in 1993 by Gauffre, based on holotype MNHN LES-16, a femur found in the Upper Triassic lower Elliot Formation. However, a recent review of the material demonstrated that the femur, along with six other bones, can't be referred to the genus \"Melanorosaurus\", and a new combination (\"Meroktenos thabanensis\") was created.\n\n\"Melanorosaurus\" was once classified as a prosauropod, but Prosauropoda no longer appears to be a natural group. According to some definitions of Sauropoda, \"Melanorosaurus\" is an early sauropod. However, these definitions also take in many other former \"prosauropods\", and Adam Yates has proposed a definition of Sauropoda that will specifically exclude \"Melanorosaurus\" (Sauropoda as all sauropodomorphs closer to \"Saltasaurus\" than \"Melanorosaurus\"). This definition would allow Sauropoda to retain its traditional concept.\n"}
{"id": "2019372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019372", "title": "1951 in Norwegian football", "text": "1951 in Norwegian football\n\nResults from Norwegian football in 1951.\n\nJune 21: Odd - Fredrikstad 1-3\n\nJune 26: Fredrikstad - Odd 4-2 (agg. 7-3)\n\nAfter the 1950/51 season, Landsdelsserien was introduced, leaving the First division as only the third highest league.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nGeithus - Asker 0-2\n\nLarvik Turn - Snøgg 1-1\n\nÅlgård - Flekkefjord 1-0\n\nAsker - Geithus 3-0 (agg. 5-0)\n\nSnøgg - Larvik Turn 2-1 (agg. 3-2)\n\nFlekkefjord - Ålgård 0-0 (agg. 0-1)\n\nÅrstad - Snøgg 1-1\n\nÅlgård - Gjøvik/Lyn 0-0\n\nÅrstad - Ålgård 1-0\n\nSnøgg - Gjøvik/Lyn 4-0\n\nGjøvik/Lyn - Årstad 1-1\n\nSnøgg - Ålgård 3-2\n\nKvik (Halden) - Kvik (Trondheim) 2-2\n\nAalesund - Asker 3-6\n\nAsker - Kvik (Trondheim) 2-2\n\nKvik (Halden) - Aalesund 0-2\n\nAsker - Kvik (Halden) 3-0\n\nKvik (Trondheim) - Aalesund 3-0\n\nDonn, Jarl, Langevåg, Neset, Nymark, Ulf and Wing.\n\nAugust 12: \n\nRematch\n\nAugust 26: \n\nAugust 26: \nSeptember 16: Sarpsborg - Aalesund 1-0\n\nRematch\n\nSeptember 16: Selbak - Varegg 1-0\n\nSeptember 23: \n..Fredrikstad - Vålerengen 3-5\n\nOctober 7: \n\nOctober 21: \n\n"}
{"id": "2019383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019383", "title": "Alan Moore's Hypothetical Lizard", "text": "Alan Moore's Hypothetical Lizard\n\nAlan Moore's Hypothetical Lizard is a comic book adaptation of the World Fantasy Award-nominated short story \"A Hypothetical Lizard\", written in 1988 by Alan Moore for the third volume of the \"Liavek \"shared world fantasy series. The story was later reprinted in \"Words Without Pictures\", a 1990 book of prose stories by comics writers edited by Steve Niles, but then went out of print. In 2004 Avatar Press published the first issue of \"Alan Moore's Hypothetical Lizard\" as a comic book adapted by writer Antony Johnston.\n\nThe story describes the life of Som-Som, a prostitute in the House Without Clocks - a brothel designed to service rare and exotic tastes. Som-Som has undergone a corpus callosotomy, severing the connection between the two hemispheres of her brain; this, in conjunction with the porcelain mask attached to the right half of her face, and the thick glove on her right hand, destroys the connections between her thoughts and actions. Therefore, she can see and hear, but not speak of or act on, any secrets her wizard clientele may inadvertently reveal in the throes of passion. Consequently, Som-Som can only watch as her transsexual friend Rawra Chin is slowly destroyed by an abusive relationship.\n"}
{"id": "2019386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019386", "title": "Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre", "text": "Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre\n\nThe museum was officially opened on 10 June 2005 by Cherie Blair and open to the public on 11 June 2005. It is housed in an old coaching inn and yard, which has been converted into a museum at a cost of £4.5 million. Funding was provided by the Dahl family, Dahl's publishers, charitable foundations and corporate and private donors. The museum houses all of Dahl's main papers: his manuscripts, business and personal correspondence and his \"Ideas Books\". It also offers regular workshops and hosts events that help to enhance creativity and writing skills. It is run by an independent registered charity.\n\nIn 2008 the museum won the \"Best Small Visitor Attraction\" award from Enjoy England, the website of the country's official tourist board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019404", "title": "A Face in the Crowd (film)", "text": "A Face in the Crowd (film)\n\nA Face in the Crowd is a 1957 American drama film starring Andy Griffith (in his film debut), Patricia Neal and Walter Matthau, directed by Elia Kazan. The screenplay is by Budd Schulberg and is based on his short story \"Your Arkansas Traveler\", from the collection \"Some Faces in the Crowd\" (1953).\n\nThe story centers on Larry \"Lonesome\" Rhodes, a drifter who is discovered by the producer (Neal) of a small-market radio program in rural northeast Arkansas. Rhodes ultimately rises to great fame and influence on national television. The character was inspired by Schulberg's acquaintance with Will Rogers Jr. The successes of Arthur Godfrey and Tennessee Ernie Ford were also acknowledged in the screenplay.\n\nThe film launched Griffith into stardom but got mixed reviews upon its original release. Later decades have seen favorable reappraisals of the movie, and in 2008 it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nIn late 1950s America, radio journalist Marcia Jeffries encounters a drunken drifter, Larry Rhodes, while recording a segment at a rural Arkansas jail. She invites him to speak to the audience and sing while playing his guitar, and his raw voice, folksy humor and personal charm make him instantly popular. Marcia dubs him \"Lonesome\" Rhodes and fast-tracks him onto his own radio program.\n\nMarcia enlists the support of the show's staff writer Mel Miller and witnesses the charismatic Rhodes ad-lib his way to Memphis-area popularity, effectively criticizing local politicians along the way.\n\nWhen he pokes fun at his sponsor, a mattress company, it initially pull its ads, but when his adoring audience revolts, burning mattresses in the street, the sponsor discovers that Rhodes's irreverent pitches actually increased sales by 55%, and Rhodes returns to the air with a new awareness of his persuasive power. He begins an affair with Marcia and proposes to her.\n\nAn ambitious office worker at the mattress company, Joey DePalma, puts together a deal for Rhodes to star in a new TV show in New York City. The sponsor is Vitajex, an energy supplement that Rhodes ingeniously reimagines as a yellow pill marketed as a male enhancement product. As his fame, influence, and ego increase, Rhodes is enlisted to improve the appeal of presidential hopeful Senator Worthington Fuller of California, and rebrands the stuffy conservative as an everyman with a folksy nickname.\n\nIn contrast to his friendly onscreen persona, Rhodes has privately become an egomaniac who berates his staff. Marcia's hopes of marrying Rhodes are dashed, first when a woman turns up claiming to be his legitimate wife, and then when he returns from alleged divorce proceedings in Mexico, newly married to a 17-year-old drum majorette. Rhodes and Marcia enter into a profit-sharing agreement after she reminds him of her role in his success.\n\nUltimately, Rhodes's ascent into fame and arrogance begins to turn on him. Joey has an affair with his young wife; Rhodes dumps her and sends her back to Arkansas, but can't get out of his business arrangement with Joey, who threatens to reveal Rhodes's secrets.\n\nRhodes visits Marcia, who has come to regret her role in making him famous while he proposed his \"fighters for Fuller\" proposal. While Rhodes gets comfortable, Marcia leaves in the rain. To destroy him, she activates a live microphone over the end credits of his TV show that reveals Rhodes contemptuously mocking Fuller and the station's \"idiot\" viewers. His popularity and the show's ratings plummet, and the advertisers cancel their sponsorships.\n\nRhodes returns to his penthouse, where he was scheduled to address the nation's business and political elite, only to find the room empty, except for his friend, Beany, and a few African American servants, whom he dismisses when they don't respond to his demands. He discovers the truth during a phone call with Mel and Marcia and threatens suicide, but Marcia only goads him on. When the pair arrive at Rhodes's home, they find him speaking with an applause machine replacing the people whose support he lost. They confess everything and Marcia demands he never call her again.\n\nBefore they leave, Mel lays out a prediction of Rhodes's future: his career is not completely over, and he will likely find further TV work soon, but never again enjoy the same level of popularity and prestige. After leaving the building, Mel and Marcia hear Rhodes screaming for Marcia to return to him but ignore him as they depart into the night in a taxi, as a Coca-Cola sign in neon lights flashes continuously.\n\nMost of the film's interiors were shot in New York at the Biograph Studios in the Bronx. This was preceded by shooting in Memphis and Piggott, Arkansas, where Rhodes meets Betty Lou.\n\nContemporary newspapers reported an early 1956 trip by Kazan to Sarasota, Florida, to confer with Schulberg. Late in April, columnist Walter Winchell noted that Andy Griffith would depart the cast of his Broadway show \"No Time for Sergeants\" at the end of July, vacation for a month, and then begin shooting with Kazan. Kazan and Schulberg spent much of July and August 1956 in Memphis and in Arkansas, and Patricia Neal's involvement would be announced by early August. Both Griffith and Lee Remick made their film debuts in \"Face\".\n\nThe most involved location shoot was in Poplar Bluff, Missouri, standing in for Piggott in the fair and baton-twirling competition scenes. Five thousand extras were sought, to be fed and paid $1 hourly for a mid-August day's work. Sixty baton twirlers and musicians from six different high school bands were rounded up from Arkansas and Missouri. Remick reported spending two weeks in Piggott living with teen twirler Amanda Robinson and her family, working on her twirling and local accent. Some of her baton-twirling scenes used a double. At the Piggott location shoot some 380 dogs were assembled from Missouri and Arkansas for the scene following Rhodes's first mass-action call on his audience: to take their dogs to the home of a local sheriff who was running for higher office to find out if a candidate is worthy of the office of dog catcher.\n\nShooting in New York included 61 sets at Biograph Studios as well as some exteriors. The scene of the network headquarters switchboard was NBC, 30 Rockefeller Plaza. Anthony Franciosa, eager to work with Kazan, had turned down a more lucrative offer to appear in MGM's \"The Vintage\". Schulberg remained involved throughout: \"I went on a trip in 1955 to scout a location in Arkansas, and I've been on the set every day since shooting started in August [1956].\"\n\nIn stage performance, Griffith noted, he would work gradually up to his most intense moments, but needed to conjure that up spontaneously when shooting such scenes for Kazan. In some instances, he asked to have a few discarded chairs available to destroy, in order to work up his rage before filming.\n\nBig Jeff Bess, who portrayed the Sheriff under his own name, was a country singer and bandleader in Nashville who led Big Jeff and his Radio Playboys. He was once married to Tootsie Bess, owner of Tootsie's Orchid Lounge.\n\nUpon its original release, \"A Face in the Crowd\" got mixed reviews, one from Bosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\". Though he applauded Griffith's performance (\"Mr. Griffith plays him with thunderous vigor ...\"), Crowther felt that the character overshadowed the rest of the cast and the story. \"As a consequence, the dominance of the hero and his monstrous momentum ... eventually become a bit monotonous when they are not truly opposed.\" Crowther found Rhodes \"highly entertaining and well worth pondering when he is on the rise\", but called the ending \"inane\".\n\nOne critic who had only praise for the movie was François Truffaut; in his \"Cahiers du cinéma\" review, he called it \"a great and beautiful work whose importance transcends the dimensions of a cinema review\".\n\nOver the decades, critical opinion of the film has warmed considerably. \"A Face in the Crowd\" has an 87% \"fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 31 reviews, with an average rating of 8.11/10. The critical consensus reads, \"A raucous Andy Griffith channels the corruptive influence of celebrity in Elia Kazan's \"A Face in the Crowd\", a prescient critique of American media.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2019407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019407", "title": "Ali Azmat", "text": "Ali Azmat\n\nAli Azmat Butt (born 20 April 1970) is a Pakistani singer-songwriter, musician and actor. He is best known as the lead singer for the influential Sufi Rock band Junoon and for his subsequent solo career. In 2001, he became part of the first Pakistani band (Junoon) ever to perform at the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nAzmat was born in Havelian, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa where his grandfather was posted as station master of Havelian Railway Station, while he grew up in Garhi Shahu, Lahore, into a family of ethnic Kashmiri descent. His father, Nazir Ahmed Butt, was a middle-class businessman, who died in 2013. He went to Sydney, Australia, for his higher studies, but soon returned to Pakistan before completing university.\nHis first band Jupiters was known for performing covers at small gigs in Lahore. While with them, Azmat wrote his legendary hit song \"Dosti\". He later sang and recorded Dosti with Junoon, after which the song gained national fame. Junoon also made a comeback after 13 years while performing at a concert in Karachi arranged by Sooper.\n\nAli Azmat started out his career with Jupiters in 1986, based in his hometown of Lahore. Jupiters were known for doing covers of American pop and rock songs at small gigs. Azmat left Jupiters in 1990 to join Junoon.\n\nAli Azmat released his first album \"Junoon\" with the band, the album was produced by band's founder and lead-guitarist Salman Ahmed. Azmat's vocals featured on all the songs except for \"Khwaab\", \"Jiyain\" and \"Jogiya\". After launch of the band's second album \"Talaash\" both Ali Azmat and Junoon rose to fame.\n\nAli Azmat alongside Junoon in 1995 launched \"Kashmakash\", a compilation album and first ever in Pakistan, one song from this compilation Ehtesaab caused a major controversy. \nThe 1996 album \"Inquilaab\" was a major hit and its only single Jazba-e-Junoon was a super hit and topped chart, it became signature song and national song of 1996 Cricket World Cup and Pakistan national cricket team. Azmat gained further success after release of the sufi rock hit single Sayonee from their fourth album \"Azadi\" (1997). Azmat got international fame after release of Azadi in India. Azmat featured on 4 more albums \"Parvaaz\" (1999), \"Andaz\" (2001) \"Dewaar\" (2003) \"Infiniti\" (2007) with the band. After release of Infiniti, the band broke-up, Ali Azmat continued his solo career.\n\nAfter breaking up of Junoon, Azmat released his first solo album \"Social Circus\" (2005), whose single \"Na Re Na\" received positive reviews and became a major hit in country. Azmat released further four albums \"Klashinkof\" (AK-47 in Urdu) in (2008), \"Josh-e-Junoon\" (2010) whose title track \"Josh-e-Junoon became anthem for Pakistan in 2011 Cricket World Cup, \"Bum Phatta\" (2011) and \"Chalta Main Jaun\" (2011).\n\nAzmat stepped into Bollywood in 2003, when his single \"Garaj Baras\" from Junoon's 2--3 album \"Azadi\" was used for the movie Paap. In 2012, Azmat recorded two songs \"Yeh Jism Hai Toh Kya\" and \"Maula\" for Bollywood erotic thriller Jism 2.\n\n\nJunoon won the \"Best International Group\" award at the Channel V Awards in New Delhi in 1998, beating Prodigy, Sting and Def Leppard. The Band's first international release Azadi, went triple platinum in India alone. \"Sayonee\" was at the top of the Mtv India and Channel V charts for over two months. Junoon won the Award for \"Best Rock Band\" at the Indus Music awards in 2004. Indus Music Awards and from ARY Asian/Bollywood Awards. Junoon has also been awarded several awards for their contribution towards peace and South East culture by BBC, UNESCO and South Asian Journalists Association. Junoon was nominated for Best Musical Group at the Lux Style Awards several years in a row.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019410", "title": "Schillinger", "text": "Schillinger\n\nSchillinger is the surname of:\nCharacters on the HBO show \"Oz\":\n"}
{"id": "2019412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019412", "title": "MUD2", "text": "MUD2\n\nMUD2 is the successor of \"MUD1\", Richard Bartle's pioneering Multi-User Dungeon. Rather than a sequel, it is the result of over 20 years of continuous development, and is still largely based on the game's original code.\n\nThe game is nominally a roleplaying game, with a very strict set of rules, character classes and levels. Character progress up a ladder of 11 levels until they reach the traditional MUD goal of wiz (wizard or witch).\n\nCharacters move between locations, or game rooms, using compass directions, and basic commands such as GET LONGSWORD, GET DIAMOND, KILL DWARF WITH LONGSWORD. Points are scored by dropping treasure in the room known as the swamp, killing an NPC, or killing another player. The game also includes magical powers, which are gained through a mystical artifact known as The Touchstone. The small side effect of this is that touching the Touchstone may kill you, with the likelihood of death decreasing as you get higher in level. In order to make Wiz, one must also complete seven of eight tasks. Among wizzes' many powers is the ability to instantly kill any player in the land, using the much-vaunted Finger of Death, or FOD.\n\nThe game's levels are laid out as follows:\n\nIt is generally acknowledged that the biggest challenge in the game is other players, and highly skilled players that have made wiz will actively test \"mortal\" players to ensure they have the required level of skill to complete, and then manage the game.\n\nMuch of MUD2's long-running appeal comes from its much-celebrated depth, and its wide-ranging gameplay, as it contains large elements of puzzle-solving and exploration, as well as elements of skill, chance, and humour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019417", "title": "FRED (disk magazine)", "text": "FRED (disk magazine)\n\nFRED was a disk-based magazine for the SAM Coupé brand of computer. It was owned and run by Colin Macdonald during the 1990s and lasted for 82 issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "2019430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2019430", "title": "Equal Vision Records", "text": "Equal Vision Records\n\nEqual Vision Records is an independent record label based in Albany, New York. Equal Vision Records was founded in the early 1990s by Ray Cappo, singer for the bands Youth of Today, Shelter, and Better Than a Thousand.\n\nThe label originally existed solely to distribute Shelter and other Krishna releases. In 1992, label manager Steve Reddy bought Equal Vision from Cappo. The focus was expanded and a wider variety of bands were brought on board. According to \"Punk News\", \"The mid-to-late '90s saw a redoubling of the Equal Vision's hardcore efforts with such signings as One King Down and Ten Yard Fight. By the end of the '90s Equal Vision Records (EVR) found itself with an impressive stable of hardcore and punk bands, having added Bane, Trial, Converge and Saves the Day to its roster in the latter part of the decade.\"\n\nIn July 2009 EVR created a sub-label named Mantralogy. This sub-label will feature bands that \"deliver edgy, Krishna-conscious music.\"\n\nIn 2012 EVR artist Max Bemis (of \"Say Anything\") created an imprint label named Rory Records, distributed by EVR. TALLHART is the first artist of this imprint. On June 19, it was announced that Equal Vision Records and Casey Crescenzo of The Dear Hunter would be forming a partnership. Casey has been given his own imprint label: Cave & Canary Goods.\n\nEVR switched back its distribution of physical and digital releases in the US to RED Distribution since January 23, 2012, after many years with Alternative Distribution Alliance. In May 2013, EVR ink a partnership with UNFD to manufacture, promote and distribute EVR releases in Australia and New Zealand. Prior to the partnership, EVR has shared several artist with UNFD for distribution in both coverages, such as Say Anything, We Came as Romans and House Vs. Hurricane.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
