{"id": "1978724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978724", "title": "Virginia Theological Seminary", "text": "Virginia Theological Seminary\n\nVirginia Theological Seminary (VTS), formally called the Protestant Episcopal Theological Seminary in Virginia, is the largest and second oldest accredited Episcopal seminary in the United States, and is under the denomination Episcopal Church (TEC).\n\nEstablished in 1823, VTS is situated on an suburban campus in Alexandria, Virginia, close to downtown Washington, DC and adjacent to the campus of Episcopal High School. The seminary's notable alumni have taken leadership roles in the Episcopal Church, other Christian denominations in the United States, and overseas.\n\nVTS is a member of the Washington Theological Consortium and since 1938 has been an accredited member institution of the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada (ATS).\n\nThe seminary's foundation in 1823 was the result of the efforts of small group, led by William Holland Wilmer, who committed themselves to the task of recruiting and training a new generation of church leaders following the Revolutionary War. Francis Scott Key was a prominent member of this group supported by the vestry of St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Alexandria, which in 1818 formed a \"Society for the Education of Pious Young Men for the Ministry of the Protestant Episcopal Church in Maryland and Virginia\".\n\nIn 1821 the Virginia convention of the Episcopal Church pledged its support for the establishment of a regional seminary. Acquiescing to lobbying by the College of William and Mary since at least 1815, the Virginia convention recommended the seminary be located in Williamsburg, to involve the Diocese of North Carolina, as well as those men from the District of Columbia and Diocese of Maryland who had been working together through the Education Society. However, the convention of the Diocese of Maryland failed to concur. The committee appointed by the Virginia convention changed its mind about the proposed seminary's location and accepted Alexandria after Congressman Hugh Nelson arranged significant funding and Wilmer offered space and a lecture room at St. Paul's Church.\n\nThe seminary formally opened in 1823 with two instructors and 14 enrolled students. The Revd. Reuel Keith, a graduate of Middlebury College, Andover Seminary and a former rector of Bruton Parish Church, became the seminary's first elected professor in 1823. Wilmer also taught theology and church history from 1823–1826. In contrast with General Theological Seminary in New York City, VTS was for much of the 19th century associated with the more low-church or evangelical Episcopalian tradition. Emphasis was placed on preaching the plan of salvation, simpler worship styles and the development of student led missionary initiatives.\n\nLand provided in 1827 for the construction of a purpose built seminary campus prompted a move to hilltop site two and a half miles west of the growing city of Alexandria. The original library building was completed in 1855 and St. George's Hall in 1856. A generous gift from two New York brothers, John and William Henry Aspinwall, enabled the construction and dedication of the landmark Italianate, Gothic Revival, Aspinwall Hall in October 1859. Aspinwall Hall and adjacent buildings of the period designed by Baltimore architect Norris Starkweather, are listed in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nDuring the American Civil War from March 1862 to August 1865 the Union Army commandeered the seminary buildings and grounds for use as a military hospital. After the war, two professors and 11 veterans reopened the seminary on a campus that had been used to house 1,700 wounded Federal troops and to bury 500 soldiers.\n\nIn 1951 John T. Walker, later Bishop of Washington, became the first African-American student to enroll at the seminary. On June 3, 1953, Virginia Seminary merged with the Bishop Payne Divinity School, an African-American institution started by Virginia Seminary in Petersburg, Virginia, in 1878.\n\nIn 2019, the Seminary’s leaders announced that they are creating a $1.7 million reparations fund to allocate money specifically for the descendants of the enslaved who worked on the campus, as well as for black seminarians and black worshipers who experienced discrimination.\n\nThe seminary's stated mission is to form men and women for lay or ordained leadership and service in the ministry of the church. Out of its evangelical heritage and its missionary tradition, the seminary emphasizes the life of prayer, worship and community, the ministries of preaching, teaching, pastoral care and social justice. The seminary seeks to prepare its students as servants of Jesus Christ to equip the people of God for their vocation and ministry in the world. VTS also provides continuing theological education for clergy and laity of many Christian denominations.\n\nThe seminary maintains that theological education leading to ordination normally requires full-time study and full participation in its common life and worship. It also believes that theological education is greatly enhanced when it is done within an ecumenical, international and cross-cultural context.\n\n\nReplacing Martha J. Horne, who served as dean and president from 1994 to 2007, Ian Markham currently serves as the 14th Dean and President of Virginia Theological Seminary.\n\nTotal enrollment as of July 2012 was 227.\n\nIn addition to historic buildings such as Aspinwall Hall, 22 buildings have been added to the campus since the 1950s, including five dormitories, a refectory and Scott Lounge, 15 faculty homes, and a recreation building. Recognizing the needs of graduate students with young families a day-care center for young children has also been provided. In 1993, the Addison Academic Center opened with classroom space, the Lettie Pate Whitehead Evans Auditorium, the seminary bookstore, and student lounge.\n\nThe first seminary chapel was badly damaged during the Civil War and replaced in 1881 by Immanuel Chapel, a large Gothic Revival structure designed by architect Charles E. Cassell. On 22 October 2010, fire destroyed the historic building although no other part of the seminary was damaged and there were no injuries. Several of the stained glass windows were lost, including the Miriam window and the window behind the altar. The iconic words, \"Go Ye Into All The World And Preach The Gospel\", painted above the east window were also destroyed by the heat of the fire. The pulpit, the lectern and its Bible for readings during services, and the baptismal font, were not damaged by the fire. The damage was estimated at $2.5 million. An investigation by the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and the Alexandria Fire Marshal’s Office determined that the fire was of accidental nature.\n\nAfter the fire the foundations and lower walls of the 1881 structure were secured and retained to form an open air chapel garden. Supported by a capital campaign the seminary's new Immanuel Chapel was built at an adjacent site. Consecrated by the Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church, the Most Revd. Katharine Jefferts Schori, on 13 October 2015, the sermon at the service of consecration was preached by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. Designed by the architectural office of Robert A. M. Stern, the new chapel features items salvaged from the 2010 fire, a set of eight change ringing bells produced by the Whitechapel Bell Foundry and a 2 manual and pedal 27 stop tracker action organ (Opus 70) from Taylor and Boody.\n\nThe Bishop Payne Library, named after VTS alumnus Bishop John Payne of Liberia, serves as the seminary's library. The collection numbers over 225,000 volumes of books and bound periodicals and 190,000 e-books. Specialist areas of focus include biblical studies, church history, theology, the Protestant Reformation, missions, liturgies and church music.\n\nIn partnership with the Historical Society of the Episcopal Church, the Bishop Payne Library also hosts the African American Episcopal Historical Collection (AAEHC), documenting the history of the African-American Episcopalians in the United States.\n\nAlumni of VTS have served in prominent lay and ordained leadership roles in the Episcopal Church in the United States. Following the words the Great Commission many graduates have also contributed their skills to the development of missions in the wider Anglican Communion. Notable among this number:\n\n"}
{"id": "1978727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978727", "title": "Darina Allen", "text": "Darina Allen\n\nDarina Hilda Allen (née O'Connell; born 13 June 1948) is an Irish chef, food writer, TV personality and founder of Ballymaloe Cookery School.\n\nDarina Allen was born in Cullohill, County Laois, the eldest of nine children. The renowned chef Rory O'Connell is her brother. A graduate in hotel management of the Dublin Institute of Technology, she is the author of several successful books on the topic of Irish cuisine. She is a leader of the Slow Food movement in Ireland and instrumental in establishing a network of farmers' markets in the Cork area. In the 1960s she was sous-chef at Ballymaloe House and started giving courses in cooking. Later she moved the cookery classes to Kinoith under the name of Ballymaloe Cookery School. She married Tim Allen, son of Myrtle Allen and Ivan Allen, and now lives on her organic farm, Kinoith, in Shanagarry. Allen has been voted cooking teacher of the year by the International Association of Culinary Professionals. She is owner of Ballymaloe Cookery School in Shanagarry, County Cork, Ireland. The school is situated on an organically run farm.\n\nFounder of first Farmers' Markets in Ireland and continuing to be involved in helping set up new markets, she is currently chair of the Midleton Farmers' Market.\n\nMember of Taste Council of Irish Food Board, Chair of Artisan Food Forum of Food Safety Authority of Ireland, Food Safety Consultative Council of Ireland, Trustee of Irish Organic Centre, Patron of Irish Seedsavers.\n\nMember of Eurotoques (European Association of Chefs), IWF (International Women's Federation), Network Ireland, Guild of Foodwriters in UK and Ireland, International SLOW Movement, Bread Bakers Guild of America, IACP (International Association of Culinary Professionals – Darina Allen is a Certified Culinary Professional and Teacher and the school is accredited by IACP).\n\nCouncillor for Ireland in Slow Food Movement and President of East Cork Convivium of Slow Food.\n\n\nShe has written a number of cookery books including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1978731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978731", "title": "Church Divinity School of the Pacific", "text": "Church Divinity School of the Pacific\n\nChurch Divinity School of the Pacific (CDSP) is one of the nine seminaries of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America. It is located in Berkeley, California, and is a member of the Graduate Theological Union. The only Episcopal seminary located in the Far West, CDSP has, since 1911, been designated the official seminary of the Episcopal Church's Eighth Province, the Province west of the Rocky Mountains.\n\nThe Church Divinity School of the Pacific, or CDSP, and Trinity Church Wall Street announced March 4 that the New York parish had acquired the seminary. The Very Rev. W. Mark Richardson, CDSP president and dean, told Episcopal News Service in an interview that the deal will put the school on a solid financial footing and position it for growth. CDSP and its assets now belong to Trinity, he said, and the value of those assets “will be a fund, among other resources they have, that supports the program at the school and operation.”\n\nCDSP is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada and offers a variety of degree and certificate programs aimed at training clergy and lay leaders for ministries in the Anglican Communion.\n\nChurch Divinity School of the Pacific was founded in 1893 in San Mateo, California, by the second Episcopal Bishop of California, William Ford Nichols, after the gift of of land, funds for construction of the first building, and an endowment from George and Augusta Gibbs. Several of the seminary buildings were destroyed in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, and the seminary relocated to San Francisco in 1911 to a new building on the grounds of Grace Cathedral.\n\nIn 1914, CDSP was declared to be the official seminary of what is now known as Province VIII of the Episcopal Church, which comprises seventeen dioceses of the western United States and Taiwan. A move to Berkeley in 1930 facilitated cooperation with other seminaries in the East Bay, as well as with the University of California, Berkeley. CDSP was one of the founders of the Graduate Theological Union (GTU), established in 1962, and is now one of nine member schools and eight affiliated centers in this ecumenical consortium.\n\nCDSP offers students a variety of degree programs and courses of study. In order to keep up with changes and advances in the Church and in theological education, faculty members continually review curricula and make changes as appropriate. Currently, CDSP offers several degree programs:\n\n\nJointly with the Graduate Theological Union, CDSP also offers three advanced academic degree programs:\n\nStudents may enroll in the M.Div. and M.A. programs concurrently. A separate admission process for each program is necessary, as is the completion of all requirements for each degree. Concurrent M.Div./M.A. programs can be completed in no less than four years.\n\nThe St. Margaret's Visiting Professorship of Women in Ministry is named in honor of St. Margaret's House, a school that trained deaconesses and lay women for ministry in the Episcopal Church when deaconesses were separate orders from deacons. The school itself was named after Saint Margaret of Scotland. In the early 20th century, students from St. Margaret's House were able to take classes with CDSP students. By 1966, with the gradual dismantling of separate orders of ministry for men and women, the House was merged into CDSP.\n\nThe first St. Margaret's Visiting Professor of Women in Ministry is Dr. Jenny Te Paa Daniel, who was a theology graduate of the Graduate Theological Union and the first Maori woman to earn a doctorate in systematic theology. She was followed by Dr. Suzanne Guthrie, who has served as parish priest and chaplain at Vassar College and Cornell University. The third St. Margaret's Visiting Professor will be the 26th Presiding Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori who is a CDSP alumna (1994) and was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Divinity in 2001 when she was elected bishop of Nevada.\n\nCertificates of one, two, or three years of study may be given to non-degree students who have successfully completed the appropriate full academic years. These certificate programs include:\n\nThe Center for Anglican Learning & Leadership (CALL) offers online courses that address a wide range of subjects including history, theology, spirituality, leadership, pastoral care, liturgy & worship, scripture, and Anglican studies. Courses are suitable for both lay people and clergy. CALL’s instructors come from across the United States, and all courses are reviewed by faculty at CDSP. In 2007, CALL's online courses were featured in an article on Episcopal Life Online.\n\nThe Episcopal School for Deacons is on the grounds of the CDSP. This school trains deacons for the Diocese of California.\n\n\n\nSpecific references:\n\nGeneral references:\n\n"}
{"id": "1978736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978736", "title": "CableACE Award", "text": "CableACE Award\n\nThe CableACE Award (earlier known as the ACE Awards; ACE was an acronym for \"Award for Cable Excellence\") is a defunct award that was given by what was then the National Cable Television Association from 1978 to 1997 to honor excellence in American cable television programming.\n\nThe CableACE was created to serve as the cable industry's counterpart to broadcast television's Primetime Emmy Awards. Until the 40th ceremony in 1988, the Emmys refused to honor cable programming. For much of its existence, the ceremony aired in a simulcast of as many as twelve cable networks in some years. The last few years found the ceremony awarded solely to one network, usually Lifetime or TBS.\n\nBy 1997, the Emmys began to reach a tipping point, where cable programming had grown to hold much more critical acclaim over broadcast programming, and met an even parity, a position that would only hold for a short time before cable programming began to dominate the categories of the Primetime Emmys. \n\nFew attended the national CableACE Awards ceremony in November 1997, and the CableACE show did a tiny\n0.6 rating on TNT, compared with a 1.2 the year before,while the Emmys had a 13.5 rating in 1997. Smaller cable networks called for the CableACEs to be saved as their only real forum for recognition.\n\nIn April 1998, members of the NCTA chose to end the CableACEs.\n\nProfessionals in the television industry were randomly selected to be judges. A Universal City hotel would be selected, where several rooms would be rented for the day. Individual rooms would be designated for each award category. Judges were discouraged from leaving the rooms at any time during the day-long judging. There were usually eight to 12 judges for each category. Depending on the submissions being presented, facilitators would play anywhere from 10 minutes per show – to the entire show – for the judges' award consideration. Judges would mark their ballots privately and were told to not discuss their selections with other judges. The awards standard tallying by a certified public accounting firm was done to keep the results of the ballot secret until the time of the announcement of the award's winner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978747", "title": "Julia (Nineteen Eighty-Four)", "text": "Julia (Nineteen Eighty-Four)\n\nJulia is a fictional character in George Orwell's 1949 dystopian novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". Her last name is never given in the novel but she is called Dixon in the 1954 BBC TV production.\n\nJulia was born in 1958 in Oceania, the super-state combining North America, South America, Southern Africa, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (renamed \"Airstrip One\"). Her knowledge of events before the revolution is inaccurate as her grandfather, the only close source to her with that knowledge, disappeared when she was eight. Julia integrated herself into the daily life of Oceania early, becoming an especially zealous propagandist for the Junior Anti-Sex League, the Two Minutes Hate and Community Centre. She secretly despises the Party and wants to join the Brotherhood, purportedly an outlawed organization founded by Emmanuel Goldstein. She had her first affair with a Party member at the age of sixteen.\n\nJulia first appears in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" at the age of 26, an enthusiastic participant in the Two Minutes Hate directed against Emmanuel Goldstein, a Party co-founder who claims the Revolution was betrayed. At one point, she flings a Newspeak dictionary at the telescreen. Winston Smith, a fellow worker in the Ministry of Truth, is both aroused by Julia's beauty and disgusted by her fervour. He recalls that women, especially those Julia's age, are among the most fanatical members of the Party. He fantasises about raping and murdering her, and fears that she is a member of the Thought Police prepared to denounce him.\n\nAfter an unspecified amount of time (after Winston leaves a store), Winston spots Julia walking past him. Their gazes meet and Winston, thinking that she is spying on him, contemplates murdering her with a cobblestone. His fear keeps him from doing this.\n\nMonths later, Winston bumps into Julia on her way from the Fiction Department and receives a small paper from her. In his cubicle at work, he unfolds the note and reads what Julia wrote: \"I love you.\" Winston makes arrangements with Julia to meet in the crowd at Victory Square. Winston finds in Julia a fellow thoughtcriminal (as well as a sex criminal); they decide to live life to the fullest while dodging the Party whenever possible. Over the next several months, they arrange to meet and have recreational sex – something forbidden by the Party – in a variety of places outside London. The lovers know fully well that they will soon be detected and arrested, and Julia observes that \"everybody always confesses. You can't help it.\"\n\nWhen Inner Party member O'Brien drops a hint that he is a member of the mysterious anti-Party Brotherhood, Winston and Julia come to meet him. O'Brien tests their loyalty by asking whether she and Winston are prepared to separate and never see each other again; Julia shouts \"No!\". Winston agrees with a heavy heart. Days later, when Winston and Julia are staying in the room above Mr Charrington's shop and have read parts of Goldstein's book, they are arrested by the Thought Police. Charrington, as it turns out, is a Thought Police agent.\n\nO'Brien is really a faithful Party member and torturer for the Thought Police. While interrogating Winston, O'Brien claims that Julia caved in immediately to the Party's pressure: \"She betrayed you, Winston. Immediately – unreservedly. I have seldom seen anyone come over to us so promptly. You would hardly recognize her if you saw her. All her rebelliousness, her deceit, her folly, her dirty-mindedness – everything has been burned out of her. It was a perfect conversion, a textbook case.\"\n\nDuring months of torture and brainwashing, Winston surrenders intellectually, but strives to keep his innermost heart inviolate: He knows he will eventually be killed, but secretly he intends to continue hating Big Brother and loving Julia, the only thing keeping him from reverting to a mindlessly loyal Party comrade. One tiny victory he reserves for his moment of death: The Party could not change his feelings and make him betray Julia in his heart.\n\nHowever, Winston's resolve to continue loving Julia is burned away when he finally enters Room 101. O'Brien threatens to let rats devour Winston's face, and in utter desperation he begs O'Brien, \"Do it to Julia!\"\n\nJulia is seen one last time in the novel, when she meets Winston after they have both been reintegrated into Oceania society and restored to orthodox thought. They agree nothing – not even sex – matters any more, because their feelings for each other are gone. Julia explains to Winston that \"sometimes...they threaten you with something – something you can't stand up to, can't even think about. And then you say, 'Don't do it to me, do it to somebody else, do it to so-and-so.' ... And after that, you don't feel the same towards the other person any longer\". It is also suggested that she has been given a lobotomy (\"...and there was a long scar, partly hidden by the hair, across her forehead and temple...\").\n\nAs the novel closes, Winston discovers that his love for Julia has been replaced by love for Big Brother – the only form of love that is approved by the Party.\n\nLike Winston, Julia is a smoker. During the affair between them, Julia ambiguously acquires goods such as \"real\" coffee, tea, bread and milk, theoretically only available to the Inner Party members (as opposed to the lower-quality \"Victory\" brand products consumed by Outer Party members and Proles), luxuries which seem to exacerbate the sense of the affair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978752", "title": "Logic in China", "text": "Logic in China\n\nFormal logic in China has a special place in the history of logic due to its repression and abandonment—in contrast to the strong ancient adoption and continued development of the study of logic in Europe, India, and the Islamic world.\n\nIn China, a contemporary of Confucius, Mozi, \"Master Mo\", is credited with founding the Mohist school,\nwhose canons dealt with issues relating to valid inference and the conditions of correct conclusions. However, they were nonproductive and not integrated into Chinese science or mathematics.\n\nThe Mohist school of Chinese philosophy contained an approach to logic and argumentation that stresses rhetorical analogies over mathematical reasoning, and is based on the \"three fa\", or methods of drawing distinctions between kinds of things.\n\nOne of the schools that grew out of Mohism, the Logicians, are credited by some scholars for their early investigation of formal logic.\n\nDuring the subsequent Qin Dynasty, the rule of Legalism repressed this Mohist line of investigation, which has been said to have disappeared in China until the introduction of Indian philosophy and Indian logic by Buddhists. A prominent scholar suggests that the version assembled for the Imperial Library of the Han Dynasty would probably have been as disorganised as the current extant text, and thus would have only been 'intermittently intelligible', as it is for current readers who do not consult a critical edition. Disagreeing with Hajime Nakamura, Graham argues the school of Neo-Taoism maintained some interest in the Canons, although they may already have some of the terminology difficult to understand. Before the end of the Sui Dynasty, a shortened version of Mozi appeared, which appears to have replaced the Han edition. Although the original Mozi had been preserved in the Taoist, and became known once more in the 1552 Lu edition and 1553 Tang edition, the damage was done: the dialectical chapters (as well as the military chapters) were considered incomprehensible. Nevertheless, with the rise of Chinese critical textual scholarship, the book benefited from explanatory and critical commentaries: first, by Bi Yuan, and his assistant, Sun Xingyan; another commentary by Wang Chong, which has not survived; 'the first special study', by Zhang Huiyan; a republication of Part B by Wu Rulun. However, the summit of this late Imperial scholarship, according to Graham, was the 'magnificent' commentary of Sun Yirang, which 'threw open the sanctum of the Canons to all comers. Graham summarises the arduous textual history of the Canons by arguing that the Canons were neglected throughout most of China's history; but he attributes this fact to 'bibliographical' accidents, rather than political repression, like Nakamura.\n\nThe study of logic in China was revived following the transmission of Buddhism in China, which introduced the Buddhist logical tradition that began in Indian logic. Buddhist logic has been often misunderstood by scholars of Chinese Buddhism because they lack the necessary background in Indian logic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978761", "title": "Society of Yeager Scholars", "text": "Society of Yeager Scholars\n\nThe Society of Yeager Scholars is the name of the highest academic scholarship offered at Marshall University, named in honor of Chuck Yeager, the first recorded pilot to break the sound barrier.\n\nThe scholarship was established to elevate the quality of academics at Marshall University and to honor Yeager, a local native who did not have the opportunity to attend college (see \"The Right Stuff\").\n\nThe Society of Yeager Scholars is a part of the Marshall University Honors College. Academic policy for the Yeager Scholars program is guided by a steering committee composed of university faculty. The chair of the steering committee and the dean of the Honors College have a role in developing the curriculum, administering the budget, coordinating the international aspects of the program, and recruiting and advising of the scholars.\n\nA board of directors, which includes politicians, business leaders, and former students, has been established to advise on policy, to promote the society, to assist in recruiting students, and to be active in fundraising. Permanent members of the board of directors are the president of Marshall University as well as the vice-president for academic affairs and the vice-president for institutional advancement of the university. The Governor of West Virginia is an ex-officio member of the board.\n\nFunding for the Society of Yeager Scholars comes primarily from private money. An endowment in excess of $9.2 million supports the Yeager Scholars and is administered through the Marshall University Foundation.\n\nMembers of the society are selected through a highly competitive interview process from high school seniors from throughout the United States. The process of selecting Yeager Scholars begins with an application made directly to the program and submitted by December 1 of each year. The application consists of information about each student's extracurricular activities, honors and awards, and includes personal essays. Each application must be accompanied by three letters of reference and a transcript of high school grades. \n\nThe applications are screened by a special committee of faculty and administrators and are evaluated on a system that takes into consideration scores on the ACT and/or SAT tests, cumulative grade point average in high school, range of extracurricular activities, the nature of awards and honors achieved, and the information contained in the letters of reference. As a result of the screening a number of applicants are invited to become semifinalists and are interviewed at locations near their home on a Saturday in late January. \n\nThe results of the semi-finalist interviews are then tallied, and a number of semi-finalists are then invited to become finalists and to be interviewed at the Marshall University campus in Huntington, West Virginia in late February. The finalist weekend includes (in addition to two sets of interviews) a tour of the university campus, the opportunity to meet with faculty from departments in which the finalist might wish to major, the chance to watch a home basketball game in the Henderson Center (depending on the basketball schedule), and the opportunity to talk informally with the current scholars and with the staff of the Yeager program. The weekend is designed to give the finalists a chance to get acquainted with Marshall University and the Yeager Scholars program and to give the selection committee the opportunity to determine which of the finalists will be asked to become Yeager Scholars. Those selected to become Yeager Scholars will have until early April to accept the Society's invitation. \n\nThose chosen receive a four-year scholarship that includes full tuition and fees; full room and board; study at Oxford University ; a stipend for textbooks and supplies; $7000 for an additional study abroad experience; and the use of a personal computer while he or she is enrolled in the program.\n\nThe academic program provided each Yeager Scholar is rigorous and demanding. The program consists of a number of elements: \n\n\nThe core curriculum is designed to assist each Yeager Scholar in developing skills in analysis, synthesis and critical thinking. Each scholar will be expected to demonstrate superior skills in written and oral communication. In order to remain in the Yeager Scholar's program, each student must maintain a cumulative 3.5 grade point average. In order to remain in the Yeager Scholar's program, each student must maintain a cumulative 3.5 grade point average. Those who complete all academic requirements are awarded a Yeager medallion containing flecks of the same metal as the Bell X-1.\n\n\n\nMarshall University"}
{"id": "1978763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978763", "title": "Quincy Mine", "text": "Quincy Mine\n\nThe Quincy Mine is an extensive set of copper mines located near Hancock, Michigan. The mine was owned by the Quincy Mining Company and operated between 1846 and 1945, although some activities continued through the 1970s. The Quincy Mine was known as \"Old Reliable,\" as the Quincy Mine Company paid a dividend to investors every year from 1868 through 1920. The Quincy Mining Company Historic District is a United States National Historic Landmark District; other Quincy Mine properties nearby, including the Quincy Mining Company Stamp Mills, the Quincy Dredge Number Two, and the Quincy Smelter are also historically significant.\n\nThe Quincy Mine was founded in 1846 by the merger of the Northwest Mining Company and the Portage Mining Company. Due to poor communication between government offices, these two speculative mining companies had purchased the same tracts of land during the mining rush of the early 1840s. The directors met and decided to merge, with significant investment coming from Massachusetts (the town of Quincy, Massachusetts lent the mine its name). While many other copper mines were founded at the same time, the Quincy Mine became the most successful of the 1840s-era mines, and was the country's leading copper-producing mine from 1863 (when it exceeded the production of the Minesota Mine) through 1867 (after which it was exceeded by the Calumet and Hecla).\n\nThe mine was the first Michigan copper mine to switch from fissure mining to amygdaloid mining, when the recently discovered Pewabic amygdaloid lode was found to cross Quincy property in 1856. High-grade fissure veins contained large, pure masses of copper, but the masses could take days or even months to extract, at high cost. Amygdaloid mining consisted of extracting lower-grade strataform orebodies in the \"amygdaloid zones,\" the upper portions of basalt lava flows. Rock bearing small pockets of copper could be blasted out immediately and processed elsewhere at much lower cost. Amygdaloid mining proved much more productive than fissure mining, and the size and richness of the Pewabic lode in particular allowed the Quincy to produce profits for 53 consecutive years. The Quincy company expanded laterally along the lode by buying out adjacent properties. The company bought the Pewabic mine in 1891, the Mesnard and the Pontiac in 1897, and the Franklin mine in 1908. This helped the mine survive longer than almost all other Keweenaw copper mining companies, except the Calumet and Hecla Mining Company and the Copper Range Company.\n\nTo attract a better class of worker, the Quincy Mining Company built and maintained housing for the workers. Over the course of operations, the types of housing ranged from simple tents in the early days, to complete three story houses shortly before the mine's shutdown. The executives on the east coast wanted to build more elaborate and fancy homes with amenities such as electricity and running water. However, the on-site managers didn't think it was necessary for the miners to have such high-class dwellings. But the east coast executives realized that if they offered nicer homes to the workers, the miners were more likely to stay, raise families, and be less likely to leave the area or transfer to another mining company. This strategy proved effective and helped the Quincy Mining Company retain its status as one of the premier mining companies in the region.\n\nThe Quincy Mining Company closed operations (but did not dissolve) in 1931 due to low copper prices. During World War II, the mines re-opened due to increased copper demand. When the government stopped supporting copper prices after the war, the mines quickly closed for good.\n\nWhen the mine ceased production in 1945, the Quincy Number 2 shaft was the world's longest mine shaft, at 9,260 feet (2.82 km or 1.75 miles) along the dip of the deposit on a 55 degree decline. (measured vertically from the shaft collar, the depth is 6,200 feet.) To raise and lower ore and workers into this shaft, the world's largest steam-driven mine hoist was built in 1918 and housed in the Quincy Number 2 Hoist House. The Nordberg Steam Hoist and its reinforced concrete building, built in the Georgian architectural style with brick veneer and Italian-tiled walls, cost over $370,000 in 1918 but was used for only eleven years until it ceased usage in 1929. Weighing more than 880 tons, it lifted 10 tons of ore at 36.4 miles per hour, thus saving $16,080 in fuel bills in its first year of operation. The hoist sat on the largest concrete slab ever poured, containing 3200 cu. yards of concrete and over 8 tons of reinforcement material. The Number 2 Hoist House was built as a reinforced concrete structure on a scale rare for 1918, making it one of the first of its kind. The very decorative Hoist House was used as a showpiece for visiting investors.\n\nThe Quincy Mine is now a popular Keweenaw tourist attraction. The Quincy Mine Hoist Association maintains the buildings and grounds, and provides guided tours of the Number 2 Hoist House and the 7th level of the mine during the summer. Tourists are transported to the 7th level by the Quincy and Torch Lake Cog Railway. There are museum-style exhibits within many buildings. The mine and surrounding areas are part of Keweenaw National Historical Park.\n\nThe Number 6 Shaft House (no longer standing) is often pictured in photographs as a picturesque example of shaft house architecture.\n\nOn December 6, 2008 Michigan Tech Associate Professor William J. Gregg was installing emergency ladders in the mine shaft at the Number 2 Shaft House when he fell 225 feet and landed on an object and was declared dead at the scene by a paramedic who was lowered down to his location.\n\nThe shafts and stopes of the Quincy Mine have slowly filled with groundwater since the closing of the mine. The water has currently filled the mine up to the seventh level, making all lower levels inaccessible. The seventh level is drained by a large adit, which is the mine tour entrance. The adit, originally five feet high and three feet wide when it was constructed in 1892, was enlarged by Michigan Tech in the 1970s for a mining study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978770", "title": "Brominated flame retardant", "text": "Brominated flame retardant\n\nBrominated flame retardants (BFRs) are organobromine compounds that have an inhibitory effect on combustion chemistry and tend to reduce the flammability of products containing them. The brominated variety of commercialized chemical flame retardants comprise approximately 19.7% of the market. They are effective in plastics and textile applications like electronics, clothes and furniture.\n\nMany different BFRs are produced synthetically with widely varying chemical properties. There are several groups:\n\n\nDecabromodiphenyl ether (\"Deca-BDE\" or \"DeBDE\") - In August 2012, the UK authorities proposed decabromodiphenyl ether (Deca-BDE or DeBDE) as a candidate for Authorisation under the EU‘s regulatory regime on chemicals, REACH. On 5 July 2013 ECHA withdrew Deca-BDE from its list of priority substances for Authorisation under REACH, therefore closing the public consultation. On 1 August 2014, ECHA submitted a restriction proposal for Deca-BDE. The agency is proposing a restriction on the manufacture, use and placing on the market of the substance and of mixtures and articles containing it. On 17 September 2014, ECHA submitted the restriction report which initiates a six months public consultation. On 9 February 2017, the European Commission adopted Regulation EU 2017/227. Article 1 of this regulation states that Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 is amended to include a ban on the use of decaBDE in quantities greater than 0.1% by weight, effective from 2 March 2019. Products placed on the market prior to 2 March 2019 are exempt. Furthermore, the use decaBDE in aircraft is permissible until 2 March 2027.<ref name=\"Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/227\"></ref>\n\nHexabromocyclododecane (\"HBCD\" or \"HBCDD\") is a ring consisting of twelve carbon atoms with six bromine atoms tied to the ring. The commercially used HBCD is in fact a mixture of different isomers. HBCD is toxic to water-living organisms. The UNEP Stockholm Convention has listed HBCD for elimination, but allowing a temporary exemption for the use in polystyrene insulation foams in buildings.\n\nTetrabromobisphenol A (\"TBBPA\" or \"TBBP-A\") is regarded as toxic to water environment. This flame retardant is mainly used in printed circuit boards, as a reactive. Since TBBPA is chemically bound to the resin of the printed circuit board, it is less easily released than the loosely applied mixtures in foams such that an EU risk assessment concluded in 2005 that TBBPA poses no risk to human health in that application. TBBPA is also used as an additive in acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS).\n\nContent of brominated flame retardants in different polymers:\n390,000 tons of brominated flame retardants were sold in 2011. This represents 19.7% of the flame retardants market.\n\nThe electronics industry accounts for the greatest consumption of BFRs. In computers, BFRs are used in four main applications: in printed circuit boards, in components such as connectors, in plastic covers, and in electrical cables. BFRs are also used in a multitude of products, including, but not exclusively, plastic covers of television sets, carpets, pillows, paints, upholstery, and domestic kitchen appliances.\n\nUntil recently testing for BFR has been cumbersome. Cycle time, cost and level of expertise required for the test engineer has precluded the implementation of any screening of plastic components in a manufacturing or in a product qualification/validation environment.\n\nRecently, with the introduction of a new analytical instrument IA-Mass, screening of plastic material alongside a manufacturing line became possible. A five-minute detection cycle and a 20-minute quantification cycle is available to test and to qualify plastic parts as they reach the assembly line. IA-Mass identifies the presence of bromine (PBB, PBDE, and some others), but cannot characterize all the BFRs present in the plastic matrix.\n\nIn February 2009, the Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements (IRMM) released two certified reference materials (CRMs) to help analytical laboratories better detect two classes of flame retardants, namely polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs). The two reference materials were custom made to contain all relevant PBDEs and PBBs at levels close to the legal limit set out in the RoHS Directive of 1 g/kg for the sum of PBBs and PBDEs.\n\nMany brominated chemicals are under increasing criticism in their use in household furnishings and where children would come into contact with them. Some believe PBDEs could have harmful effects on humans and animals. Increasing concern has prompted some European countries to ban some of them, following the precautionary principle more common in Europe. Some PBDEs are lipophilic and bioaccumulative. PBDEs have been found in people all over the world.\n\nSome brominated flame retardants were identified as persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic to both humans and the environment and were suspected of causing neurobehavioral effects and endocrine disruption. One particular target group is Firefighters who are exposed to brominated fire retardants during firefighting operations and is resulting in cancer rates that far exceed the general public. As an example, in Europe, brominated flame retardants have gone through REACH and when risks were identified appropriate risk management options were put in place; such was the case for commercial Penta-BDE and commercial Octa-BDE.\nGiven the current state of waste disposal in the world, there is a potential for BFRs to be released into the environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978776", "title": "Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union", "text": "Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union\n\nThe Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union (HERE) was a United States labor union representing workers of the hospitality industry, formed in 1891. In 2004, HERE merged with the Union of Needletrades, Industrial, and Textile Employees (UNITE) to form UNITE HERE. HERE notably organized the staff of Yale University in 1984. Other major employers that contracted with this union included several large casinos (Harrah's, Caesars Palace, and Wynn Resorts); hotels (Hilton, Hyatt and Starwood), and Walt Disney World. HERE was affiliated with the AFL-CIO.\n\nFemale membership in HERE grew from 2,000 in 1908 to 181,000 in 1950. The rise in women membership reflected the feminization of the hotel and restaurant industry and the increase in the performance of waiting work by women. Women's presence in leadership positions of HERE also increased. Waitress activists sat on the General Executive Board (GEB) from 1909 on and participated in various conventions, though as a minority status. Participation was highest in the 1920s. Though female participation in HERE dipped in the 1930s and 1940s, it was still disproportionately higher than in other unions. \n\nWomen also enjoyed leadership positions at the local level. A national estimation written in 1926 held that 43 culinary locals had female secretaries; in 1944 California, 21 out of 75 locals had female secretaries, a prominent position in labor organizing. Women were able to enjoy such success in HERE due to the separation of workers by trade, which provided waitress activists \"space apart from male hostility and … the development of female perspectives and leadership skills.\"\n\nThe Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation and Archives, Martin P. Catherwood Library at Cornell University holds numerous collections of archival material generated by HERE at a national level.\n\nThe Walter P. Reuther Library at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan houses an archival collection detailing the history of HERE Local 24 from 1914–1976, including numerous photographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978782", "title": "Canadian Blood Services", "text": "Canadian Blood Services\n\nCanadian Blood Services is a non-profit charitable organization that is independent from the Canadian government. The Canadian Blood Services was established as Canada's blood authority in all provinces and territories except for Quebec in 1998. The federal, provincial and territorial governments created the Canadian Blood Services through a memorandum of understanding. Canadian Blood Services is funded mainly through the provincial and territorial governments.\n\nCanadian Blood Services is a health-care system that is part of Canada's broader network of systems, and it is currently the only organization that is funded by Canada's provincial and territorial governments for manufacturing biological products. In addition to providing blood and blood products, the organization also provides transfusion and stem cell registry services on behalf of all provincial and territorial governments besides Quebec. All provinces and territories are able to access the national transplant registry for inter-provincial organ sharing and related programs.\n\nIt has a unique relationship with Héma-Québec, the provincial blood system operator that provides products to patients and manages Quebec's stem cell donor registry. The two organizations work closely to share blood products in times of need and collaborate regularly to share information, insights and data.\n\nThere are several reasons why individuals can be deferred from donating blood, including intravenous drug use, living in the UK for certain periods of time, coming from an HIV-endemic country, as well HIV high risk activity.\n\nCanadian Blood Services has a multi-tiered system to measure the safety of their blood supply. Before donating, donors are first screened for their health.\n\nThe screening process for prospective donors includes:\n\n\nOnce the blood is donated, it must then go through testing for infectious diseases, including but not limited to HIV and hepatitis. Blood is also surveyed to monitor transmittable diseases in blood donors, investigated for possible transfusion-transmitted infections in blood recipients, and scanned for potential emerging pathogens that may pose a risk in the present or future. All these safety measures are done to protect blood recipients.\n\nPolicies that banned gay men from donating blood and tissues were first introduced around the world in the mid-1980s. These policies were introduced after the emergence of several reported cases of severe immune deficiency among gay men in the United States at the end of 1981. In June 1982, an increase in the cases of immune deficiency was reported among several groups of gay men in Southern California. This led many to believe that the cause of the immune deficiency was linked to the sexual transmission of infections agents. Furthermore, because many thought that the immune deficiency was only prevalent among gay men, the disease was initially called Gay-Related Immune Deficiency (or GRID). Hence, in the mid-1980s, the predecessor of the Canadian Blood Services—the Canadian Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service—introduced a blood donor restriction on men who have had sex with men (MSM) as of 1977, on the grounds of protecting the blood supply from HIV infection.\n\nIn 2006, Canadian Blood Services began conducting a thorough review of the blood donor restrictions on MSM; however, in 2007, the board of directors concluded that the restrictions were to be maintained. Upon this conclusion, Canadian Blood Services was encouraged to continue gathering more information on the subject. In 2010, the Ontario Superior Court—in response to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms challenge which was launched in 2002—ruled that the deferral criteria for MSM was not discriminatory as it was based on health and safety considerations. In 2011, the Canadian Blood Services' board of directors approved plans to remove the permanent deferral for MSM, and instead, agreed towards a defined term of not more than 10 years but less than five years since last sexual contact.\n\nOn May 22, 2013, Canadian Blood Services announced that the deferral period as prescribed and enforced by Health Canada for MSM would be decreased from a ban for \"even once since 1977\" to \"five years from last MSM [sexual] activity\" by the summer of 2013. The new policy came into effect on July 22, 2013. In June 2016, Canadian Blood services announced that Health Canada had approved its request to shorten the MSM ban from five years to one year, with this policy change to take effect on August 15, 2016. In 2019, Canadian Blood Services amended their policy again, after Health Canada had approved their request to reduce the waiting period for MSM donors from one year to three months.\n\nCanadian Blood Services aims to keep their policies as minimally restrictive while also keeping their blood supply safe. Data from HIV in Canada-Surveillance Report in 2017 stated that MSM adults are the largest portion of new HIV infection in Canada at 46.4%. Eligibility is determined by the most current evidence-based research available. Canadian Blood Services states that the 3-month waiting period exists because HIV is not detectable shortly after infection with their current testing technologies.\n\nMany critics say that Canadian Blood Services should be using a screening model that evaluates risky behaviour that may result in HIV, not based on an individual's sexuality. If a gay man is having unprotected anal sex in a committed monogamous relationship, they are less likely to be HIV positive than a man with secondary sex partners. All donations go through HIV testing and the approximate nine-day window where HIV goes undetected is the same for a gay man and heterosexual man.\n\nThe Canadian Blood Services, in partnership with Héma-Québec, manages the MSM Research Grant Program. This program is funded by contributions from Health Canada, which has made a $3-million investment in the research program. The objective of the MSM Research Grant Program is to generate a body of evidence-based research to help develop and inform alternative screening approaches for blood or plasma donors, thereby helping to ensure a more inclusive donor screening process for the Canadian blood system. The MSM Research Grant program is anticipated to help evolve and inform the current eligibility criteria for MSM, while maintaining and ensuring the safety of the Canadian blood supply. As of November 2018, the MSM Research Grant Program funds a total of 15 research projects.\n\nPreviously, there was ambiguity regarding the screening process for trans donors before the national criteria was implemented. On August 15, 2016 Canadian Blood Services' new eligibility criteria for transgender people came into effect. According to this criteria:\n\n\nThere is currently little research done on the trans population in Canada; however, the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention has summarized information from the U.S. and European countries stating that the prevalence of trans women in the U.S. and other high-income countries is 22 to 28 percent. Canadian Blood Services' two main risk factors for trans donors include:\n\n\nIn an effort to receive input from the LGBTQ community regarding the policies put in place for both MSM and trans donors, several consultations with this community have occurred. Two in-person consultations with trans and gender non-binary communities took place: one on Nov. 17, 2016 in Vancouver, and one on Dec. 8, 2016 in Toronto. \n\nThe Canadian Blood Services provides services in four main areas: blood, plasma, stem cells, and organs and tissues. Collection services vary across Canada, but typical services include: whole blood collection, plasmapheresis, plateletpheresis, and stem cell and bone marrow collection and matching.\n\nWhole blood collection is the shortest process of those listed above and at over 850,000 units collected per year, is the primary blood collection service offered by Canadian Blood Services. About 450 mL (1 United States liquid pint) of blood is collected during a blood donation. For a typical donor this represents about ten percent of their total blood supply.\n\nThe Canadian Blood Services collects, tests, and manufactures blood and blood products. These blood products are distributed to the hospitals which the organization serves in order to meet the clinical needs of individual patients. Canadian Blood Services also work in conjunction with provincial and territorial governments throughout Canada to meet the needs of patients throughout the country.\n\nCanadian Blood Services collects plasma from volunteer, unpaid donors across Canada. A majority of the donated plasma is used for a process called fractionation, where plasma is manufactured into plasma-derived products which are used to treat bleeding disorders, burns, and immune deficiencies. Collected plasma is also used to meet the transfusion needs of Canadian patients. In addition to these activities, one of the responsibilities of the organization is to monitor the amount of human plasma available to meet the needs of patients across Canada.\n\nThere is a growing demand for plasma in Canada in order to increase the amount available to manufacture medications which use proteins present in human plasma. As of 2019, there is not enough plasma collected in Canada to meet the demands of the country. The amount of plasma that the Canadian Blood Services collects only meets 13-14% of the demand for immune globulin. Hence, the vast majority of plasma used in Canada are from finished products that the organization purchases using plasma from paid donors in the United States. Approximately 80% of Canada's immune globulin is imported from the United States.\n\nAuthority is delegated to the provinces and territories in Canada to decide how they wish to collect plasma in their respective jurisdictions. While some provinces prohibit private clinics and companies from paying their plasma donors, some clinics located in Winnipeg, Manitoba, have been paying their plasma donors for thirty years. In order to provide Canadians with a secure supply of source plasma to address potential shortages or threats to the Canadian system, the Canadian Blood Services, therefore, has identified increasing their plasma donations as an active priority. However, as a not-for-profit organization, the Canadian Blood Services continues to stand by their current policy regarding plasma donors, in that they shall only collect plasma from voluntary, unpaid donors.\n\nAs of 2019, the organization has stated that they are currently working to develop a collections model to significantly increase their plasma collections through voluntary donations.\n\nCanadian Blood Services operates a stem cell program to aid patients who have diseases or disorders that are treatable with stem cell transplants. Manufacturing of stem cells is done through the collection of cord blood, to then be put in the cord blood bank. Canadian Blood Services also operates a national registry of potential adult stem cell donors, which is part of a network of other international donor registries. Human leukocyte antigen typing is also a service provided to assure that the matches between donors and receivers of stem cells are the best as possible.\n\nCord blood is the blood remaining in the umbilical cord and placenta after a baby is delivered. Cord blood contains an abundance of stem cells, and is capable of treating several genetic diseases, blood disorders, and immune deficiencies. It is useful in the treatment of over eighty diseases ad disorders, some of which include leukemia, lymphoma, and sickle cell disease. After transplantation, donated stem cells that are deemed healthy replace damaged stem cells in a patient's bone marrow and immune system.\n\nIn 2015, the Canadian Blood Services launched the Cord Blood Bank. The inception of the Cord Blood Bank came about after provincial and territorial ministries of health across Canada (with the exception of Quebec) committed to the establishment of an ethnically diverse, national, and publicly funded stem cell bank obtained from umbilical cord blood. In order to fulfill this commitment, a $48-million investment was made, of which the Canadian Blood Services pledged to raising $12.5-million in public funding. From this pledge, the Canadian Blood Services underwent its first fundraising campaign \"For All Canadians,\" through which they obtained over $12.5 million, exceeding their initial goal. Today, the Canadian Blood Services' Cord Blood Bank exists as a national, public health-care resource offered at four locations across Canada:\n\n\nIn Canada, there has been a steadily increasing demand for stem cells. Half of the patients in Canada requiring a stem cell door, however, are without a match. Furthermore, patients from ethnically diverse backgrounds seeking stem cell donors presents a challenge as oftentimes, a patient's best match is someone of similar ancestry. As of 2019, only thirty-one percent of the roughly 440,000 donors in Canada's stem cell registry are ethnically diverse—a figure that decreases to only three percent when examining those who are of mixed race.\n\nThe Canadian Blood Services works closely with the Organ and Tissue Donation & Transplantation community to help facilitate inter-provincial organ sharing, and to improve national system performance in this area. This is done via the provision of professional education resources, the development and sharing of leading practices, increasing public awareness, and through data analysis and reporting. As part of their role, they also manage a national transplant registry for inter-provincial organ sharing, operate the national organ waitlist, and manage related programs for organ donation and transplantation.\n\nSince 2008, the federal, provincial, and territorial governments have invested more than $70-million to support the Canadian Blood Services and their work with the organ and tissue donation and transplantation system. In April, 2019, it was announced by Ginette Petitpas Taylor, Minister of Health, that an additional $3.4-million in funding was to be delegated towards the Canadian Blood Services over the span of two years to help improve the organ and tissue donation and transplantation system in Canada.\n\nIn Canada, there are currently 23 living kidney donation and transplant donation programs involved with the kidney paired donation program. The kidney paired donation program is operated collaboratively between Canadian Blood Services and Canada’s living kidney donation and kidney transplant programs. \n\nAny healthy adult can be assessed to become a potential living kidney donor. Usually, donors wish to donate to a friend or family member if they are compatible, in which case the kidney paired donation program is not used. However, if they do not have a patient in mind to donate to, the kidney paired donation program can be used.\n\nCanadian Blood Services manages the Canadian Transplant Registry to match living kidney donors to those in need of transplants. They also play a role in facilitating the communication between the donor and patient to keep kidney donor chains going as fast as possible. In addition, they collaborate with the Kidney Transplant Advisory Committee to review each donor chain to make sure that high priority cases receive adequate attention and that the chain is progressing.\n\nCurrently, waiting times for deceased donor kidney transplants in Canada average about four to five years, with some patients never receiving a transplant. Those who are waiting for a kidney transplant make up approximately 78% of the organ transplant waiting list. In 2017, approximately 3379 Canadians were on the waiting list for a kidney transplant.\n\nThe table below highlights the conditions that individuals must be cautious of when deciding to donate blood.\n"}
{"id": "1978783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978783", "title": "Ballard, California", "text": "Ballard, California\n\nBallard is a census-designated place in Santa Barbara County, California. The town of Ballard is one of the communities that make up the Santa Ynez Valley. The nearest city is Solvang. The population was 467 at the 2010 census. Ballard is the smallest and oldest community in the Santa Ynez Valley. The town history can be seen in two buildings from the 1880s: the 1883 Ballard School and the Santa Ynez Valley Presbyterian Church, which was erected in 1889. Ballard was founded in 1880.\n\nBallard was founded in 1880 at the location of a Wells Fargo stage line station, being named by George Lewis after William Ballard, the former proprietor, who ran the station from 1862 to 1870. In 1882 it was believed that Ballard would grow into the central metropolis of Santa Barbara County. The first school, Ballard's Little Red School House, was built in 1882 and is still in operation today, being the primary tourist attraction in what turned out to be a tiny village, bypassed as a city.\n\nToday, Ballard is a combination of sleepy village and upscale bedroom community. Noted for its excellent elementary school, it is a prized residential area. The surrounding area is noted for its thriving and well-respected wine industry. The wine-producing region around Ballard was featured in the Academy Award-nominated film \"Sideways\". A world-renowned equine hospital is located nearby. The only commercial establishment currently operating in the main village is The Ballard Inn, a four-star restaurant and bed and breakfast inn in the heart of the village.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 1.2 square miles (3.1 km²), 99.98% of it land, and 0.02% of it water.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Ballard had a population of 467. The population density was 395.7 people per square mile (152.8/km²). The racial makeup of Ballard was 432 (92.5%) White, 3 (0.6%) African American, 1 (0.2%) Native American, 2 (0.4%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 12 (2.6%) from other races, and 17 (3.6%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 46 persons (9.9%).\n\nThe Census reported that 467 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 165 households, out of which 69 (41.8%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 104 (63.0%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 19 (11.5%) had a female householder with no husband present, 6 (3.6%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 8 (4.8%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 0 (0%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 29 households (17.6%) were made up of individuals and 11 (6.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.83. There were 129 families (78.2% of all households); the average family size was 3.17.\n\nThe population was spread out with 113 people (24.2%) under the age of 18, 45 people (9.6%) aged 18 to 24, 66 people (14.1%) aged 25 to 44, 178 people (38.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 65 people (13.9%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 45.7 years. For every 100 females, there were 89.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.3 males.\n\nThere were 188 housing units at an average density of 159.3 per square mile (61.5/km²), of which 134 (81.2%) were owner-occupied, and 31 (18.8%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.2%; the rental vacancy rate was 3.1%. 386 people (82.7% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 81 people (17.3%) lived in rental housing units.\n"}
{"id": "1978791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978791", "title": "Osmotherley, North Yorkshire", "text": "Osmotherley, North Yorkshire\n\nOsmotherley is a village and civil parish in the Hambleton hills in North Yorkshire, six miles north-east of Northallerton. The village is at the western edge of the North York Moors National Park. Osmotherley is on the route of the 110-mile Cleveland Way, one of the National Trails established by Natural England.\n\nIt is likely that Osmotherley means the clearing or 'ley', belonging to a Viking called 'Asmund' or a Saxon called 'Osmund'. There have been a number spellings of the name over the centuries: the name appeared in the \"Domesday Book\" as Asmundrelac; it has also been known as Osmundeslay and Osmonderlay.\n\nLocal legend says that Osmotherley was named after the mother of a villager named Oswald or Osmund, who went out to gather firewood in the winter. When she did not return her son became anxious and went out to look for her. He found her lying in the snow, dead or dying from the cold. Because he was not able to carry her back, he lay down beside her and died himself. It is where Oswald's mother lies, hence Osmotherley.\n\nLocated in the North Riding of Yorkshire, a division of the historic county of Yorkshire, Osmotherley has since 1972 been administered as part of the non-metropolitan county of North Yorkshire. North Yorkshire Police, created by the same Local Government Act 1972 as the non-metropolitan county, are the territorial police force responsible for Osmotherley.\n\nAn electoral ward of the same name exists. The ward stretches north and south from the village and has a population taken at the 2011 census of 1,764. It lies in the parliamentary constituency of Richmond (named for Richmond, Yorkshire).\n\nThe village school was founded 1857; the present building dates from 1878. The school is now Osmotherley Primary School. It is located on School Lane and has less than 50 pupils.\n\nOsmotherley has three pubs within a radius: the Queen Catherine, the Three Tuns and the Golden Lion. The village also has a newsagents, a Top Shop, a Youth Hostel and an antique shop. In 2019, the Osmotherley Fish and Chip takeaway was named the best in Northern England at the England Business Awards event. Thompson, the shop that served Osmotherley since 1786, and an Art and Craft Shop have both recently closed.\n\nLocated on the village green is the \"Barter Table\", a five-legged structure with a stone slab on top, which is about high. Goods used to be exchanged (bartered) on this table and it is now a grade II listed structure.\n\nThe Church of England parish church is dedicated to St Peter and is built on a Saxon site, with parts of the building dating from the Norman period. Largely rebuilt by architect C. Hodgson Fowler in 1892, it is a grade II* listed building.\n\nJohn Wesley preached at the barter table in the middle of Osmotherley's green on several occasions, the first in 1745. In 1754 a Methodist Chapel was erected in Chapel Yard.\n\nOsmotherley Friends Meeting House, a traditional stone building, was erected in 1690 or 1723. Meetings are held here monthly. It is thought that George Fox may have visited the village in the late 17th century.\n\nThe village is in the region of the North York Moors, one of the largest areas of moorland in Great Britain. \n\nCod Beck Reservoir is named from Cod Beck, a small tributary of the River Swale. The beck derives its name from the Celtic word 'Coed', meaning woody. Just before Cod Beck reaches the reservoir is a picturesque location called Sheepwash.\n\nOsmotherley is close to the western terminus of the Lyke Wake Walk. The official starting point is at the edge of the moors above the village, where there is a stone marker.\n\nAbout 1½ miles from Osmotherley near the A19 is Mount Grace Priory. Its ruins are situated at the foot of a steep wooded hill with a footpath leading into the village. This Carthusian religious house was founded around 1396.\n\nOsmotherley is the setting of some of the final chapters of the novel \"Brother in the Land\" by Robert Swindells. In the novel, many towns and cities are hit by individually programmed nuclear missiles, but because of Osmotherley's small size, the village is spared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978794", "title": "Aykut Barka", "text": "Aykut Barka\n\nAykut Barka (December 16, 1951, Fatih, Istanbul – February 1, 2002) was a Turkish earth scientist specialized in earthquake research. He is best known for his contributions to understanding the behaviour of the North Anatolian Fault Zone (NAFZ), one of the most dangerous active faults in the world.\n\nBarka was born in Fatih district of Istanbul in 1951 and received his PhD degree in 1981 from the University of Bristol, UK under the supervision of Dr. P.L. Hancock with a thesis on \"\"Seismotectonic Aspects of the North Anatolian Fault Zone\"\".\n\nHe worked and studied geosciences in some top rated institutions around the world, including Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, École Normale Supérieure Paris, MIT's Earth Resources Laboratory, Cambridge, MA, University of Bristol, UK and Geological Survey of Japan.\n\nIn 1997, Barka published a paper with Ross Stein and James H. Dieterich of USGS, titled \"\"Progressive failure on the North Anatolian Fault since 1939 by earthquake stress triggering\"\", which showed the migration of large earthquakes and, not surprisingly, positive stress accumulation in the Marmara Region. Only two years after this paper was published, the M7.4 1999 İzmit earthquake hit the Marmara Region, killing more than 17,000 people.\n\nAykut Barka died on February 1, 2002 from injuries suffered in a car accident five weeks earlier. He left a wife and two young children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978796", "title": "Epitaxial wafer", "text": "Epitaxial wafer\n\nAn epitaxial wafer (also called epi wafer, epi-wafer, or epiwafer) is a wafer of semiconducting material made by epitaxial growth (epitaxy) for use in photonics, microelectronics, spintronics, or photovoltaics. The epi layer may be the same material as the substrate, typically monocrystaline silicon, or it may be a more exotic material with specific desirable qualities.\n\nSilicon epi wafers were first developed around 1966, and achieved commercial acceptance by the early 1980s. Methods for growing the epitaxial layer on monocrystalline silicon or other wafers include: various types of chemical vapor deposition (CVD) classified as Atmospheric pressure CVD (APCVD) or metal organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD), as well as molecular beam epitaxy (MBE). \nTwo \"kerfless\" methods (without abrasive sawing) for separating the epitaxial layer from the substrate are called \"implant-cleave\" and \"stress liftoff\". A method applicable when the epi-layer and substrate are the same material employs ion implantation to deposit a thin layer of crystal impurity atoms and resulting mechanical stress at the precise depth of the intended epi layer thickness. The induced localized stress provide a controlled path for crack propagation in the following cleavage step. In the dry stress lift-off process applicable when the epi-layer and substrate are suitably different materials, a controlled crack is driven by a temperature change at the epi/wafer interface purely by the thermal stresses due to the mismatch in thermal expansion between the epi layer and substrate, without the necessity for any external mechanical force or tool to aid crack propagation. It was reported that this process yields single atomic plane cleavage, reducing the need for post lift-off polishing, and allowing multiple reuses of the substrate up to 10 times.\n\nThe epitaxial layers may consist of compounds with particular desirable features such as gallium nitride (GaN), gallium arsenide (GaAs), or some combination of the elements gallium, indium, aluminum, nitrogen, phosphorus or arsenic.\n\nSolar cells, or photovoltaic cells (PV) for producing electric power from sunlight can be grown as thick epi wafers on a monocrystalline silicon \"seed\" wafer by chemical vapor deposition (CVD), and then detached as self-supporting wafers of some standard thickness (e.g., 250 μm) that can be manipulated by hand, and directly substituted for wafer cells cut from monocrystalline silicon ingots. Solar cells made with this technique can have efficiencies approaching those of wafer-cut cells, but at appreciably lower cost if the CVD can be done at atmospheric pressure in a high-throughput inline process. In September 2015, the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems (Fraunhofer ISE) announced the achievement of an efficiency above 20% for such cells. The work on optimizing the production chain was done in collaboration with NexWafe GmbH, a company spun off from Fraunhofer ISE to commercialize production. The surface of epitaxial wafers may be textured to enhance light absorption. In April 2016, the company Crystal Solar of Santa Clara, California, in collaboration with the European research institute IMEC announced that they achieved a 22.5% cell efficiency of an epitaxial silicon cell with an nPERT (n-type passivated emitter, rear totally-diffused) structure grown on 6-inch (150 mm) wafers. In September 2015 presented an achieved conversion efficiency of 21.4% (independently confirmed) for screen-printed solar cells made with Crystal Solar epitaxial wafers.\n\nIn June 2015, it was reported that heterojunction solar cells grown epitaxially on n-type monocrystalline silicon wafers had reached an efficiency of 22.5% over a total cell area of 243.4 cmformula_1.\n\nIn 2016, a new approach was described for producing hybrid photovoltaic wafers combining the high efficiency of III-V multi-junction solar cells with the economies and wealth of experience associated with silicon. The technical complications involved in growing the III-V material on silicon at the required high temperatures, a subject of study for some 30 years, are avoided by epitaxial growth of silicon on GaAs at low temperature by Plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD)\n\n"}
{"id": "1978798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978798", "title": "Diederik Korteweg", "text": "Diederik Korteweg\n\nDiederik Johannes Korteweg (31 March 1848 – 10 May 1941) was a Dutch mathematician. He is now best remembered for his work on the Korteweg–de Vries equation, together with Gustav de Vries.\n\nDiederik Korteweg's father was a judge in 's-Hertogenbosch, Netherlands. Korteweg received his schooling there, studying at a special academy which prepared students for a military career. However, he decided against a military career and, making the first of his changes of direction, he began his studies at the Polytechnical School of Delft. Korteweg originally intended to become an engineer but, although he maintained an interest in mechanics and other applications of mathematics throughout his life, his love of mathematics made him change direction for the second time when he was not enjoying the technical courses at Delft. He decided to terminate his course and pull out of his studies so that he could concentrate on mathematics. He then enrolled in mathematics and mechanics courses qualifying him to become a high school teacher.\n\nIn 1878, Korteweg received a Ph.D. from the University of Amsterdam. His dissertation was titled \"On the Propagation of Waves in Elastic Tubes\". He was the first Ph.D. recipient from that University after it received authority to grant the doctorate.\n\nIn 1881, Korteweg joined the University of Amsterdam as Professor of Mathematics, Mechanics and Astronomy. While there he published a notable paper in \"Philosophical Magazine\" titled \"On the Change of Form of Long Waves . . \"\n\nSome of his famous students were Gustav de Vries, Gerrit Mannoury and Luitzen Egbertus Jan Brouwer.\n\nKorteweg was a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences for 60 years. He was a member of the Dutch Mathematical Society for 75 years. He was editor of \"Nieuw Archief voor Wiskunde\" from 1897 to his death in 1941.\n\nAn experiment conducted aboard the International Space Station in 2003 (\"Miscible Fluids in Microgravity\") was mounted to prove one of Korteweg's theories.\n\nThe asteroid 9685 Korteweg is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978799", "title": "1988 French Open", "text": "1988 French Open\n\nThe 1988 French Open was a tennis tournament that took place on the outdoor clay courts at the Stade Roland Garros in Paris, France. The tournament was held from 23 May until 5 June. It was the 92nd staging of the French Open, and the second Grand Slam tennis event of 1988.\n\n Mats Wilander defeated Henri Leconte, 7–5, 6–2, 6–1\n\n Steffi Graf defeated Natalia Zvereva, 6–0, 6–0 \n\n Andrés Gómez / Emilio Sánchez Vicario defeated John Fitzgerald / Anders Järryd, 6–3, 6–7, 6–4, 6–3\n\n Martina Navratilova / Pam Shriver defeated Claudia Kohde-Kilsch / Helena Suková, 6–2, 7–5\n\n Lori McNeil / Jorge Lozano defeated Brenda Schultz-McCarthy / Michiel Schapers, 7–5, 6–2\n\n Nicolas Pereira defeated Magnus Larsson, 7–6, 6–3\n\n Julie Halard defeated Andrea Farley, 6–2, 4–6, 7–5\n\n Jason Stoltenberg / Todd Woodbridge defeated Cristiano Caratti / Goran Ivanišević, 7–6, 7–5\n\n Alexia Dechaume / Emmanuelle Derly defeated Julie Halard / Maïder Laval, 6–4, 3–6, 6–3\n\nTotal prize money for the event was FF20,963,950.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978801", "title": "Raphe", "text": "Raphe\n\nRaphe (; from Greek ῥαφή, \"seam\") has several different meanings in science.\n\nIn botany and planktology it is commonly used when describing a seam or ridge on diatoms or seeds.\n\nIn animal anatomy it is used to describe a ridged union of continuous biological tissue. There are several different significant anatomical raphes:\n\n\nIn teratology, a malformation or congenital disorder involving a raphe, such as spina bifida, is known as a dysraphism.\n"}
{"id": "1978802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978802", "title": "The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner", "text": "The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner\n\nThe Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner: Written by Himself: With a detail of curious traditionary facts and other evidence by the editor is a novel by the Scottish author James Hogg, published anonymously in 1824.\n\nThe plot concerns Robert Wringhim, a staunch Calvinist who believes he is guaranteed Salvation and justified in killing those he believes are already damned by God. The novel has been classified among many genres, including gothic novel, psychological mystery, metafiction, satire and study of totalitarian thought, it can also be thought of as an early example of modern crime fiction in which the story is told, for the most part, from the point of view of its criminal anti-hero. The action of the novel is located in a historically definable Scotland with accurately observed settings, and simultaneously implies a pseudo-Christian world of angels, devils, and demonic possession. The narrative is set against the antinomian societal structure flourishing in the borders of Scotland in Hogg's day.\n\nThe first edition sold very poorly and the novel suffered from a period of critical neglect, especially in the nineteenth century. However, since the latter part of the twentieth century it has won greater critical interest and attention. It was praised by André Gide in an introduction to the 1947 reissue and described by the critic Walter Allen as 'the most convincing representation of the power of evil in our literature'. It has also been seen as a study of religious fanaticism through its deeply critical portrait of the Calvinist concept of predestination. It is written in English, with some sections of Scots that appear in dialogue.\n\nMany of the events of the novel are narrated twice; first by the 'editor', who gives his account of the facts as he understands them to be, and then in the words of the 'sinner' himself.\n\nThe story starts in 1687 with the marriage of Rabina Orde to the much older George Colwan, Laird of Dalcastle. Rabina despises her new husband because he falls short of her extreme religious beliefs, his love of dancing and penchant for drinking alcohol. She initially flees him but her father forces her back, and they live separately in the one house. Rabina gives birth to two sons. The first, George, is indisputably the son of the Laird, but it is strongly implied – though never confirmed – that her second son, Robert, was fathered by the Reverend Wringhim, Rabina's spiritual adviser and close confidant.\n\nGeorge, raised by the Laird, becomes a popular young man who enjoys sport and the company of his friends. Robert, educated by his mother and adoptive father Wringhim, is brought up to follow Wringhim's radical antinomian sect of Calvinism, which holds that only certain elect people are predestined to be saved by God. These chosen few will have a heavenly reward regardless of how their lives are lived.\n\nThe two brothers meet, as young men, in Edinburgh where Robert starts following George through the town, mocking and provoking him and disrupting his life. He appears to have the ability of appearing wherever George is. When on a hill-top, George sees a vision of his brother in the sky and turns to find him behind him, preparing to throw him off a cliff. Robert rejects any friendly or placatory advances from his brother.\n\nFinally, George is murdered by being stabbed in the back, apparently during a duel with one of his drinking acquaintances. The only witnesses to the murder were a prostitute and her despicable client, who claim that the culprit was Robert, aided by what appears to be the double of George's friend. Before Robert can be arrested, he disappears.\n\nThe second part of the novel consists of Robert's account of his life. It purports to be a document, part-handwritten and part-printed, which was found after his death. It recounts his childhood, under the influence of the Rev Wringhim, and goes on to explain how he becomes in thrall to an enigmatic companion who says his name is Gil-Martin. This stranger, who could be seen to be the Devil, appears after Wringhim has declared Robert to be a member of 'the elect' and so predestined to eternal salvation. Gil-Martin, who is able to transform his appearance at will, soon directs all of Robert's pre-existing tendencies and beliefs to evil purposes, convincing him that it is his mission to \"cut sinners off with the sword\", and that murder can be the correct course of action. From Gil-Martin's boasting of the number of his adherents and size of his dominions, Robert falls into the delusion that he is Peter the Great of Russia, who visited England about that time.\n\nThe confession traces Robert's gradual decline into despair and madness, as his doubts about the righteousness of his cause are counteracted by Gil-Martin's increasing domination over his life. Finally, Robert loses control over his own identity and even loses track of time. During these lost weeks and months, it is suggested that Gil-Martin assumes Robert's appearance to commit further crimes. However, there are also suggestions in the text, that 'Gil-Martin' is a figment of Robert's imagination, and is simply an aspect of his own personality: as, for example when 'the sinner' writes, 'I feel as if I were the same person' (as Gil-Martin).\n\nRobert flees, but is pursued and tormented by devils and can find refuge only as a shepherd. Finally he hangs himself with a grass rope – in which it is suggested that he is aided by devils.\n\nThe novel concludes with a return to the 'Editor's Narrative' which explains how the sinner's memoir was discovered in his grave. Hogg appears as himself in this section, expressing scorn of the project to open the grave.\n\nThe Private Memoirs and Confessions was published as if it were the presentation of a found document from the previous century offered to the public with a long introduction by its unnamed editor. The structure thus is of a single, self-contained publication offering a historically contextualised story, but the effect is unsettling. When taken together, the different elements create an impression of ambivalence and inconsistency, as if they were intended to present the reader with a conundrum. Because Hogg's novel appears to test concepts of internal validity, historical truth or a single rational world-view, contemporary critics sometimes regard it as an early anticipation of ideas associated with postmodernism.\n\nThe Confession (which comprises the middle section of the novel) is an autobiographical account of the life of Robert Wringhim and, \"passim\", his statement on the crimes with which his name was associated. The document is revealed to be in part a printed document intended for publication and in part a handwritten manuscript. The first section narrates events retrospectively. It is followed by events recounted \"in real time\", describing events during his last days on earth. It has been proposed that the evangelical Lady Colquhoun and her husband, James, were the models for the character of Rabina and George Colwan.\n\nThe \"Editor's Narrative\" \"introduces\" this memoir with \"factual\" descriptions \"from local tradition\" of events associated with Wringhim up to the murder of his estranged brother, George Colwan. This \"Editor's Narrative\" later resumes at the end of the novel as a post-script appending further details that supposedly comment on the text. This includes the transcript of an \"authentic letter\" published in Blackwoods Magazine \"for August 1823\" by a certain James Hogg. The ending finally places the novel in the present time by relating the mystery of a suicide's grave, the exhumation of its remains and (only on the very last pages) the \"recovery\" of the manuscript. In effect, this post-script reveals what a real \"editor\" may more properly have set at the beginning, and casts it as the \"conclusion\".\n\nDiscounting any transcendental inferences, there are two time-frames in the novel. The events of the memoir are set in a carefully identifiable period of Scottish history between the late 17th century and early 18th century. (The first date on the opening page is the year 1687.) The editor's narrative is even more concretely dated and situated in present time, external to the novel, through the device of the letter by Hogg included by the fictional editor (which was in fact published in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" as described). Hogg's brief cameo role in the final pages of the novel is effectively his \"signature\" appended to the otherwise anonymous original publication.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978804", "title": "NVG", "text": "NVG\n\nNVG may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1978805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978805", "title": "Pandemonic Incantations", "text": "Pandemonic Incantations\n\nPandemonic Incantations is the third studio album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was recorded during August and September 1997, at Selani Studio and was mixed in October 1997. The album was then released in 1998 by Solistitium Records, whilst Behemoth were still in their period of transition from black metal to blackened death metal. A remastered digipak version was released by Metal Mind Records with 6 bonus tracks, including 5 live tracks recorded during the European tour in Toulouse, France on February 27, 1999 and a studio version of \"With Spell of Inferno (Mefisto)\".\n\nIt is known that on the original version of the album, the eighth track is followed by 57 tracks of silence. The outro is on track number 66.\n"}
{"id": "1978807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978807", "title": "Bass Lake (Madera County, California)", "text": "Bass Lake (Madera County, California)\n\nBass Lake is located in the Sierra National Forest, of Madera County, California, approximately south of the entrance to Yosemite National Park. The lake is approximately four miles long and one-half mile wide.\n\nThe lake is formed by the construction of the Crane Valley Dam across Willow Creek, a tributary to the San Joaquin River, and is referenced as Crane Valley Lake. Releases from the dam drive the hydro-electric powerplant operated by Pacific Gas and Electric Company. The concrete gravity dam was completed in 1910 by Pacific Gas and Electric.\n\nMost of the land around the lake is part of the Sierra National Forest. The U.S. Forest Service designated the lake an official Recreation Area and has developed campgrounds and picnic areas on the south shore of the lake. The north shore of the lake is primarily made up of private cabins and homes of the unincorporated community, Bass Lake, California, with a year-round population of 2,195.\n\nMuch of the area surrounding Bass Lake is devoted to the tourism industry. The south entrance to Yosemite National Park is only fourteen miles away. The lake water typically reaches during the summer months. Fishing, swimming, water skiing, and personal watercrafting are popular.\n\nIn 1963, Bass Lake became a yearly destination for the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club (HAMC), attracting hundreds of bikers from across the state. A first-hand report of the 1965 Bass Lake Run was reported by Hunter S. Thompson in his first book, .\n\nMost locals viewed the run as an annual menace that brought crime and frightened tourists away. Each year roadblocks, curfews, and campground restrictions were enforced by law enforcement from throughout Madera County and its surrounding areas in an effort to block, or at least control, the Hells Angels activity.\n\nThe run peaked in the 1970s before slowly fading away altogether by the late 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978817", "title": "Coal liquefaction", "text": "Coal liquefaction\n\nCoal liquefaction is a process of converting coal into liquid hydrocarbons: liquid fuels and petrochemicals. This process is often known as \"Coal to X\", where X can be many different hydrocarbon-based products. However, the most common process chain is \"Coal to Liquid Fuels\" (CTL).\n\nCoal liquefaction originally was developed at the beginning of the 20th century. The best-known CTL process is Fischer–Tropsch synthesis (FT), named after the inventors Franz Fischer and Hans Tropsch from the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in the 1920s. The FT synthesis is the basis for indirect coal liquefaction (ICL) technology. Friedrich Bergius, also a German chemist, invented direct coal liquefaction (DCL) as a way to convert lignite into synthetic oil in 1913.\n\nCoal liquefaction was an important part of Adolf Hitler's four-year plan of 1936, and became an integral part of German industry during World War II. During the mid-1930s, companies like IG Farben and Ruhrchemie initiated industrial production of synthetic fuels derived from coal. This led to the construction of twelve DCL plants using hydrogenation and nine ICL plants using Fischer–Tropsch synthesis by the end of World War II. In total, CTL provided 92% of Germany's air fuel and over 50% of its petroleum supply in the 1940s. The DCL and ICL plants effectively complemented each other rather than competed. The reason for this is that coal hydrogenation yields high quality gasoline for aviation and motors, while FT synthesis chiefly produced high-quality diesel, lubrication oil, and waxes together with some smaller amounts of lower-quality motor gasoline. The DCL plants were also more developed, as lignite – the only coal available in many parts of Germany – worked better with hydrogenation than with FT synthesis. After the war, Germany had to abandon its synthetic fuel production as it was prohibited by the Potsdam conference in 1945.\n\nSouth Africa developed its own CTL technology in the 1950s. The South African Coal, Oil and Gas Corporation (Sasol) was founded in 1950 as part of industrialization process that the South African government considered essential for continued economic development and autonomy. However, South Africa had no domestic oil reserves, and this made the country very vulnerable to disruption of supplies coming from outside, albeit for different reasons at different times. Sasol was a successful way to protect the country's balance of payment against the increasing dependence on foreign oil. For years its principal product was synthetic fuel, and this business enjoyed significant government protection in South Africa during the apartheid years for its contribution to domestic energy security. Although it was generally much more expensive to produce oil from coal than from natural petroleum, the political as well as economic importance of achieving as much independence as possible in this sphere was sufficient to overcome any objections. Early attempts to attract private capital, foreign or domestic, were unsuccessful, and it was only with state support that the coal liquefaction could start. CTL continued to play a vital part in South Africa's national economy, providing around 30% of its domestic fuel demand. The democratization of South Africa in the 1990s made Sasol search for products that could prove more competitive in the global marketplace; as of the new millennium the company was focusing primarily on its petrochemical business, as well as on efforts to convert natural gas into crude oil (GTL) using its expertise in Fischer–Tropsch synthesis.\n\nCTL technologies have steadily improved since the Second World War. Technical development has resulted in a variety of systems capable of handling a wide array of coal types. However, only a few enterprises based on generating liquid fuels from coal have been undertaken, most of them based on ICL technology; the most successful one has been Sasol in South Africa. CTL also received new interest in the early 2000s as a possible mitigation option for reducing oil dependence, at a time when rising oil prices and concerns over peak oil made planners rethink existing supply chains for liquid fuels.\n\nSpecific liquefaction technologies generally fall into two categories: direct (DCL) and indirect liquefaction (ICL) processes. Direct processes are based on approaches such as carbonization, pyrolysis, and hydrogenation.\n\nIndirect liquefaction processes generally involve gasification of coal to a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, often known as synthesis gas or simply syngas. Using the Fischer–Tropsch process syngas is converted into liquid hydrocarbons.\n\nIn contrast, direct liquefaction processes convert coal into liquids directly without having to rely on intermediate steps by breaking down the organic structure of coal with application of hydrogen-donor solvent, often at high pressures and temperatures. Since liquid hydrocarbons generally have a higher hydrogen-carbon molar ratio than coals, either hydrogenation or carbon-rejection processes must be employed in both ICL and DCL technologies.\n\nAt industrial scales (i.e. thousands of barrels/day) a coal liquefaction plant typically requires multibillion-dollar capital investments.\n\nA number of carbonization processes exist. The carbonization conversion typically occurs through pyrolysis or destructive distillation. It produces condensable coal tar, oil and water vapor, non-condensable synthetic gas, and a solid residue - char.\n\nOne typical example of carbonization is the Karrick process. In this low-temperature carbonization process, coal is heated at to in the absence of air. These temperatures optimize the production of coal tars richer in lighter hydrocarbons than normal coal tar. However, any produced liquids are mostly a by-product and the main product is semi-coke - a solid and smokeless fuel.\n\nThe COED Process, developed by FMC Corporation, uses a fluidized bed for processing, in combination with increasing temperature, through four stages of pyrolysis. Heat is transferred by hot gases produced by combustion of part of the produced char. A modification of this process, the COGAS Process, involves the addition of gasification of char. The TOSCOAL Process, an analogue to the TOSCO II oil shale retorting process and Lurgi–Ruhrgas process, which is also used for the shale oil extraction, uses hot recycled solids for the heat transfer.\n\nLiquid yields of pyrolysis and the Karrick process are generally considered too low for practical use for synthetic liquid fuel production. The resulting coal tars and oils from pyrolysis generally require further treatment before they can be usable as motor fuels; they are processed by hydrotreating to remove sulfur and nitrogen species, after which they are finally processed into liquid fuels.\n\nIn summary, the economic viability of this technology is questionable.\n\nOne of the main methods of direct conversion of coal to liquids by hydrogenation process is the Bergius process, developed by Friedrich Bergius in 1913. In this process, dry coal is mixed with heavy oil recycled from the process. A catalyst is typically added to the mixture. The reaction occurs at between to and 20 to 70 MPa hydrogen pressure. The reaction can be summarized as follows:\n\nAfter World War I several plants based on this technology were built in Germany; these plants were extensively used during World War II to supply Germany with fuel and lubricants. The Kohleoel Process, developed in Germany by Ruhrkohle and VEBA, was used in the demonstration plant with the capacity of 200 ton of lignite per day, built in Bottrop, Germany. This plant operated from 1981 to 1987. In this process, coal is mixed with a recycle solvent and iron catalyst. After preheating and pressurizing, H is added. The process takes place in a tubular reactor at the pressure of 300 bar (30 MPa) and at the temperature of . This process was also explored by SASOL in South Africa.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, Japanese companies Nippon Kokan, Sumitomo Metal Industries, and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries developed the NEDOL process. In this process, coal is mixed with a recycled solvent and a synthetic iron-based catalyst; after preheating, H is added. The reaction takes place in a tubular reactor at a temperature between and at the pressure 150-200 bar. The produced oil has low quality and requires intensive upgrading. H-Coal process, developed by Hydrocarbon Research, Inc., in 1963, mixes pulverized coal with recycled liquids, hydrogen and catalyst in the ebullated bed reactor. Advantages of this process are that dissolution and oil upgrading are taking place in the single reactor, products have high H/C ratio, and a fast reaction time, while the main disadvantages are high gas yield (this is basically a thermal cracking process), high hydrogen consumption, and limitation of oil usage only as a boiler oil because of impurities.\n\nThe SRC-I and SRC-II (Solvent Refined Coal) processes were developed by Gulf Oil and implemented as pilot plants in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nThe Nuclear Utility Services Corporation developed hydrogenation process which was patented by Wilburn C. Schroeder in 1976. The process involved dried, pulverized coal mixed with roughly 1wt% molybdenum catalysts. Hydrogenation occurred by use of high temperature and pressure synthesis gas produced in a separate gasifier. The process ultimately yielded a synthetic crude product, naphtha, a limited amount of C/C gas, light-medium weight liquids (C-C) suitable for use as fuels, small amounts of NH and significant amounts of CO. Other single-stage hydrogenation processes are the Exxon Donor Solvent Process, the Imhausen High-pressure Process, and the Conoco Zinc Chloride Process.\n\nThere are also a number of two-stage direct liquefaction processes; however, after the 1980s only the Catalytic Two-stage Liquefaction Process, modified from the H-Coal Process; the Liquid Solvent Extraction Process by British Coal; and the Brown Coal Liquefaction Process of Japan have been developed.\n\nShenhua, a Chinese coal mining company, decided in 2002 to build a direct liquefaction plant in Erdos, Inner Mongolia (Erdos CTL), with barrel capacity of of liquid products including diesel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and naphtha (petroleum ether). First tests were implemented at the end of 2008. A second and longer test campaign was started in October 2009. In 2011, Shenhua Group reported that the direct liquefaction plant had been in continuous and stable operations since November 2010, and that Shenhua had made 800 million yuan ($125.1 million) in earnings before taxes in the first six months of 2011 on the project.\n\nChevron Corporation developed a process invented by Joel W. Rosenthal called the Chevron Coal Liquefaction Process (CCLP). It is unique due the close-coupling of the non-catalytic dissolver and the catalytic hydroprocessing unit. The oil produced had properties that were unique when compared to other coal oils; it was lighter and had far fewer heteroatom impurities. The process was scaled-up to the 6 ton per day level, but not proven commercially.\n\nIndirect coal liquefaction (ICL) processes operate in two stages. In the first stage, coal is converted into syngas (a purified mixture of CO and H gas). In the second stage, the syngas is converted into light hydrocarbons using one of three main processes: Fischer–Tropsch synthesis, methanol synthesis with subsequent conversion to gasoline or petrochemicals, and methanation. Fischer–Tropsch is the oldest of the ICL processes.\n\nIn methanol synthesis processes syngas is converted to methanol, which is subsequently polymerized into alkanes over a zeolite catalyst. This process, under the moniker MTG (MTG for \"Methanol To Gasoline\"), was developed by Mobil in the early 1970s, and is being tested at a demonstration plant by Jincheng Anthracite Mining Group (JAMG) in Shanxi, China. Based on this methanol synthesis, China has also developed a strong coal-to-chemicals industry, with outputs such as olefins, MEG, DME and aromatics.\n\nMethanation reaction converts syngas to substitute natural gas (SNG). The Great Plains Gasification Plant in Beulah, North Dakota is a coal-to-SNG facility producing 160 million cubic feet per day of SNG, and has been in operation since 1984. Several coal-to-SNG plants are in operation or in project in China, South Korea and India.\n\nThe above instances of commercial plants based on indirect coal liquefaction processes, as well as many others not listed here including those in planning stages and under construction, are tabulated in the Gasification Technologies Council's World Gasification Database.\n\nTypically coal liquefaction processes are associated with significant CO emissions from the gasification process or as well as from generation of necessary process heat and electricity inputs to the liquefaction reactors, thus releasing greenhouse gases that can contribute to anthropogenic global warming. Especially if coal liquefaction is conducted without any carbon capture and storage technologies. There are technically feasible low-emission configurations of CTL plants.\n\nHigh water consumption in the water-gas shift reaction or steam methane reforming is another adverse environmental effect.\nCO emission control at Erdos CTL, an Inner Mongolian plant with a carbon capture and storage demonstration project, involves injecting CO into the saline aquifer of Erdos Basin, at a rate of 100,000 tonnes per year. As of late October 2013, an accumulated amount of 154,000 tonnes of CO had been injected since 2010, which reached or exceeded the design value.\n\nFor example, in the United States, the Renewable Fuel Standard and low-carbon fuel standard such as enacted in the State of California reflect an increasing demand for low carbon-footprint fuels. Also, legislation in the United States has restricted the military's use of alternative liquid fuels to only those demonstrated to have life-cycle GHG emissions less than or equal to those of their conventional petroleum-based equivalent, as required by Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) of 2007.\n\nThe United States military has an active program to promote alternative fuels use, and utilizing vast domestic U.S. coal reserves to produce fuels through coal liquefaction would have obvious economic and security advantages. But with their higher carbon footprint, fuels from coal liquefaction face the significant challenge of reducing life-cycle GHG emissions to competitive levels, which demands continued research and development of liquefaction technology to increase efficiency and reduce emissions. A number of avenues of research & development will need to be pursued, including:\n\nSince 2014, the U.S. Department of Energy and the Department of Defense have been collaborating on supporting new research and development in the area of coal liquefaction to produce military-specification liquid fuels, with an emphasis on jet fuel, which would be both cost-effective and in accordance with EISA Section 526. Projects underway in this area are described under the U.S. Department of Energy National Energy Technology Laboratory's Advanced Fuels Synthesis R&D area in the Coal and Coal-Biomass to Liquids Program.\n\nEvery year, a researcher or developer in coal conversion is rewarded by the industry in receiving the World Carbon To X Award. The 2016 Award recipient is Mr. Jona Pillay, Executive director for Gasification & CTL, Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (India). The 2017 Award recipient is Dr. Yao Min, Deputy General Manager of Shenhua Ningxia Coal Group (China).\n\nIn terms of commercial development, coal conversion is experiencing a strong acceleration. Geographically, most active projects and recently commissioned operations are located in Asia, mainly in China, while U.S. projects have been delayed or canceled due to the development of shale gas and shale oil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978827", "title": "William Barstow Strong", "text": "William Barstow Strong\n\nWilliam Barstow Strong (May 16, 1837 – August 3, 1914) served as president of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway from 1881 to 1889. He is often referred to as either William B. Strong or W. B. Strong.\n\nHe was born in Brownington, Vermont on May 16, 1837.\nStrong graduated from Bell's Business College in Chicago, Illinois, in 1855, and soon launched his career in railroading. His first railroad job was as a station agent for the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad, a position that was introduced to him by his older brother James.\n\nHe married Abbie J. Moore, October 2, 1859, in Beloit, Wisconsin. They had three children, a girl and two boys.\n\nHe worked his way through several railroad jobs successively for the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway, McGregor Western Railway, Chicago and North Western Railway, Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad (CB&Q), and as superintendent of the Michigan Central Railroad in the 1870s. In this position, Strong was succeeded by Henry Brockholst Ledyard in 1876. He returned to the CB&Q after working on the Michigan Central and then joined the management team of the Santa Fe as General Manager, and was promoted to Vice President within a month.\n\nOn July 12, 1881, he succeeded T. Jefferson Coolidge as president of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway (ATSF). Under his tenure, the ATSF expanded to about 7,000 miles (11,265 km) of right-of-way, which at the time made the ATSF the largest railroad in North America. He held the presidency until his retirement in 1889.\n\nThe city of Barstow, California, where the ATSF maintained extensive shop and equipment construction and repair facilities, the town of Strong City, Kansas, and Stronghurst, Illinois are named in his honor.\n\n\"William Barstow Strong\" was the name of an observation car owned by the ATSF and operated in business trains in the latter part of the 20th century.\n\n\"William B. Strong\" was included in a list of names that traveled aboard NASA's Stardust spacecraft which visited the comet Wild 2 in 2004.\n\nAn observation car on the Royal Gorge Scenic Railway in Colorado is named \"William B. Strong\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978828", "title": "Barnegat Light", "text": "Barnegat Light\n\nBarnegat Light may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1978830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978830", "title": "Steve Bould", "text": "Steve Bould\n\nStephen Andrew Bould (born 16 November 1962) is an English former professional footballer and head coach of U23s Premier League side Arsenal.\n\nAs a player, he was a defender from 1980 until 2000. Bould began his football career with his hometown club Stoke City where he gained a reputation as an impressive young defender. After spending seven seasons with the Potters, and becoming one of English football's most coveted centre backs, he moved to Arsenal in 1988. At Highbury he formed a formidable back line with Tony Adams, Nigel Winterburn and his former Stoke teammate Lee Dixon and ended up with nine major honours to his name. He left the Gunners in 1999 and ended his playing career with Sunderland.\n\nSince his playing career has ended Bould has worked at the successful Arsenal Academy as Head Youth Team Coach at Arsenal. He was promoted to Assistant Manager at the start of the 2012–13 season replacing the long serving Pat Rice.\n\nBorn in Stoke-on-Trent, Bould signed for his hometown club Stoke City as a schoolboy in 1978, turning professional in November 1980. He made his debut at right back in a 3–2 defeat away to Middlesbrough in September 1981. However, he was unable to command a regular place in the team, and was loaned out to Torquay United in October 1982 to gain first team experience, playing nine league games for Bruce Rioch's side.\n\nBould slowly became a regular in the Stoke side after Mick Mills switched him to centre back to replace Paul Dyson. It proved to be a shrewd move as he excelled in his new position and became a first team regular for the \"Potters\". A back injury that required surgery cost him appearances in 1986–87 and arguably Stoke a play-off place. By the end of the 1987–88 season it was generally acknowledged that Bould was now the best defender in Division Two. Both Arsenal and Everton made approaches for the defender. After discussions Bould chose Arsenal and a tribunal set the price at £390,000, a small fee compared to what Stoke were demanding.\n\nHe moved to Arsenal for a fee of £390,000 on 13 June 1988, and became part of their \"famous back four\" defensive line-up, with Tony Adams, Nigel Winterburn and his former Stoke teammate Lee Dixon. Bould won the First Division title twice in 1988–89 and 1990–91, playing in the club's famous 2–0 victory against Liverpool at Anfield where they won the title in the last minute of the last game of the season. He was voted player of the year by the club's fans for the 1991–92 season, though it was a less successful season for the club as defending champions, managing only a fourth-place finish in the league and suffering an early exit from the European Cup, as well as a shock first hurdle exit from the FA Cup at the hands of minnows Wrexham.\n\nOn 15 August 1992, he had the distinction of being the scorer of Arsenal's first Premier League goal on the opening day of the season at Highbury, breaking the deadlock in the 28th minute although Arsenal went on lose the match 4–2 to Norwich City.\n\nHowever, injury ruled him out of the FA Cup and League Cup finals that Arsenal won in 1992–93, and his place in the team was taken by Andy Linighan who scored Arsenal's winning goal in the FA Cup final replay against Sheffield Wednesday.\n\nAfter winning the Cup Winners' Cup final in 1993–94, further success eluded Arsenal and Bould for several years, and the arrival of French manager Arsène Wenger in October 1996 led some to speculate the ageing Bould would leave the club (especially as he was now often second-choice behind Martin Keown); instead it spurred a brief revival, and Bould became an important member of the squad that won the double in 1997–98. He famously set up Tony Adams with a chipped throughball for the final goal in Arsenal's 4–0 win over Everton, the match that won them the Premier League title. Two weeks later they won the FA Cup to complete the double.\n\nHis final season at Highbury was a disappointing one. Arsenal reached the FA Cup semi finals where they drew with Manchester United to force a replay. With the score at 1–1 in the final minute of the game, Arsenal were awarded a penalty. Peter Schmeichel saved from Dennis Bergkamp and a winner from Ryan Giggs in extra time ended Arsenal's defence of the trophy. A month later they were beaten to the Premier League by Manchester United.\n\nBy now age was against Bould and he moved to newly promoted Sunderland in July 1999 for a fee of £500,000. Following the departure of skipper Kevin Ball in December 1999, manager Peter Reid made him club captain and he helped them finish seventh – just missing out on a UEFA Cup place. He stayed at the Stadium of Light until arthritis contributed to his retirement in September 2000 having played only 21 Premier League games for Sunderland.\n\nDespite forming part of one of the most secure top-flight defences of the late 1980s and early to mid-1990s, Bould won only two caps for England, far fewer than fellow centre half Tony Adams, and didn't make his first full international appearance until the age of 31. Both caps came under Terry Venables in Wembley friendlies against Greece (5–0) and Norway (0–0) at the end of the 1993–94 season.\n\nAfter retiring, he began working towards his UEFA coaching badges and in June 2001 moved back to Arsenal and became a coach for the youth teams. He was the head coach of Arsenal's U18 Academy side, whom he led to the Premier Academy League title in 2008–2009, 2009–2010 and FA Youth Cup in 2008–2009.\nOn 10 May 2012, it was announced that Steve Bould would become Arsenal's new assistant manager following the retirement of Pat Rice at the end of the season.\nOn 5 June 2019, Steve Bould swapped jobs with Freddie Ljungberg to become the U23s coach in a major restructuring of Arsenal's coaching staff.\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nArsenal\n\n"}
{"id": "1978838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978838", "title": "Sibusiso Zuma", "text": "Sibusiso Zuma\n\nSibusiso Wiseman Zuma (born 23 June 1975) is a South African former professional footballer who played as a forward or midfielder.\n\nBorn in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, Zuma started his career for South African clubs Mighty Pa, African Wanderers and Orlando Pirates.\n\nIn June 2000, Zuma joined Danish club F.C. Copenhagen, where he blossomed as a player.\n\nIn 2001 Zuma was tied for 29th place for the 2001 FIFA World Player of the Year award.\n\nHe helped the club win its second Danish football championship and was voted into the club's hall of fame for his outstanding efforts in the 2004–05 season,\n\nIn 2006 Zuma was voted number one by the fans among the greatest profiles to have ever played in F.C. Copenhagen.\n\nAccording to Zuma he played his best football at F.C. Copenhagen which still feels like his second home. He enjoys legend status at F.C. Copenhagen as the best player ever to play in the club. Zuma thinks he owes everything to FC Copenhagen and that he enjoyed every day he was at the club. It is a part of his life that he will never forget. Zuma also tells that \"South Africans will tell you that Zuma is a king in Denmark\".\n\nF.C. Copenhagen won its second Superliga championship in 2001 after almost a decade without becoming champions, winning 3–1 in the last New Firm match of the season, at the Parken Stadium. The 2–0 goal was a bicycle kick by Zuma, who received the ball at his chest, where he bounced it in the air, and in the same motion executed the overhead kick, volleying the ball into the far corner, out of Brøndby keeper Mogens Krogh's reach. This was voted the Danish goal of the year, and was voted the best Superliga goal of the decade in December 2009.\n\nIn 2013, Zuma's bicycle kick was voted the greatest moment in the history of F.C. Copenhagen. A monument was made to honour the greatest moment and thereby Zuma's bicycle kick. Zuma himself was invited by F.C. Copenhagen and attended Parken on 18 August 2013 where the unveiling of the monument took place. The monument was a relief of Zuma's bicycle kick.\n\nOn the day of the unveiling of the relief Zuma said: \"It's an honour to be here. I love those guys. I love F.C. Copenhagen fans to dead. I am amazingly happy. It's one of the best days in my life\".\n\nAfter five and a half years at FC Copenhagen, Zuma was sold to German Bundesliga club Arminia Bielefeld for €1 million in July 2005.\n\nOn 21 June 2008, Zuma signed for Mamelodi Sundowns. He was released in the summer of 2009 and in October 2009 he had a trial period with FC Nordsjælland, eventually being signed by the club.\n\nOn 16 October 2009, he signed a one-year contract with the Danish club FC Nordsjælland. On 8 November 2009 Zuma scored his first goal for Nordsjælland in the club's 1–0 win over SønderjyskE. When Nordsjælland visited F.C. Copenhagen on 24 March 2010 in a Danish League match, Zuma played well and was substituted to a large majority of the F.C. Copenhagen supporters applauding him. A distinctly touched Zuma claimed that the home supporters were incredible.\n\nHe has represented South Africa 67 times. He played for his country at the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Zuma was the captain of South African National team at the 2006 African Cup of Nations tournament.\n\nIn 2010, Zuma opened the Sibusiso Zuma Foundation which works with young kids with HIV. The foundation also works with \"prevention and education about HIV/Aids\" and \"the prevention of HIV infection and/or the distribution of information relating to HIV/Aids\".\n\nZuma says: \"I'm just trying to help a lot of communities here in South Africa. Especially the poor ones.\"\n\nHe is also known as \"Zuma the Puma\" to the club's supporters and \"Puma\" appears on his shirt instead of \"Zuma\" in the \"Pro Evolution Soccer 2009\" video game.\n\nOther nicknames while he played in F.C. Copenhagen were Sibu or just Zuma.\n\nOn 25 June 2007, it was reported that Zuma had been involved in an incident in his home country South Africa. After an altercation there were allegations that he threatened to shoot a group of men at a party in Kokstad. The local police investigated the situation, and Zuma was prevented from leaving the country for a period, but no charges were made.\n"}
{"id": "1978844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978844", "title": "Tuan Le", "text": "Tuan Le\n\nTuan Le (born February 15, 1978 in Paris, France) is a Vietnamese-American professional poker player.\n\nOf Vietnamese ancestry, Le was raised in Kansas City, Missouri, in the United States, but by middle school age he was living in Los Angeles, California where he attended John Burroughs Junior High School, on McCadden and 6th Street. He later attended Cal State-Northridge as a finance major.\n\nLe began playing in the $20/$40 limit hold'em games at the Hustler Casino in Los Angeles, where he currently resides.\n\nAs of 2015, Le's total live tournament winnings exceed $5,600,000.\n\nIn 2004, Le won his first World Poker Tour (WPT) event, earning over $1,500,000. In 2005, he finished first at the World Poker Tour Season 3 Championship, winning just over $2,800,000. He also won the WPT Battle of Champions III event, defeating Eli Elezra heads-up. With those wins, Tuan became the all-time leading money winner on the World Poker Tour, although he has since been overtaken in this ranking by Daniel Negreanu.\n\nIn 2014 and 2015, Le won the $10,000 Limit 2-7 Triple Draw Lowball Championship for the second year in a row. His feat was the first time in WSOP history that a player has won consecutive $10,000 championships other than the main event.\n"}
{"id": "1978846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978846", "title": "Beach Haven", "text": "Beach Haven\n\nBeach Haven may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978847", "title": "Caliente, California", "text": "Caliente, California\n\nCaliente (formerly, Allen's Camp and Agua Caliente) is an unincorporated community in Kern County, California. It is located east-southeast of Bakersfield, at an elevation of .\n\nCaliente has a population of 1,019. Telephone numbers in Caliente follow the format (661) 867-xxxx and the ZIP Code is 93518. It is located south of a small community named Walker Basin in the same telephone exchange area.\n\nEstablished in the 1870s, Caliente was originally named Allens Camp for a cattle rancher and settler named Gabriel Allen. Later, the name Agua Caliente, coming from hot springs in the area, was proposed and may have been used. This name conflicted with the community of the same name in Sonoma County. With the railroad's arrival in 1875, the shortened name Caliente was adopted.\n\nCaliente prospered during Southern Pacific Railroad's construction of Tehachapi Pass line. For a time, the Telegraph Stage Line and the Cerro Gordo Freighting Co. also ran through Caliente and its full-time population grew to 200. There were approximately 60 buildings, including 20 or more saloons.\n\nThe Caliente post office opened in 1875, closed in 1993, and was re-established in 1890. The Caliente General Store was remodeled in 1980 to house the post office which is still in operation today.\n\nBealville is a district about to the south toward SR58 and along Caliente-Bodfish Road. It is named for Edward Fitzgerald Beale who served in the US Army, and also as Superintendent of Indian Affairs for California and Nevada. He was also appointed as US Surveyor General of California. Beale established a home in this area about 1855. The location is now registered as California Historical Landmark #757.\n\nThe sound of diesel locomotives and railroad horns are present day and night. The community is along the track of the Union Pacific Railroad, Mojave Subdivision. The track loops around the post office as it winds through the local hills. Trains climb toward the Tehachapi summit eastbound or descend toward Bakersfield if westbound.\n\nCalifornia State Route 58 is about two driving miles south of Caliente.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978848", "title": "Sylvia del Villard", "text": "Sylvia del Villard\n\nSylvia del Villard (February 28, 1928 – February 28, 1990), was an actress, dancer, choreographer and Afro-Puerto Rican activist.\n\nDel Villard was born in Santurce, a section of San Juan, Puerto Rico. As a young child, Del Villard would entertain her parents, Agustin and Marcoline Del Villard, with her dances. Her family considered her very talented and she was also a good student at school. She received her primary and secondary education in Santurce and when she graduated from high school the government of Puerto Rico awarded her with a scholarship to attend college.\n\nDel Villard studied Sociology and Anthropology at Fisk University in Tennessee. However, Del Villard had to deal with the anti-black discrimination which was rampant in the southern regions of the United States at that time. She returned to Puerto Rico and enrolled in the University of Puerto Rico where she earned her degree.\n\nUpon graduating, Del Villard traveled to New York City and enrolled in the City College of New York. It was during this period that she was to develop a passion and love for Africa. She joined the song and ballet group called the \"Africa House\". She was also able to trace her African roots to the Yoruba people of Nigeria. Del Villard took dance and voice lessons with Leo Braun at the Metropolitan Opera.\n\nAmong the theater productions in which Del Villard has participated in Puerto Rico and abroad are: \"La Muerte\" (Death), \"La Tempestad\" (The Storm) and \"Let My People Go\". She danced as a ballerina in the following American productions: \"Valley Without Echo\", \"Witches of Salem\", \"The Boyfriend\", \"The Crucible\" and \"Kwamina\". In Puerto Rico she joined the Afro-Boricua Ballet. With the ballet she participated in the following Afro-Puerto Rican productions, \"Palesiana y Aquelarre\" and \"Palesianisima\".\n\nIn 1968, she founded the Afro-Boricua El Coqui Theater, which was recognized by the Panamerican Association of the New World Festival as the most important authority of Black Puerto Rican culture. The Theater group were given a contract which permitted them to present their act in other countries and in various universities in the United States.\nDel Villard's favorite poet was Luis Palés Matos. In 1970, she established a theater/school in San Juan and named it after him. However, it wasn't long before she closed the theater because of the continuous complaints she received from her neighbors. Although many, including herself, felt the complaints were politically motivated and marked the beginning of a voluntary exile that eventually brought her to Hollywood, California.\n\nShe moved back to New York where she founded a new theater group which she named Sininke. She made many presentations in the Museum of Natural History in that city. In 1981, she became the first and only director of the office of the Afro-Puerto Rican affairs of the Puerto Rican Institute of Culture. She was known to be an outspoken activist who fought for the equal rights of the Black Puerto Rican artist.\n\nIn 1989 in California, Del Villard was diagnosed with lung cancer and returned to the island to receive treatment for her condition. Sylvia del Villard died on February 28, 1990 in San Juan, Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 1993, Banco Popular de Puerto Rico produced a musical with the participation of many noted artists titled \"Ocho Puertas: Un Especial para la historia\" (Eight Doors: A Historical Special), which paid tribute to Del Villard among other artists. In the East Village of New York City, there is the Sylvia Del Villard Program of the Roberto Clemente Center, a Spanish day treatment program named after her. In Chicago, there is a Sylvia Del Villard Hall at the Segundo Ruiz Belvis Cultural Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978849", "title": "Árpád Feszty", "text": "Árpád Feszty\n\nÁrpád Feszty (; 21 December 1856 – 1 June 1914) was a Hungarian painter. \nHe was born in the town of Ógyalla (then Hungary, now Hurbanovo, Slovakia). His ancestors were German settlers (the original family name was Rehrenbeck). He was the fifth child of Silvester Rehrenbeck (1819–1910), an affluent landowner at Ógyalla, and his wife Jozefa (Linzmayer). Silvester was ennobled by the emperor on 21 April 1887, and the family thereafter took the name Martosi Feszty (or, in German: Feszty von Martos). Feszty mostly painted scenes from Hungarian history and religion.\nHe studied in Munich from 1874, and later (1880–81) in Vienna. After returning home to Hungary, he was made famous by his two works entitled \"Golgota\" (\"Calvary\") and \"Bányaszerencsétlenség\" (\"Accident in a Quarry\"). He painted his well-known monumental picture, the \"Arrival of the Hungarians\", depicting the Magyar conquest of Hungary in 896, for the 1000th anniversary of the Conquest, with the help of many others, including Jenő Barcsay, Dániel Mihalik and László Mednyánszky. It was seriously damaged during World War II (the painting, a cyclorama with a circumference of almost 120 metres and 15 metres tall, and thus some 1800 m in area, was cut up into 8-metre-long pieces, which were rolled up and stored in various museum warehouses). It wasn't until 1995 that it was restored and exhibited at the Ópusztaszer National Heritage Park in Hungary.\n\nHe lived in Florence from 1899 to 1902. After returning home, he painted smaller pictures and increasingly suffered from financial difficulties.\n\nHis art combined academic and naturalist tendencies. Several of his works are in the possession of the Hungarian National Gallery, Budapest.\n\nHis brothers Adolf and Gyula Feszty were both known architects; his daughter Masa (Mária) Feszty also became a painter of mainly landscapes, portraits and religious scenes. Among others, her portrait of the Hungarian sculptor Ede Kallós is owned by the Hungarian National Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978851", "title": "Juno (spacecraft)", "text": "Juno (spacecraft)\n\nJuno is a NASA space probe orbiting the planet Jupiter. It was built by Lockheed Martin and is operated by NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The spacecraft was launched from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on August 5, 2011 (UTC), as part of the New Frontiers program. \"Juno\" entered a polar orbit of Jupiter on July 5, 2016 (UTC; July 4 U.S. time), to begin a scientific investigation of the planet. After completing its mission, \"Juno\" will be intentionally deorbited into Jupiter's atmosphere. \n\n\"Juno\" mission is to measure Jupiter's composition, gravity field, magnetic field, and polar magnetosphere. It will also search for clues about how the planet formed, including whether it has a rocky core, the amount of water present within the deep atmosphere, mass distribution, and its deep winds, which can reach speeds up to .\n\n\"Juno\" is the second spacecraft to orbit Jupiter, after the nuclear powered \"Galileo\" orbiter, which orbited from 1995 to 2003. Unlike all earlier spacecraft sent to the outer planets, \"Juno\" is powered by solar arrays, commonly used by satellites orbiting Earth and working in the inner Solar System, whereas radioisotope thermoelectric generators are commonly used for missions to the outer Solar System and beyond. For \"Juno\", however, the three largest solar array wings ever deployed on a planetary probe play an integral role in stabilizing the spacecraft as well as generating power.\n\nA NASA compilation of mission names and acronyms referred to the mission by the backronym \"Jupiter Near-polar Orbiter\". However the project itself has consistently described it as a name with mythological associations and not an acronym. \"Juno\" is sometimes called \"New Frontiers 2\" as the second mission in the New Frontiers program, but is not to be confused with New Horizons 2, a proposed but unselected New Frontiers mission.\n\n\"Juno\" was selected on June 9, 2005, as the next New Frontiers mission after \"New Horizons\". The desire for a Jupiter probe was strong in the years prior to this, but there had not been any approved missions. The Discovery Program had passed over the somewhat similar but more limited Interior Structure and Internal Dynamical Evolution of Jupiter (INSIDE Jupiter) proposal, and the turn-of-the-century era Europa Orbiter was canceled in 2002. The flagship-level Europa Jupiter System Mission was in the works in the early 2000s, but funding issues resulted in it evolving into ESA's Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer.\n\n\"Juno\" completed a five-year cruise to Jupiter, arriving on July 5, 2016. The spacecraft traveled a total distance of roughly to reach Jupiter. The spacecraft was designed to orbit Jupiter 37 times over the course of its mission. This was originally planned to take 20 months. \"Juno\" trajectory used a gravity assist speed boost from Earth, accomplished by an Earth flyby in October 2013, two years after its launch on August 5, 2011. The spacecraft performed an orbit insertion burn to slow it enough to allow capture. It was expected to make three 53-day orbits before performing another burn on December 11, 2016, that would bring it into a 14-day polar orbit called the Science Orbit. Because of a suspected problem in \"Juno\" main engine, the burn of December 11 was canceled, and \"Juno\" will remain in its 53-day orbit for its remaining orbits of Jupiter.\n\nDuring the science mission, infrared and microwave instruments will measure the thermal radiation emanating from deep within Jupiter's atmosphere. These observations will complement previous studies of its composition by assessing the abundance and distribution of water, and therefore oxygen. This data will provide insight into Jupiter's origins. \"Juno\" will also investigate the convection that drives natural circulation patterns in Jupiter's atmosphere. Other instruments aboard \"Juno\" will gather data about its gravitational field and polar magnetosphere. The \"Juno\" mission was planned to conclude in February 2018, after completing 37 orbits of Jupiter. The probe was then intended to be de-orbited and burn up in Jupiter's outer atmosphere, to avoid any possibility of impact and biological contamination of one of its moons.\n\n\"Juno\" was launched atop the Atlas V at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida. The Atlas V (AV-029) used a Russian-built RD-180 main engine, powered by kerosene and liquid oxygen. At ignition it underwent checkout 3.8 seconds prior to the ignition of five strap-on solid rocket boosters (SRBs). Following the SRB burnout, about 93 seconds into the flight, two of the spent boosters fell away from the vehicle, followed 1.5 seconds later by the remaining three. When heating levels had dropped below predetermined limits, the payload fairing that protected \"Juno\" during launch and transit through the thickest part of the atmosphere separated, about 3 minutes 24 seconds into the flight. The Atlas V main engine cut off 4 minutes 26 seconds after liftoff. Sixteen seconds later, the Centaur second stage ignited, and it burned for about 6 minutes, putting the satellite into an initial parking orbit. The vehicle coasted for about 30 minutes, and then the Centaur was reignited for a second firing of 9 minutes, placing the spacecraft on an Earth escape trajectory in a heliocentric orbit.\n\nPrior to separation, the Centaur stage used onboard reaction engines to spin \"Juno\" up to 1.4 r.p.m.. About 54 minutes after launch, the spacecraft separated from the Centaur and began to extend its solar panels. Following the full deployment and locking of the solar panels, \"Juno\" batteries began to recharge. Deployment of the solar panels reduced \"Juno\" spin rate by two-thirds. The probe is spun to ensure stability during the voyage and so that all instruments on the probe are able to observe Jupiter.\n\nThe voyage to Jupiter took five years, and included two orbital maneuvers in August and September 2012 and a flyby of the Earth on October 9, 2013. When it reached the Jovian system, \"Juno\" had traveled approximately 19 AU, almost two billion miles.\n\nAfter traveling for about a year in an elliptical heliocentric orbit, \"Juno\" fired its engine twice in 2012 near aphelion (beyond the orbit of Mars) to change its orbit and return to pass by the Earth in October 2013. It used Earth's gravity to help slingshot itself toward the Jovian system in a maneuver called a gravity assist. The spacecraft received a boost in speed of more than , and it was set on a course to Jupiter. The flyby was also used as a rehearsal for the \"Juno\" science team to test some instruments and practice certain procedures before the arrival at Jupiter.\n\nJupiter's gravity accelerated the approaching spacecraft to around . On July 5, 2016, between 03:18 and 03:53 UTC Earth-received time, an insertion burn lasting 2,102 seconds decelerated Juno by and changed its trajectory from a hyperbolic flyby to an elliptical, polar orbit with a period of about 53.5 days. The spacecraft successfully entered Jupiter orbit on July 5 at 03:53 UTC.\n\n\"Juno\" highly elliptical initial polar orbit takes it within of the planet and out to , far beyond Callisto's orbit. An eccentricity-reducing burn, called the Period Reduction Maneuver, was planned that would drop the probe into a much shorter 14 day science orbit. Originally, \"Juno\" was expected to complete 37 orbits over 20 months before the end of its mission. Due to problems with helium valves that are important during main engine burns, mission managers announced on February 17, 2017, that \"Juno\" would remain in its original 53-day orbit, since the chance of an engine misfire putting the spacecraft into a bad orbit was too high. \"Juno\" will now complete only 12 science orbits before the end of its budgeted mission plan, ending July 2018.\n\nThe orbits were carefully planned in order to minimize contact with Jupiter's dense radiation belts, which can damage spacecraft electronics and solar panels, by exploiting a gap in the radiation envelope near the planet, passing through a region of minimal radiation. The \"Juno Radiation Vault\", with 1-centimeter-thick titanium walls, also aids in protecting \"Juno\" electronics. Despite the intense radiation, JunoCam and the Jovian Infrared Auroral Mapper (JIRAM) are expected to endure at least eight orbits, while the Microwave Radiometer (MWR) should endure at least eleven orbits. \"Juno\" will receive much lower levels of radiation in its polar orbit than the \"Galileo\" orbiter received in its equatorial orbit. \"Galileo\" subsystems were damaged by radiation during its mission, including an LED in its data recording system.\n\nThe spacecraft completed its first flyby of Jupiter (perijove 1) on August 27, 2016, and captured the first images of the planet's north pole.\n\nOn October 14, 2016, days prior to perijove 2 and the planned Period Reduction Maneuver, telemetry showed that some of \"Juno\" helium valves were not opening properly. On October 18, 2016, some 13 hours before its second close approach to Jupiter, \"Juno\" entered into safe mode, an operational mode engaged when its onboard computer encounters unexpected conditions. The spacecraft powered down all non-critical systems and reoriented itself to face the Sun to gather the most power. Due to this, no science operations were conducted during perijove 2.\n\nOn December 11, 2016, the spacecraft completed perijove 3, with all but one instrument operating and returning data. One instrument, JIRAM, was off pending a flight software update. Perijove 4 occurred on February 2, with all instruments operating. Perijove 5 occurred on March 27, 2017. Perijove 6 took place on May 19, 2017.\n\nAlthough the mission's lifetime is inherently limited by radiation exposure, almost all of this dose was planned to be acquired during the perijoves. , the 53.4 day orbit was planned to be maintained through July 2018 for a total of twelve science-gathering perijoves. At the end of this prime mission, the project was planned to go through a science review process by NASA's Planetary Science Division to determine if it will receive funding for an extended mission.\n\nIn June 2018, NASA extended the mission operations plan to July 2021. When \"Juno\" reaches the end of the mission, it will perform a controlled deorbit and disintegrate into Jupiter's atmosphere. During the mission, the spacecraft will be exposed to high levels of radiation from Jupiter's magnetosphere, which may cause future failure of certain instruments and risk collision with Jupiter's moons.\n\nNASA plans to deorbit the spacecraft into the atmosphere of Jupiter on July 30, 2021. The controlled deorbit is intended to eliminate space debris and risks of contamination in accordance with NASA's Planetary Protection Guidelines.\n\nScott Bolton of the Southwest Research Institute in San Antonio, Texas is the principal investigator and is responsible for all aspects of the mission. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California manages the mission and the Lockheed Martin Corporation was responsible for the spacecraft development and construction. The mission is being carried out with the participation of several institutional partners. Coinvestigators include Toby Owen of the University of Hawaii, Andrew Ingersoll of California Institute of Technology, Frances Bagenal of the University of Colorado at Boulder, and Candy Hansen of the Planetary Science Institute. Jack Connerney of the Goddard Space Flight Center served as instrument lead.\n\n\"Juno\" was originally proposed at a cost of approximately (fiscal year 2003) for a launch in June 2009. NASA budgetary restrictions resulted in postponement until August 2011, and a launch on board an Atlas V rocket in the 551 configuration. the mission was projected to cost for operations and data analysis through 2022.\n\nThe \"Juno\" spacecraft's suite of science instruments will:\n\nThe \"Juno\" mission's scientific objectives will be achieved with a payload of nine instruments on board the spacecraft:\n\n\"Juno\" is the first mission to Jupiter to use solar panels instead of the radioisotope thermoelectric generators (RTG) used by \"Pioneer 10\", \"Pioneer 11\", the Voyager program, \"Ulysses\", \"Cassini–Huygens\", \"New Horizons\", and the \"Galileo\" orbiter. It is also the farthest solar-powered trip in the history of space exploration. Once in orbit around Jupiter, \"Juno\" receives only 4% as much sunlight as it would on Earth, but the global shortage of plutonium-238, as well as advances made in solar cell technology over the past several decades, makes it economically preferable to use solar panels of practical size to provide power at a distance of 5 AU from the Sun.\n\nThe \"Juno\" spacecraft uses three solar panels symmetrically arranged around the spacecraft. Shortly after it cleared Earth's atmosphere, the panels were deployed. Two of the panels have four hinged segments each, and the third panel has three segments and a magnetometer. Each panel is long, the biggest on any NASA deep-space probe.\n\nThe combined mass of the three panels is nearly . If the panels were optimized to operate at Earth, they would produce 12 to 14 kilowatts of power. Only about 486 W were generated when \"Juno\" arrived at Jupiter, projected to decline to near 420 W as radiation degrades the cells. The solar panels will remain in sunlight continuously from launch through the end of the mission, except for short periods during the operation of the main engine and eclipses by Jupiter. A central power distribution and drive unit monitors the power that is generated by the solar panels and distributes it to instruments, heaters, and experiment sensors, as well as to batteries that are charged when excess power is available. Two 55-amp-hour lithium-ion batteries that are able to withstand the radiation environment of Jupiter provide power when \"Juno\" passes through eclipse.\n\n\"Juno\" uses in-band signaling (\"tones\") for several critical operations as well as status reporting during cruise mode, but it is expected to be used infrequently. Communications are via the and antennas of the NASA Deep Space Network (DSN) utilizing an X band direct link. The command and data processing of the \"Juno\" spacecraft includes a flight computer capable of providing about 50 Mbit/s of instrument throughput. Gravity science subsystems use the X-band and K-band Doppler tracking and autoranging.\n\nDue to telecommunications constraints, \"Juno\" will only be able to return about 40 megabytes of JunoCam data during each 11-day orbital period, limiting the number of images that are captured and transmitted during each orbit to somewhere between 10 and 100 depending on the compression level used. The overall amount of data downlinked on each orbit is significantly higher and used for the mission's scientific instruments; JunoCam is intended for public outreach and is thus secondary to the science data. This is comparable to the previous \"Galileo\" mission that orbited Jupiter, which captured thousands of images despite its slow data rate of 1000 bit/s (at maximum compression level) due to the failure of its high-gain antenna.\n\nThe communication system is also used as part of the Gravity Science experiment.\n\n\"Juno\" uses a LEROS 1b main engine with hypergolic propellant, manufactured by Moog Inc in Westcott, Buckinghamshire, England. It uses hydrazine and nitrogen tetroxide for propulsion and provides a thrust of 645 newtons. The engine bell is enclosed in a debris shield fixed to the spacecraft body, and is used for major burns. For control of the vehicle's orientation (attitude control) and to perform trajectory correction maneuvers, \"Juno\" utilizes a monopropellant reaction control system (RCS) consisting of twelve small thrusters that are mounted on four engine modules.\n\n\"Juno\" carries a plaque to Jupiter, dedicated to Galileo Galilei. The plaque was provided by the Italian Space Agency and measures . It is made of flight-grade aluminum and weighs . The plaque depicts a portrait of Galileo and a text in Galileo's own handwriting, penned in January 1610, while observing what would later be known to be the Galilean moons. The text translates as:\n\nThe spacecraft also carries three Lego minifigures representing Galileo, the Roman god Jupiter, and his sister and wife, the goddess Juno. In Roman mythology, Jupiter drew a veil of clouds around himself to hide his mischief. Juno was able to peer through the clouds and reveal Jupiter's true nature. The Juno minifigure holds a magnifying glass as a sign of searching for the truth, and Jupiter holds a lightning bolt. The third Lego crew member, Galileo Galilei, has his telescope with him on the journey. The figurines were produced in partnership between NASA and Lego as part of an outreach program to inspire children's interest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Although most Lego toys are made of plastic, Lego specially made these minifigures of aluminum to endure the extreme conditions of space flight.\n\nAmong early results, \"Juno\" gathered information about Jovian lightning that revised earlier theories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978856", "title": "Structure of the Hellenic Army", "text": "Structure of the Hellenic Army\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978862", "title": "Carib Brewery", "text": "Carib Brewery\n\nThe Carib Brewery is headquartered in Trinidad and Tobago. It produces \"Carib\" and \"Stag\" beers and a range of Shandy \"Carib\" products (\"Ginger Shandy\", \"Lime Shandy\" and \"Sorrel Shandy\"). The main brewery is located in Champs Fleurs, Trinidad, while Carib also has breweries in Saint Kitts and Nevis and Grenada.\n\nThe Caribbean Development Company is owned by the Ansa McAL Group of Companies.\n\n\"Carib Beer\" is a line of beers brewed by the Carib Brewing Company, Ltd. in Trinidad.\n\nCarib Beer Official Site\n"}
{"id": "1978864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978864", "title": "Calpine, California", "text": "Calpine, California\n\nCalpine is a census-designated place in Sierra County, California, United States. Calpine sits at an elevation of . The 2010 United States census reported Calpine's population was 205.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 0.7 square miles (1.8 km²), 99.69% of it land and 0.31% of it water.\n\nThe town was founded to support the Davies-Johnson Lumber Mill around 1919. From 1921 until 1940, a branch of the Western Pacific Railroad served the town and the mill, working out of Portola, California. The timber stocks were gone by 1939 and the mill closed soon after.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Calpine had a population of 205. The population density was 287.9 people per square mile (111.2/km²). The racial makeup of Calpine was 184 (89.8%) White, 0 (0.0%) African American, 0 (0.0%) Native American, 0 (0.0%) Asian, 1 (0.5%) Pacific Islander, 10 (4.9%) from other races, and 10 (4.9%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 26 persons (12.7%).\n\nThe Census reported that 205 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 96 households, out of which 17 (17.7%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 44 (45.8%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 8 (8.3%) had a female householder with no husband present, 3 (3.1%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 10 (10.4%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 2 (2.1%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 34 households (35.4%) were made up of individuals and 12 (12.5%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.14. There were 55 families (57.3% of all households); the average family size was 2.73.\n\nThe population was spread out with 37 people (18.0%) under the age of 18, 10 people (4.9%) aged 18 to 24, 37 people (18.0%) aged 25 to 44, 92 people (44.9%) aged 45 to 64, and 29 people (14.1%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 49.8 years. For every 100 females, there were 97.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 112.7 males.\n\nThere were 158 housing units at an average density of 221.9 per square mile (85.7/km²), of which 74 (77.1%) were owner-occupied, and 22 (22.9%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 3.8%; the rental vacancy rate was 15.4%. 161 people (78.5% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 44 people (21.5%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the state legislature, Calpine is in , and .\n\nFederally, Calpine is in .\n"}
{"id": "1978870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978870", "title": "Raymond Brown", "text": "Raymond Brown\n\nRay or Raymond Brown may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978876", "title": "1989 French Open", "text": "1989 French Open\n\nThe 1989 French Open was a tennis tournament that took place on the outdoor clay courts at the Stade Roland Garros in Paris, France. The tournament was held from 29 May until 11 June. It was the 93rd staging of the French Open, and the second Grand Slam tennis event of 1989.\n\nFor the first time in French Open history the Singles championships were won by two teenagers – Michael Chang (17 years, 3 months) and Arantxa Sánchez (17 years, 6 months). Chang still holds the record for youngest ever male Grand Slam singles title winner. He gained admirers for his audacious style of play and battling qualities. Sánchez broke the record for the youngest champion at Roland Garros, a record bettered the following year by Monica Seles (16 years, 6 months).\n\nSánchez's victory made her only the seventh woman to win a Grand Slam tournament in the 1980s; the others being Martina Navratilova, Chris Evert, Tracy Austin, Evonne Goolagong, Steffi Graf and Hana Mandlíková.\n\nSteffi Graf's loss in the women's final was her only Grand Slam defeat in two years. She won eight of the nine Grand Slam tournaments from the 1988 Australian Open – 1990 Australian Open. This prevented her from completing a second consecutive Grand Slam and was her 9th Grand Slam final on her record run of 13 finals.\n\nOne notable débutant was Monica Seles, appearing in her first Grand Slam. She reached the semi-finals without being seeded, and aged only 15. Jennifer Capriati also made her presence felt, becoming the youngest winner (13 years, 2 months) of the girls' singles title – this record was broken in 1993 by Martina Hingis, aged 12.\n\n Michael Chang defeated Stefan Edberg, 6–1, 3–6, 4–6, 6–4, 6–2\n\n Arantxa Sánchez Vicario defeated Steffi Graf, 7–6, 3–6, 7–5\n\n Jim Grabb / Patrick McEnroe defeated Mansour Bahrami / Eric Winogradsky, 6–4, 2–6, 6–4, 7–6\n\n Larisa Savchenko Neiland / Natalia Zvereva defeated Steffi Graf / Gabriela Sabatini, 6–4, 6–4\n\n Manon Bollegraf / Tom Nijssen defeated Horacio de la Peña / Arantxa Sánchez Vicario, 6–3, 6–7, 6–2\n\n Fabrice Santoro defeated Jared Palmer, 6–3, 3–6, 9–7\n\n Jennifer Capriati defeated Eva Švíglerová, 6–4, 6–0\n\n Johan Anderson / Todd Woodbridge\n\n Nicole Pratt / Wang Shi-ting\n\nTotal prize money for the event was $4,545,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978881", "title": "Thulla", "text": "Thulla\n\nThulla (Thulla Christina Wamberg; born September 6, 1963) is a Danish folk/pop and jazz singer.\n\nAutodidact in music, words, images and sound, mainly influenced, as she states, by Tom Waits, Leonard Cohen, Marilyn Monroe and Björk. She had several great Jazz musicians from Denmark in her bands, the \"Thulla's Organic Orchestra (Ben Besiakov, (p), Dan Hemmer (ho), Hugo Rasmussen (b), Frands Rifbjerg (d)\", \"Lisbeth Diers (perc\"), and 2005 the \"Thullabandulla Band\" (Dan Hemmer (keys), Guffi Pallesen (b), Rune Harder Olesen (perc). The songs are mainly her own compositions and lyrics, mixed with international standards. Her newest band Thulla's Merry-go-round (2017), count Marie Louise Schmidt (Vox Continental, harmonica, keys), Eva Malling (bass) and on the album: Poul Achton (dr). Live on drums/perc: Jesper Uno.\n\nThulla was born in Copenhagen, and has a bachelor of Danish Literature from KUA, 1990. She received the National Arts Foundation's 2-year music-grant in 2000, and has also received a grant from the State Art Foundation. She toured all over Denmark with \"Thulla's Organic Orchestra\" as well as \"Thullabandulla Band\", and performed at Beijings Jazz Festival 2008. Participated in portraits on DR2, DR1, TV2 and Channel 4.\nShe Composed the soundtrack for Greenland scientist John Andersen's \"Around Greenland\", 2009.\n\nContributed as a singer and composer to other projects, including Universal Funk - Later Black Lillies.\nChiefeditor of the Composers' Association DJBFA's member magazine KOMPOST 2008-2012.\n\nThulla's first album was released in 1999. Her records are sold in Denmark as in Germany, Japan and Portugal.\n\n\n\n• The Evil Stepmother - Myth or Reality. Fischer & Schou, 1996\n\nComposer/sounddesigner/actor at the following performances by author and dramatist Michael Svennevig:\n\n• \"Ørkenshow.\" Teatret ved Sorte Hest, 2008\n\n• \"HEGN\". About a Refugee's Life and Dreams in Denmark. Teatret ved Sorte Hest, 2008\n\n• \"The Silence spoke.\" Apostel Kirke, Vesterbro. 2009\n\n• \"Handle me Life\". Apostel Kirke, Vesterbro. 2011\n\n• \"Festival of Theater\", Træstubben, Vesterbro Naturværksted. 2014\n\n• With \"Stine Bitsch-Larsen\" / Festival of Stories & Life Stories, Bethania Home, Frederiksberg. 2016\n\n• Mainartist together with Mika Filborne through the festival \"Coffee - Yes please!\" in 3 districts of Copenhagen\n\n• Composer/sound designer at \"My School Yard\", Teatret Riddersalen, Frederiksberg in cooperation with Nyelandsvejens skole.\n\nDreams & Visions, 2013\n\nWith'n without Jewelry, 2016\n\nSwanWings, 2016\n\nCoffee, Yes Please! 2017\n\nAbout writer Stig Dalager, 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "1978883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978883", "title": "Libocedrus", "text": "Libocedrus\n\nLibocedrus is a genus of five species of coniferous trees in the cypress family Cupressaceae, native to New Zealand and New Caledonia. The genus is closely related to the South American genera \"Pilgerodendron\" and \"Austrocedrus\", and the New Guinean genus \"Papuacedrus\", both of which are included within \"Libocedrus\" by some botanists. These genera are rather similar to the Northern Hemisphere genera \"Calocedrus\" and \"Thuja\": in earlier days, what is now \"Calocedrus\" was sometimes included in \"Libocedrus\". They are much less closely related, as recently confirmed (Gadek et al. 2000). The generic name means \"teardrop cedar\", apparently referring to drops of resin.\n\nThe leaves are scale-like, 3–7 mm long, in apparent whorls of four (actually opposite decussate pairs, but not evenly spaced apart, instead with the successive pairs closely then distantly spaced). The cones are 8–20 mm long, and have just 2 pairs of moderately thin, erect scales, each scale with a distinct spine 3–7 mm long on the outer face, and bearing two winged seeds on the inner face.\n\nThe species recognized in the genus are:\nThe two New Zealand species, known individually by their Māori names kawaka (\"Libocedrus plumosa\") and pāhautea (\"Libocedrus bidwillii\"), are sometimes called New Zealand cedars. No common names have been recorded for the three New Caledonian species.\n\nThe wood of \"Libocedrus\" is soft, moderately decay-resistant, and with a spicy-resinous fragrance. The two New Zealand species are also grown as ornamental plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978886", "title": "Camino, California", "text": "Camino, California\n\nCamino (sp.: \"path\" or \"way\"; formerly, Seven Mile House) is a census-designated place in El Dorado County, California, and, per the 2010 census, has a population of 1,750. According to the USGS, it lies at an elevation of 3133 feet (955 m).\n\nNearby cities and towns include Pollock Pines, Placerville, Diamond Springs, El Dorado, Grizzly Flats, Somerset, Coloma, Garden Valley, Cameron Park, Shingle Springs, and Lotus. The elevation of Camino ranges between 3,000 and 3,500 feet, and gets snow several times per year. Camino is a popular area in the fall for apples and is often incorrectly mistaken as Apple Hill, which is the trademarked name of the Apple Hill Growers Association, a 55-member collection of ranches in Camino/Placerville/Pollock Pines. It is also known for its many Christmas tree farm ranches and is home to the annual Apple Hill Run. Camino is located about halfway between Sacramento and South Lake Tahoe on U.S. Route 50. The first post office was opened in 1904; the ZIP code is 95709. The community is inside area code 530.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Camino had a population of 1,750. The population density was 777.7 people per square mile (300.3/km²). The racial makeup of Camino was 1,604 (91.7%) White, 7 (0.4%) African American, 14 (0.8%) Native American, 18 (1.0%) Asian, 4 (0.2%) Pacific Islander, 55 (3.1%) from other races, and 48 (2.7%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 197 persons (11.3%).\n\nThe Census reported that 1,750 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 723 households, out of which 188 (26.0%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 390 (53.9%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 50 (6.9%) had a female householder with no husband present, 45 (6.2%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 50 (6.9%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 3 (0.4%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 181 households (25.0%) were made up of individuals and 76 (10.5%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.42. There were 485 families (67.1% of all households); the average family size was 2.90.\n\nThe population was spread out with 370 people (21.1%) under the age of 18, 111 people (6.3%) aged 18 to 24, 329 people (18.8%) aged 25 to 44, 560 people (32.0%) aged 45 to 64, and 380 people (21.7%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 47.8 years. For every 100 females, there were 98.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 98.0 males.\n\nThere were 810 housing units at an average density of 360.0 per square mile (139.0/km²), of which 723 were occupied, of which 514 (71.1%) were owner-occupied, and 209 (28.9%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.3%; the rental vacancy rate was 7.4%. 1,235 people (70.6% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 515 people (29.4%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the state legislature, Camino is in , and .\n\nFederally, Camino is in .\n\nThe Köppen Climate Classification subtype for this climate is \"Csa\"(Mediterranean Climate).\n"}
{"id": "1978887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978887", "title": "Silingi", "text": "Silingi\n\nThe Silings or Silingi (; – ) were a Germanic tribe, part of the larger Vandal group. The Silingi at one point lived in Silesia, and the names \"Silesia\" and \"Silingi\" may be related.\n\nThe Silingi are first mentioned by Claudius Ptolemaeus in the 2nd century, who wrote that they had lived south of the Suevic Semnone tribe and north of the Carpathian Mountains, around what now is Silesia:\n\nThe tribe of Nahanarvali is speculated by modern scholars to be the same people as the Silingi. Tacitus Germania, 43 mentions the Naharvali as the keepers of sanctuary of the Lugian federation (the grove to twin gods Alcis). Tacitus does not mention the Silingi; however, he places the Naharvali in about the same geographical area in which Ptolemaeus placed the Silingi.\n\nDuring the reign of the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius, (A.D. 161–180) the Silingi lived in the \"Vandal mountains\", source of the Elbe, which now is part of the Czech Republic.\n\nPushed westwards by the Huns around 400, the Vandals crossed the Rhine into Gaul in 406 and the Pyrenees into Iberia in 409. While the other main Vandal group, the Hasdingi, settled in Gallaecia, the Silingi settled in Baetica. In 419, following Roman-sponsored attacks by the Visigoths against the Silingi in 417-18, the remnants of Silingi and the Alans voluntarily subjected to the rule Hasdingian leader Gunderic, who had fled from Gallaecia to Baetica after having been defeated by a Roman-Suebi coalition. After Gunderic's succession by Genseric in 428, the Vandals relocated to North Africa, where they established a kingdom centered at Carthage. The kingdom collapsed in the Vandalic War of 533–4, in which Justinian I managed to reconquer the Africa province for the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire.\n\nAfter the migratory movement of the 5th century, any Silingi remaining in Silesia were most likely slowly replaced in the sixth century by an influx of people holding the Prague-Korchak cultures, who are supposed to be new Slavic tribes migrating from the east.\n\nAccording to some historians, the names of Silesia and the Silingi are related. Another hypothesis derives the name of the mountain and river, and hence the region, from the old Polish word \"Ślągwa\", meaning \"humid\" or \"damp\", reflecting the climate of the region.\n\nThe name of the territory of Silesia is often assumed to either derive from the river or the mountain now called the Ślęza River or Mount Ślęża. The hill was a religious center of the Silingi, situated south-south-east of modern-day Wrocław (Breslau), although the religious importance of the location dates back to the sun-worshipping people of the Lusatian culture, as early as 1300 B.C.\n\nCorps Silingia Breslau () is a student organization (Studentenverbindung) that has been operating since 1877, currently (2010) in Cologne, Germany, as Corps Silingia Breslau zu Köln (Silingia Corps Wrocław in Cologne).\n\n"}
{"id": "1978894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978894", "title": "Ella Reeve Bloor", "text": "Ella Reeve Bloor\n\nElla Reeve \"Mother\" Bloor (July 8, 1862 – August 10, 1951) was an American labor organizer and long-time activist in the socialist and communist movements. Bloor is best remembered as one of the top-ranking female functionaries in the Communist Party USA and as one of the most prominent socialist feminists in United States history.\n\nElla Reeve \"Mother\" Bloor was born Ella Reeve on Staten Island, on July 8, 1862, the daughter of Harriet Amanda (née Disbrow) and Charles Reeve. She grew up in Bridgeton, New Jersey. She was married first to Lucien Bonaparte Ware, then Louis Cohen, and finally Andrew Omholt. Ella married Lucian Ware in February 1882, at ages of 19 and 27, respectively. In the following 10 years, the couple had seven children. However, three died by the age of 3 (Pauline Stites Ware, Charles Reeve Ware and Lucien Bonaparte Ware, Jr [twin to Harold]); leaving 4 children: Grace, Helen, Harold and Hamilton Disbrow Ware. Her daughter, Helen Ware, was a concert violinist while son, Harold Ware, became an agriculture expert as an activist in the Communist Party of America. One of her other sons was Hamilton D. \"Buzz\" Ware, an artist and prominent leader in the Village of Arden, Delaware, where she lived for many years. Ella and Lucien divorced in 1896 and the following year, at about age 35, she married Louis Cohen. In the following three years, the couple had two children: Victor Hugo Cohen and Carl M. Cohen. Ella and Louis Cohen likely divorced by 1906. In 1930, at about age 68, Ella married Andrew Omholt.\n\nElla became involved in several reform movements including the prohibitionist Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) and women's suffrage. She was the author of two books for children, \"Three Little Lovers of Nature\" (1895) and \"Talks About Authors and Their Work\" (1899).\nIn 1897 Ella was a founding member of the Social Democracy of America, a new organization established by her friend Eugene V. Debs and Victor Berger — a group which would later emerge as the Social Democratic Party (SDP). She later recalled:\n\"When I joined the Social Democracy I was living in Brooklyn and I had married for the second time. My husband, Louis Cohen, was a socialist. I was pregnant with the first of the two children of that marriage. The railroad men [Debs supporters] came to my house so I could continue to act as [local] secretary.\n\"But a new disappointment was in store for me. The Social Democracy, I soon discovered, was a utopian scheme. Debs' plan was to form an ideal colony out West to show by example that socialism could work. From the outset I told the members of my group that this colonization scheme was unsound, not real socialism at all. I stayed with it for a while because of my loyalty to Debs, and because this was the nearest thing I had yet found to a socialist movement.\n\"Debs set up a paper in Chicago called \"The Social Democrat.\" At his request I wrote a children's column for it. The children answered the appeals of Debs and his colonization committee by sending me money. I felt it was unfair to collect money for something that did not yet exist. People were already selling out businesses to join the colony. A national convention was held in Chicago [June 7–11, 1898] and our local sent delegates. Among them was my husband who still felt that anything Debs was in must be all right. I agreed to withhold final judgment until the delegates returned. When they came back and reported that plans to establish the colony would continue, I resigned. I simply could not stay with anything so unscientific.\n\nShortly after her resignation from the Social Democracy, Ella attended a meeting in New York of the Socialist Labor Party, at which editor of the party newspaper Daniel DeLeon was the speaker:\n\"He was small and slight and prematurely gray, and spoke very deliberately and convincingly.\n\"The Socialist Labor Party was a revolutionary party in those days and DeLeon, its leader, was a brilliant theoretician and speaker, a courageous fighter against capitalism... I was impressed with his analysis of the evils of the capitalist system, and of the fallacy of isolated socialist colonies as a way of achieving socialism. I felt that at last here was scientific socialism and joined the SLP.\n\"Daniel DeLeon and I became friends... I became very much interested in the New York Labor News Company — the first organization that published revolutionary books and pamphlets in English on a large scale. Its manager was Julien Pierce. Together we proofread the pamphlets translated by DeLeon, often having o reconstruct the English, a greater task than we ever let him know.\"\n\nElla was elected to the governing General Executive Board of the Socialist Trade and Labor Alliance (ST&LA), the SLP's trade union affiliate. She was also the ST&LA's organizer for Essex County, New Jersey and was sent to Philadelphia by the organization in an effort to organize street car workers there.\n\nElla recounted her growing disaffection with the SLP in her 1940 memoir:\n\"Gradually the defects of the SLP were brought home to me. I found many workers antagonistic because I was organizing a rival union. The STLA was weakening the AF of L <nowiki>[</nowiki>American Federation of Labor<nowiki>]</nowiki> by drawing off its more radical elements and leaving the reactionaries in control, and was itself organized on too narrow and sectarian a basis to accomplish anything. Furthermore, the SLP as a political party had little real influence because DeLeon was against taking part in the immediate struggles of the workers... I began very early to see the importance of a united trade union movement, and felt that Socialists should work within the AF of L. I felt that DeLeon understood Marx very well abstractly but knew little about the practical needs of the labor movement.\n\"The last time I talked with DeLeon I told him I was moving to Philadelphia and was willing to accept the secretaryship of the SLP local there, which had been offered me, but I could not go along with their principles wholeheartedly. As a good friend of mine, DeLeon accepted what I said without anger, but would not change his methods.\"\n\nSoon after her arrival in Philadelphia, a state convention of the SLP decided to leave the party en masse to form a new organization in the nether region between Morris Hillquit's dissident so-called \"Kangaroo\" faction which broke away in 1899 and DeLeon's hardline SLP. Ella opposed this new organization, which called itself \"The Logical Center\" and included Lucien Sanial, a former top official in the SLP. Ella had been watching with interest the formation of the Socialist Party of America (SPA) in 1901 and decided to leave her new Pennsylvania comrades to rejoin her friend Gene Debs as a member of his new organization.\n\nIn subsequent years, Bloor worked as a trade union organizer and helped during industrial disputes in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Colorado, Ohio and New York. She organized strikes across a wide range of industries including miners, hatters, steelworkers, and needle-workers.\n\nIn 1905 Bloor helped a fellow member of the Socialist Party of America, Upton Sinclair, gather information on the Chicago stock yards. Ella partnered with colleague Richard Bloor, and the last name stuck, though the pair were never married. Her work and pen-name eventually appeared in Sinclair's best-selling book, \"The Jungle\".\n\nBloor ran unsuccessfully for political office several times under the Socialist Party of America, including secretary of state for Connecticut in 1908 where she was the first woman to run for state office and Lieutenant Governor of New York in 1918. In 1938 she ran for Governor of Pennsylvania under the American Communist Party.\n\nElla Reeve Bloor was one of the founders of the Communist Labor Party of America, which stemmed from the Left Wing Section of the Socialist Party. In 1921 and 1922, Bloor attended the second conventions of the Comintern in Moscow. She was also a delegate to the founding convention of the Red International of Labor Unions in July 1921, at which she used the pseudonym \"Emmons\" and voted on the basis of credentials issued by three locals of the International Association of Machinists. Upon her return from the Soviet Union, Bloor hitchhiked throughout the United States while writing articles for the \"Daily Worker\".\n\nBloor was a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party USA from 1932 to 1948 where she organized tirelessly. During this time, she toured the Midwest, organizing farmers, leading farmers strikes, and giving speeches. Many of these speeches were focused on women’s rights, especially suffrage and its connection to their rights as laborers.\n\nAfter the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941, Bloor became an advocate of American participation in World War II. Later she argued for an early invasion of Europe to create a Second Front.\n\nElla Reeve Bloor died on August 10, 1951 in Richlandtown, Pennsylvania. She is buried in Harleigh Cemetery in Camden, New Jersey.\n\nToday, Ella Reeve Bloor is remembered as one of the most prominent socialist feminists in United States history. She gave countless speeches and lectures focusing on topics of women’s suffrage and mobilization as workers, often stressing the “direct connection between the ballot and our work.\" For some, Bloor echoed the voice of working women in the early twentieth century by vocalizing the intersection of socialism and suffrage. She argued that because working women were marginalized by the law as it was, their only form of political power was through protest which frequently proved dangerous and ineffective. She believed that women needed the right to vote if they hoped to have a say in changing laws and therefore improve their working conditions and lives in general.\n\nBloor's autobiography, \"We Are Many\", was published in 1940 and served as the basis for the Woody Guthrie song, \"1913 Massacre.\"\n\nHer granddaughter was actress Herta Ware who was married to Will Geer from 1934-1954.\n\n\nChildren's books\n\nPolitical titles\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978899", "title": "Pen-y-Gwryd", "text": "Pen-y-Gwryd\n\nPen-y-Gwryd is a pass at the head of Nantygwryd and Nant Cynnyd rivers close to the foot of Snowdon in Gwynedd, Wales. \nThe area is located at the junction of the A4086 from Capel Curig to Llanberis and Caernarfon and the A498 from Beddgelert and Nant Gwynant about a mile from the head of the Llanberis Pass. It is close to the boundary with Conwy county borough in northern Snowdonia. The famous mountaineering hostelry, \"Pen-y-Gwryd Hotel\", is located in the pass. It is also a mountain rescue post with links to the other rescue posts at Ogwen Cottage and Plas y Brenin.\n\nThe Old Miners' Track from the Snowdon copper mines are now part of the modern A4086 road between Pen-y-Gwryd and Pen-y-Pass. It continues northwards beyond Pen-y-Gwryd skirting Glyder Fach to Bwlch Tryfan and Dyffryn Ogwen. From Pen-y-Pass is the \"PYG track\", one of the many routes leading to the summit of Snowdon, its name is believed be derived from the initials (\"P-y-G\"). However, older maps show it as the \"Pig track\", a name derived from \"Bwlch y Moch\" (the Pigs' Gap). \n\nDuring Roman Britain, the Roman Army built a marching camp at the head of Dyffryn Mymbyr at the strategic intersection of three major routes through the Snowdonian mountains. This type of fortified cantonment was the kind built each evening by Roman legionaries when out in the field or on campaign. The camp, which has a rhomboid shape, covers about providing accommodation for up to 2000 soldiers and their baggage trains. Its defences included a ditch approximately wide and deep below the turf-line and an earthwork rampart to wide. The northern rampart runs through the current location of the Pen-y-Gwryd Hotel. \n\nThe camp was probably first built during the Roman General Gnaeus Julius Agricola’s conquest of the Ordovices in the late AD 70’s. As it is unusual for temporary camps to survive, its existence suggests it was periodically reoccupied. Although the camp had no permanent garrison or buildings, it may have been a regular waypoint for Roman units travelling between Deva Victrix (Chester) and Segontium (Caernarfon).\n\nThe site is difficult to observe due to erosion and local land usage as nothing remains except grass and bramble-covered mounds. It was first excavated in 1960 by early surveying courses from Plas-y-Brenin under the auspices of Dr Josephine Flood (née Scarr).\n\nThe Pen-y-Gwryd Hotel was originally a farmhouse dating from 1811. It was converted to wayside inn by a John Roberts from Llanberis, who eventually sold the Inn in 1840 before emigrating to America. A Mrs Hughes, who was the widow of the first landlord (a Joseph Griffith) of the Capel Curig Inn (which became The Royal Hotel, now Plas-y-Brenin), and later the widow of Reverend Robert Hughes of Capel Curig, took over the Inn in 1843.\n\nIn 1847 Henry Owen acquired the Inn. He was born in Beddgelert, Caernarvonshire on 2 April 1822, the son of a farmer, Owen Owen. He married Ann Pritchard from the parish of Llanbeblig near Caernarvon. Initially Henry combined his hostelry work with a position of Agent at the nearby Snowdonian copper mine and later with farming. But by 1858, the inn business was sufficiently successful to allow him to purchase the freehold.\n\nDuring the Owens' tenure running the inn, it became renowned for its status for comfort and hospitality. The original building was considerably extended transforming it from a farmhouse Inn to a well-known and popular hotel. Ann's excellent cookery was apparently to play no small part in the hotel's success. Eventually it became an integral part of the blossoming mountaineering industry that was developing in North Wales. In May 1898 \"The Climbers Club\" originated at Pen-y-Gwryd, as it is recorded in its first journal \"...its natural birth at Pen-y-Gwryd\" and \"...its congenial atmosphere... (\"The Climbers Club\") first struck its roots\". The \"Climbers Club\" is now based at \"Helyg\" on the A5 between Capel Curig and Ogwen Cottage.\n\nIn 1870 the \"Society of Welsh Rabbits\" (c.1865) was founded with the objective of exploring Snowdonia in winter (and as close to Christmas as possible). Ann Owen said in 1895 that the society had written an article \"praising Pen-y-Gwryd as an excellent resort at Christmas\". She noted \" ...we rarely, if ever, had a guest at Christmas and since then we have hardly been without guests during the period\". Henry continued to run the hotel until his death in 1891. Ann then took over the management until her death in 1896. \n\nAfter the owner of \"The Royal Hotel\", Capel Curig took over, the business saw an indifferent ten years. However, this changed when William Hampton, along with Arthur and Florence Lockwood, took ownership. The hotel and its mountaineering traditions soon picked up again and the building was redeveloped. In the 1920s they created Llyn Lockwood – the small trout lake opposite the hotel. During the Second World War the hotel was taken over by Lake House School from Bexhill-on-Sea.\n\nThe subsequent owners have improved the hotel and enhanced its mountaineering links by becoming a Mountain rescue post (the plaque is still attached to the main entrance), whilst maintaining the hotel's history. Guest bedrooms are named after each of Snowdonia's 13 peaks over . \n\nThe hotel's most notable mountaineering link is to the first successful Everest expedition in 1953 and the first successful Kangchenjunga expedition in 1955, where training and testing of oxygen equipment for those expeditions took place, at Helyg near Capel Curig. On the right at the hotel entrance there is a Tyrolean-style Stüberl (dining room) with the signatures, written on the ceiling, of the teams that did the first ascent of Everest in 1953 and of the first ascent of Kangchenjunga in 1955 – these include Sir Edmund Hillary, Tenzing Norgay, Sir John Hunt, Charles Evans, George Band, Joe Brown, John Angelo Jackson, Wilfred Noyce, Tony Streather, Tom Mackinnon, Norman Hardie, Neil Mather, John Clegg and others, including Noel Odell from Mallory's 1924 expedition and Chris Bonington of later successes. There are many photographs and exhibits provided by the original team members in the main bar and guest lounge. In the past each year, now every five years, Pen-y-Gwryd hosts the Everest and Kangchenjunga reunions.\n\nCaradog Jones, the first Welshman to conquer Everest, has stated that it was this Welsh connection with the mountain which inspired him.\nOther notable visitors include: Charles Kingsley and Henry Kingsley, William Ewart Gladstone (Gladstones), Augustine Birrell, Walter Parry Haskett Smith, Thomas Huxley, Lord Coleridge – past and present (at the time of writing), John Henry Cliffe who wrote \"Notes and Recollections of an Angler\" (1860), Andrew Ramsay, George Mallory in 1914, and actor Jack Hawkins during the filming of \"The Long Arm\" on location in Snowdonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978904", "title": "Latin letters used in mathematics", "text": "Latin letters used in mathematics\n\nMany letters of the Latin alphabet, both capital and small, are used in mathematics, science, and engineering to denote by convention specific or abstracted constants, variables of a certain type, units, multipliers, or physical entities. Certain letters, when combined with special formatting, take on special meaning.\n\nBelow is an alphabetical list of the letters of the alphabet with some of their uses. The field in which the convention applies is mathematics unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978905", "title": "United States Life-Saving Service", "text": "United States Life-Saving Service\n\nThe United States Life-Saving Service was a United States government agency that grew out of private and local humanitarian efforts to save the lives of shipwrecked mariners and passengers. It began in 1848 and ultimately merged with the Revenue Cutter Service to form the United States Coast Guard in 1915.\n\nThe concept of assistance to shipwrecked mariners from shore based stations began with volunteer lifesaving services, spearheaded by the Massachusetts Humane Society. It was recognized that only small boats stood a chance in assisting those close to the beach. A sailing ship trying to help near to the shore stood a good chance of also running aground, especially if there were heavy onshore winds. The Massachusetts Humane Society founded the first lifeboat station at Cohasset, Massachusetts. The stations were small shed-like structures, holding rescue equipment that was to be used by volunteers in case of a wreck. The stations, however, were only near the approaches to busy ports and, thus, large gaps of coastline remained without lifesaving equipment.\nFormal federal government involvement in the life saving business began on August 14, 1848 with the signing of the Newell Act, which was named for its chief advocate, New Jersey Representative William A. Newell. Under this act, the United States Congress appropriated $10,000 to establish unmanned life saving stations along the New Jersey coast south of New York Harbor and to provide \"surf boat, rockets, carronades and other necessary apparatus for the better preservation of life and property from shipwreck on the coast of New Jersey ... .\" That same year the Massachusetts Humane Society also received funds from Congress for life saving stations on the Massachusetts coastline. Between 1848 and 1854 other stations were built and loosely managed.\n\nThe stations were administered by the United States Revenue Marine (later renamed the United States Revenue Cutter Service). They were run with volunteer crews, much like a volunteer fire department.\n\nIn September 1854, a Category 4 hurricane, the Great Carolina Hurricane of 1854, swept through the East Coast of the United States, causing the deaths of many sailors. This storm highlighted the poor condition of the equipment in the life saving stations, the poor training of the crews and the need for more stations. Additional funds were appropriated by Congress, including funds to employ a full-time keeper at each station and two superintendents.\nStill not officially recognized as a service, the system of stations languished until 1871 when Sumner Increase Kimball was appointed chief of the Treasury Department's Revenue Marine Division. One of his first acts was to send Captain John Faunce of the Revenue Marine Service on an inspection tour of the life saving stations. Captain Faunce's report noted that \"apparatus was rusty for want of care and some of it ruined.\"\n\nKimball convinced Congress to appropriate $200,000 to operate the stations and to allow the Secretary of the Treasury to employ full-time crews for the stations. Kimball instituted six-man boat crews at all stations, built new stations, and drew up regulations with standards of performance for crew members.\nBy 1874, stations were added along the coast of Maine, Cape Cod, the Outer Banks of North Carolina, and Port Aransas, Texas. The next year, more stations were added to serve the Great Lakes and the Houses of Refuge in Florida. In 1878, the network of life saving stations were formally organized as a separate agency of the United States Department of the Treasury, called the Life-Saving Service.\n\nThe stations of the Service fell into three categories: lifesaving, lifeboat, and houses of refuge. Lifesaving stations were manned by full-time crews during the period when wrecks were most likely. On the East Coast, this was usually from April to November, and was called the \"active season.\" By 1900, the active season was year-round. Most stations were in isolated areas and crewmen had to perform open beach launchings. That is, they were required to launch their boats from the beach into the surf. The \"Regulations of Life-Saving Service\" of 1899, Article VI, \"Actions at Wrecks,\" Section 252, remained in force after creation of the Coast Guard in 1915, and Section 252 was copied word for word into the new \"Instructions for United States Coast Guard Stations, 1934\" edition. That section gave rise to the rescue crew's unofficial motto, \"You have to go out, but you don't have to come back.\"\n\nBefore 1900, there were very few recreational boaters and most assistance cases came from ships engaged in commerce. Nearly all lifeboat stations were located at or near port cities. Here, deep water, combined with piers and other waterfront structures, allowed launching heavy lifeboats directly into the water by marine railways on inclined ramps. In general, lifeboat stations were on the Great Lakes, but some lifesaving stations were in the more isolated areas of the lakes. The active season on the Great Lakes stretched from April to December. An exception was the nation's first rescue center on the inland waterways, the United States Life Saving Station#10, established in 1881 at the Falls of the Ohio at Louisville, Kentucky, on the Ohio River.\n\nHouses of refuge made up the third category of Life Saving Service units. These stations were on the coasts of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. A paid keeper and a small boat were assigned to each house, but the organization did not include active manning and rescue attempts. It was felt that along this stretch of coastline, shipwrecked sailors would not die of exposure to the cold in the winter as in the north. Therefore, only shelters would be needed.\n\nOn January 28, 1915, President Woodrow Wilson signed the \"Act to Create the Coast Guard,\" merging the Life-Saving Service with the Revenue Cutter Service to create the United States Coast Guard. By the time the act was signed there was a network of more than 270 stations covering the Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, and Gulf of Mexico Coasts, and the Great Lakes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978912", "title": "Rock Fest", "text": "Rock Fest\n\n\"Rock Fest is also a block on VH1 Classic\"\n\nHeld annually since 1994, Rock Fest is the largest Rock Music and Camping Event in the US, featuring the best of classic and modern rock & metal. It is an annual four-day (Wednesday bonus day included for three-day ticket holders) music festival located near the town of Cadott, Wisconsin. The Amphitheater Venue hosts more than 7,000 Campsites for Campers with RV's or Tents, as well as the Amphitheater Concert Grounds for the four days of shows that features over 20 National Rock Music Acts each year. On site there are also Convenience Stores, Merch Store, concessions, and Side Stages that feature Regional Acts in between Main Stage performances. Rock Fest is billed one of the premier outdoor rock music festivals in the United States (see line up below). It is usually held on the third weekend (Wednesday–Saturday) of July.\nThere are four beer pavilions that have live music performing in between main stage acts and until 2:00 am each day/night of the fest. Rock Fest also has a picture taking line that allows the fans to get up to the front of the stage. There is a VIP Section which includes reserved seating and all-inclusive meals & drinks, reserved lawn seating, General Admission Amphitheater seating and a dropped Fan Pit (no moshing allowed) in front of the stage. There are excellent views of the main stage at every admission level due to the stage being located at the bottom of a small hill.\n\nThe annual attendance of Rock Fest is between 25,000 and 35,000 people daily.\nSome daily crowds grow closer to 50,000 people; for example in 2012 when Iron Maiden headlined the Saturday night of the festival.\n\nAttendance is made up mostly from the Midwest (Wausau, Wisconsin, Stevens Point, Wisconsin, Marshfield, Wisconsin area) and the Minneapolis, Minnesota area, but every state in the US is represented at this event as well as more than 14 countries outside the US.\n\nDay 1, Wednesday July 11\n\nWho's on Top\n\nBudweiser Grab Some Buds Stage\nDay 2, Thursday July 12\n\nMain Stage\n\nWho's on Top\n\nJack Daniel's Tribute Stage\n\nLoud & Local Stage\n\nBudweiser Grab Some Buds Stage\nDay 3, Friday July 13\n\nMain Stage\n\nWho's on Top\n\nJack Daniel's Tribute Stage\n\nLoud & Local Stage\n\nBudweiser Grab Some Buds Stage\nDay 4, Saturday July 14\n\nMain Stage\n\nWho's on Top\n\nJack Daniel's Tribute Stage\n\nLoud & Local Stage\n\nBudweiser Grab Some Buds Stage\n\nWednesday, July 12: RATT, Faster Pussycat, Jack Russell's Great White, The Good Bars.\n\nThursday, July 13: Slayer, Volbeat, Lamb of God, Anthrax, Failure Anthem, Badflower, Rachel Lorin, Antistar, Awaken the Shadow, Gemini Syndrome, Mushroomhead, Insane Clown Posse, The 9th Planet Out, Hand of the Tribe, The Zealots, Valora, The Nearly Deads, Anthem, Probable Cause, Kissin Time (Kiss cover band), Cowboys from Hell (Pantera cover band).\n\nFriday, July 14: Avenged Sevenfold, Korn, Stone Sour, Clutch, Avatar, Lacey Sturm, One Less Reason, Valora, The Nearly Deads, Hand of the Tribe, VIA, Stare Across, Oblivious Signal, Nuisance, Scattered Hamlet, Texas Hippie Coalition, Lita Ford, Cinderella's Tom Keifer, Emperors n Elephants.\n\nSaturday, July 15: Rob Zombie, Shinedown, Megadeth, Sevendust (cancelled and replaced by Adam Gontier), LIT, Devour the Day, City of the Weak, Fall II Rise, Veilside, Shallow Side, VIMIC, Thousand Foot Krutch, HellYeah, Matrekis, Wrecked, Ignescent, 7's Catacomb, My Memory Remains, Who's Who (The Who Cover Band), The Crown Jewels (Queen Cover Band).\n\nWednesday, July 13 (Bonus Bash): Cold Kingdom, Silversyde, Screaming for Silence, Chaotic Resemblance, Prophets of Addiction, 3 Pill Morning, Bobaflex, Faster Pussycat, Led Zeppelin 2, KIX, Queensryche\n\nThursday, July 14: Truth Before Treason, Bad Remedy, Emissary Echo, Oblivious Signal, Gabriel and the Apocalypse, Silversyde, Seven Days Lost, Acillatem, TNT, Stitched up Heart, Art of Dying, Like a Storm, Red Sun Rising, Nothing More, Sick Puppies, Hollywood Undead, Skillet, Marilyn Manson, Hollywood Vampires\n\nFriday, July 15: Myrriya, Aeraco, Strange Daze, Cold Kingdom, Fatal Kaliber, Vaudeville, Dellacoma, Station, Nivrana, Maiden Minneapolis, Beyond Threshold, 3 Pill Morning, Wayland, Escape the Fate, 10 Years, Adelitas Way, Saint Asonia, Scott Stapp, Rise Against, Breaking Benjamin, Alice in Chains\n\nSaturday July 16: Rising Rocker, My Memory Remains, Smiling Politely, Malice, Veilside, Antistar, Every Mother's Nightmare, The Blackfires, Who's Who, Electric Eye, I Prevail, Bridge to Grace, Wilson, New Years Day, Atreyu, All that Remains, In This Moment, Bullet for my Valentine, Five Finger Death Punch, Slipknot\n\nThursday, July 16: Vaudeville, New Medicine, Nothing More, Finger Eleven, Killswitch Engage, Shinedown\n\nFriday, July 17: King Shifter, A.D.D., Starset, Jackyl, Black Stone Cherry, Three Days Grace, Godsmack\n\nSaturday July 18: Emperors N Elephants, Islander, Shaman's Harvest, Adelitas Way, Hinder, Breaking Benjamin, Judas Priest\n\nSunday July 19: Emergent, Kyng, All That Remains, Pop Evil, Chevelle, Avenged Sevenfold\n\nNickleback was to originally play Friday but canceled later on.\n\nThursday, July 17: Wayland, Winger, Steel Panther, REO Speedwagon, Sammy Hagar\n\nFriday, July 18: Devour The Day, Pop Evil, Sick Puppies, Alter Bridge, Five Finger Death Punch\n\nSaturday, July 19: Eve To Adam, The Pretty Reckless, Live, Cheap Trick, Aerosmith\n\nSunday, July 20: Thousand Foot Krutch, Redlight King, P.O.D., Stone Sour, Rob Zombie (failed to perform)\n\nThursday, July 18: Aranda, All That Remains, Halestorm, Seether, Three Days Grace\n\nFriday, July 19: Bumblefist, 4th Floor, In This Moment, Nonpoint, Pop Evil, Theory of a Deadman, The Offspring, Korn\n\nSaturday, July 20: 7 Sins, Vaudeville, Warrant, Hellyeah, Stone Sour, Slash, Megadeth, KISS\n\nSunday, July 21: Dirtee Circus, Otherwise, Device, Skillet, Whitesnake, Mötley Crüe\n\n\nThursday, July 19: Dilana, Art of Dying, Black Stone Cherry, Buckcherry, Shinedown\n\nFriday, July 20: 10 Years, Halestorm, Hollywood Undead, Five Finger Death Punch, Godsmack\n\nSaturday, July 21:Dory Drive, Adelitas Way, Sevendust, Papa Roach, Alice Cooper, Iron Maiden\n\nSunday, July 22: FireHouse, Lita Ford, Sebastian Bach, Poison, Def Leppard\n\nThursday, July 14: Slaughter, Cinderella, Three Days Grace, Rob Zombie\n\nFriday, July 15: Rock Sugar, Saliva, Skillet, Hinder, Kid Rock\n\nSaturday, July 16: My Darkest Days, Sick Puppies, Chevelle, Seether, Avenged Sevenfold\n\nSunday, July 17: Jackyl, Tesla, Heart, Ted Nugent, Def Leppard, Stone Temple Pilots\n\n\nVic Ferrari, Apocalyptica, Theory of a Deadman, Daughtry, Gravel Switch, Default, Red Jumpsuit Apparatus, Soul Asylum, Skillet, 3 Doors Down, Elements, Elmwood, Candlebox, Blue October, Collective Soul, John Mellencamp, Black Valentyne, Sleeper Cell, Trapt, Drowning Pool, Limp Bizkit, Alice in Chains\n\nBad Downs, Blackberry Smoke, Saving Abel, Steve Miller Band, Pheromones, Saliva, Lifehouse, Seether, Barenaked Ladies, Sheryl Crow, Half Life, The Whigs, Los Lonely Boys, Hoobastank, Judas Priest, Journey, Big Deeks, Sevendust, Shinedown, Buckcherry, Korn\n\nVic Ferrari, Trixter, Poison, Boston, Catch Penny, Cowboy Mouth, Jackyl, Puddle of Mudd, Three Days Grace, Godsmack, Grid Lock, Big Deeks, Plain White T's, Switchfoot, Live, Goo Goo Dolls, Stone Temple Pilots, M!ss Crazy, Ligion, Dishwalla, Tesla, The Wallflowers, Matchbox Twenty\n\nWorld Classic Rockers, Dennis DeYoung, The New Cars, Deep Purple, Dying Breed, Saliva, Uncle Kracker, Grand Funk Railroad, Fuel, Godsmack, Big Deeks, Zed Leppelin, Mink, Cross Canadian Ragweed, The Tragically Hip, Collective Soul, Chicago, KISS, Rock County, Corey Stevens, Gov't Mule, Hinder, Third Eye Blind, 3 Doors Down\n\n10 Years, Cinderella, Cross Canadian Ragweed, George Thorogood, Grand Funk Railroad, Gregg Rolie, John Waite, Kansas, Kid Rock, Live, Mötley Crüe, Papa Roach, Poison, Puddle of Mudd, Sammy Hagar & The Wabos, Savoy Brown Fea. Kim Simmonds, Seven Mary Three, Staind, Tesla, Warrant\n\n\nG.B. Leighton, April Wine, Everclear, Collective Soul, FireHouse, Ratt, UFO, Cinderella, Megadeth, Big Deeks, Wishbone Ash, Quiet Riot, BoDeans, Black Crowes, Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers, Gypsy, Head East, Great White, Jackyl, Cheap Trick, ZZ Top\n\nRockslide, Vic Ferrari, Smash Mouth, Counting Crows, Kelly Keeling, Poco, Firefall, Spin Doctors, John Waite, Huey Lewis and the News, The Allman Brothers Band, Big Deeks, Y & T, Saliva, Tesla, Twisted Sister, Judas Priest, Phoenix, Newsboys, Paul Revere and the Raiders, REO Speedwagon, Styx, John Fogerty\n\nPhoenix, Dokken, Jackyl, Whitesnake, After Dark, Night Ranger, WAR, Twisted Sister, Alice Cooper, Def Leppard, Public Reaction, FireHouse, Loverboy, Grand Funk Railroad, Sammy Hagar, Lynyrd Skynyrd, 2nd Hand Stone, Eddie Money, Rick Springfield, .38 Special, Heart, Boston\n\nVic Ferrari, Ronnie James Dio, The Scorpions, Deep Purple, Boogie & the YO-YO'Z, The Pat Travers Band, Average White Band, Creedence Clearwater Revisited, Ted Nugent, Journey, Road Trip, World Classic Rockers, Loverboy, Blondie, George Thorogood, Robert Plant, Glitch, Starship featuring Mickey Thomas, Toto (with Bobby Kimball), Cinderella, Poison, Meat Loaf\n\nBoom Candle, Tesla, Bad Company - Paul Rodgers, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Bad Boy, Jackyl, Skid Row, Joan Jett & The Blackhearts, Queensryche, David Lee Roth, Badaz, Air Supply, America, Pat Benatar, Billy Squier, The Guess Who, Toy Boys, Slaughter, Uriah Heep, Blue Oyster Cult, Jethro Tull, Ted Nugent\n\nHoward Guitar Luedtke & Blue Max, Vic Ferrari, Styx, REO Speedwagon, Mean Street, Wizenhiemers, Air Supply, Kenny Wayne Shepherd Band, Joe Walsh, George Thorogood and the Destroyers, Glitch, The Toy Boys, .38 Special, Creedence Clearwater Revisited, Sammy Hagar and the Waboritas, Billy Idol, The Biscuit, Bad Boy, David Clayton Thomas and Blood, Sweat and Tears, WAR, Doobie Brothers, Poison\n\nThe Chris Aaron Band, America, Blue Oyster Cult, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Captain Jack, Wizenhiemers, Gov't Mule, Kansas, The Scorpions, Mötley Crüe, Def Leppard, Chic Tracy, Amy & The Toy Boys, Survivor, The Dweebs, Marques Bovre & The Evil Twins, Joan Jett & The Blackhearts, Peter Frampton, Foreigner, Journey, Sammy Hagar, Pat Benatar, Poison, Rick Springfield\n\nAja, America, Eddie Money, Steve Miller Band, Shatter Maxx, Vic Ferrari, David Clayton Thomas & Blood, Sweat and Tears, Creedence Clearwater Revisited, Alice Cooper, Howard Guitar Luedtke & Blue Max, High Risk Band, .38 Special, Molly Hatchet, Grand Funk Railroad\n\nPaul Rodgers, The Marshall Tucker Band, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Vic Ferrari, Little Feat, Cosmo's Factory (CCR), Ozark Mountain Daredevils, ZZ Top, Eric Burdon, B.T.O., Air Supply, RATT, Boston, The Guess Who, Nazareth, Loverboy, Kansas, REO Speedwagon, Not Responsible, Scarlet Runner, Finger, Fat Cats, The MAXX, Motely Crue, Sammy Hagar, Def Leppard\n\nJohnny Clueless, Violent Femmes, Golden Smog, Sheryl Crow, The Romantics, Fabulous Thunderbirds, Kansas, Little River Band, Smithereens, Big Head Todd and the Monsters, Bad Company, Ted Nugent, Starship featuring Mickey Thomas, The Freddy Jones Band, Eddie Money, The BoDeans, Doobie Brothers, Road Trip, High Risk, Not Responsible, Vic Ferrari, Inside Out Band, Vital Sign, New Sun Union, Jonny Lang\n\nLamont Cranston, Loverboy, AirKraft, Rare Earth, Molly Hatchet, Starship featuring Mickey Thomas, Cheap Trick, Pat Benatar, Eric Burdon, E.L.O. part II, The Allman Brothers Band, Bruce Hornsby, Kansas, Little River Band, Fleetwood Mac, Foreigner, G.B. Leighton, Freckles and the Hostages, Palace, Kidd Gloves, The Hoopsnakes, Roadtrip, Vic Ferrari, Shady Glenn, Milestone, Recipe X, Inside Out Band\n\nJohn Kay and Steppenwolf, Cheap Trick, Mitch Ryder, B.T.O., Foghat, Eddie Money, Guess Who, Blood, Sweat and Tears, Survivor, REO Speedwagon, Big Grin, Head East, Radio Flyer, Palace, Hanna Storm, Recipe X\n\n"}
{"id": "1978914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978914", "title": "Rathaus-Glockenspiel", "text": "Rathaus-Glockenspiel\n\nThe Rathaus-Glockenspiel in Munich is a tourist attraction clock in Marienplatz, the heart of Munich, Germany.\n\nPart of the second construction phase of the New Town Hall, it dates from 1908. Every day at 11 a.m. and 12 p.m. (as well as 5 p.m. in the summer) it chimes and re-enacts two stories from the 16th century to the amusement of mass crowds of tourists and locals. It consists of 43 bells and 32 life-sized figures. The top half of the Glockenspiel tells the story of the marriage of the local Duke Wilhelm V (who also founded the noted Hofbräuhaus) to Renata of Lorraine. In honor of the happy couple there is a joust with life-sized knights on horseback representing Bavaria (in white and blue) and Lothringen (in red and white). The Bavarian knight wins every time, of course.\n\nThis is then followed by the bottom half and second story: Schäfflertanz (the coopers' dance). According to myth, 1517 was a year of plague in Munich. The coopers are said to have danced through the streets to \"bring fresh vitality to fearful dispositions.\" The coopers remained loyal to the duke, and their dance came to symbolize perseverance and loyalty to authority through difficult times. By tradition, the dance is performed in Munich every seven years. This was described in 1700 as \"an age-old custom\", but the current dance was defined only in 1871. The dance can be seen during Fasching (German Carnival): the next one is in 2019.\n\nThe whole show lasts somewhere between 12 and 15 minutes long depending on which tune it plays that day. At the very end of the show, a very small golden rooster at the top of the Glockenspiel chirps quietly three times, marking the end of the spectacle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978920", "title": "Campo, California", "text": "Campo, California\n\nCampo is an unincorporated community in the Mountain Empire area of southeastern San Diego County, California, United States. The population was 2,684 at the 2010 census. For statistical purposes, the United States Census Bureau has defined Campo as a census-designated place (CDP). The census definition of the area may not precisely correspond to local understanding of the area with the same name.\n\nThe Campo area consists of three clusters of development. Campo, Lake Morena and Cameron Corners. The community of Cameron Corners is about 1 mile (1.6 km) south. The village of Lake Moreno is the northern part of Campo. These communities use postal addresses in Campo with the ZIP Code of 91906.\n\nCampo was a military town in the 1940s and home to the Buffalo Soldiers. During World War II, it was known as Camp Lockett and had a veterans convalescent hospital. Camp Lockett housed a 300-bed Italian Prisoner-of-war camp in Cameron Corners. The Army’s all African American Cavalry unit patrolled the border on horseback until 1944.\n\nThe United States Military continues to maintain activities nearby at La Posta Mountain Warfare Training Facility.\n\nNearby towns include Boulevard, Potrero, Tecate, Dulzura, Jacumba, Pine Valley, Mount Laguna, Descanso, and Jamul.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 23.5 square miles (60.7 km²), 99.97% of it land, and 0.03% of it water.\n\nIt is southeast of San Diego.\n\nAccording to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Campo has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csa\" on climate maps.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Campo had a population of 2,684. The population density was 114.3 people per square mile (44.1/km²). The racial makeup of Campo was 2,083 (77.6%) White, 794 (29.6%) Latino, 114 (4.2%) African American, 90 (3.4%) Native American, 31 (1.2%) Asian, 6 (0.2%) Pacific Islander, 248 (9.2%) from other races, and 112 (4.2%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 794 persons (29.6%).\n\nThe Census reported that 2,499 people (93.1% of the population) lived in households, 50 (1.9%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 135 (5.0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 901 households, out of which 334 (37.1%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 491 (54.5%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 80 (8.9%) had a female householder with no husband present, 58 (6.4%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 67 (7.4%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 5 (0.6%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 199 households (22.1%) were made up of individuals and 80 (8.9%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.77. There were 629 families (69.8% of all households); the average family size was 3.27.\n\nThe population was spread out with 811 people (30.2%) under the age of 18, 182 people (6.8%) aged 18 to 24, 676 people (25.2%) aged 25 to 44, 727 people (27.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 288 people (10.7%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35.2 years. For every 100 females, there were 119.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 109.0 males.\n\nThere were 1,105 housing units at an average density of 47.0 per square mile (18.2/km²), of which 675 (74.9%) were owner-occupied, and 226 (25.1%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 4.9%; the rental vacancy rate was 13.4%. 1,806 people (67.3% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 693 people (25.8%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nCampo is home to three museums: The Pacific Southwest Railway Museum, the Motor Transport Museum and the Gaskill Brothers Stone Store.\n\nA CDF fire station is located at 31577 State Route 94. The 1998 Cameron Corners, California 7.5-minute quadrangle plots the station near Dewey Place and SR 94. A Southern California Automobile Association map, believed to be c. 1910-1930, shows a business named \"Dewey Store\" in Cameron Corners. The business is plotted on the north side of SR 94 just east of County Road S1. This may be a variant name of Dewey Place.\n\nThere is a county road maintenance station on Forrest Gate Road and a county fire station at Jeb Stewart Road and Parker Road.\n\nLarge employers in the area include US Department of Homeland Security Border Patrol and the San Diego County, California Probation, Juvenile Ranch Facility, (population 250).\n\nAccording to a September 9, 2004 \"San Diego Union Tribune\" article, foster care activist Father Joe Carroll proposed building a foster camp for children here. The proposed name was, \"Promiseland Ranch,\" and the proposed facility would encompass about . Although the project was approved by the Board of Supervisors in 2008, it has since been abandoned for lack of funds.\n\nCampo is near the official southern terminus of the Pacific Crest Trail, a recreational hiking and equestrian trail extending north to the Canada–US border.\n\nAn unnamed private air strip is 4.2 miles (6.76 km) at 332 degrees off true north at . The name of the field is not listed in the National Geographic Names Data Base or U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Location Identifiers (7350.7U) dated 09/01/2005 (2005-09-01). On the topographic map, it measures about 0.6 miles (966 m) in length and runs almost due north-south at the intersection of Lake Morena Drive and Hauser Creek Road.\n\nThe town is along the line of the former Southern Pacific (originally San Diego and Arizona Railway. Freight operations are currently embargoed (not offered) by the Carrizo Gorge Railway, currently the Pacific Imperial Railroad), while passenger operations are operated by the Pacific Southwest Railway Museum. The Railroad Museum shows an address of 750 Depot Street and is located near (NAD83) .\n\nThere are at least two tribal areas included in the nearby Campo Indian Reservation. One is about due north of Campo and adjoining Cameron Corners. A point inside the reservation is (NAD83) ) and the area is roughly on each side. The reservation government is the Campo Band of Mission Indians. Another tribal area is about seven miles (11 km) east along State Route 94 in the Campo Valley. It extends nine miles (14 km) to the north and beyond Interstate 8. The eastern portion of the reservation is about in an east-west dimension and includes the community of Live Oak Springs. The tribal government has been reported in the news media to provide wireless Internet service to members over a cooperative tribal government microwave backbone from Pala.\n\n31360 State Route 94: federal records report three schools in Campo. The schools are:\n\nAbout north in Cameron Corners, Campo Elementary (K-6) is located at 1654 Buckman Springs Rd. This is considered in Campo for postal addresses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978926", "title": "Mike Laga", "text": "Mike Laga\n\nMichael Russell Laga (born June 14, 1960) is a former professional baseball player for the Detroit Tigers, St. Louis Cardinals and San Francisco Giants in the 1980s and 1990s. He is best known for once hitting a foul ball out of the second Busch Stadium (September 15, 1986).\nLaga played for the 1984 World Series Champion Detroit Tigers, going 6–11 that year with a .545 average for the year, but did not appear in the World Series. Nor did he appear in the 1987 World Series for the St. Louis Cardinals. In his career, Laga played in 188 major league games and had 84 hits, 55 RBIs, 39 runs scored, and 16 home runs. He also hit 32 home runs in , playing for Daiei of the Japanese League. He also played for the Hawks in .\n\nLaga currently lives in Florence, Massachusetts. He has three children.\n\nLaga graduated from Ramsey High School in Ramsey, New Jersey and attended Bergen Community College.\n"}
{"id": "1978930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978930", "title": "On the Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe", "text": "On the Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe\n\n\"On the Atchison, Topeka and the Santa Fe\" is a popular song written by Harry Warren with lyrics by Johnny Mercer. The song was published in 1944, spanned the hit chart in mid-1945, and won the 1946 Academy Award for Best Original Song, the first win for Mercer. \n\nIt refers to the former Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway, and was featured in the 1946 film, \"The Harvey Girls\", where it was sung by Judy Garland, with support from Ben Carter, Marjorie Main, Virginia O'Brien, Ray Bolger, and the MGM Chorus. \n\nAt one point in mid-1945 versions by Mercer, Bing Crosby, and the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra were on the hit chart simultaneously. In late September the Crosby version, first to make the chart, was joined by one by Judy Garland and the Merry Macs.\n\nMercer said the lyrics came to him when he was sitting on a Union Pacific train, and saw another train labeled \"Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe'\" and he was struck by the rhythm of the words. \nDespite mentions in the lyrics of the song, the AT&SF never directly reached Laramie, Wyoming or Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978934", "title": "Canby, California", "text": "Canby, California\n\nCanby is a census-designated place in Modoc County, California. It is located west of Alturas, at an elevation of 4314 feet (1315 m). It had a population of 315 at the 2010 census. The ZIP Code is 96015. The community is inside area code 530.\n\nCanby is the location of the main branch of the I'SOT religious community, and is known for the I'SOT's nativity scenes prominently displayed along the town's main street, California State Route 299.\n\nThe first post office opened at Canby in 1874. The town was named in honor of General Edward Canby, who was shot by the Modoc tribal leader Captain Jack at a peacemaking session as part of the Modoc War. This shooting lead to the siege at Captain Jack's Stronghold.\n\nUntil the late 1940s, Canby was the site of Big Lakes Box Company and the supply point for Big Lakes Logging Camp in the Adin Mountains about 10 miles to the southeast, where conditions were primitive.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 2.3 square miles (6.0 km²), 98.21% of it land, and 1.79% of it water.\n\nThis region experiences hot and dry summers, with no average monthly temperatures above 71.6 °F. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Canby has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csb\" on climate maps.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Canby had a population of 315. The population density was 136.4 people per square mile (52.7/km²). The racial makeup of Canby was 292 (92.7%) White, 2 (0.6%) African American, 7 (2.2%) Native American, 1 (0.3%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 9 (2.9%) from other races, and 4 (1.3%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 24 persons (7.6%).\n\nThe Census reported that 154 people (48.9% of the population) lived in households, 133 (42.2%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 28 (8.9%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 62 households, out of which 15 (24.2%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 30 (48.4%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 7 (11.3%) had a female householder with no husband present, 3 (4.8%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 5 (8.1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 0 (0%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 15 households (24.2%) were made up of individuals and 8 (12.9%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.48. There were 40 families (64.5% of all households); the average family size was 2.58.\n\nThe population was spread out with 87 people (27.6%) under the age of 18, 27 people (8.6%) aged 18 to 24, 71 people (22.5%) aged 25 to 44, 80 people (25.4%) aged 45 to 64, and 50 people (15.9%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36.2 years. For every 100 females, there were 85.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.9 males.\n\nThere were 76 housing units at an average density of 32.9 per square mile (12.7/km²), of which 34 (54.8%) were owner-occupied, and 28 (45.2%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.9%; the rental vacancy rate was 12.5%. 73 people (23.2% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 81 people (25.7%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the state legislature, Canby is in , and .\n\nFederally, Canby is in .\n"}
{"id": "1978937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978937", "title": "Razed in Black", "text": "Razed in Black\n\nRazed in Black is a electronic music act created by Romell Regulacion (vocals, keyboards, guitars) and is supported in live performances by band members Chris Nelson and Raj Kapololu.\nThe band was formed in Hawaii in 1994 and signed to Cleopatra Records in the following year. Razed in Black's music combines elements of industrial, synthpop, dark wave, gothic rock, and hardcore techno.\n\nMostly an underground act, Razed in Black have had songs featured on television shows like \"\", in movies, and in videogames.\n\nRegulacion has also released material under the names DJ R<I>B, DJ Skooby, and Transmutator. Transmutator incorporates more techno and hard electro/beat elements in its musical style, while Razed in Black has more lyrically-based songs with a darker tone and a heavier pop/rock influence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978941", "title": "All Request", "text": "All Request\n\nAn all request television or radio show is a show that plays only listener or viewer requests.\n\nThe introduction to The Carpenters' version of \"Calling Occupants of Interplanetary Craft\" features a fictional dialogue between the disc jockey of an all request program on \"All Hit Radio\" and a listener that the DJ thinks is \"Mike Ledgerwood\", but is in fact an alien race. The DJ comments that the request \"We are observing your Earth\" is \"not on our play list\". This refers to an actual practice of all request programs of having a pre-set play list, and excluding any requests for items that are not on it.\n\nSome widely known all request shows include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978948", "title": "Compton I. White Jr.", "text": "Compton I. White Jr.\n\nCompton Ignatius White Jr. (December 19, 1920 – October 19, 1998) was a two-term congressman from northern Idaho. A Democrat, he was elected to the open seat in the first district in 1962 and re-elected in 1964. White left office in January 1967 and is the last from the Idaho Panhandle region to represent the state in Congress.\n\nThe son of Congressman Compton I. White and Josephine Elizabeth White (née Bunn), White was born in Spokane, Washington, and grew up in his family's hometown of Clark Fork, Idaho, and in Washington, D.C.. He attended George Washington University in Washington, D.C. for his freshman year of college, then transferred to the University of Idaho in Moscow, where he graduated in 1942.\n\nDuring World War II, White worked as an engineer for Boeing in Seattle, and also in mining, logging, and livestock breeding. After the war, he returned to Clark Fork and served on the school board. From 1958 to 1962 White served as mayor of Clark Fork.\n\nIn 1960, White announced his candidacy for the U.S. Senate seat held by Republican Henry Dworshak, but was third of five in the Democratic primary. Runner-up Bob McLaughlin of Mountain Home won the runoff over leader Gregg Potvin of American Falls, but lost the general election. That seat was open again in 1962 after Dworshak's death in July, and Gracie Pfost was the Democratic nominee, vacating her first district seat in the House. White won the Democratic primary and general election, the same seat his father held for eight terms.\n\nWhite was re-elected in the Democratic landslide of 1964, but was defeated for a third term in 1966 by Republican state senator Jim McClure of Payette, who defeated him again in 1968.\n\nSource:\n\nWhite secured a position as a consultant with the U.S. Treasury Department in 1967. Unopposed for the Democratic nomination in 1968, he ran again against the incumbent McClure, but lost by a large margin. Afterwards, White returned to Clark Fork and served on its city council, as well as working in ranching once again.\n\nHis grandson, Ryan M. White, currently serves as Legislative Director for Idaho Senator Jim Risch.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978960", "title": "Air Atlanta Europe", "text": "Air Atlanta Europe\n\nAir Atlanta Europe was an airline based at London Gatwick Airport, United Kingdom. It provided long term wet-lease contract flights for Excel Airways (rebranded as XL Airways UK), Virgin Atlantic and others, as well as ad hoc flights tailored to customer requirements.\n\nOn 1 May 2006, Air Atlanta Europe was absorbed into Excel Airways.\n\nAir Atlanta Europe Limited was incorporated in the United Kingdom on 9 April 2002. It commenced operations in June 2003. The company held a United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority Type A Operating Licence that permitted it to carry passengers, cargo and mail on aircraft with 20 or more seats. It was revoked on 8 November 2006.\nA number of Boeing 747s were operated for the tour operator Travel City Direct and painted with Travel City Direct titles.\n\nAir Atlanta Europe operated from:\n\nAir Atlanta Europe operated to these destinations at August 2005:\n\nAs of August 2006 the Air Atlanta Europe fleet includes:\n\n\nThe airline had also previously operated the Boeing 747-200.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978962", "title": "Research Institute for Mathematical Sciences", "text": "Research Institute for Mathematical Sciences\n\nThe is a research institute attached to Kyoto University, hosting researchers in the mathematical sciences from all over Japan. RIMS was founded in April 1963.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978965", "title": "120 Minutes (2004 TV program)", "text": "120 Minutes (2004 TV program)\n\n120 Minutes (formerly The Alternative and VH1 Classic 120 Minutes) is an alternative rock music video program that debuted in August 2004 on VH1 Classic and currently airs on MTV Classic. The program follows a similar format to that of \"120 Minutes\", which aired on MTV from 1986 to 2003.\n\nFollowing VH1 Classic's transition into MTV Classic on August 1, 2016, \"VH1 Classic 120 Minutes\" was relaunched under the name \"120 Minutes\" on August 8, 2016. It was one of several VH1 Classic original programs to be retained by MTV Classic.\n\nAs with the original \"120 Minutes\", the series features videos from alternative rock artists, as well as those from several other related genres, including post-punk, punk rock, new wave, college rock, sophisti-pop, alternative dance, Britpop, jangle pop, power pop, dream pop, grunge, gothic rock, shoegazing and noise rock.\n\nThe VH1 Classic version of the program focused primarily on videos from the 1980s and early 1990s, with occasional videos from late-1970s and mid-1990s artists. The MTV Classic version features videos from largely the same time period, although with a focus on the late 1980s to the late-1990s. Videos dating from the 1970s and early 1980s are de-emphazied, or have been removed from the playlist entirely.\n\nUnlike the original MTV version of \"120 Minutes\" which featured a host introducing videos and occasional interviews and live performances, the VH1 Classic and MTV Classic versions of the program are exclusively music video blocks. The program is broadcast as two back-to-back 60 minute blocks which total the titular 120 minutes, including commercials.\n\n\"VH1 Classic 120 Minutes\" was the final program to air on VH1 Classic before its transition to MTV Classic. In addition, the show aired VH1 Classic's final music video \"Don't Talk\" by 10,000 Maniacs.\n\nThe show plays a very limited number of artists and videos, often repeating the same songs week after week.\n\n\"The Alternative\" aired in a two-hour version early Sunday mornings at 11 with a repeat at 11 pm Eastern, with additional one-hour shows at those times on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Beginning the weekend of April 28, 2007, \"The Alternative\" was renamed \"120 Minutes\" in honor of the classic MTV series of the same name. The series aired that weekend from 4-6 am and 1-3 am early Saturday mornings, and Sunday evenings at 9-11 pm and 1-3 am. Until August 2016, \"120 Minutes\" aired from 4-6 am, usually on Sundays, Mondays and Thursdays. Ever since the network re-branded as MTV Classic, it airs on Mondays from 12-2 am and again at 3-5 am.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978969", "title": "Carrowkennedy ambush", "text": "Carrowkennedy ambush\n\nThe Carrowkennedy ambush was an ambush carried out by the Irish Republican Army (IRA) on 2 June 1921, during the Irish War of Independence. An IRA flying column, commanded by Michael Kilroy, ambushed a mobile patrol of the Royal Irish Constabulary Special Reserves (Black and Tans) at Carrowkennedy, near Westport, County Mayo. It resulted in the deaths of eight of the RIC, including some who were killed by their own rifle grenade. After two hours the RIC surrendered and their weaponry and ammunition were seized by the IRA.\n\nOn Thursday 2 June, the West Mayo flying column was based in the townland of Claddy, near the road from Westport to Leenaun. In the mid-afternoon, O/C Michael Kilroy was informed that an RIC patrol including two Crossley Tender lorries and a Ford car had stopped at the rural area of Carrowkennedy. The IRA had blocked the road with trenches, which the RIC got local men cutting turf to fill in. Kilroy knew that the patrol would have to return the same way as his men had destroyed Erriff Bridge. The 45–50 IRA volunteers were divided into three sections and subdivided into small units of six men under the command of a more experienced officer. The Westport men, led by Vice-Brigadier Brodie Malone, formed one section. They were placed on high ground 120 yards from the road. They were behind a stone wall and removed stones to form firing positions. The second section was formed mainly of Newport men. They were positioned further west, from the end of the first section's position along a wood to the main road. The third section, from Louisburgh, crossed the road to hold a hill above the junction to Drummin. The sections were to hold fire until all the vehicles were in range of the whole column. Kilroy had learned from the failure at Kilmeena. He handpicked snipers to kill the drivers of both Crossley Tenders. He also assigned men to watch any machine gunners.\n\nOn discovering the Erriff Bridge destroyed, the patrol went to Darby Hastings Pub for refreshments. The patrol then headed back towards Westport. The Ford car broke down and was being towed by the second lorry as they drove back through Carrowkennedy. Gus Delahunty, a civilian from Westport, was ordered to drive his own car as part of the patrol. The patrol was commanded by District Inspector (DI) Edward Stevenson. Contrary to regulations, he was driving the first lorry, when he should have been in the back of the second lorry with his men. This increased his risk and separated him from his men.\n\nAt 6:30 an IRA scout signalled the approach of the patrol. Jimmy O'Flaherty, a former Connaught Ranger, lined up his rifle sights on DI Stevenson in the lead vehicle, killing him with a shot to the head. The lorry lurched forward, stopped in the middle of the road and came under heavy fire from the IRA above. The RIC men quickly tumbled out and got down behind a bank which gave them some cover. They took out a Lewis gun and trained it on the third section of IRA men. After two short bursts of fire, the gunner lay dead beside his gun. A second gunner fired a burst from the Lewis in the direction of the third section, then he swung the muzzle in the air to protect himself from the riflemen above. This was unsuccessful and he too fell dead beneath the gun. Three men in all died trying to use the gun, according to Michael Kilroy. Four men in the lorry were now dead: DI Stevenson and Constables Sydney Blythe, James Brown and John Doherty. The remaining men in the lorry were led by Sergeant Creegan, an Irishman. They attached a rifle grenade launcher to a Lee–Enfield rifle and launched grenades towards the IRA to keep them at bay.\n\nThe second lorry was stopped by rifle fire from both sides of the road as soon as shots were heard from the direction of the first lorry, killing the second driver. This lorry coasted to the ditch at the side of the road. After a while the RIC men ran into a thatched cottage facing onto the road. They poked rifles through the front windows and through a window high in the gable which looked down on the Westport road. They needlessly used up a lot of ammunition and then realized that they had left their spare ammunition in the lorry. They unsuccessfully tried to persuade the householder and her young son to fetch the ammunition.\n\nThe motor car was some distance behind the second lorry and stopped beyond the cottage. Three RIC men jumped off the exposed side and two remained on the sheltered side of the road which had a thicket beside it next to the cottage. One of the RIC men advanced towards the IRA position but was badly wounded.\n\nTwo hours went by. Michael Kilroy was worried that if the first lorry did not surrender soon, the column might not have time to concentrate on the RIC men in the cottage. Enemy reinforcements could arrive from Westport, Castlebar or Ballinrobe, by road or over the hills to the east. A fresh assault on the lorry was made by IRA volunteers Johnny Duffy and Tommy Heavey, who had bayonets. A rifle grenade which was being hurled by the RIC fell back into the lorry and exploded, killing the man who threw it and fatally wounding others beside him. A handkerchief was hoisted by Sergeant Creegan on a rifle to surrender. Only one of the men in the lorry was unhurt. Sergeant Creegan was fatally wounded in the legs and abdomen. A door borrowed from a nearby house was used as a stretcher for the badly wounded Creegan. Being both Irish policemen the householder prepared a drink for Creegan and the other wounded constable Cullen who remained outside as it was warm.\n\nWith the captured Lewis gun, IRA volunteer O'Flaherty then fired on the occupied cottage from a covered position. The men inside came out with their hands above their heads.\n\nThe IRA captured 22 rifles, eight drums for the Lewis gun, several boxes of grenades, 21 revolvers, and about 6000 rounds of rifle ammunition. The IRA then poured petrol over the two lorries and the car and set them ablaze.\n\nEight of the British side were killed outright or died of their wounds, and 16 surrendered. The Black and Tans who surrendered were not killed, even though this policy had been endorsed by IRA General Headquarters. Many of the local people went into hiding to avoid the retribution of the Black and Tans. The IRA volunteers evaded capture by sheltering in safe houses.\n"}
{"id": "1978970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978970", "title": "Metal Mayhem", "text": "Metal Mayhem\n\nMetal Mayhem (formerly Metal Mania or Headbangers) is a block of classic heavy metal/hard rock music videos that first aired on VH1 Classic. The series originally featured music videos from 1970s to early 1990s, but since VH1 Classic's transition to MTV Classic, it has now incorporated music videos from the 1980s to mid-1990s and some videos from the 1970s. The block now airs every Friday between 8pm and midnight Central Time. In addition, \"Metal Mania\" was briefly changed to \"Headbangers\" before reverting to its original until it was changed to \"Metal Mayhem\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1978972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978972", "title": "Missionaries of the Precious Blood", "text": "Missionaries of the Precious Blood\n\nThe Missionaries of the Precious Blood form a community of priests and brothers within the Roman Catholic Church. The Society was founded by Saint Gaspar del Bufalo in 1815. The Missionaries of the Precious Blood is a shortened English translation of the Latin \"\"Congregatio Missionariorum Pretiosissimi Sanguinis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi,\"\" (The Congregation of Missionaries of the Most Precious Blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ). Priests and brothers use the post-nominal initials C.PP.S. after their names. \nIt is a Society of Apostolic Life, composed of secular priests and brothers who live in community. Members do not take vows but are held together by the bond of charity only and by a promise of \"fidelity to the Congregation of Missionaries of the Precious Blood in accordance with its Constitution and Statutes, giving [themselves] entirely to the service of God\". (see the formula of incorporation found in C37 of the Normative Texts 2008.) The stated charism of the Society is to bring the Word of God to where it is most needed.\n\nSaint Gaspare del Bufalo founded the Society at the request of Pope Pius VII, who was shocked by the spiritual situation in Rome after he returned from exile. Pius decided that missions should be established throughout the Papal States. In 1814, he selected del Bufalo and some other priests to undertake the responsibility, assigning them to the abbey of San Felice at Giano dell'Umbria, in the Umbria region of Italy. Del Bufalo and his confreres made a foundation on 15 August 1815. Soon, several houses were opened, and in 1820 missions were established for the express purpose of reaching out to the bandits who plagued the area.\n\nHowever, when Leo XII was elected pope in 1823, the growth of the Society was checked. Leo XII who, misinformed as to the work of the congregation and its founder, was unfavourably inclined towards its mission and objected to the proposed name, ‘Congregation of the Most Precious Blood’, seeing it as something of a novelty. Eventually, the Society was cleared of all accusations and the name was justified by reference to sacred Scripture. When Gaspare died of cholera in 1837 the Society had some 200 members and the Rule was given approval in 1841. \n\nGiovanni Merlini was a successor of Gaspare, a native of Spoleto and a friend of Pius IX, who had been elected in 1846, and whose exile at Gaeta he had shared when Pius fled from the Roman Republic in November 1848. Through the influence of Pope Pius IX, several new houses were opened in Italy, and one each in Alsace and Bavaria. The mother-house was established at the Church of Santa Maria in Trivio, Rome. In the 1860s the Italian Government suppressed some twenty-five houses of the Society, including the Maria in Trivio property and confiscated the revenues of the seminary at Albano. The Kulturkampf (1871–1878), enacted by the Prime Minister of Prussia Otto von Bismarck against the Catholic Church, closed the houses in Alsace and in several German-speaking states.\n\nIn 1844 the Society was introduced into North America by Rev. Francis de Sales Brunner, at the request of John Baptist Purcell the Bishop of Cincinnati. They came to Ohio to serve the German-speaking Catholics. Fr. Brunner’s mother, Mother Maria Anna Brunner, established the Sisters of the Precious Blood in Dayton. \n\nThe Society has remained mostly in the Midwest. It conducts two colleges in Indiana: Calumet College of St. Joseph in Hammond and Saint Joseph's College in Rensselaer (originally a school for Native Americans). It previously ran St. Charles Seminary in Carthagena, Ohio; now a retirement center for priests. The Society also runs parishes, primarily in Ohio, Indiana and Missouri. There are also three in California\n\nDuring the 20th century the Italian province sent members to minister to those of Italian ancestry in North America and eventually, in 1987, these priests and brothers established the Atlantic Province, based in Ontario, Canada. The Society continued to prosper throughout and communities were established in Spain (1898), Brazil (1929), Chile (1947), Peru (1962), Tanzania (1966), Guatemala (1976), Croatia (1979), Poland (1982), India (1985), Mexico (1995), Vietnam (1997) and Colombia (2005) \n\nThe members of the Society do not undergo a novitiate or take religious vows, but go through a period of formation which takes several years; they also make promises.\n\nProspective members begin by living in community for a two-year period called ‘Initial Formation’; during this time they experience the daily routine of the members, learn more about the Society and engage in some form of apostolic ministry. Candidates undertake daily Eucharist and spiritual direction, and have ample time for prayer and reflection. In North America it is also common for candidates to complete an undergraduate degree if they have not done so previously.\n\nCandidates then enter what is called ‘Special Formation’ which lasts a little longer than a year. During this period, they spend time in other provinces and live with members who are engaged in full-time ministry. If possible they also visit some communities of the Precious Blood Sisters. At the completion of Special Formation, they are temporarily incorporated into the Society by making a promise of fidelity and a bond of charity.\n\nIn the final stage, the candidates enter ‘Advanced Formation’ during which they focus on how they will serve Christians. For those called to be brothers, training is undertaken in a specific area. They then become permanently incorporated into the Society during a ceremony called the Rite of Definitive Incorporation. Those who are called to minister as priests go through the appropriate degree programme at a Catholic university before being ordained to the diaconate and then priesthood. As secular clergy the members of the Society take a vow of celibacy as part of being ordained a deacon.\n\nIn North America the Missionaries of the Precious Blood minister to those who have experienced family violence and those who live in socio-economically deprived cities such as Chicago. They serve as chaplains in hospitals dedicated to the care of veterans, teach in schools, run parishes and conduct retreats In Europe the members of the Society engage in parish ministry, teaching in schools, conducting parish missions, chaplaincy work as well as sending personnel to other countries.\n\nAfter Vatican II (1962–1965) the Society made a concerted effort to minister in more areas of Latin America as well as Africa and Asia. In Tanzania the Canadian members of the Society are specifically involved in assisting people to establish and maintain projects such as healthcare, improved agriculture and education. In Chile, the missionaries from the Cincinnati Province minister in a poor parish in Santiago and in the school Saint Gaspar College . In Peru they work in the harsh conditions of La Oroya (one of the most polluted places in the world ) a mining town in the Andes. In Guatemala they help staff large urban and rural parishes and established a clinic. In India, due to many states forbidding Hindus from embracing Christianity, the Society involves itself with Christians, rather than trying to convert others. The Society also ministers to those in the slums, regardless of religion, through such means as health care, caring for street children, orphans and daycare for mothers and children. The Indian Vicariate, there has been great growth in recent years, and the Society ordinated 14 young men in 2010.\n\nThe main administrative body of the Society is the General Curia, composed of five elected members: Moderator General, Vice-Moderator and 3 Councillors. Each province, vicariate and mission is headed by a Director elected from among the members.\n\nAs of 2015: Provinces: Atlantic (Canada), Cincinnati, Iberian (Spain and Portugal) Italy, Kansas City, Poland, Tanzania and Teutonic (Austria, Germany and Liechtenstein). Vicariates: Brazil, Chile, and India. Missions: Central America, Colombia, Croatia, Peru, and Vietnam More than 500 Precious Blood priests and religious brothers serving in about twenty countries.\n\nThe congregation also has lay associates, called Companions. \n\nAccording to the Generalate website,\n\"Christ's shedding his Blood was for St. Gaspar and is for us the sign of God's great love for all people. This spirituality of the Blood continues to impel us to build community through the inclusion of the marginalized, to walk in solidarity with those who suffer, and to seek reconciliation in a divided world\".\n\nAfter the Second Vatican Council, like all communities, that of the Precious Blood responded to the Council’s challenge to rediscover their charism. The Society, which has maintained its purpose of bringing the Gospel to where it considers it is most needed, declared:\nWe are united by a bond of charity and rooted in the Spirituality of the Blood of Jesus. We are called to participate in the on-going renewal of the Church and the realisation of the Presence of God among ourselves and those we serve.\n\nIn our willingness to be flexible and responsive to changing needs, we fulfill our mission through:\n• supporting and nurturing one another \n• embracing a life of prayer \n• calling forth the gifts of the laity and working in collaboration with them \n• preaching and witnessing the word of God \n• promoting conversion and reconciliation \n• pursuing justice ever mindful of the poor and marginalised.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978975", "title": "Dai-Guard", "text": "Dai-Guard\n\nThe series is based around three office workers of the 21st Century Defense Security Corporation's Public Relations Division 2 who, with the company's giant robot, Dai-Guard, fight interdimensional alien beings called \"Heterodynes\". Unlike most giant robot anime, Dai-Guard performs on much more realistic physics, making it heavy, slow, and difficult to control. Also, the Heterodynes seem to be the least of the 21st Century Corporation's problems as they experience opposition in the form of massive damage claims, lawsuits, rivals and a jealous and antagonistic military who wishes to take back Dai-Guard for themselves.\n\nOn February 24, 2018, in the Northwest gap of the Sea of Japan, a giant creature called a Heterodyne appears and goes on a rampage, destroying a major city and killing countless people before being destroyed itself by a weapon of mass destruction known as an \"O-E (Over-Explosion) bomb\". In the aftermath, a giant robotic weapon system, code-named Dai-Guard, was developed for the military by the 21st Century Defense Security Corporation as an alternative to the future use of such weapons.\n\nHowever, no further attacks occur for the next twelve years and the 21st Century Corporation is allowed to keep the useless weapon as a mascot which is managed by Public Relations Division 2. However, during a security exposition in 2030, a Heterodyne attacks, and the ill-prepared and unarmed robot is taken into battle by its pilot Akagi Shunsuke. His headstrong nature, combined with the talents of his fellow crew, enable Dai-Guard to be victorious against multiple Heterodyne attacks causing the military to want it back.\n\nHeterodyne are mysterious entities formed from dimensional quakes all around Japan and are attracted to electromagnetic hot-spots. Crystalline hexagons called Fractal Knots act as their nucleus and they form bodies using the matter around them. Although Fractal Knots replicate themselves indefinitely, if the original is destroyed it will immediately reduce the rest of the body into ethanol. The Heterodyne are dangerous and adaptable yet not invulnerable. They are a threat that must be faced in a dangerous world like typhoons, earthquakes or tsunami. Each one has a different physical appearance and behaviour.\n\nMuch of the series concerns the conflict between the Corporation with its office politics, profit driven, bureaucratic nature and staff beliefs, and the Anzenhosho Army (ANPO) with its adherence to protocols, procedures and concern for its public profile. Both the Corporation and the Army have people who are more concerned with ambition and status than the need to serve and protect the population. A strong theme within the story is the need for cooperation between talented individuals to achieve a common goal.\n\nShunsuke Akagi (voiced by Kentarou Itou) — The primary pilot of Dai-Guard. The headstrong, idealistic and impulsive, 25 year old Akagi can be seen as the heart and brawn of the three Dai-Guard pilots. Beforehand, he was merely an office worker for the 21st Century Defense Security Corporation, but he manages to achieve his dreams of becoming a \"Giant Robot pilot.\" During the return of the Heterodynes, he and his two friends Ibuki and Aoyama become the pilots of Dai-Guard, and intend to put it to use in order to fight off the Heterodyne threat. Akagi loves his job a little too much and manages to stick out among his fellow workers as the more enthusiastic one. Akagi always has the best intentions, even though they usually get him into trouble. Intriguingly, his distinctive personality makes him a natural as Dai-Guard's primary pilot and his cartoon-samurai ethical code quickly wins him a place in the hearts of the public. He refuses to take or allow actions that will endanger civilian lives and/or property if there is any alternative whatsoever.\n\nIbuki Momoi (voiced by Akiko Hiramatsu) — Years ago, during the last Heterodyne attack, Ibuki's father (a scientist whose theories predicted the appearance of the Heterodynes) was killed in the attack. Ever since that incident, Ibuki wanted revenge against the Heterodynes. She becomes the navigator of Dai-Guard for this very reason. However, she learns the less than heroic truth about her father, and it leaves her without an emotional anchor. Ibuki has a rather strained relationship with her stepfather, who at first is against Ibuki piloting Dai-Guard, but becomes the person who helps her understand her father and fight her personal demons in time to save the world with much more clarity. As with Akagi, her personality meshes well with her position as Dai-Guard's navigator-she is so obsessed with details that she can make quick and precise summaries of a Heterodyne's abilities, often noticing subtle flaws in a given Heterodyne that allow the team to destroy it with minimal casualties.\n\nKeiichiro Aoyama (voiced by Shinichiro Miki) — Both a veritable ladies man and somewhat mysterious, Aoyama is the engineer of Dai-Guard. Most of the time, Aoyama disappears after work, often taking off early. While his friends believe he is off womanizing, it turns out that Aoyama is caring for his sick mother, who personally does not want to become Aoyama's top priority over piloting Dai-Guard. As his experiences grow during his time piloting Dai-Guard, he meets more people from his past that he once again crosses paths with. Like his fellow pilots, he possesses personality traits that assist him in his role as Dai-Guard's engineer. Aoyama is always looking for ways to save time and effort, so not only does he regulate the robot's systems with clockwork proficiency, but he will intuitively notice methods by which the team can accomplish its goal with less effort.\n\nShirou Shirota (voiced by Kenichi Ono) — An army officer who is assigned as the Tactical Advisor to the Dai-Guard team. He is originally very strict with regulations, and insistent that civilians should not be allowed to handle the Heterodyne crisis. However, his interactions with the employees of Public Relations Division 2, especially Akagi, causes him to change his views. He eventually becomes one of their biggest supporters in the army, and often risks his own career to help them.\n\nPresident Ookouchi (voiced by Takaya Hashi) — The president of 21st Century Defense Security. He was previously an army officer, and was the one responsible for ordering the use of O-E Weapons during the Heterodyne attack twelve years ago. Because of this, he is determined to avoid the use of these weapons again, and is thus very supportive of the Dai-Guard team. He was briefly voted out of office by the company's board of directors, but was reinstated when the company began to flounder without him.\n\nHaruo Oosugi (voiced by Masashi Hirose) — The chief and supervisor of Public Relations Division 2. He has a very easy going personality, and is always supportive of his staff.\n\nShinyu Yokozawa — The aid to Chief Oosugi, who also helps oversee Dai-Guards' operations. He is married with a young daughter. As his daughter has a sickly constitution, he is often concerned with the safety of his family.\n\nNoriko Ooyama (voiced by Michiko Neya) — At 28, she is the oldest of the girls that work in the Public Relations Division 2 office, and is seen as an older sister figure to the other employees. Her hometown of Hiroshima helps inspire her to help people, on account of what happened to the city during the War. Among the girls employed by the division, she is the most responsible. She is often concerned about the well being of Akagi, and often nags him about his work and health.\n\nChiaki Nakahara (voiced by Marina Ono) — Despite being the second oldest of the office girls at 25, she is very shy, easily flustered, and the shortest member of Public Relations Division 2. However, she is very dependable at doing her job, being the head of accounting for the division. She has a slight crush on Aoyama.\n\nFuuka Tanigawa (voiced by Yukari Tamura) — Tanigawa is the most outgoing of the office girls, and has a hyperactive personality. She is somewhat of an office gossip, often repeating dubious information heard from other parts of the company.\n\nShizuku Irie (voiced by Rumi Kasahara) — Notable for her calm demeanor, Shizuku most often speaks in a low, almost emotionless, tone. However, she occasionally, and randomly, acts out various other characters' behaviors and is known for her sarcastic remarks.\n\nTomoyoshi Ishizuka (voiced by Shoji Izumi), Tomorou Taguchi (voiced by Makoto Higo), and Hirotaka Ijyuuin (voiced by Katsuyuki Konishi) — This trio of salary men have almost identical physical appearances and personalities; all three are overweight and easygoing. They are all 27 years old, and began working for the company at the same time. As a result, they work well together. Ishizuka is in charge of the office work, Taguchi is the events planner and coordinator, and Ijyuuin is in charge of domestic public relations.\n\nYounei Sumida (voiced by Hiro Yuuki) — The head of Dai-Guard's ground crew, who oversees the repair and maintenance of the robot. His crew is also responsible for the construction of Dai-Guard's new parts and weapons. He is often seen assisting Prof. Domeki, who he harbors feelings for.\n\nRika Domeki (voiced by Mayumi Shintani) — An eccentric 17 year old child genius, who is the head of the Technology Division, and the company's resident scientist. She insists that others refer to her as \"Professor\". She is an expert on the research of Heterodynes, and is also the one responsible for designing new parts for Dai-Guard. She often takes advantage of Sumida's willingness to help her.\n\nDai-Guard stands 25 meters high, and weighs 156 tons. It is composed of multiple pieces, which were originally transported to the site of battle, and assembled on location. By Episode 20, the pieces were rebuilt as a fighter jet making up the head and arms, as well as two trucks making up the torso and legs, so that they can be much more easily transported until they can combine to form Dai-Guard. Initially it was poorly maintained and essentially mothballed due to the absence of the Heterodyne threat. With their return, Dai-Guard is recommissioned and underwent several upgrades throughout the series. Due to its configuration, pilots are required to apply for a 'vertical-model special vehicle license,' which can take a minimum of 2 months to complete. It was stated that Akagi got a score of D minus, which barely made him eligible to be Dai-Guard's main pilot. Its main weapons include:\n\n\nWhen the army realized that they could not seize the privately owned Dai-Guard, they built Kokubogar based on Dai-Guard's design to fight the Heterodynes. It was piloted by Akagi's former robot piloting class professor and two of his students. Its first battle was an outstanding success, but in the second one the Heterodyne fused with the robot with the pilot still inside who was rescued by Akagi in Dai-Guard. Repairs were completed in time for the Army to assist Dai-Guard in the final battle of the series. Its main weapons include:\n\n\nMysterious entities formed from dimensional quakes all around Japan. They form from crystalline hexagons called \"Fractal Knots\" that act as their nucleus and form into bodies using the matter around them. Although fractal knots replicate themselves indefinitely, if the original is destroyed it will immediately reduce the rest of the body into ethanol. Aside from traveling through dimensions, having Fractal Knots, and being attracted to electromagnetic hot-spots, they have very little in common with each other.\n\n\n\nIn September 2011, Bandai released Dai-Guard in the Super Robot Chogokin line. The figure comes with all of the weapons featured in the anime. Kokubogar Was released as a Tamashii Web Shop exclusive in March 2012.\n\nDai-Guard makes its video game debut in \"Super Robot Wars Z2\".\n"}
{"id": "1978977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978977", "title": "Canyon Country, Santa Clarita, California", "text": "Canyon Country, Santa Clarita, California\n\nCanyon Country is a community and district within the city of Santa Clarita, located in northwestern Los Angeles County, California, United States.\n\nCanyon Country is north of the San Fernando Valley via Newhall Pass through the Santa Susana and San Gabriel Mountains. Canyon Country is located in the upper watershed of the Santa Clara River in the Santa Clarita Valley and Sierra Pelona Mountains foothills.\n\nThe area was the ancestral homeland of the Tataviam people for over five hundred years, and other tribes before then, such as the Tongva, Kitanemuk, and Serrano people. After the Spanish invasion, the valley first became grazing lands of the Mission San Fernando Rey de España around 1790. In 1834, after Mexican Independence, it became part of the Rancho San Francisco land grant centered on the confluence of the Santa Clara River and Castaic Creek.\n\nIn the 1880s the rancho become the Newhall Ranch empire of Henry Newhall, now the present day Newhall Land and Farming Company. In 1928 the St. Francis Dam collapsed, suddenly flooding and washing away settlements and people along the Santa Clara River section of present-day Santa Clarita not including Canyon Country. Canyon Country was originally to be called Solemint. It later absorbed the community to the west called Honby. In the 1960s and 1970s the Newhall Land company's suburban developments transformed Canyon Country and the surrounding towns into a focused residential and cultural city.\n\nThe house of The Crandall family used in the movie \"Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead\" is located in this community. A home here was also featured in the climax of \"Real Genius\", but it no longer exists.\n\nIn 1987, Canyon Country was one of four communities, with Valencia, Newhall, and Saugus, that merged to create the city of Santa Clarita, California. The latitude of Canyon Country is 34.423N and the longitude is -118.471W. Canyon Country has a population of 59,530 people.\n\nCanyon Country is home to the Placerita Canyon Nature Center, which is also the site of California's original gold discovery at the historic \"Oak of the Golden Dream\" in 1842.\n\nThe Los Angeles County Fire Department Station 104 (Quint), Station 123 (Sand Canyon), and Station 132 (Canyon Country) serve this community.\n\nAccording to a statistical study done on the racial demographics of Santa Clarita, in 2005-2009: 28.2% of the population was hispanic. Another study done in 2005-2009 found that the average asian population was 11,845; 36% of the population was Filipino. 3.8% of the population between 2005-2009 was black and 76.4% was white. Another study done between 2005-2009 showed that 28% of the population was under the age 18, and 30% ages between 25 and 44.\n\nIn 2017, the city was named as one of the top 100 safest cities in America. It ranked third as the safest city in America with a population of about 210,000. The city says the cause for this ranking is due to the law enforcement that the city takes pride in.\n\nDue to the location which the city is in and its environment, Canyon Country has been susceptible to many fires over the years. Most notably, the Sand Fire (2016). The Sand Fire took place in the east side of the valley and destroyed nearly 42,000 acres of land. The Buckweed Fire (2007) also had an impact on Santa Clarita valley residents. The Buckweed fire destroyed nearly 38,000 acres throughout both Canyon Country and the Santa Clarita Valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "1978982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978982", "title": "Scheckenbachmühle", "text": "Scheckenbachmühle\n\nThe Scheckenbachmühle is a former watermill on the Eherieder Mühlbach between Kaltensondheim and the city of Kitzingen, district of Kitzingen, Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany.\n\nThe former mill is placed on the Eherieder Mühlbach and next to an Autobahn bridge.\n\nIts name derives from the family Scheckenbach who once owned it.\n\nBefore the ownership of the Scheckenbachs in the 19th century and earlier it was called Hintere or Obere Eheriedermühle\n\nIn earlier years the mill had its own bus stop for school children.\n"}
{"id": "1978984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978984", "title": "Discourse community", "text": "Discourse community\n\nA discourse community is a group of people who share a set of discourses, understood as basic values and assumptions, and ways of communicating about those goals. Linguist John Swales defined discourse communities as \"groups that have goals or purposes, and use communication to achieve these goals.\"\n\nSome examples of a discourse community might be those who read and/or contribute to a particular academic journal, or members of an email list for Madonna fans. Each discourse community has its own unwritten rules about what can be said and how it can be said: for instance, the journal will not accept an article with the claim that \"Discourse is the coolest concept\"; on the other hand, members of the email list may or may not appreciate a Freudian analysis of Madonna's latest single. Most people move within and between different discourse communities every day.\n\nSince the discourse community itself is intangible, it is easier to imagine discourse communities in terms of the fora in which they operate. The hypothetical journal and email list can each be seen as an example of a forum, or a \"concrete, local manifestation of the operation of the discourse community.\"\n\nThe term was first used by sociolinguist Martin Nystrand in 1982, and further developed by American linguist John Swales. Writing about the acquisition of academic writing styles of those who are learning English as an additional language, Swales presents six defining characteristics:\n\nJames Porter defined the discourse community as: \"a local and temporary constraining system, defined by a body of texts (or more generally, practices) that are unified by a common focus. A discourse community is a textual system with stated and unstated conventions, a vital history, mechanisms for wielding power, institutional hierarchies, vested interests, and so on.\" Porter held the belief that all new ideas added to a discourse community had an impact on the group, changing it forever. \n\nArgumentation theorists Chaim Perelman and Lucie Olbrechts-Tyceta offer the following statement on the conditioned nature of all discourse, which has applicability to the concept of discourse community: \"All language is the language of community, be this a community bound by biological ties, or by the practice of a common discipline or technique. The terms used, their meaning, their definition, can only be understood in the context of the habits, ways of thought, methods, external circumstances, and tradition known to the users of those terms. A deviation from usage requires justification ...\"\n\n\"Producing text within a discourse community,\" according to Patricia Bizzell, \"cannot take place unless the writer can define her goals in terms of the community's interpretive conventions.\" In other words, one cannot simply produce any text—it must fit the standards of the discourse community to which it is appealing. If one wants to become a member of a certain discourse community, it requires more than learning the lingo. It requires understanding concepts and expectations set up within that community.\n\nThe language used by discourse communities can be described as a register or diatype, and members generally join a discourse community through training or personal persuasion. This is in contrast to the speech community (or the ’native discourse community,’ to use Bizzell's term), who speak a language or dialect inherited by birth or adoption. Ideas from speech communities and interpretive communities were what lead to the emergence of the notion of discourse communities. \n\nOne tool that is commonly used for designing a discourse community is a map. \nThe map could provide the common goals, values, specialized vocabulary and specialized genre of the discourse community. This tool may be presented to all members as a mission statement. As a new generation of members enter into a discourse community, new interests may appear. What was originally mapped out may be recreated to accommodate any updated interests. The way in which a discourse community is designed, ultimately controls the way in which the community functions. A discourse community differs from any other type of grouping because the design will either constrain or enable participants.\n\nA discourse community can be viewed as a social network, built from participants who share some set of communicative purposes. In the digital age, social networks can be examined as their own branches of discourse communities. A genesis of online discourse is created through four phases: orientation, experimentation, productivity, and transformation. Just as the digital world is constantly evolving, \"discourse communities continually define and redefine themselves through communications among members\", according to Berkenkotter. Although John Swales felt that shared \"goals\" were definitive of discourse community, he also acknowledged that \"public discourse community\" cannot have shared goals, and more significantly a generalized \"academic discourse community\" may not have shared goals and genres in any meaningful sense. According to Swales this may be why the term \"discourse community\" is now being replaced by \"community of practice,\" which is a term from sociocultural theory. \"Community of practice\" is defined clearly as having \"mutual engagement\" and \"joint enterprise\" which separates it from the more widely accepted implications of a discourse community. A community of practice requires a group of people negotiating work and working toward a common goal using shared or common resources. These virtual discourse communities consist of a group of people brought together \"by natural will and a set of shared ideas and ideals\". The virtual discourse communities become a separate entity from any other discourse community when, \"enough people carry on those public relationships long enough to form webs of personal relationships in cyberspace\".\n\n\"The term discourse community has been criticized in being imprecise and inaccurate, by emphasizing the uniformity, symmetrical relations and cooperation within text circulation networks.\" Social collectivities within a discourse community can be interpreted as controversial whether by design or mistake. Members of the discourse community take on either assigned or maintained roles which serve as discursive authority, rights, expectations and constraints. Within an online discourse community text oftentimes circulate in what can be considered to be heterogeneous groupings, as teachers write to audiences of administrators, scholars, colleagues, parents and students. The circulation of texts form groups of communities that might not otherwise existed prior to being untied by the circulation of documents. \"These and other social complexities suggest a more subtle and varied sociological vocabulary is needed to describe the set of relations within text circulation networks as well as to describe the ways genres mediate the actions and relations within these social collectivities, such as that provided by sociocultural theories of genre and activity.\"\n\nDiscourse communities are not limited to involvement of people from different linguistic and cultural backgrounds. These people begin to adapt to standards of that discourse community. However, involvement in one discourse community does not hinder participation in other groups based on a pursuit of a common goal. In some cases, under specific standards, traces of discourse interference may appear from other standards. \n\nYerrick and Gilbert discuss how the impact of discourse perpetuates marginalization of underrepresented students. Their study discusses their frustration with the overwhelming number of school policies and practices which create obstacles for certain student voices to be heard,\nminimizing lower-track students' input shaping mainstream academic curriculum. These students were given few opportunities to contribute in the classroom and when they did, they would only be permitted to echo someone else's voice on particular views and opinions. With resentment, Yerrick and Gilbert state \"There was no attempt to match the home-based discourse with the academic discourse promoted in the classroom, as has been proven problematic through other studies as well.\"\n\nDiscourse communities are studied in the larger field of genre analysis. Related terms include Miller's \"rhetorical community\" and, focusing on the communication rather than the community, Yates & Orlikowski's \"genres of organizational communication\"\n\nJames Paul Gee uses discourse as a way of \"(writing)-doing-being-valuing-believing combinations\" (Gee 142). Discourse can be connected to the concept of audience in that both the audience and the writer partake in a series of historical contingencies that place the writer and audience into a larger conversation with one another. It is an \"identity kit\" of sorts: \"A Discourse is a sort of 'identity kit' which comes complete with the appropriate costume and instructions on how to act, talk, and often write, so as to take on a particular social role that others will recognize. Imagine what an identity kit to play the role of Sherlock Holmes would involve: certain clothes, certain ways of using language (oral language and print), certain attitudes and beliefs, allegiance to a certain life style, and certain ways of interacting with others. We can call all these factors together, as they are integrated around the identity of 'Sherlock Holmes, Master Detective' the 'Sherlock Holmes Discourse'. This example also makes clear that 'Discourse', as I am using the term, does not involve just talk or just language. (Gee 142) Furthermore, discourses are not individualistic, but rather community-based, in official (institutional frameworks) capacities, unofficial (social groups) capacities, or both. Specifically, \"Discourses are always embedded in a medley of social institutions, and often involve various 'props' like books and magazines of various sorts, laboratories, classrooms, buildings of various sorts, various technologies, and a myriad of other objects from sewing needles (for sewing circles) through birds (for bird watchers) to basketball courts and basketballs (for basketball players)\" (143).\n\nRegarding contemporary rhetorical communities, Zappen, et al., states, \"Thus a contemporary rhetorical community is less a collection of people joined by shared beliefs and values than a public space or forum that permits these people to engage each other and form limited or local communities of belief.\" Incorporating this factor suggests an introduction to a democratic system in discourse communities and has also been educationally termed \"Accountable Talk\" by researchers, indicating the diversity of communities.\n\nThe term discourse community started to lose favor among scholars in the early 2000s, with community of practice being used in place of discourse community. Swales suggested that discourse communities have shared goals, yet academic communities do not have meaningful shared goals. Discourse community is not yet well defined, which raises questions that could be the cause of the terms fall from favor. \n\n"}
{"id": "1979002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979002", "title": "Cristina (singer)", "text": "Cristina (singer)\n\nCristina Monet Zilkha ( Monet-Palaci, January 17, 1956 – March 31, 2020), known during her recording career simply as Cristina, was an American singer and writer, best known for her no wave recordings made for ZE Records in the late 1970s and early 1980s in New York City. She \"was a pioneer in blending the artsiness and attitude of punk with the joyful energy of disco and pop... [which] helped pave the way for the massive successes of her contemporaries, like Madonna and Cyndi Lauper, and anticipated the rise of confrontational but danceable alt-pop acts...\" in a mode that was at once \"campy, self-aware, and infectious.\"\n\nCristina Monet Zilkha was born Cristina Monet Palaci on January 17, 1956, in Manhattan to writer-illustrator Dorothy Monet and French psychoanalyst Jacques Palaci. She grew up in the United States, England, Italy, and France. Cristina studied drama at the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama and attended Harvard University. During a leave from Harvard, she was in a motorcycle accident in which a friend died, and she decided not to re-enroll.\n\nCristina was working as a writer for \"The Village Voice\" when she met Michael Zilkha, who later became her husband. A wealthy heir to England's Mothercare retail empire, Michael started ZE Records with Michel Esteban. Zilkha persuaded her to record a song titled \"Disco Clone\", an eccentric pastiche dance record written by Ronald Melrose, a classmate of hers at Harvard. The original recording, released as ZE001 in 1978, was produced by John Cale and was the first to be issued on the ZE label. A later version featured the uncredited Kevin Kline trying to seduce Cristina, replacing Anthony Haden-Guest on the original record.\n\nThough initially recorded as a tongue-in-cheek pastiche, \"Disco Clone\" was a cult success and encouraged ZE to release a full-length album in 1980, which was produced by August Darnell of Kid Creole & The Coconuts, and including songs written by Cristina. The album was reissued as \"Doll in the Box\". Cristina also issued on a 12\" single a cover of Peggy Lee's \"Is That All There Is?\" with new, satirical lyrics. Its authors Leiber and Stoller sued and successfully got it withdrawn for many years. Later, she released a cover of the Beatles' \"Drive My Car\" (also released as \"Baby You Can Drive My Car\"). She released the track \"Things Fall Apart\", produced by Was (Not Was), on ZE's \"Christmas Record\", in 1981.\n\nCristina's second album \"Sleep It Off\", on which she retained her sardonic tone, was produced by Don Was and released in 1984 with a sleeve design by Jean-Paul Goude (a year before he used the same idea for Grace Jones). The lyrics, many written by Cristina, satirized urban decadence with often dry, sarcastic delivery. The record flopped, and Cristina retired to domestic life with her husband in Texas. The song \"What's a Girl to Do?\" from this album was included in the Ladytron compilation \"Softcore Jukebox\" in 2003, and has been claimed by critic Richie Unterberger as \"arguably her signature track\". The album was re-released in 2004 with six bonus tracks, two of which were produced (and one co-written) by Robert Palmer. In 2005, she collaborated with New York musician Alex Gimeno aka Ursula 10000 on the track \"Urgent/Anxious\" off his \"Here Comes Tomorrow\" album. \n\nShe later contributed learned essays and reviews to publications such as London's \"Times Literary Supplement\" while battling autoimmune disorders, including relapsing polychondritis. Her two albums for ZE were reissued in 2004, after Michael Esteban revived the label.\n\nCristina Monet Palaci married Michael Zilkha. They divorced in 1990, and she returned to New York City. \n\nCristina died in New York on March 31, 2020, at the age of 64, after testing positive for COVID-19.\n\nCritic Richie Unterberger at \"Billboard\" summed up her career as follows:While Cristina never achieved mainstream success, her wry songwriting, deadpan delivery and infectious beats proved roundly ahead of their time, a touchstone for the electroclash movement of the early '00s, and a precedent for later post-modern pop superstars like Lady Gaga and Lana Del Rey. Singer-songwriter Zola Jesus wrote: \"Cristina was a HUGE inspiration to me... I loved how she was too weird for the pop world and too pop for the weird world.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979004", "title": "Alex Frost", "text": "Alex Frost\n\nAlexander Robert Frost (born February 17, 1987) is an American actor best known for his role in \"Elephant\" and \"Drillbit Taylor\".\n\nHe had a starring role in Gus Van Sant's Columbine-based film \"Elephant\", which was awarded the Palme d'Or prize in 2003. Since \"Elephant\", Frost has worked on a number of films, including \"The Queen of Cactus Cove\", \"The Lost\" and \"The Standard\". He appeared in a Season 3 episode of \"NCIS\" entitled \"Ravenous\". He played the primary antagonist in the Owen Wilson movie \"Drillbit Taylor\", released on March 21, 2008, by Paramount Pictures. He appeared in two films in 2009, \"Calvin Marshall\" and \"The Vicious Kind\". He appeared in \"The Wheeler Boys\", premiered in the 2010 LA Film Festival. Frost is currently living in Los Angeles.\n\n\nFrost was born in Portland, Oregon. His parents are Debbie and Jack, and he has an older brother named Chris. He is married to Mem Kennedy. \n\nHe attended high school at the Arts & Communication Magnet Academy, in Beaverton, Oregon.\n"}
{"id": "1979005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979005", "title": "Capistrano Beach, Dana Point, California", "text": "Capistrano Beach, Dana Point, California\n\nCapistrano Beach, also known as Capo Beach, is a coastal neighborhood in the city of Dana Point in Orange County, California. It is bordered by San Clemente to the south and Doheny State Beach to the north.\n\nCapistrano Beach is situated along the coast on the southern end of Dana Point. Homes range from beach cottages to some of the finest real estate in Orange County. Many multimillion-dollar homes can be found in the area, with some situated atop a cliff overlooking Coast Highway and the Capistrano Beach park below. Several celebrities live in the town area, notably on Beach Road, where Hobie Alter conceived of the popular Hobie Cat catamaran. There are modest, older homes a little farther from the shore.\n\nOriginally a part of Rancho Boca de la Playa, the area now known as Capistrano Beach was known as Serra in the late 1880s when the California Central Railway was first extending down from Los Angeles. The land was sold to the San Bernardino and San Diego Railway. Development of Capistrano Beach started in 1925 with residential homes on the bluff. The Capistrano Beach Club was built along the shore of the new development. In 1929, the Petroleum Securities Company (owned by Edward L. Doheny) became the new owners of the Capistrano Beach development. In 1931, following the death of Doheny's son, he donated over to the state for Doheny State Beach. Capistrano Beach became part of the city of Dana Point in 1989.\n\nDuring the excavation of the land during development, the bones of a mastodon (or possibly a mammoth) were discovered in 2016. \n\nThe wooden pier is popular for strolling, sightseeing, and fishing. The pier was severely damaged by waves in 1964, after which it was condemned and demolisded 1965. The Capistrano Beach Club became rundown and, in the late 1960s, was dismantled.\n\nDuring storms in 2018, a boardwalk collapsed and an outdoor basketball court was severely damaged after being undermined by erosion caused by the waves. The storm exposed old cars put their decades prior as part of a now corroded sea wall. More Boulders were placed to protect the basketball court that was damaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979008", "title": "In the Cool, Cool, Cool of the Evening", "text": "In the Cool, Cool, Cool of the Evening\n\n\"In the Cool, Cool, Cool of the Evening\" is a popular song with music by Hoagy Carmichael and lyrics by Johnny Mercer. It was originally planned to feature it in a Paramount picture which was written for Betty Hutton that never took off. That projected film was to be called \"The Mack Sennett Girl\" (aka \"Keystone Girl\"). The song was buried in Paramount's files until it was rediscovered and then used in the 1951 film, \"Here Comes the Groom\", and won the Academy Award for Best Original Song.\n\nThe recording by Bing Crosby and Jane Wyman with Matty Matlock's All Stars and the Four Hits and a Miss was recorded on June 20, 1951 and released by Decca Records as catalog number 27678. It first reached the \"Billboard\" Best Seller chart on September 21, 1951, and lasted six weeks on the chart, peaking at number 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979013", "title": "USS Cony (DD-508)", "text": "USS Cony (DD-508)\n\nUSS \"Cony\" (DD/DDE-508), a \"Fletcher\"-class destroyer, was a ship of the United States Navy named for Joseph S. Cony (1834–1867), a naval officer during the Civil War.\n\n\"Cony\" was launched 16 August 1942 by Bath Iron Works Corp., Bath, Maine, sponsored by Mrs. William R. Sleight, a first cousin of Joseph S. Cony in whose honor the destroyer is named, in part of the largest mass launch to that point in the war shipbuilding program and the largest in Maine's history in which five British Ocean type freighters, the Liberty , and \"Cony\" were launched. The ship was commissioned 30 October 1942 at Boston, Lieutenant Commander Harry D. Johnson in command.\n\n\"Cony\" escorted a troop convoy from Norfolk to Nouméa, New Caledonia, where she arrived 27 January 1943. She patrolled between Espiritu Santo and Efate, and on 6 March joined in the bombardment of the Vila-Stanmore area on Kolombangara, continuing her patrol and escort duties until clearing for overhaul at San Francisco 28 April. She returned to action waters at Espiritu Santo 1 August, and after screening a group of transports to Guadalcanal, she brought fire support and was Admiral Theodore S. Wilkinson's flagship for the landings on Vella Lavella on 15 August. She continued patrols and escorted supplies to Vella Lavella until returning to Espiritu Santo 8 September.\n\nFrom 20 September 1943, \"Cony\" patrolled through the Solomons, and from 1 to 3 October joined in a sweep against Japanese barges attempting to evacuate Kolombangara. On 27 October, she sailed to cover the landings on the Treasuries. Here complete surprise was achieved, but Japanese reaction came quickly, and later that day 10 enemy dive bombers, escorted by 39 enemy fighters, attacked \"Cony\" and \"Philip\" (DD-498). Aided by American fighter aircraft, \"Cony\" and her sister splashed 4 dive bombers and 1 fighter, but \"Cony\" received two bomb hits on her main deck, and these with a near miss killed 8 of her men, wounded 10, and caused considerable damage. She was towed into Port Purvis on Florida Island for emergency repairs, and sailed on to Mare Island Naval Shipyard for a complete overhaul.\n\nReturning to Port Purvis 27 March 1944, \"Cony\" patrolled along the southwest coast of Bougainville, hunting Japanese barges and submarines, and giving fire support to troops ashore in the Empress Augusta Bay area. She sailed from Port Purvis 4 May for Majuro and Pearl Harbor, where she joined the screen of a transport group bound for Eniwetok and the Saipan landings on 15 June. \"Cony\" screened the transports as they unloaded and carried out antisubmarine patrol until 14 July, when she sailed to replenish at Eniwetok. Six days later she sailed for preinvasion bombardment on Tinian, remaining to patrol in the antisubmarine screen when the landings on Tinian began on 24 July.\n\n\"Cony\" returned to Guadalcanal 24 August 1944 to prepare for the assault on the Palau Islands. She screened carriers as they launched air raids supporting the landings on Peleliu between 15 and 30 September, then put into Manus to replenish. The destroyer put to sea once more 12 October, screening and providing fire support for underwater demolition teams and bombardment groups in Leyte Gulf between 19 and 21 October as the landings began. As Japanese forces entered Leyte Gulf on 24 October to begin the Battle of Surigao Strait phase of the epic Battle for Leyte Gulf, \"Cony\" took her station with the battleships and cruisers in the battleline, joining in the furious firing of the night action, and pursuing and constantly dueling with Japanese destroyer \"Asagumo\", finally sunk in the morning of 25 October with the aid of fire from another destroyer and two cruisers.\n\nAfter voyaging to Manus for replenishment, \"Cony\" returned to Leyte Gulf for patrol duties 16 November 1944. On the nights of 29–30 November and 1–2 December she joined in sweeps of Ormoc Bay, hunting Japanese shipping. Targets were few, but her group sent a barge to the bottom on their second foray, and bombarded enemy positions on the shores of the bay in preparation for the landings in Ormoc Bay a few days later. \"Cony\" put into Kossol Roads from 4 to 10 December, then sailed to screen carriers providing air cover for attack groups passing from Leyte to Mindoro, returning to Kossol Roads 19 December.\n\n\"Cony\" arrived at Manus 23 December 1944 and sailed 8 days later to screen transports to the Lingayen Gulf landings on 9 January 1945. She cleared the Gulf 11 January to screen empty transports and cargo ships to San Pedro Bay, Leyte, and then took up patrol duty in Lingayen Gulf. The destroyer covered the reconnaissance and sweeping of Baler Bay between 26 February and 10 March\nby destroyer escort \"Formoe\" (DE-509), minesweepers \"Sentry\" (AM-299) and \"Salute\" (AM-294), \nand stood by to provide fire support during the landings on Caballo Island in Manila Bay on 27 March. She bombarded Parang between 14 and 19 April, and patrolled in Davao Gulf early in May. On 7 June she sailed from Subic Bay to cover the landings at Brunei Bay, Borneo, on 9 June, and sailed on a fire-support mission aiding minesweeping operations and underwater demolition teams near Balikpapan, Borneo, from 13 June to 2 July.\n\nReturning to San Pedro Bay, \"Cony\" sailed on 11 July 1945 to escort transports to landings at Saragani Bay, Mindanao, providing fire support to the forces ashore until 13 July. Through August, she made an escort voyage between Leyte and Ulithi, and on 8 September, arrived in the approaches of the Yangtze River to act as navigational ship during minesweeping operations. Between 29 September and 6 October, she called at Shanghai, then sailed to investigate the compliance with the surrender terms of Japanese troops on Raffles Island in the Chusan Archipelago just off the China coast south of Shanghai. After making a mail run to Okinawa, she served as harbor entrance control ship at Shanghai until 19 November, when she sailed to Taiwan to serve as navigational ship for minesweeping operations in the Taiwan Straits. She sailed for home from Shanghai 20 December, and after calling at San Diego and New York, arrived at Charleston, S.C., 13 March 1946. There she was decommissioned and placed in reserve 18 June 1946.\n\nReclassified DDE-508 on 26 March 1949, \"Cony\" was converted to an escort destroyer, specially equipped for antisubmarine warfare, and recommissioned 17 November 1949. After training and operations along the east coast and in the Caribbean, she sailed from her home-port, Norfolk, 14 May 1951, on a cruise round the world, during which she operated in the Korean war zone from 18 June to 28 October, returning home by way of the Suez Canal, and arriving at Norfolk 20 December 1951. In September 1953, she again cleared on a distant deployment, taking part in North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) Operation \"Mariner\", then exercising with the Royal Navy in antisubmarine operations off Northern Ireland before continuing to a tour of duty with the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean. In 1955 and 1957, she again served in the Mediterranean, and in September and October 1957, joined in NATO antisubmarine exercises in the English Channel. Local operations and cruises to the Caribbean marked 1958, and in 1959 and 1960, It was reported by a crew member that around this time (1958-1959) the Cony was returning to Norfolk from the duty in the Caribbean and logged an unofficial speed of 37 knots. Upon arrival at port, they requested permission to dock, but were denied. They were ordered to wait for the rest of the fleet to return. The order was reportedly disregarded and they came into port anyway. \"Cony\" joined Task Force Alfa, an experimental tactical group concentrating on antisubmarine warfare, in its operations along the east coast. With this group, she visited Quebec City, Canada, in June 1960.\n\n\"Cony\" took part in the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in April 1961.\n\n\"Cony\" reverted to DD-508 30 June 1962.\nIn October 1962, she took part in the blockade of Cuba during the missile crisis. On 27 October, \"Cony\" intercepted the Soviet submarine \"B-59\", an incident which nearly led to war between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\n\"Cony\" was decommissioned and stricken 2 July 1969. She was sunk as a target off Puerto Rico 20 March 1970.\n\n\"Cony\" received 11 battle stars for World War II service, and two for Korean War service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979016", "title": "Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy", "text": "Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\n\nThe Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy is an encyclopedia of philosophy edited by Edward Craig that was first published by Routledge in 1998 (). Originally published in both 10 volumes of print and as a CD-ROM, in 2002 it was made available online on a subscription basis. The online version is regularly updated with new articles and revisions to existing articles. It has 1,300 contributors providing over 2,000 scholarly articles.\n\nTwo single-volume editions of the encyclopedia have been published, \"The Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", first published in 1999 (), and \"The Shorter Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", first published in 2005 (). The \"Concise\" version has the same number of entries as the ten-volume set, each entry in the \"Concise\" version being the summary of the topic that precedes each article in the 10-volume work. The \"Shorter\" version has over 900 articles, each with more in depth coverage than the corresponding entry (if present) in the \"Concise\" encyclopedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979025", "title": "Blues in the Night", "text": "Blues in the Night\n\n\"Blues in the Night\" is a popular blues song which has become a pop standard and is generally considered to be part of the Great American Songbook. The music was written by Harold Arlen, the lyrics by Johnny Mercer, for a 1941 film begun with the working title \"Hot Nocturne\", but finally released as \"Blues in the Night\". The song is sung in the film by William Gillespie.\n\nArlen and Mercer wrote the entire score for the 1941 film \"Blues in the Night\". One requirement was for a blues song to be sung in a jail cell. As usual with Mercer, the composer wrote the music first, then Mercer wrote the words. Arlen later recalled:\n\nWhen they finished writing the song, Mercer called a friend, singer Margaret Whiting, and asked if they could come over and play it for her. She suggested they come later because she had dinner guests—Mickey Rooney, Judy Garland, Mel Tormé, and Martha Raye. Instead, Arlen and Mercer went right over. Margaret Whiting remembered what happened then:\n\nIn 1942 \"Blues in the Night\" was one of nine songs nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song. Observers expected that either \"Blues in the Night\" or \"Chattanooga Choo Choo\" would win, so that when \"The Last Time I Saw Paris\" actually won, neither its composer, Jerome Kern, nor lyricist, Oscar Hammerstein II, was present at the ceremony. Kern was so upset at winning with a song that had not been specifically written for a motion picture and that had been published and recorded before the film came out that he petitioned the Motion Picture Academy to change the rules. Since then, a nominated song has to have been written specifically for the motion picture in which it is performed.\n\nComposer Alec Wilder said of this song, \"'Blues in the Night' is certainly a landmark in the evolution of American popular music, lyrically as well as musically.\"\n\nMercer, being from the South, realized \"that Arlen's notes were meant to be sung as a blues slide and that individual syllables would have made the song too formal, too racially white.\"\n\n\nThe first two lines have been sung in several ways: \"My momma done tol' me / when I was in knee pants\"; \"My momma done tol' me / when I was in blue jeans\"; \"My momma done tol' me / when I was in pigtails.\"\n\nRecorded versions that charted in the United States were by Woody Herman, Dinah Shore, Jimmie Lunceford, Cab Calloway, Artie Shaw, and Rosemary Clooney.\nRecorded versions in the United Kingdom were by Shirley Bassey and Helen Shapiro.\n\nThe Woody Herman recording was released by Decca Records as catalog number 4030. The record first reached the Billboard magazine charts on January 2, 1942 and lasted 11 weeks on the chart, peaking at #1.\n\nThe Dinah Shore recording was released by RCA Bluebird Records as catalog number 11436. The record first reached the Billboard magazine charts on February 13, 1942 and lasted 7 weeks on the chart, peaking at #4.\n\nThe Jimmie Lunceford recording was released by Decca Records as catalog number 4125. The record first reached the Billboard magazine charts on January 30, 1942 and lasted 5 weeks on the chart, peaking at #4.\n\nThe Cab Calloway recording was released by OKeh Records as catalog number 6422. The record first reached the Billboard magazine charts on March 6, 1942 and lasted 1 week on the chart, at #8.\n\nThe Artie Shaw recording was released by RCA Victor Records as catalog number 27609. The record first reached the Billboard magazine charts on November 21, 1941 and lasted 1 week on the chart, at #10.\n\nThe Rosemary Clooney recording was released by Columbia Records as catalog number 39813. The record first reached the Billboard magazine charts on September 26, 1952 and lasted 2 weeks on the chart, peaking at #29.\n\nIn addition, the song was recorded at least three times by Jo Stafford. Her previously unreleased 1942 version with the Tommy Dorsey orchestra was included in the 1966 Reader's Digest box set \"The Glenn Miller Years\". On October 15, 1943, she recorded it with Johnny Mercer, the Pied Pipers, and Paul Weston's Orchestra, in a version released as a single (catalog number 10001) and on an album (\"Songs by Johnny Mercer\", catalog number CD1) by Capitol Records. On February 20, 1959, she recorded it with The Starlighters in a version released on an album (\"Ballad of the Blues,\" catalog number CL-1332) by Columbia Records. \n\nAnother version was by Billy Eckstine in his album \"Once More with Feeling\" (1960)\n\nDick Monda released a version of the song as a single in 1967.\n\nCarlos Montoya recorded a flamenco version.\n\nIn 1995, the rock group Chicago included the song on their \"\" album. The arrangement by vocalist Bill Champlin features a guitar solo by Aerosmith's Joe Perry.\n\nRay Charles for his album \"Ain't It So\" (1979)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979026", "title": "Windsor Sculpture Park", "text": "Windsor Sculpture Park\n\nThe Windsor Sculpture Park, formerly known as the Odette Sculpture Park, is an open space in Windsor, Ontario, Canada, that shows 35 large-scale contemporary sculptures by world-renowned artists including Elisabeth Frink, Gerald Gladstone, and Sorel Etrog.\n\nThe park is located on the shore of the Detroit River, spanning from Assumption Park to Centennial Park, between the Ambassador Bridge (Huron Church Road) and the Art Gallery of Windsor (Church Street).\n\nThe Sculpture Park was funded by Mr and Mrs Louis Odette and the P & L Odette Foundation. The park is maintained by the city's Parks and Recreation Department, while the sculptures are cared for by the Cultural Affairs Department.\n\nThe City of Windsor provides free public guided tours of the five kilometre open air gallery. The tours is are done in a vehicle called The Art Cart; an electric golf cart which can hold five people. Tours run on a first-come-first-served basis. Art Cart Tours depart from the base of the Great Canadian Flag at the foot of Ouellette Avenue.\n\nFee-based tours require reservations. Fee-based tours are offered outside of public tour hours.\n\nEach year, the citizens of Windsor are invited to participate in washing \"Tembo\". \"Tembo\", a large bronze sculpture located in the Windsor Sculpture Park was created by Derrick Stephan Hudson. The sculpture features a mother elephant as well as two young babies.\n\nEach year, the citizens of Windsor are invited by the City of Windsor to help wash the elephants on Tembo Day. After a bath of gentle clean of warm water and soap using toothbrushes, Sculpture Conservation Assistants spend a couple of days applying wax to protect the sculpture in preparation for the winter\n\nThe goal of Tembo Day is to create a better understanding of the importance of maintaining and preserving the care for bronze sculptures along the Windsor Sculpture Park.\n\nTembo Day has gained recognition throughout Windsor for its engagement with the community and has been featured in the Windsor Star and CBC Windsor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979036", "title": "Bill Barlee", "text": "Bill Barlee\n\nNeville Langrell (Bill) Barlee (October 15, 1932 – June 14, 2012) was a Canadian politician who was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia as a New Democrat in 1988. He served as Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food from 1991 until 1993 and then as Minister of Small Business, Tourism and Culture from 1993 until 1996.\n\nBarlee was also well known for his popular TV show on the history of Canada West which he co-hosted with Mike Roberts. This award-winning television series \"Gold Trails and Ghost Towns\", ran from 1986 to 1996 on five different networks nationwide. The show is still seen in reruns.\n\nHe had a varied career as a high school teacher, writer, publisher, and placer miner. He left teaching to write, publish and become a small businessman. His history magazine \"Canada West\" had faithful subscribers and his books included two best-sellers: \"Gold Creeks and Ghost Towns\" and the \"Guide to Goldpanning\". Over his life, he and his wife carefully amassed an impressive collection of Old West artifacts. Parts of the Barlee collection were placed on display in the Canadian Museum of Civilization in Ottawa as well as museums in British Columbia.\n\nIn 1988 Barlee was elected as an NDP MLA. When the NDP became government, he was appointed Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. During his time as Agriculture Minister, Barlee conceived of, and implemented the successful \"Buy BC\" program, to support BC farmers. The Buy BC logo can now be found on virtually all food products made or grown in B.C. He also served as Minister of Small Business, Tourism and Culture. \"Vancouver Sun\" columnist Denny Boyd credited Barlee as being one of the best Tourism Ministers B.C. has ever had.\n\nBarlee received a number of honours during his career including the \"Golden Door\" award from the BC and Yukon Hotel Association; the \"Stellar Award\" by the BC Restaurants and Food Services Association; and the \"Visionary Award\" from the BC Council of Tourism Associations.\n\n! style=\"text-align:right;\" colspan=\"3\"|Total Valid Votes\n!align=\"right\"| 29,868\n!align=\"right\"|100.00\n! style=\"text-align:right;\" colspan=\"3\"|Total rejected ballots\n!align=\"right\"| 87\n!align=\"right\"|\n\n"}
{"id": "1979037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979037", "title": "Epanokalimavkion", "text": "Epanokalimavkion\n\nAn epanokalimavkion (, also epanokalimavko (επανωκαλύμμαυχο) is an item of clerical clothing worn by Orthodox Christian monastics who are rassophor or above, including bishops. It is a cloth veil, usually black, which is worn with a kalimavkion.\n\nThe epanokalimavkion is attached to the front of the kalimavkion and extends over the top to hang down the back, with lappets hanging down on each side. In some traditions, monks leave the lappets hanging over the shoulders, but nuns bring them together and fasten them behind the apostolnik.\n\nIn the Russian tradition, the kalimavkion covered by its epanokaimavkion is collectively referred to as a klobuk.\n\nHierodeacons (i.e., monastic deacons) will remove the epanokalimavkion when they are vested and serving at liturgical services; if they are not serving, however, they will wear it whenever attending services. Monks who have been ordained to minor orders (subdeacon, reader, altar server) do not wear the kamilavka when vested. Hieromonks (monastic priests) always wear the epanokalimavkion whenever they wear the kalimavkion.\n\nIn the Russian tradition, the epanokalimavkion of an archbishop has a jewelled cross stitched to the front of it near the crown of the kalimavkion. A metropolitan wears a white epanokalimavkion with the same jewelled cross. The Patriarch of Moscow's epanokalimavkion is often richly embroidered with seraphim or other symbols on the lappets and is attached to a conical kalimavkion called a koukoulion. The Patriarch of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyivan Patriarchate, which is not in communion with Moscow, also wears the kalimavkion. \n\nThe Patriarch of Bulgaria wears a white epanokalimavkion with small cross. The Patriarch of Romania also wears a white epanokalimavkion.\n\nOn Mount Athos, particular practices may vary from monastery to monastery, but generally speaking—in the Greek monasteries, at least—the epanokalimavkion is not attached to the kalimavkion, but is merely laid over it. The reason for this is that the Athonite typicons call for it to be removed from the kalimavkion and laid over the shoulders at certain moments during the services.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979043", "title": "Cardiff-by-the-Sea, Encinitas, California", "text": "Cardiff-by-the-Sea, Encinitas, California\n\nCardiff-by-the-Sea, usually referred to as Cardiff, is a beach community located in the incorporated city of Encinitas in San Diego County, California. The Pacific Ocean is to the west of Cardiff-by-the-Sea, the rest of incorporated Encinitas is to the east and north, and a beach and lagoon to the south. With a population of under 12,000, Cardiff-by-the-Sea operates as part of the city of Encinitas, but unlike the other communities that comprise Encinitas, has its own ZIP code (92007).\n\nCardiff is also home to a few well-known surf spots, such as Swami's and Cardiff Reef.\n\nThe first inhabitants were the Native Kumeyayya Indians, referred to as the Diegueño by the Spanish. Then in 1769 the Spanish started colonizing this area with the construction of the Spanish Missions. The First Settlement was by the Mackinnon family in 1875. In 1909 this farming community began to be developed when Boston developer J. Frank Cullen purchased land from the MacKinnons. For $30 a lot one could buy land and build new homes. Frank Cullen's wife, a native of Cardiff, Wales persuaded him to name the community \"Cardiff-by-the Sea\", as well as many streets, such as \"Birmingham\", \"Oxford\", \"Chesterfield\" and \"Manchester\", despite heavy Spanish influence in the area. In 1986, \"Cardiff\" joined with the nearby communities of Leucadia, Olivenhain, and Encinitas to form the incorporated city of Encinitas.\n\nCardiff is part of the city of Encinitas, which is governed by a five-member city council, elected at-large to staggered four-year terms at two-year intervals.\n\nIn the California State Legislature, Cardiff is in , and in .\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, Cardiff is in .\n\nCardiff has a school district consisting of two schools:\n\nCardiff Reef (\"The Reef\") is a popular surf spot in Cardiff that produces waves both professional and novice surfers enjoy year round. Surfing at The Reef has progressed from just a few surfers in the 1950s to become one of the most popular surfing spots in San Diego County. Cardiff Reef and nearby surf spot, Pipes, are famous for their smooth and consistent wave shape.\n\nWhen the tide is low, a flat rock reef is revealed that extends 50 yards from shore. Exploring these tide pools is a popular activity for visitors of Cardiff.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, Cardiff-by-the-Sea is 72% white, 20% Hispanic, 3% Asian, 1% African-American and 4% Other \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979044", "title": "Grandview, U.S.A.", "text": "Grandview, U.S.A.\n\nGrandview, U.S.A. is a 1984 American comedy film directed by Randal Kleiser and starring Jamie Lee Curtis, Patrick Swayze, C. Thomas Howell, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Carole Cook, Ramon Bieri, John Cusack, Joan Cusack, M. Emmet Walsh, Michael Winslow, Troy Donahue and Steve Dahl.\n\nThe original music score is composed by Thomas Newman. It was filmed on location in Pontiac, Illinois.\n\nAfter being out of print on VHS for many years, the movie was finally released on DVD for the first time on October 4, 2011.\n\nEighteen-year-old Tim Pearson, a soon-to-be graduate of Grandview High School, wants to go to Florida to study oceanography. Tim's father, Roger Pearson, loans Tim his brand new Cadillac to go to the Prom with his date Bonnie Clark. Later, while parked near a stream, Tim and Bonnie are making out in the Cadillac, when they feel the car moving, only to discover that the car is falling into the stream. Tim and Bonnie walk to \"Cody's Speedway\" to get a tow truck, Bonnie calls her father, who is so angry about the accident that he punches Tim. Mechanic Michelle \"Mike\" Cody comes to Tim's defense, and has Ernie \"Slam\" Webster, a local demolition derby driver, tow the car, taking Tim along. Slam stops at the bowling alley to see if his wife Candy had been there, but she wasn't.\n\nThe next morning, Tim goes to see his father at his office. He talks to Tim and hints to him that he does not want Tim to drive his car again. Tim runs into Mike and thanks her for helping him with the car.\n\nTim goes out to the Speedway, where he meets Mike's mentally challenged brother, Cowboy. Later on that night, Mike goes to the bar to see her uncle, Bob Cody, and asks if she can borrow $10,000, so she can fix up the Speedway. Bob doesn't have that kind of money, but wants to help her. Just then, they both hear a drunken Slam beating on a video game. Mike and Bob help Slam out to his truck. Mike and Slam talk about old times they had together.\n\nSlam is at work the next morning, hungover, but his boss tells him to go home. Slam gets home and sees his wife Candy with another man, Donny. Enraged, he jumps on the lover's car demanding that Candy come back to him; in the ensuing struggle, Donny accidentally shoots himself in the foot. At the hospital, Candy declines to press charges, but refuses to come home with him.\n\nThat night, Mike sees Slam sleeping in his truck. Mike tries to comfort him, believing that he does not really love Candy, and is simply afraid of being alone. Later that day, Slam comes back and asks Mike if she wants to go out for dinner, but she tells him has to go to a County Commission meeting.\n\nTim and his dad go the same meeting, and Tim tells Roger that he wants to go to Florida; Roger is not too happy with his decision. At the Town Hall, Roger asks Tim to go to his office and get his Rolaids. In the office, Tim sees plans for the Speedway renovation on his dad's desk. At the meeting, Mike asks the commission for more time to come up with the money to fix up the Speedway, but the commission won't give it to her. Tim comes in and reveals what they have planned. He then gets into an argument with his father and leaves. He runs into Mike, who thanks him for saving her place. They both go for a hamburger at the local restaurant, and Mike invites Tim to her house, where they spend the night together. Mike asks Tim if he still wants to drive in the Derby, she gives him a car to drive. In the morning, Slam shows up at the door and discovers them in bed together; he leaves, upset.\n\nLater on that day, Roger sees Tim near the stream, and says he is sorry about the fight. He asks Tim to give Illinois State University a chance, but Tim wants to go to Florida.\n\nAt the Speedway, Mike sells her old cars to make extra money; this upsets Cowboy, who runs off crying.\n\nSlam goes to his house and sees his stuff on the lawn. Donny stands by the door and taunts Slam, telling him he called the cops. Slam gets his things and leaves.\n\nLater that night, the Demolition Derby is going on, and Tim is in the race, competing against Slam. At the race's climax, Slam crashes into Tim. Mike is mad cause she thinks Slam did it on purpose, and tells him to leave the track.\n\nLater that night, Candy and Donny are having sex in Slam's house when, suddenly, Slam appears on a bulldozer and knocks the walls down. The cops arrest Slam.\n\nAs Tim and Mike drive home from the hospital, they see firetrucks passing by, and discover that the Speedway has burned down. Mike asks her mother what had happened, and she says it just started up. In the morning, however, the police discover that the gas tank was unlocked. It is eventually revealed that Cowboy started the fire because Mike sold the old cars. Tim and Mike talk, and she admits she is in love with Slam.\n\nMike goes to bail Slam out from jail. He offers to help fix the Speedway, but Mike says she will sell the land to Roger Pearson; that way, they can afford to start a life together. Mike asks Slam for a favor.\n\nTim is on his way to Chicago, with his family in tow to say goodbye. The bus leaves and a car is driving by the side of the bus; it is Slam, who gives Tim the old car and money for his trip to Florida.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1979048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979048", "title": "Alexander Walker II", "text": "Alexander Walker II\n\nSir Alexander Walker II (1869–1950) was the younger grandson of John ‘Johnnie’ Walker. He and his brother, George Paterson Walker, took the control of the company after the death of their father Alexander Walker in 1889.\n\nAlexander took his father’s black labeled blend (called at the time \"Walker’s Old Highland\") and added two more blends—\"Old Highland (white label)\", \"Special Old Highland (red label)\"—to the line. At the same time the original blend was renamed \"Extra Special Old Highland (black label)\"\n\nIn 1909 Alex’s brother George oversaw the creation of the Johnnie Walker Striding Man logo, and the rebranding of the lines as \"Johnnie Walker White Label\", \"Johnnie Walker Red Label\", and \"Johnnie Walker Black Label\".\n\nThe brothers discontinued \"White Label\" during World War I to move the brand more upscale, and in 1932 Alex introduced his last blend, \"Johnnie Walker Swing\".\n\nSir Alexander was knighted in 1920. In the inter-war years he was a member of the anti-semite Right Club.\n\nWalker retired in 1940, and on his death left all of his blending notes to the now public company. In the 1990s John Walker and Sons introduced \"Johnnie Walker Gold Label\" based in large part on those notes.\n\n\"Scotch Whisky: A Liquid History\" by Charles MacLean. ©2003 Charles MacLean & Cassell Illustrated. \n"}
{"id": "1979057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979057", "title": "National Republican Alliance", "text": "National Republican Alliance\n\nThe National Republican Alliance (\"Alliance Nationale Républicaine\", ANR) is a minor Algerian political party led by ex-Prime Minister Redha Malek and founded on 5 May 1995. It is sometimes considered an offshoot of the older FLN. The ANR is strongly anti-Islamist, and denounced the 1995 Sant'Egidio accords, while later backing the referendum on national reconciliation. It received 208,379 votes in the elections of June 1997, but boycotted the 2002 elections, claiming they would be rigged.\n\nIn the May, 2007 elections, the ANR received 126,444 votes, or 2.21%. This gave them 4 seats in parliament.\n\nIn the Algerian legislative election, 2007, support for the ANR was higher than its national average (2.21%) in the following provinces:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979060", "title": "One for My Baby (and One More for the Road)", "text": "One for My Baby (and One More for the Road)\n\n\"One for My Baby (and One More for the Road)\" is a hit song written by Harold Arlen and Johnny Mercer for the movie musical \"The Sky's the Limit\" (1943) and first performed in the film by Fred Astaire. It was further popularized by Frank Sinatra.\n\nHarold Arlen described the song as \"another typical Arlen tapeworm\" – a \"tapeworm\" being the trade slang for any song which went over the conventional 32 bar length. He called it \"a wandering song. [Lyricist] Johnny [Mercer] took it and wrote it exactly the way it fell. Not only is it long – forty-eight bars – but it also changes key. Johnny made it work.\" In the opinion of Arlen's biographer, Edward Jablonski, the song is \"musically inevitable, rhythmically insistent, and in that mood of 'metropolitan melancholic beauty' that writer John O'Hara finds in all of Arlen's music.\"\n\nSinatra recorded the song several times during his career: In 1947 with Columbia Records, in 1954 for the film soundtrack album \"Young at Heart\", in 1958 for \"Frank Sinatra Sings for Only the Lonely\", in 1962 for \"\", in 1966 for \"Sinatra at the Sands\" and finally, in 1993, for his \"Duets\" album. At a Johnny Carson-hosted Rat Pack concert at the Kiel Opera House in St. Louis in 1965, Sammy Davis Jr., backed by Quincy Jones conducting the Count Basie Orchestra, performed the song imitating the styles of successively Fred Astaire, Nat King Cole, Billy Eckstine, Vaughn Monroe, Tony Bennett, Mel Tormé, Frankie Laine, Louis Armstrong, an inebriated Dean Martin, and Jerry Lewis.\n\nCountless renditions of \"One for My Baby (and One More for the Road)\" have been performed. The following is a list of notable/well-known versions which have been recorded thus far:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979061", "title": "Two-fluid model", "text": "Two-fluid model\n\nTwo-fluid model is a macroscopic traffic flow model to represent traffic in a town/city or metropolitan area, put forward in the 1970s by Ilya Prigogine and Robert Herman.\n\nThere is also a two-fluid model which helps explain the behavior of superfluid helium. This model states that there will be two components in liquid helium below its lambda point (the temperature where superfluid forms). These components are a normal fluid and a superfluid component. Each liquid has a different density and together their sum makes the total density, which remains constant. The ratio of superfluid density to the total density increases as the temperature approaches absolute zero.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979063", "title": "Jeff Hartings", "text": "Jeff Hartings\n\nJeffrey Alan Hartings (born September 7, 1972) is a former American college and professional football player who was a center in the National Football League (NFL) for eleven seasons. He played college football for Penn State University, and earned all-American honors. A first-round pick of the Detroit Lions in the 1996 NFL Draft, he played professionally for the Lions and Pittsburgh Steelers. He was a member of the Steelers' Super Bowl championship team in 2005, beating the Seattle Seahawks, and he was a two-time Pro Bowl selection. He is Currently the head football coach at Worthington Christian High School\n\nHartings was born in St. Henry, Ohio. He attended St. Henry High School, and was a letterwinner in football as a two-way starter and in track and field. In football, he was a two-time all-conference selection, helped lead his team to the state championship as a senior, and compiled 23 sacks and 200 tackles. After his senior season, he participated in the Ohio North-South Game.\n\nHartings attended Penn State University, where he played for coach Joe Paterno's Penn State Nittany Lions football team from 1992 to 1995. He was a first-team All-American in 1994 and 1995, garnering consensus first-team honors in 1995. he graduated from Penn State with a bachelor of science degree in marketing in 1995 and was twice honored as an Academic All-American.\n\nHe was a first round draft pick (23rd pick overall) of the Detroit Lions in the 1996 NFL Draft, and he played for the Lions from to . He signed with the Pittsburgh Steelers as a free agent in , where he moved from right guard to center. He has been selected to represent the AFC at the Pro Bowl twice (after the 2004 and 2005 seasons). Hartings retired following the 2006 season, citing recurring knee problems as one of the reasons for his decision.\n\nIn April 2017 Hartings was named the Head Football Coach of Worthington Christian High School.\n\nHartings is one of ten children. A born-again Christian, he has performed missionary work in Nicaragua and helped to start a new non-denominational church with former Detroit Lions teammate Luther Elliss. Since his retirement, he and his wife Rebecca live in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Columbus, Ohio with their eight children, Sierra, Michael, Lucas, Mianna, Isabella, Jullexa, Jovanna and Malachi.\n\nJeff Hartings was a high school teammate and graduating classmate of former Ohio State, Philadelphia Eagle, and Oakland Raider quarterback Bobby Hoying at St. Henry High School, a school with an average graduating class of about 100 students. St. Henry High School also produced accomplished former NFL offensive tackle Jim Lachey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979067", "title": "Siege of Lisbon", "text": "Siege of Lisbon\n\nThe Siege of Lisbon, from 1 July to 25 October 1147, was the military action that brought the city of Lisbon under definitive Portuguese control and expelled its Moorish overlords. The Siege of Lisbon was one of the few Christian victories of the Second Crusade—it was \"the only success of the universal operation undertaken by the pilgrim army\", i.e., the Second Crusade, according to the near contemporary historian Helmold, though others have questioned whether it was really part of that crusade. It is seen as a pivotal battle of the wider \"Reconquista\".\n\nThe Fall of Edessa in 1144 led to a call for a new crusade by Pope Eugene III in 1145 and 1146. In the spring of 1147, the Pope authorized the crusade in the Iberian peninsula. He also authorized Alfonso VII of León and Castile to equate his campaigns against the Moors with the rest of the Second Crusade. In May 1147, a contingent of crusaders left from Dartmouth in England. They had intended to sail directly to the Holy Land, but weather forced the ships to stop on the Portuguese coast, at the northern city of Porto on 16 June 1147. There they were convinced to meet with King Afonso I of Portugal.\n\nThe crusaders agreed to help the King attack Lisbon, with a solemn agreement that offered to the crusaders the pillage of the city's goods and the ransom money for expected prisoners. The siege began on 1 July. The city of Lisbon at the time of arrival consisted of sixty thousand families, including the refugees who had fled Christian onslaught from neighbouring cities of Santarém and others. Also reported by the \"De expugnatione Lyxbonensi\" is that the citadel was holding 154,000 men, not counting women and children; after 17 weeks of siege the inhabitants were despoiled and the city cleansed.\n\nAfter four months, the Moorish rulers agreed to surrender on 24 October, primarily because of hunger within the city. Most of the crusaders settled in the newly captured city, but some of the crusaders set sail and continued to the Holy Land. Lisbon eventually became the capital city of the Kingdom of Portugal, in 1255.\n\nThe traditional start of the Reconquista is identified with the defeat of the Muslims in the Battle of Covadonga in 722. After the First Crusade in 1095–1099, Pope Paschal II urged Iberian crusaders (Portuguese, Castilians, Leonese, Aragonese, and others) to remain at home, where their own warfare was considered just as worthy as that of crusaders travelling to Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1142, Afonso Henriques, taking advantage of the passage of a group of Anglo-Norman crusaders on their way to the Holy Land, attempted to use them to take the city of Lisbon. Although this attempt ultimately failed leaving some distrust among the crusader forces, it showed the Portuguese monarch the usefulness of such force in future attempts.\n\nThe Fall of Edessa in 1144 led to a call for a new crusade by Pope Eugene III in 1145 and 1146. In the spring of 1147, the Pope also authorized a crusade in the Iberian peninsula, where \"the war against the Moors had been going on for hundreds of years.\" Pope Eugene encouraged Marseilles, Pisa, Genoa, and other Mediterranean cities to fight in Iberia. He also authorized Alfonso VII of León and Castile to equate his campaigns against the Moors with the rest of the Second Crusade.\n\nOn 19 May 1147, a contingent of crusaders left from Dartmouth in England, consisting of crusaders from Flanders, Frisia, France, England, Scotland and some German polities who collectively considered themselves \"Franks\". No prince or king was in charge of the expedition, and its participants seem to have been largely made up of townsmen, who organised themselves using a sworn oath. Leadership was provided by Hervey de Glanvill, Constable of Suffolk. Other crusader captains included Arnout IV, Count of Aarschot leading the Rhinelanders, Christian of Gistel leading the Flemish and Boulogne forces, and the Anglo-Norman forces led by Simon of Dover, Andrew of London, and Saher of Archelle. Important decisions were made collectively by the commanders.\n\nAccording to Odo of Deuil there were 164 ships bound for the Holy Land, and there may have been as many as 200 by the time they reached the Iberian shore. Bad weather forced the ships to stop on the Portuguese coast, at the northern city of Porto on 16 June 1147. There they were convinced by the bishop, Pedro II Pitões, to meet with King Afonso of Portugal. The king, who had reached the Tagus River and conquered Santarém on 15 March, had also been negotiating with the pope for the recognition of his title of King. He was notified of the arrival of a first party and hastened to meet them.\n\nThe undisciplined multi-national group agreed to help him there, with a solemn agreement that offered to the crusaders the pillage of the city's goods and the ransom money for expected prisoners. For the city, \"they shall have it and hold it until it has been searched and despoiled, both of prisoners for ransom and of everything else. Then, when it has been as thoroughly searched as they wish, they shall turn it over to me...\" Afonso promised to divide the conquered territories as fiefs among the leaders. He reserved the power of \"advocatus\" and released those who were at the siege and their heirs trading in Portugal from the commercial tax called the \"pedicata\".\n\nThe English crusaders were at first unenthusiastic at this change of plan, but Hervey de Glanville convinced them to participate. Some led William Viel and his brother, however, refused to take part on account on an earlier joint attempt to capture Lisbon 1142. Hostages were exchanged as sureties for the oaths.\n\nThe siege began on 1 July. The Christians soon captured the surrounding territories and besieged the walls of Lisbon itself. After four months, the Moorish rulers agreed to surrender (21 October), because the Crusaders' siege tower reached their wall (thus causing a one-day standstill) and because of hunger within the city, which was sheltering populations displaced from Santarém as well as \"the leading citizens of Sintra, Almada, and Palmela.\"\n\nAfter a brief riotous insurrection the Anglo-Norman chronicler attributes to \"the men of Cologne and the Flemings\", the city was entered by the Christian conquerors, on 25 October. The terms of the surrender indicated that the Muslim garrison of the city would be allowed to keep their lives and property, but as soon as the Christians entered the city these terms were broken. According to the \"De expugnatione Lyxbonensi\",\nSome of the crusaders set sail and continued on their journey around the Iberian Peninsula and were invited by Count Ramon Berenguer IV of Barcelona to help him capture the city of Tortosa on the Ebro. However, most of the crusaders settled in the newly captured city, thus boosting the number of Christian supporters in Iberia. Gilbert of Hastings was elected bishop marking the beginning of the historic relationship between England and Portugal which would later form the Anglo-Portuguese Alliance. In spite of the contractual nature of the city's surrender, a legend arose that the Portuguese warrior and nobleman, Martim Moniz, sacrificed himself in order to keep the city doors open to the conquering Christian armies.\n\nLisbon eventually became the capital city of the Kingdom of Portugal in 1255. The victory was a turning-point in the history of Portugal and the wider Reconquista, which would be completed in 1492.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979075", "title": "Radio Wolga", "text": "Radio Wolga\n\nRadio Volga () was a radio station for the Soviet armed forces stationed in the former East Germany and Czechoslovakia, broadcasting mainly in Russian.\n\nBased in Potsdam, Radio Volga broadcast from the Königs Wusterhausen radio facility near Berlin, as well as the Burg AM transmitter near Magdeburg.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1976 Radio Volga used the 350-meter SL-3 tower, 2.2 kilometers from the transmitter. After it collapsed in 1976, one of the site's two 210-meter high steel tube masts was used instead. Radio Volga originally broadcast on the longwave frequency 283 kHz.\n\nBeside programs for the Soviet soldiers stationed in the GDR, Radio Volga also broadcast German language programmes from Radio Moscow. After German reunification in 1990, transmitting time was rented to the German-language news station Radioropa Info, broadcasting on 261 kHz.\n\nSoviet Central Television's main channel, TSS-1, was also relayed in East Germany via satellite.\n\nWith the departure of Russian troops from Germany, Radio Volga ceased broadcasting in June 1994. Radioropa Info took over its frequency, broadcasting from late 1994 to 2000, first from Daun and then from Leipzig. In 1999 a new cage aerial was mounted on the 324-meter radio mast in Burg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979078", "title": "Color model", "text": "Color model\n\nA color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers, typically as three or four values or color components. When this model is associated with a precise description of how the components are to be interpreted (viewing conditions, etc.), the resulting set of colors is called \"color space.\" This section describes ways in which human color vision can be modeled.\n\nOne can picture this space as a region in three-dimensional Euclidean space if one identifies the \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" axes with the stimuli for the long-wavelength (\"L\"), medium-wavelength (\"M\"), and short-wavelength (\"S\") light receptors. The origin, (\"S\",\"M\",\"L\") = (0,0,0), corresponds to black. White has no definite position in this diagram; rather it is defined according to the color temperature or white balance as desired or as available from ambient lighting. The human color space is a horse-shoe-shaped cone such as shown here (see also CIE chromaticity diagram below), extending from the origin to, in principle, infinity. In practice, the human color receptors will be saturated or even be damaged at extremely high light intensities, but such behavior is not part of the CIE color space and neither is the changing color perception at low light levels (see: Kruithof curve). \nThe most saturated colors are located at the outer rim of the region, with brighter colors farther removed from the origin. As far as the responses of the receptors in the eye are concerned, there is no such thing as \"brown\" or \"gray\" light. The latter color names refer to orange and white light respectively, with an intensity that is lower than the light from surrounding areas. One can observe this by watching the screen of an overhead projector during a meeting: one sees black lettering on a white background, even though the \"black\" has in fact not become darker than the white screen on which it is projected before the projector was turned on. The \"black\" areas have not actually become darker but appear \"black\" relative to the higher intensity \"white\" projected onto the screen around it. See also color constancy.\n\nThe human tristimulus space has the property that additive mixing of colors corresponds to the adding of vectors in this space. This makes it easy to, for example, describe the possible colors (gamut) that can be constructed from the red, green, and blue primaries in a computer display.\n\nOne of the first mathematically defined color spaces is the CIE XYZ color space (also known as CIE 1931 color space), created by the International Commission on Illumination in 1931. These data were measured for human observers and a 2-degree field of view. In 1964, supplemental data for a 10-degree field of view were published.\n\nNote that the tabulated sensitivity curves have a certain amount of arbitrariness in them. The shapes of the individual X, Y and Z sensitivity curves can be measured with a reasonable accuracy. However, the overall luminosity function (which in fact is a weighted sum of these three curves) is subjective, since it involves asking a test person whether two light sources have the same brightness, even if they are in completely different colors. Along the same lines, the relative magnitudes of the X, Y, and Z curves are arbitrarily chosen to produce equal areas under the curves. One could as well define a valid color space with an X sensitivity curve that has twice the amplitude. This new color space would have a different shape. The sensitivity curves in the CIE 1931 and 1964 xyz color space are scaled to have equal areas under the curves.\n\nSometimes XYZ colors are represented by the luminance, Y, and chromaticity coordinates \"x\" and \"y\", defined by:\n\nMathematically, \"x\" and \"y\" are projective coordinates and the colors of the chromaticity diagram occupy a region of the real projective plane. Because the CIE sensitivity curves have equal areas under the curves, light with a flat energy spectrum corresponds to the point (\"x\",\"y\") = (0.333,0.333).\n\nThe values for \"X\", \"Y\", and \"Z\" are obtained by integrating the product of the spectrum of a light beam and the published color-matching functions.\n\nMedia that transmit light (such as television) use additive color mixing with primary colors of red, green, and blue, each of which stimulates one of the three types of the eye's color receptors with as little stimulation as possible of the other two. This is called \"RGB\" color space. Mixtures of light of these primary colors cover a large part of the human color space and thus produce a large part of human color experiences. This is why color television sets or color computer monitors need only produce mixtures of red, green and blue light. See Additive color.\n\nOther primary colors could in principle be used, but with red, green and blue the largest portion of the human color space can be captured. Unfortunately there is no exact consensus as to what loci in the chromaticity diagram the red, green, and blue colors should have, so the same RGB values can give rise to slightly different colors on different screens.\n\nIt is possible to achieve a large range of colors seen by humans by combining cyan, magenta, and yellow transparent dyes/inks on a white substrate. These are the \"subtractive\" primary colors. Often a fourth ink, black, is added to improve reproduction of some dark colors. This is called the \"CMY\" or \"CMYK\" color space.\n\nThe cyan ink absorbs red light but transmits green and blue, the magenta ink absorbs green light but transmits red and blue, and the yellow ink absorbs blue light but transmits red and green. The white substrate reflects the transmitted light back to the viewer. Because in practice the CMY inks suitable for printing also reflect a little bit of color, making a deep and neutral black impossible, the K (black ink) component, usually printed last, is needed to compensate for their deficiencies. Use of a separate black ink is also economically driven when a lot of black content is expected, e.g. in text media, to reduce simultaneous use of the three colored inks. The dyes used in traditional color photographic prints and slides are much more perfectly transparent, so a K component is normally not needed or used in those media.\nA number of color models exist in which colors are fit into conic, cylindrical or spherical shapes, with neutrals running from black to white along a central axis, and hues corresponding to angles around the perimeter. Arrangements of this type date back to the 18th century, and continue to be developed in the most modern and scientific models.\n\nDifferent color theorists have each designed unique color solids. Many are in the shape of a sphere, whereas others are warped three-dimensional ellipsoid figures—these variations being designed to express some aspect of the relationship of the colors more clearly. The color spheres conceived by Phillip Otto Runge and Johannes Itten are typical examples and prototypes for many other color solid schematics. The models of Runge and Itten are basically identical, and form the basis for the description below.\n\nPure, saturated hues of equal brightness are located around the equator at the periphery of the color sphere. As in the color wheel, contrasting (or complementary) hues are located opposite each other. Moving toward the center of the color sphere on the equatorial plane, colors become less and less saturated, until all colors meet at the central axis as a neutral gray. Moving vertically in the color sphere, colors become lighter (toward the top) and darker (toward the bottom). At the upper pole, all hues meet in white; at the bottom pole, all hues meet in black. \n\nThe vertical axis of the color sphere, then, is gray all along its length, varying from black at the bottom to white at the top. All pure (saturated) hues are located on the surface of the sphere, varying from light to dark down the color sphere. All impure (unsaturated hues, created by mixing contrasting colors) comprise the sphere's interior, likewise varying in brightness from top to bottom.\n\nHSL and HSV are both cylindrical geometries, with hue, their angular dimension, starting at the red primary at 0°, passing through the green primary at 120° and the blue primary at 240°, and then wrapping back to red at 360°. In each geometry, the central vertical axis comprises the \"neutral\", \"achromatic\", or \"gray\" colors, ranging from black at lightness 0 or value 0, the bottom, to white at lightness 1 or value 1, the top.\n\nMost televisions, computer displays, and projectors produce colors by combining red, green, and blue light in varying intensities—the so-called RGB additive primary colors. However, the relationship between the constituent amounts of red, green, and blue light and the resulting color is unintuitive, especially for inexperienced users, and for users familiar with subtractive color mixing of paints or traditional artists’ models based on tints and shades.\n\nIn an attempt to accommodate more traditional and intuitive color mixing models, computer graphics pioneers at PARC and NYIT developed the HSV model in the mid-1970s, formally described by Alvy Ray Smith in the August 1978 issue of \"Computer Graphics\". In the same issue, Joblove and Greenberg described the HSL model—whose dimensions they labeled \"hue\", \"relative chroma\", and \"intensity\"—and compared it to HSV. Their model was based more upon how colors are organized and conceptualized in human vision in terms of other color-making attributes, such as hue, lightness, and chroma; as well as upon traditional color mixing methods—e.g., in painting—that involve mixing brightly colored pigments with black or white to achieve lighter, darker, or less colorful colors.\n\nThe following year, 1979, at SIGGRAPH, Tektronix introduced graphics terminals using HSL for color designation, and the Computer Graphics Standards Committee recommended it in their annual status report. These models were useful not only because they were more intuitive than raw RGB values, but also because the conversions to and from RGB were extremely fast to compute: they could run in real time on the hardware of the 1970s. Consequently, these models and similar ones have become ubiquitous throughout image editing and graphics software since then.\n\nAnother influential older cylindrical color model is the early-20th-century Munsell color system. Albert Munsell began with a spherical arrangement in his 1905 book \"A Color Notation\", but he wished to properly separate color-making attributes into separate dimensions, which he called \"hue\", \"value\", and \"chroma\", and after taking careful measurements of perceptual responses, he realized that no symmetrical shape would do, so he reorganized his system into a lumpy blob.\n\nMunsell's system became extremely popular, the de facto reference for American color standards—used not only for specifying the color of paints and crayons, but also, e.g., electrical wire, beer, and soil color—because it was organized based on perceptual measurements, specified colors via an easily learned and systematic triple of numbers, because the color chips sold in the \"Munsell Book of Color\" covered a wide gamut and remained stable over time (rather than fading), and because it was effectively marketed by Munsell's Company. In the 1940s, the Optical Society of America made extensive measurements, and adjusted the arrangement of Munsell colors, issuing a set of \"renotations\". The trouble with the Munsell system for computer graphics applications is that its colors are not specified via any set of simple equations, but only via its foundational measurements: effectively a lookup table. Converting from requires interpolating between that table's entries, and is extremely computationally expensive in comparison with converting from or which only requires a few simple arithmetic operations.\n\nThe Swedish Natural Color System (NCS), widely used in Europe, takes a similar approach to the Ostwald bicone at right. Because it attempts to fit color into a familiarly shaped solid based on \"phenomenological\" instead of photometric or psychological characteristics, it suffers from some of the same disadvantages as HSL and HSV: in particular, its lightness dimension differs from perceived lightness, because it forces colorful yellow, red, green, and blue into a plane.\n\nIn densitometry, a model quite similar to the hue defined above is used for describing colors of CMYK process inks. In 1953, Frank Preucil developed two geometric arrangements of hue, the \"Preucil hue circle\" and the \"Preucil hue hexagon\", analogous to our \"H\" and \"H\", respectively, but defined relative to idealized cyan, yellow, and magenta ink colors. The \"Preucil \"hue error\"\" of an ink indicates the difference in the \"hue circle\" between its color and the hue of the corresponding idealized ink color. The \"grayness\" of an ink is , where \"m\" and \"M\" are the minimum and maximum among the amounts of idealized cyan, magenta, and yellow in a density measurement.\n\nThe International Commission on Illumination (CIE) developed the XYZ model for describing the colors of light spectra in 1931, but its goal was to match human visual metamerism, rather than to be perceptually uniform, geometrically. In the 1960s and 1970s, attempts were made to transform XYZ colors into a more relevant geometry, influenced by the Munsell system. These efforts culminated in the 1976 CIELUV and CIELAB models. The dimensions of these models— and , respectively—are cartesian, based on the opponent process theory of color, but both are also often described using polar coordinates— and , respectively—where \"L\"* is lightness, \"C\"* is chroma, and \"h\"* is hue angle. Officially, both CIELAB and CIELUV were created for their color difference metrics ∆\"E\"* and ∆\"E\"*, particularly for use defining color tolerances, but both have become widely used as color order systems and color appearance models, including in computer graphics and computer vision. For example, gamut mapping in ICC color management is usually performed in CIELAB space, and Adobe Photoshop includes a CIELAB mode for editing images. CIELAB and CIELUV geometries are much more perceptually relevant than many others such as RGB, HSL, HSV, YUV/YIQ/YCbCr or XYZ, but are not perceptually perfect, and in particular have trouble adapting to unusual lighting conditions.\n\nThe HCL color space seems to be synonymous with CIELCH.\n\nThe CIE's most recent model, CIECAM02 (CAM stands for \"color appearance model\"), is more theoretically sophisticated and computationally complex than earlier models. Its aims are to fix several of the problems with models such as CIELAB and CIELUV, and to explain not only responses in carefully controlled experimental environments, but also to model the color appearance of real-world scenes. Its dimensions \"J\" (lightness), \"C\" (chroma), and \"h\" (hue) define a polar-coordinate geometry.\n\nThere are various types of color systems that classify color and analyse their effects. The American Munsell color system devised by Albert H. Munsell is a famous classification that organises various colors into a color solid based on hue, saturation and value. Other important color systems include the Swedish Natural Color System (NCS), the Optical Society of America's Uniform Color Space (OSA-UCS), and the Hungarian Coloroid system developed by Antal Nemcsics from the Budapest University of Technology and Economics. Of those, the NCS is based on the opponent-process color model, while the Munsell, the OSA-UCS and the Coloroid attempt to model color uniformity. The American Pantone and the German RAL commercial color-matching systems differ from the previous ones in that their color spaces are not based on an underlying color model.\n\nWe also use \"color model\" to indicate a model or mechanism of color vision for explaining how color signals are processed from visual cones to ganglion cells. For simplicity, we call these models color mechanism models. The classical color mechanism models are Young–Helmholtz's trichromatic model and Hering's opponent-process model. Though these two theories were initially thought to be at odds, it later came to be understood that the mechanisms responsible for color opponency receive signals from the three types of cones and process them at a more complex level.\n\nVertebrate animals were primitively tetrachromatic. They possessed four types of cones—long, mid, short wavelength cones, and ultraviolet sensitive cones. Today, fish, amphibians, reptiles and birds are all tetrachromatic. Placental mammals lost both the mid and short wavelength cones. Thus, most mammals do not have complex color vision—they are dichromatic but they are sensitive to ultraviolet light, though they cannot see its colors. Human trichromatic color vision is a recent evolutionary novelty that first evolved in the common ancestor of the Old World Primates. Our trichromatic color vision evolved by duplication of the long wavelength sensitive opsin, found on the X chromosome. One of these copies evolved to be sensitive to green light and constitutes our mid wavelength opsin. At the same time, our short wavelength opsin evolved from the ultraviolet opsin of our vertebrate and mammalian ancestors.\n\nHuman red-green color blindness occurs because the two copies of the red and green opsin genes remain in close proximity on the X chromosome. Because of frequent recombination during meiosis, these gene pairs can get easily rearranged, creating versions of the genes that do not have distinct spectral sensitivities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979081", "title": "Buchbrunn", "text": "Buchbrunn\n\nBuchbrunn is a municipality in the district of Kitzingen, Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany. It is placed in the Bayrische Planungsregion 2.\n\nSeveral archaeological troves in the boundary of Buchbrunn show that the village which is documented for the first time in 1244 has been a settling area from time immemorial. Among the miscellaneous feudal lords during the 13th and 14th century occur the Lords of Buchbrunn and the Benedictine Sisters' abbey of Kitzingen. Later the Margraves of Ansbach and the Counts of Schwarzenberg possessed important rights on the spot that became Bavarian in 1814. The coat of arms featuring a beech tree (Buche in German) and a well (Brunnen) is based on an old seal of the village court from the 17th century. Today one is even confronted with this symbol for Buchbrunn on the village square, where a beech has been planted alongside the old well. Since 1978 the village is part of the Verwaltungsgemeinschaft Kitzingen and has about 1.000 residents.\n\nIn ab. 1470/80 a new church was built using the romanesque spire of the predecessor chapel. In 1683 the nave was extended and the spire was heightened. Inside one can find an altar crucifix from ab. 1480, a well worked baptismal font furnished with the benefactor's coat of arms and a painting influenced by Lucas Cranach the Elder and Younger which shows a last supper administered by Martin Luther and Philip Melanchthon.\n\nThe Lutheran registers start in 1556 and are stored in the Bischöfliche Zentralarchiv in Regensburg.\n\nThe church Mariä Himmelfahrt was sanctified in 1805. The baroque décor from the time between 1680 and 1780 derives from churches in Würzburg and Kitzingen that were suspended during the Napoleonic period.\n\nIn 1611 it was displaced to the outskirts of the village. The ornamented stone lectern from this time is still existing in the middle of the God's acre. The round arch entry portal shows the date 1611 and the crest of Ansbach.\n\nThe Verbandsschule Buchbrunn , attended by ab. 450 students is an elementary school (grade 1-4) as well as the Hauptschule (grade 5-9) of the Verwaltungsgemeinschaft Kitzingen. It has subsidiaries in Mainstockheim (grade 1-4) and in Kaltensondheim (grade 1-3). Secondary schools of choice are e. g. the Armin-Knab-Gymnasium in Kitzingen, the Richard-Rother Realschule in Kitzingen or Friedrich-Bernbeck-Schule Staatliche Wirtschaftschule in Kitzingen.\n\nBuchbrunn is near the railway station Buchbrunn-Mainstockheim (schedule) on the railway line from Nürnberg (1 hour) to Würzburg (15 minutes) which was established in 1865. The old railway station building was torn down in the 1970s. In former times it featured a station restaurant that attracted many promenaders because of the nice outlook it provided on the valley of the river Main. The restaurant building is still standing today and used as a residential house.\n\nA country road supplemented with a bicycle lane connects Buchbrunn with the city of Kitzingen. The village is as well tangented to the road from Mainstockheim to the Bundesstraße 8 which provides access to Repperndorf and Kitzingen again in the Nürnberg direction and to the Autobahns A7 and A3 as well as to the village of Biebelried in the Würzburg direction. For completion one could as well mention the more or less unofficial shortcuts via concreted field paths to Kitzingen (across the Eselsberg), Mainstockheim (and via this way the city of Dettelbach as well), Repperndorf, Neuhof (hamlet near Biebelried) as well as the Mainfrankenpark.\n\nThe TSV Buchbrunn (official website featuring a detailed chronicle) was founded in 1947 and is best known for its soccer and table tennis teams. It also has compartments for children's gymnastics and others.\n"}
{"id": "1979083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979083", "title": "Will Rogers Memorial Center", "text": "Will Rogers Memorial Center\n\nThe Will Rogers Memorial Center (WRMC) is an American public entertainment, sports and livestock complex located in Fort Worth, Texas. It is named for American humorist and writer Will Rogers. It is the home of the annual Fort Worth Stock Show and Rodeo. It is a popular location for the hosting of specialized equestrian and livestock shows, including the annual National Reined Cow Horse Association Snaffle Bit Futurity, World Championship Paint Horse Show, and 3 major events of the National Cutting Horse Association each year. It is also the former home of the Fort Worth Texans ice hockey team. Events at the WRMC attract over 2 million visitors annually. The complex contains the following facilities:\n\nThe Memorial Center was built in 1936 and designed by architect Wyatt C. Hedrick, who employed the Moderne (Art Deco) style. Also in 1936 Amon G. Carter commissioned Electra Waggoner Biggs to create the statue \"Riding into the Sunset\", a tribute to Will Rogers and his horse Soapsuds. Over a decade later, in 1947, the work was unveiled at the Center. On March 22, 2016, the complex was placed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Dickies Arena, which opened in November 2019, is located adjacent to the complex. The new 14,000-seat venue will host the Fort Worth Stock Show rodeos, concerts and early-round games in the 2022 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament; however, Will Rogers Memorial Coliseum will continue to operate as an equestrian arena in Fort Worth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979084", "title": "Riga Castle", "text": "Riga Castle\n\nRiga Castle () is a castle on the banks of River Daugava in Riga, the capital of Latvia. The castle was founded in 1330. Its structure was thoroughly rebuilt between 1497 and 1515. Upon the castle's seizure by the Swedes, they constructed spacious annexes in 1641. The fortress was continually augmented and reconstructed between the 17th and 19th centuries. Sometime in the 1930s, some renovation work was done by architect Eižens Laube. The Latvian government declared the castle its residence in 1938. Today it is the official residence of the President of Latvia as well as home to several museums.\n\nThe castle was built on the basis of a treaty between Riga and the Livonian Order – in the 13th century Rigans had rebelled against the Order and demolished its original castle in the centre of the town. Due to constant conflict with Rigans the Order chose to build a new castle beyond the borders of the town rather than to rebuild the original castle. The site occupied by Convent of the Saint Spirit – a hospital and shelter for the poor – was chosen and the convent moved to the location of the original castle. The castle served as the residence of the Master of the Livonian Order, but due to continuous conflicts with Rigans the residence was moved to Castle of Cēsis sometime before the castle was destroyed by Rigans in 1484. The Rigans eventually lost the fight and were forced to rebuild the castle – the restoration was finished in 1515. After the Union of Wilno order ceased to exist in 1561 the Castle became Lithuanian and in 1569 - Polish-Lithuanian stronghold. In 1621. Riga came under Swedish rule and the Castle was used to house Swedish administration.\n\nAfter the city came under the Russian Empire in the early 18th century, the castle housed administration and courts of Riga Governorate (which included most of present Latvia and Estonia) and served as residence of Governors General.\nSince 1922 the castle became residence of the President of Latvia. After Soviet occupation the castle housed Council of People Commissars of Latvian SSR in 1940–1941. In 1941 the Young Pioneer organization of the Soviet Union moved into northern part of the castle, which therefore became known as the Pioneer Castle. \n\nSeveral museums are housed in the southern part of the castle. After the independence of Latvia was restored the northern part of the Castle again became the residence of the President of Latvia.\n\nThe original Castle was a three-floor building which enclosed a rectangular courtyard and had four rectangular towers in its corners. After the Castle was demolished in 1484 it was rebuilt with two towers replaced by round towers following the latest developments of military technologies. The Castle experienced vast development during 17th century when it was almost constantly under construction. In 1682 Arsenal was attached to the castle, it was torn down about one hundred years later, in 1783 to build a court/house.\n\nThe builders who worked on the reconstruction of the Riga Castle, which began in December 2012, left work at 18:45. Around 22:21 on the night of 20 June 2013, fire broke out in the castle and the firefighters were called in. The castle was guarded by the military police.\n\nAfter midnight authorities declared the fire reached the highest level, being seen across the Daugava river . Around 1 a.m., the State Fire and Rescue Service (SFRS) reported that 79 rescuers, 11 tanks, 3 ladders, 1 platform and 3 specialized vehicles were involved in the operation, and that one firefighter, who was poisoned by the smoke, had been hospitalized. Shortly before 2 a.m, the roof of the castle was no longer visible, engulfed by the flames. At 3:53 in the morning the source of the fire was spotted, and at 4:45 a.m. the traffic was restored on the embankment 11. Novembra, between Akmens and Vanšu bridges.\n\nThe Riga agency of State Fire and Rescue Service gathered all resources available, including aid from the Jūrmala fire department. The military police Corporal Alvis Brūveris lowered the Latvian flag in the castle, to be raised back on Friday by the senior military policeman First Class Officer Aldis Dortāns. Latvian President Andris Bērziņš described the fire as a \"national disaster\" during a morning visit to inspect the damage.\n\nRiga Castle on the day after the fire emergency service firefighters estimate that around 3,200 square meters of the castle was destroyed, being 2,400 square meters of the palace roof and the attic, 600 square meters on the fourth floor and 200 square meters on the third. The Red Hall was almost completely burnt, the White Hall was severely damaged, and the State Festival, Ambassador Accreditation and Coats of Arms halls have all been damaged. The most solid part of the castle, which housed the Chancellery of the President, and the Latvian Art Museum have also been affected, with exception of the National History Museum. Riga Castle is insured for a total of 27.3 million Lats.\n\nDuring the fire there were wide concerns spreading on social media about the status of unique museum collections located at the Castle. None of the collections were destroyed by the fire, however parts of them were damaged by water.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979087", "title": "Air Atlantique", "text": "Air Atlantique\n\nAir Atlantique was an airline based at Coventry Airport operating a number of classic aircraft, both for passenger operation and for cargo transportation. They operated both the Douglas DC-3 and Douglas DC-6 but did also have a few aircraft on wet lease such as some ATR-42s and ATR-72s. Many of their remaining classic aircraft were donated to Classic Flight for display at airshows. Two of their DC-3s are currently leased by Pollution Control but will be returned to Classic Flight (Classic Air Force) in due course. One DC6 was converted to a restaurant.\n\nThe Air Atlantique Group started as an air taxi operation in 1969 under the name of General Aviation Services, based in Jersey, Channel Islands. The Air Atlantique name was adopted in June 1977 when freight charter flights were launched with Douglas DC-3 aircraft. The Group moved to its base in Coventry in December 1985. Between then and the late 1990s, it expanded its operations to create pilot training facilities, aircraft engineering shops, survey and aerial reconnaissance work and other aviation-related activities. Between 1990 and 1994 scheduled passenger services were operated from the Channel Islands as Air Corbiere. Highland Airways was established in 1991 at Inverness Airport. \nAtlantic Airlines, which previously operated all-cargo airline activities within the Air Atlantique Group, was the subject of a management buy-out in July 2004 and now operates as an independent company. Other parts of the Group were similarly spun off as owners Mike Collett and James Foden approached retirement. Atlantic Flight Training and Atlantic Reconnaissance (now renamed RVL Group) have also become independent businesses.\n\nAir Atlantique later operated a number of historic aircraft as the Classic Air Force. It also owned CFS Aeroproducts and managed various minority investments for its owners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979098", "title": "Louil Silas Jr.", "text": "Louil Silas Jr.\n\nLouil Silas Jr. (April 17, 1956 – January 7, 2001) was an American record executive, musician, and record producer who was most known for founding and running an MCA Records imprint, Silas Records. After a prolific career as a remixer, Silas became a highly respected label executive responsible for bringing Chanté Moore, Jesse Powell, Keke Wyatt, London Jones, and Tricky Stewart to prominence as well as working with Aaron Hall.\n\nAfter attending California State University, Dominguez Hills, Silas, who had a musical gift, initially tried his hand as a singer, but found much more success as a D.J., remixing other records in the late 70s. By the ‘80s, he was in great demand as a remixer, adding club heavy or hip-hop electronic percussion sounds to a previously recorded song. At one point, his remixes were so in demand, other labels would contract him under the alias \"ELLIS JAY\". After working for MCA records in promotion, he quickly rose through the ranks, and is credited for much of the success of the black artists on that label. By the later ‘80s, Silas had produced records with Babyface, Bobby Brown, Sheena Easton, Pebbles, Patti LaBelle, and worked for an MCA imprint, SOLAR Records, as a music executive, and after helping with their success, and executive producing Bell Biv Devoe’s debut album, got the green light to found his own imprint, which he named Silas Records.\n\nAfter starting his label, he had to find a roster of talent, being careful to select talent he could nurture into artists. Using Berry Gordy as a blueprint, he first signed Aaron Hall, then of Guy fame to a solo deal. While initially a model and beauty pageant contestant, Silas discovered Chanté Moore, and signed her. While music was moving in the direction of New Jack Swing, Silas kept Moore, a gospel and jazz trained singer, under then more “traditional R&B”. So determined was he to expose her under the right light, for the music video treatment for her debut single, Love’s Taken Over, Silas spent the money to have the shoot in Paris by movie director Antoine Fuqua. The video, showcasing a series of “modeling shoots” of Moore, including one of her in a designer gown along the famous Avenue des Champs-Élysées, helped establish Moore as a seductive, emotive vocalist, with exotic looks, a sultry voice and a range to recall Minnie Riperton (9). In fact, the trademark piccolo coloratura technique founded by Riperton in popular music has become a trademark in Moore’s vocal technique.\n\nAfter Moore, Silas signed Jesse Powell, Keke Wyatt, and London Jones. After hearing his performance in Detroit, Silas attempted to sign Ruda Real and market him under the same career path as Aaron Hall, but Real refused the deal, and instead continued to try to start his own label, having also refused a potential contract by Boyz II Men a few years earlier.\nAfter being introduced by his older brother Laney, Silas had Tricky Stewart write and produce for his artists.\n\nIn 1999, after Polygram and MCA records merged, Silas Records was “absorbed” by MCA. Artists signed to the label released either directly under MCA, or in the case of Keke Wyatt, Magic Johnson Music, another imprint of MCA.\n\nHe then accepted a position as Senior Vice President of LaFace Records West Coast division, or LaFace West. It is a position he would keep for the remainder of his life. Among his final actions was to help Tricky establish Blu Cantrell.\n\nSilas died of kidney failure on January 7, 2001 at his home in Los Angeles, after being in ill health for a time.\n\nChante Moore was Silas's biggest success, the most famous expatriate of his label, and has the distinction of being both the first and last releases on the label. Although he is not as famous as Sean Combs, Brian “Birdman” Williams, or Babyface, Silas began the trend while a successful record producer would get an imprint (distinct from an independent label getting a distribution deal, or a subsidiary) and have a roster of talent of his own. This trend continued throughout the ‘90s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979104", "title": "Altiero Spinelli", "text": "Altiero Spinelli\n\nAltiero Spinelli (31 August 1907 – 23 May 1986) was an Italian politician, political theorist and European federalist, referred to as one of the founding fathers of the European Union.\n\nA communist and anti-fascist militant in his youth, he spent 10 years imprisoned by the Fascist regime. Having grown disillusioned with stalinism, he broke with the Italian Communist Party in 1937. Interned in Ventotene during World War II, he drafted along fellow democratic socialists the \"Manifesto for a free and united Europe\" (most commonly known as the Ventotene Manifesto) in 1941, considered a precursor of the european integration process.\n\nHe had a leading role in the foundation of the European federalist movement, and had strong influence on the first few decades of post-World War II European integration. Later, he helped to re-launch the integration process in the 1980s. By the time of his death, he had been a member of the European Commission for six years, a member of the European Parliament for ten years right up until his death. The main building of the European Parliament in Brussels is named after him. The 1987–1988 academic year at the College of Europe and the 2009–2010 academic year of the European College of Parma were named in his honour.\n\nSpinelli was born in Rome, and joined the Italian Communist Party (PCI) at an early age to oppose the regime of Benito Mussolini's National Fascist Party. Following his entry into radical journalism, he was arrested in 1927 and spent ten years in prison and a further six in confinement. During the war he was interned on the island of Ventotene (in Lazio) along with some eight hundred other political opponents of the regime. In 1937 he was expelled from the Italian Communist Party, as opposing Stalinism, under accusation of undermining the Bolshevik ideology and supporting Trotskyism.\n\nIn June 1941, well before the outcome of the war was safely predictable, Spinelli and fellow prisoner Ernesto Rossi completed the Ventotene Manifesto, eventually entitled \"Per un’Europa libera e unita\" (\"For a Free and United Europe. A Draft Manifesto\"), which argued that, if the fight against the fascist powers was successful, it would be in vain if it merely led to the re-establishment of the old European system of sovereign nation-states in shifting alliances. This would inevitably lead to war again. The document called for the establishment of a European federation by the democratic powers after the war. Because of a need for secrecy and a lack of proper materials at the time, the Manifesto was written on cigarette papers, concealed in the false bottom of a tin box and smuggled to the mainland by Ursula Hirschmann. It was then circulated through the Italian Resistance, and was later adopted as the programme of the Movimento Federalista Europeo, which Spinelli, Colorni and some 20 others established, as soon as they were able to leave their internment camp. The founding meeting was held in clandestinity in Milan on the 27/28 August 1943.\n\nThe Manifesto was widely circulated in other resistance movements towards the end of the war. Resistance leaders from several countries met clandestinely in Geneva in 1944, a meeting attended by Spinelli.\n\nThe Manifesto put forward proposals for creating a European federation of states, the primary aim of which was to tie European countries so closely together that they would no longer be able to go to war with one another. As in many European left-wing political circles, this sort of move towards federalist ideas was argued as a reaction to the destructive excesses of nationalism. The ideological underpinnings for a united Europe can thus be traced to hostility to nationalism: \"If a post war order is established in which each State retains its complete national sovereignty, the basis for a Third World War would still exist even after the Nazi attempt to establish the domination of the German race in Europe has been frustrated\" (founding meeting of the MFE).\nAfter the war, Spinelli, leading the federalist MFE, played a vanguard role in the early episodes of European integration, criticising the small steps approach and the dominance of intergovernmentalism, feeling even that the chance to unite Europe had been missed as sovereign states were re-established without any common bond other than the functionalist OEEC and the largely symbolic Council of Europe. Even the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was felt to be too sectoral. The MFE believed governments alone would never relinquish their national power without popular pressure. They advocated a European constituent assembly to draft a European Constitution.\n\nThis approach eventually had a response from governments when they set up the \"ad hoc assembly\" of 1952–3. It was Spinelli who persuaded Italian Prime Minister Alcide De Gasperi to insist in the negotiation of the European Defence Community (EDC) treaty on a provision for a parliamentary assembly to draw up plans for placing the EDC, the ECSC and any other development within a global constitutional framework to \"replace the present provisional organization\" with \"a subsequent federal or confederal structure based on the principle of the separation of powers and having, in particular, a two-chamber system of representation\". The Assembly was invited to submit its proposals within six months of its constitutive meeting following the entry into force of the EDC treaty. In fact, the Foreign Ministers, meeting three months after the signature of the EDC treaty, invited the ECSC Assembly immediately to draft a \"treaty constituting a European Political Authority\" without waiting for ratification of the EDC Treaty.\n\nSpinelli played a significant role in advising the drafting of the Assembly's proposal for a European \"Statute\". However, the failure of France to ratify the EDC treaty meant it was all to no immediate avail. Some of its ideas, however, were taken up in subsequent events.\n\nFollowing the crisis of the failure of the EDC and the \"re-launch\" under the Paul-Henri Spaak committee, which led to the 1958 EEC Treaty, Spinelli, recognising that the EEC institutions were the only real existing form of European integration, but still considering that they were insufficient and that they lacked a democratic legitimacy, embarked on a \"long march through the institutions\". In 1970, he was nominated by the Italian government to be a member of the European Commission from 1970 to 1976, taking responsibility for industrial policy to develop European policies in a new field.\n\nSpinelli decided to run in the first direct elections to the European Parliament in 1979. He did so as an independent candidate on the list of the Italian Communist Party, which by then had become a Eurocommunist party and was keen to have prominent independent figures to stand on its list of candidates. He was elected and used the position to urge the first elected parliament to use its democratic legitimacy to propose a radical reform of the European Community, to transform it into a democratic European state.\nTo this end, he began to gather like-minded Members of the European Parliament around him, taking care to involve Members from different political groups. An initial meeting at the \"Crocodile\" restaurant in Strasbourg set up the \"Crocodile Club\", which, once it was of sufficient size, tabled a motion for Parliament to set up a special committee (eventually established in January 1982 as the Committee on Institutional Affairs, with Spinelli as General Rapporteur) to draft a proposal for a new treaty on union.\nThe idea was that the European Parliament should act as a constituent assembly, although Spinelli was prepared to make compromises on the way to secure broad majorities behind the process. On 14 February 1984, the European Parliament adopted his report and approved the Draft Treaty Establishing the European Union. The decision was taken with 237 votes for and 31 against (43 abstentions).\n\nSpinelli's project was soon buried by the governments of the member states. However, it provided an impetus for the negotiations which led to Single European Act of 1986 and the Maastricht Treaty of 1992. This happened with the help of several National parliaments, which adopted resolutions approving the Draft Treaty, and of French President François Mitterrand who, following a meeting with Spinelli, came to the European Parliament to speak in favour of its approach, thereby reversing France's policy (since Charles De Gaulle) of hostility to anything but an intergovernmental approach to Europe. This momentum was enough to obtain the support of a majority of national governments to trigger the treaty revision procedure.\n\nHe married Ursula Hirschmann, a German anti-fascist activist and fellow advocate of European federalism in 1945 and they had three daughters: Diana Spinelli, Barbara Spinelli and Sara Spinelli. Ursula already had another three daughters (Silvia, Renata and Eva) from her first husband Eugenio Colorni, who was killed by the Nazis in Rome in 1944. Altiero's stepdaughter Eva Colorni was married to Indian economist Amartya Sen.\n\nAlthough the resultant treaties fell short of what Spinelli would have liked, his efforts did trigger a new momentum in European integration, including a major increase in the powers of the European Parliament within the EU system. In honour of his work, the largest building of the European Parliament complex in Brussels was named after him.\n\nOn 15 September 2010 under the name Spinelli Group an initiative was founded to reinvigorate the strive for federalisation of the European Union (EU). Prominent supporters of the group are: Jacques Delors, Joschka Fischer, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Andrew Duff, Elmar Brok.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979116", "title": "Studio Brussel", "text": "Studio Brussel\n\nStudio Brussel \"(Studio Brussels)\" (often shortened \"StuBru\") is a Dutch-speaking radio station in Belgium, owned by the VRT. The music played is considered more alternative than the other big radio stations, and is aimed mainly at a youth audience. The channel is an initiative of the Flemish Government and is financed principally by taxes.\n\nStudio Brussel started on 1 April 1983 as a regional Brussels radio station of the then-BRT. It began as a regional radio station broadcasting only during rush hour. Gradually, broadcasting times were expanded and Studio Brussel could be heard throughout all of Flanders. The first two presenters were Paul De Wyngaert and Jan Hautekiet. The radio station plays mostly alternative and more heavy music, mostly rock, but also metal, hiphop, house and techno.\n\nAt the end of 2002, Studio Brussel got a new look. The logo with the \"wild\" characters was replaced by a red ellipse with the name Studio Brussel in it.\n\nOn 24 April 2006, Wim Oosterlinck left Studio Brussel for Qmusic. Peter Van de Veire left Studio Brussel for the new radio station MNM in 2008.\n\nSince 2007, Jan Van Biesen is the net manager of Studio Brussel. He was preceded by Isabelle Baele (2005–2007), Mark Coenen (2002–2005), Jan Hautekiet (1998–2002) and Jan Schoukens (1983–1998).\n\nStudio Brussel has a market share of 9.8% in Flanders. It is also the most popular foreign radio station in the Netherlands.\n\nOn the 4th February 2019, Studio Brussel introduced a new logo for the first time since 2002. It was designed by Base Design and the new \"digital-first\" inspired logo uses a custom font as well as an unlimited range of colours.\n\nEvery year, there is a chart called the \"Tijdloze 100\" (timeless 100), with 100 timeless tracks. It consists of 100 'timeless tracks'. In 2003, 2004 and 2005 the Belgian band Gorki was at the first place with \"Mia\". In 2006 until 2012, Nirvana was at number 1 with \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\". Thereafter, Led Zeppelin (Stairway to heaven), and Pearl Jam (Black) took the top-position.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979123", "title": "Frank Beard (musician)", "text": "Frank Beard (musician)\n\nFrank Lee Beard (born June 11, 1949) is the drummer in the American rock band ZZ Top. Beard was formerly with the bands The Cellar Dwellers, who originally were a three-piece band, The Hustlers, The Warlocks, and American Blues before starting to play and record with Billy Gibbons and Dusty Hill as ZZ Top.\n\nBeard was born in Frankston, Texas, and attended Irving High School in Irving, Texas. Before joining ZZ Top, Beard was a member of a fake version of the British band The Zombies, which toured in the US without authorization from the original band members, and also was part of The Outlaws with later ZZ Top member Dusty Hill.\n\nIn late 1969, he joined The Moving Sidewalks, a band that would become ZZ Top. Beard also introduced Gibbons to bassist and vocalist Dusty Hill, with whom Beard had played in the bands American Blues, the Warlocks, and the Cellar Dwellers. After honing their trademark \"Texas boogie-blues-rock\" style, they released their aptly titled \"ZZ Top's First Album\" on London Records in January 1971. When ZZ Top started, Beard was known by the nickname \"Rube\" and was credited as \"Rube Beard\" on the first album and on \"Tres Hombres\", the band's third album, but is listed under his real name on \"Rio Grande Mud\", their second album. After \"Tres Hombres\", he was credited as \"Frank Beard\" on all the band's albums.\n\nBeard married long-time girlfriend Catherine Alexander in April 1978 and divorced July 1981. He married Debbie Meredith in November 1982. They remain married and have three children. Beard resides in Richmond, Texas, where he owns and operates the Double Z Ranch. He is a scratch golfer, known locally for participation in tournaments and community events.\n\nFrank Beard was long known as the only member of ZZ Top not to wear a luxuriant beard despite his name, unlike bandmates Billy Gibbons and Dusty Hill, but put an end to this long-running quirky fact circa 2013 by growing one.\n"}
{"id": "1979128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979128", "title": "Crocodile Club", "text": "Crocodile Club\n\nThe Crocodile Club was an informal group of members of the European Parliament (MEP) that favoured greater European integration, to the extent of a European federation, and greater powers to the European Parliament.\n\nThe group was founded on 9 July 1980, a year after the Parliament's first direct elections, by nine cross-party MEPs including Altiero Spinelli. The meeting was held at the \"Au Crocodile\" restaurant (10 rue de l'Outre, Strasbourg) giving the club its name. The club was formally constituted in September of that year, and in those two months the membership of the club had grown to sixty. Within a year it grew to one hundred and eighty, almost half the members of the Parliament.\n\nIt was on the initiative of the club that Parliament established a new committee to deal with institutional reform of the then European Economic Community. This committee, led by Spinelli, prepared a \"Draft Treaty Establishing a European Union\", a proposal to transform the then European Community into a partially federal European Union. The draft treaty was approved by the Parliament on 14 February 1984, by 237 votes against 31. While that text was not adopted by the member states, it triggered the negotiations and provided the impetus for the Single European Act and the Maastricht Treaty (which established the European Union).\n\nFollowing the death of Spinelli in 1986, a group of MEPs established the \"Altiero Spinelli action Committee for European Union\", a federalist intergroup intended to take on the work started in 1980 by the Crocodile Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979142", "title": "The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins", "text": "The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins\n\n\"The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins\" is a song composed by Charles Randolph Grean and performed by Leonard Nimoy, telling the story of Bilbo Baggins and his adventures in J. R. R. Tolkien's novel \"The Hobbit\". The recording was featured on \"Two Sides of Leonard Nimoy,\" the second of Nimoy's albums on Dot Records. It was also released as a single (Dot Records Cat. #45-17028) in July 1967, backed with a \"modern thought-image\" folk song called \"Cotton Candy\".\n\nWhen the single was originally released, Nimoy lip-synched to the recording during a guest appearance on the July 28, 1967 episode of \"Malibu U\", a short-lived variety television series. This segment survives as a \"music video\" and shows Nimoy (wearing his \"\" hairstyle as the series was in the midst of production of its second season at the time) and a group of color-coordinated young women, all wearing plastic pointed ears (presumably Hobbit or Vulcan), singing and dancing an overtly strange, waddling dance on a beach. Clothing and random objects would fly up from behind a hill, and a variety of buttons with strange Hobbit/Star Trek slogans were occasionally visible. \n\nSince its rediscovery on the BBC2 documentary \"Funk Me Up Scotty\" and propagation over the Internet, it has been treated as an example of 1960s camp. An excerpt from the musical number is included in the documentaries \"\" about \"The Lord of the Rings\" fandom, and in \"For the Love of Spock\". The song was also included in the 1993 Nimoy compilation album \"Highly Illogical\".\n\nAn audio clip of the song was played as part of an answer on an episode of \"Jeopardy!\" aired January 5, 2006. The song was sampled by Bentley Rhythm Ace for their track \"Theme From 'Gutbuster'\" on their album \"For Your Ears Only\", released in 2000. The video was also a feature on VH1's \"Web Junk 20\". Segments of the song were shown during \"Bring Back... Star Trek\", with Justin Lee Collins citing it as research into Leonard Nimoy.\n\nNimoy recites the song's first verse in a 2013 Audi advertisement, where he engages in rivalry with another actor who also played Spock, Zachary Quinto.\n"}
{"id": "1979143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979143", "title": "Hamworthy", "text": "Hamworthy\n\nHamworthy is a village, parish and inner suburb of Poole in Dorset, England. It is sited on a peninsula of approximately that is bordered by Upton to the north, Poole Harbour to the south, Lytchett Bay to the west and Holes Bay to the east. Poole Bridge, the southern terminus of the A350 road, connects the suburb with the town centre. Hamworthy is the location of the Port of Poole ferry passenger terminal and cargo handling operations. Hamworthy has two local councillors in Poole Borough Council, one for Hamworthy East, and one for Hamworthy West. In Hamworthy there are six main areas, Rockley (where Royal Marines Poole and Holiday Park are), Turlin Moor Estate, Lower Hamworthy (where Poole Docks are), Cobbs Quay/Harbourside (Which looks out over Holes Bay), Lake Side (where the Metalbox Factory is located) and Central Hamworthy (Location of the Main Road, Co-Op and Church area).\n\nHamworthy was the site of an Iron Age settlement before it was taken over by the Romans in the 1st century and named \"Moriconium\". The Romans made use of the harbour, and built a road from Hamworthy to Badbury Rings.\n\nThe closure of the power station in the early 1990s and of other industrial sites close to the bridge has provided an area for regeneration. This included a second bridge crossing, and major house building. The Twin Sails Bridge, opened in March 2012 runs alongside the old lifting bridge.\n\nHamworthy has a railway station, with a twice hourly South Western Railway service to London Waterloo on the South Western Main Line.\n\nHamworthy has four schools: Carter Community School (ages 11–16), Twin Sails Infant School and Nursery (ages 3–6), Turlin Moor Community School (ages 4–10) and Hamworthy Park Junior School (ages 7–10).\n\nHamworthy is home to one of the oldest Scout Association groups in the World. 1st Hamworthy Scout Group which has records dating back to October 1908 and still meets every week with a total membership of nearly 150, Beaver Scouts, Cub Scouts and Scouts, 1st Hamworthy Scout Troop was formed out of the original Boys' Brigade unit that had members take part in the original Scout Camp in 1907. The groups records show a Youth Section meeting in Hamworthy under the name of 1st Hamworthy since the original Boy Brigade unit opened in 1883, this unit then transferred membership to the Scout Association in 1908 to become the current Group that exists today. The group was originally one of many in Hamworthy, but has absorbed over groups over time including 2nd Hamworthy, Turlin Moor, Lytchett Bay and St Michaels Church Scout Groups. Today the Group operates sections under two names: 1st Hamworthy and Turlin Moor.\n\nHamworthy parish has a number of churches. St. Michael's parish church based on the main Blandford Road is the Church of England parish church. St. Gabriel's church based on Turlin Moor is a smaller Church of England church based in a modern building. There are also other church denominations based in Hamworthy parish.\n\nHamworthy has one non-League football clubs: Hamworthy United F.C., which plays at The County Ground in Lower Hamworthy. Poole Borough F.C. play at Turlin Moor Recreation Ground in Upper Hamworthy. Turlin Moor Recreation Ground is also home to Poole Rugby Football Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979145", "title": "A127 road", "text": "A127 road\n\nThe A127, also known as the Southend Arterial Road, is a major road in Essex, England. It was constructed as a new arterial road project in the 1920s, linking Romford with Southend-on-Sea, replacing the older A13. Formerly classified as a trunk road, it was \"de-trunked\" in 1997. It is known as the \"Southend Arterial Road\" except for part of its length in Southend-on-Sea. It is also streetlit for its whole length despite its majority coverage through rural land.\n\nThe A127 starts as a turning off the A12 at Gallows Corner in the London Borough of Havering. Traffic heading towards London goes over a flyover and joins the A12 traffic which merges onto the slip-road from the roundabout below, which is where the A127 ends. Traffic heading towards Southend also uses the flyover as well as slip roads. Its first significant junction is a crossroads after (\"Squirrels Heath\") with \"Squirrels Heath Road\" and \"Ardleigh Green Road\". There are traffic lights here, but after that, there are no traffic lights or roundabouts until it enters Southend-on-Sea, though there are a few side turnings. \n\nMajor junctions follow the layout similar to motorways, being served by high-level or low-level roundabouts accessed via slip roads, except for the straight flyover at the junction with Hall Lane, Upminster at about 3.5 km east of Gallows Corner. after Gallows Corner the A127 crosses the M25 motorway at M25 Junction 29 - the start of slip-roads on the A127, and then immediately crosses into Brentwood. After a couple of minor side road exits, the next major junction is with the A128 Brentwood exit at the Halfway House (pub) near West Horndon, east of the M25.\n\nIt continues through southern Essex and into the Basildon district. The next junction is east of the Halfway House, for the Dunton (Ford centre) and Laindon exit. \n\nAfter the Fortune of War, the first of the Basildon exits appears immediately, for the A176 to Basildon town centre and hospital, and Billericay. After a couple of exits to Crays Hill, the next junction is over on for the A132 Basildon and Wickford exit. London bound there is an exit for the Mayflower Retail Park just past the A132, so traffic Southend bound needs to use the roundabout to head the other way briefly to the Mayflower exit. \n\nIn Southend, at the Kent Elms junction with the A1015 Rayleigh Road, there are traffic lights. The A127 changes its name to Prince Avenue. There is a roundabout (the first since Gallows Corner) and a turn-off for a shopping centre (Tesco). The next roundabout is Cuckoo Corner. The exits to the north and east are both the A1159, to London Southend Airport and Thorpe Bay respectively. However, the A127 turns south and becomes Victoria Avenue.\n\nThe A127 terminates in the centre of Southend-on-Sea at a junction with the A13 immediately next to Southend Victoria Station.\n\nThe A127 was designed as the eastern part of a major new road for vehicular traffic between Wanstead and Southend, the other section being the Eastern Avenue (now the A12). It opened in stages between June and September 1924. The road was formally opened by Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester on 25 March 1925.\n\nDue to initial problems with newly constructed embankments along the line of the road, there were problems with surfacing which subsequently led Clement Attlee to complain that it was \"one of the worst pieces of main road in West Essex.\" The road was not originally dual carriageway, with places being dualled during the 1920s and 1930s. Following concerns about safety, the remainder was dualled in the late 1930s.\n\nDuring WW2 the A127 was used to store army vehicles and equipment prior to the D-Day invasion of Normandy on 6 June 1944.\n\nThe Gallows Corner Flyover, providing a free-flow link between Eastern Avenue and Southend Arterial Road, opened as a temporary link in 1969. The eventual assumption was that the flyover would be replaced by the M12 motorway, which was never constructed.\n\nIn 2000 plans were announced to dual an 800 m stretch of the A1159 comprising Priory Crescent and upgrade the Cuckoo Corner junction connecting it to the A127. The road scheme has faced controversy due to its location over the Royal Saxon tomb in Prittlewell grave site and environmental loss and was the site of an anti-road protest camp known as Camp Bling.\n"}
{"id": "1979152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979152", "title": "Carnelian Bay, California", "text": "Carnelian Bay, California\n\nCarnelian Bay (formerly, Cornelian Bay) is an unincorporated community on the shore of Lake Tahoe in Placer County, California, United States. \nThe Cornelian Bay post office operated from 1883 to 1887 and from 1891 to 1893. The Carnelian Bay post office opened in 1908.\n\nFor statistical purposes, the United States Census Bureau has defined Carnelian Bay as a census-designated place (CDP). The census definition of the area may not precisely correspond to local understanding of the area with the same name. The population was 524 at the 2010 census. The elevation is .\n\nNearby cities and towns include: Tahoe Vista, Brockway, Kings Beach, Crystal Bay, Incline Village, Truckee, Tahoma, Homewood, and Tahoe City. Its ZIP code is 96140 and its area code 530.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 1.3 square miles (3.4 km²), 99.82% of it land, and 0.18% of it water.\n\nAt the 2010 census Carnelian Bay had a population of 524. The population density was 402.0 people per square mile (155.2/km²). The racial makeup of Carnelian Bay was 493 (94.1%) White, 1 (0.2%) African American, 4 (0.8%) Native American, 14 (2.7%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 1 (0.2%) from other races, and 11 (2.1%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 13 people (2.5%).\n\nThe whole population lived in households, no one lived in non-institutionalized group quarters and no one was institutionalized.\n\nThere were 256 households, 38 (14.8%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 113 (44.1%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 14 (5.5%) had a female householder with no husband present, 11 (4.3%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 19 (7.4%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 3 (1.2%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 78 households (30.5%) were one person and 26 (10.2%) had someone living alone who was 65 or older. The average household size was 2.05. There were 138 families (53.9% of households); the average family size was 2.45.\n\nThe age distribution was 60 people (11.5%) under the age of 18, 39 people (7.4%) aged 18 to 24, 127 people (24.2%) aged 25 to 44, 184 people (35.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 114 people (21.8%) who were 65 or older. The median age was 49.3 years. For every 100 females, there were 126.8 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 126.3 males.\n\nThere were 947 housing units at an average density of 726.5 per square mile, of the occupied units 171 (66.8%) were owner-occupied and 85 (33.2%) were rented.The homeowner vacancy rate was 10.0%; the rental vacancy rate was 7.9%. 345 people (65.8% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 179 people (34.2%) lived in rental housing units.\n"}
{"id": "1979154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979154", "title": "Michael Colvin", "text": "Michael Colvin\n\nMichael Keith Beale Colvin (27 September 1932 – 24 February 2000) was a politician in the United Kingdom. He was first elected as a Conservative Party Member of Parliament for Bristol North West in 1979. From 1983 onwards, he was the MP for Romsey and Waterside constituency in Hampshire, which later became the constituency of Romsey.\n\nMichael Colvin was born to Captain Ivan Beale Colvin RN and Joy Arbuthnot. He had a brother, Alistair Colvin, four years his junior. He was educated at West Downs School in Winchester, Eton College; and the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst. Joining the Grenadier Guards at 18, he served in Berlin, Suez and Cyprus, emerging as a captain. After studying at the Royal Agricultural College at Cirencester, he initially worked for four years in advertising with the agency J Walter Thompson, then for 14 years as a director of Accrep Ltd, a property investment firm.\n\nActive in local government at first, he was an elected member of Tangley parish council, Andover rural district council and Hampshire County Council. He had left Hampshire local government by the mid-1970s.\n\nHis first parliamentary seat was Bristol North West, which he gained from Labour in 1979, when Margaret Thatcher achieved power, but he was then considered to be one of the \"wets\", and thus under Thatcher likely to remain a backbencher.\n\nColvin showed political ambivalence, however, he urged the creation of a new centre party on the one hand, but also called for privatisation of NHS. In 1983, he switched to the newly created and much safer seat of Romsey and Waterside, near Southampton. As a Cayzer son-in-law, he opposed the phasing out of tax allowances on new shipbuilding and urged a larger, more modern merchant marine fleet. He opposed the slicing off of British Airways' routes just when it was becoming successful. He favoured easier conditions for pub licencees.\n\nOpposed to bans on foxhunting, Colvin was the chairman of the Council for Country Sports from 1988, Colvin rejected gun-control; he was a leading figure, following the Hungerford and Dunblane massacres in the \"gun lobby\". He was a defence and aviation specialist, serving on the Defence Select Committee, which he chaired from 1995 to 1997, leaving it in January 2000. However, he was not politically consistent with the right-wing of the Conservatives; he was liberal on abortion and favoured free eye and dental treatment, In 1989 he sponsored a private member's bill which became the Computer Misuse Act 1990.\n\nColvin became the chairman of the Conservative Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Committee. He supported the South-African-backed anti-SWAPO white forces in Africa and endorsed the regime in Namibia in 1981. In his \"Guardian\" obituary of Colvin, Andrew Roth wrote that the MP \"was also a somewhat secretive former propagandist for apartheid South Africa\". He defended the whites of southern Africa, accepting invitations to visit South Africa, then under apartheid, and Bophuthatswana, a Bantustan ('homeland') set up for blacks by the South African government. He urged that the 'homelands', which were not internationally recognised, should be accepted. Although he supported reformist Denis Worrall's election campaign in 1987, the following year he criticised the BBC for broadcasting the concert tribute to Nelson Mandela. Colvin visited Bophuthatswana again, and Angola, in 1989 as a guest of UNITA, an organisation backed by the CIA and South Africa. Connected to the Strategic Network International (SNI), a lobbyist front set up in 1985 to campaign against the imposition of economic sanctions against South Africa, Colvin was involved in finding sympathetic Conservative MPs to visit the 'homelands' on expenses paid trips. The Conservative activist Derek Laud was involved in SNI and was responsible for recommending Colvin to the group.\n\nIn 1991, Colvin became a consultant to SNI (at £10,000 a year), in succession to Neil Hamilton. Colvin, with Conservative colleagues John Carlisle and David Atkinson were among members of SNI sent to watch the peace process in Angola during 1992. SNI dissolved the following year. His consultancy with SNI was not declared, and when the connection became known in 1994, the media linked the issue to then on-going cash-for-questions affair: \"It was not registered. It is an oversight which I regret\", Colvin said. At this time, among 11 Conservative MPs, he was found by the Commons Select Committee on Members' Interests to have failed to declare, as a Lloyd's 'Name', details of his syndicate's activities, specifically the areas of insurance underwritten. He was a friend to lobbyists such as Ian Greer, more directly implicated in the cash for questions scandal, which led to Hamilton's disgrace. Later, Colvin became a director, with Derek Laud, of the Laud Ludgate lobbying organisation.\n\nHe married Nichola Cayzer, the daughter of Nicholas Cayzer, Baron Cayzer, an executive in the British and Commonwealth shipping company. The couple had three children; two daughters and a son.\n\nColvin and his wife died in a fire at their house, Tangley House, near Andover in February 2000. The following by-election led to the Liberal Democrat gaining the seat with their candidate Sandra Gidley being elected.\n"}
{"id": "1979163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979163", "title": "Keke Wyatt", "text": "Keke Wyatt\n\nKe'Tara Shavon \"Keke\" Wyatt (born March 10, 1982) is an American R&B singer and television personality. After performing in a number of girl bands and working as a songwriter during her teenage years, in 2004 she garnered national attention after her successful collaboration with fellow R&B singer Avant, In 2006 her rendition of \"Nothing in This World\" led to a nomination for the Best New R&B/Soul/Rap Artist award at the Soul Train Lady of Soul Awards. After a number of charting collaborations and solo releases, in 2017 she starred as a cast member in TV One's \"\", which featured the lives of five 1990s chart-topping R&B singers. She was featured in all 3 seasons of the show. She also performed with the group at events such as Essence Music Festival.\n\nIn her career, Wyatt released official studio albums, including \"Soul Sista\" (2001), \"Who Knew?\" (2010), \"Unbelievable\" (2011), and her latest and recent release, \"Rated Love\" (2016). All of these albums charted prominently on \"Billboard\", as did her first and only EP release, \"Ke'Ke'\" (2014). Wyatt has also released a number of charting singles, with her lead single \"Sexy Song\" from the album \"Rated Love\", peaking at number 29 on the Adult R&B Songs chart. After getting involved with a number of non-profits, Wyatt served as a spokesperson for the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV).\n\nWyatt was born March 10, 1982, in Indianapolis, Indiana, to Lorna Wyatt (a vocalist) and Keever Wyatt II (an organist and also a vocalist). Ke'Tara \"Keke\" Wyatt was raised in a musical family rooted in gospel music. She has four brothers. Despite her religious background, Wyatt was also exposed to Contemporary R&B and secular music, and she would perform with her vocals in genres as diverse as gospel, pop and opera. Wyatt began singing at the age of 2, experiencing her first live show by the age of 5. While of mixed white and black heritage, Wyatt and her four brothers, who were raised in a predominantly African-American household and community setting, identify as African-American. Wyatt grew up in Indianapolis, but also spent time in both Kentucky and Texas. She attended high school in Indianapolis, where she was a member of her high school's varsity wrestling team. As she grew, her musical tastes were influenced by the likes of R&B greats like Stevie Wonder, Donny Hathaway and Ella Fitzgerald. Inspired by many preceding musical greats, Wyatt found herself performing with various girl groups as a teen. She was often recognized for a maturity exceeding her teenage years.\n\nWyatt's professional career began at the age of 10, when she began recording a song, called \"What If\", which would be included on a gospel compilation album for Indianapolis-based R.H. Duncan. With growing buzz surrounding \"the little girl who could sing,\" news of Wyatt's talent lead her to encounter with these artists from the likes of Bill Woodson, Nathan Alexander, Billy Badd, Chris Kelly, and multi-platinum producer, composer Jorge Corante and Emmanuel Officer. During the years of adolescence, Wyatt became as a student of a school by the Chicago-based producer and songwriter Steve \"Stone\" Huff. Huff eventually produced and shopped a few of Wyatt's demos in hopes of landing her a record deal. During her mid-teens, she performed demo songs for various gospel labels, earning around $1,500 per recording. During that time, Keke extended her skills by also writing music as a teenager, and while she was writing some music, Keke would experience her first coldly dealt disappointment as a music industry professional. She wrote the majority of the lyrics for a hit song but received no credit for her work.\n\nAt age fifteen, Wyatt recorded \"My First Love\" with Avant which was released two years later, eventually becoming a single for his album entitled \"My Thoughts\". Wyatt gained much notoriety for the remake of the 1980s ballad by Rene & Angela. Its success, remaining in the top 10 for several weeks, resulted in a solo album contract with MCA Records. With the help of the late MCA Records executive Louil Silas, her friend and A&R Randy Jackson, whom she met at age twelve, and former Boyz II Men manager Quadri El Amin, Wyatt recorded her first album within two weeks time.\n\nHer first single, \"Used to Love\", helped to create buzz but failed to achieve radio play, though it did chart at No. 65 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart. The follow-up single \"Nothing in This World\", her second duet with Avant, charted higher on a number of \"Billboard\" charts, including No. 4 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart, No. 27 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, and No. 35 on the Rhythmic Top 40 chart.\n\n\"Soul Sista\", her solo debut in 2001, a platinum album, was released on November 13, 2001. It held a top 5 position for several weeks on the \"Billboard 200\". Selling more than one million copies, Wyatt's fan-base broadened to audiences in Japan, Korea and Europe. On December 11, 2001, Wyatt was interviewed. During that interview, Wyatt said that she was a founding member of an early incarnation of Destiny's Child, called \"The Dolls\" and that she was later replaced by Beyoncé. In 2002, her rendition of \"Nothing in This World\" led to a nomination for Best New R&B/Soul/Rap Artist at the Soul Train Lady of Soul Awards.\n\nBy 2004, Wyatt had departed from MCA Records. She signed a contract, negotiated by her ex-husband/road manager Rahmat Morton, with Cash Money Records/Universal Motown Records, under the management of Cassandra Ware. Her second album \"Emotional Rollercoaster\" was originally set for release on May 31, 2005, but was postponed for release in early 2006. The set's first single, \"Put Your Hands on Me\", became the #1 most added urban track to radio in April 2005. However, the single failed to chart or gain radio airplay, and her album was, subsequently, shelved. Beyond the first single, other songs slated to appear on her second album included \"Look at What You Made Me Do,\" \"Insecurity\" written by Bryan Michael Cox, \"My Man,\" \"Six Questions\" featuring Avant, \"Cheaters,\" \"Who Knows\" written by Tank, \"Peace on Earth,\" a remake of a Rachelle Ferrell single, and the title track \"Emotional Rollercoaster\" featuring Ginuwine. In 2006, Wyatt was released from her contract with Cash Money Records, citing conflict with management as the reason for her departure.\n\nIn 2007 Wyatt, reunited with her former manager Quadri El Amin on the TVT Records label. Work on her third solo album \"Ghetto Rose\" was completed in 2007. The title track, written by veteran songwriter Franne Golde along with Kasey Livingston and Curt Schneider, was released to urban radio outlets in the fall of that year. The album was originally set for release on October 23, 2007, but was postponed for release in early 2008. Then, in February 2008, the record label filed for bankruptcy and, for the second time in her solo career, Wyatt's album was shelved.\n\nIn 2009, Wyatt played a leading role in a United States-based nationally touring production entitled \"Love Over Board\". The production also included many seasoned cast members such as actress Karen Malina White, singer Avant, actor Khalil Kain, and others.\n\nWyatt released the single \"Who Knew?\" in 2010, which served as the title track for her album \"Who Knew?\", released on February 23, 2010 through Shanachie Records. On the US \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, the album peaked at No. 35, also reaching No. 131 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart. In May 2011, Wyatt released a remake of the popular 1980s single \"Saturday Love\", featuring Ruben Studdard. Shortly afterwards, she also released a music video for the track through Shanachie Records. \"Saturday Love\" was included in her second album on Shanachie, \"Unbelievable!\", which was released on June 14, 2011. It peaked at No. 48 on the R&B Albums chart.\n\nIn 2012, Wyatt was cast in TV One's \"\" which features the lives of five 1990s chart-topping R&B singers including Wyatt, Faith Evans, Nicci Gilbert, Monifah and Syleena Johnson. The show documents the singers living in Atlanta, Georgia as they work towards rebuilding their careers. The first episode aired on August 20, 2012.\n\nThroughout the show, \"R&B Divas\" singers collaborated on a charity album commemorating the life of Whitney Houston, featuring the single \"Love Yourself\" which is also featured in the TV show's introduction. Proceeds of the album went towards benefiting organizations committed to improving the lives of women. She performed at the 2012 Essence Music Festival in New Orleans along with the other cast-members of \"R&B Divas,\" and according to Erika Ramirez of \"Billboard\" in a ranking of the top ten performances at the festival, \"Keke Wyatt's cover of Houston's 'I Wanna Dance With Somebody' left the audience in awe even after the performance.\" After the initial season of \"R&B Divas\", Wyatt appeared in the two following seasons as well, when the show was renamed to \".\"\n\nIn 2013, she collaborated with Avant on their hit \"You & I,\" which peaked at No. 1 on \"Billboard\"<nowiki>’</nowiki>s Urban A/C chart, and remained there close to two months. \"You & I\" also reached No. 33 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.\n\nIn May 2014, Wyatt released her first EP titled \"Ke'Ke'\", through The NorthStar Group and her own imprint Aratek Entertainment. The imprint is her birth name backwards, and is also meant as a stand-in for the word erotic.\n\nThe EP featured songwriters and producers such as Neyo, Chuck Harmony, Claude Kelly, and Cristyle, while other guest artists include Pusha T on the track \"Rain,\" and Nitty Scott in \"Remember.\" Overall, the EP contains five newly-written and produced songs, and the single \"Fall in Love\" reached No. 120 on the Billboard Hot 100 and No. 17 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart. As of June 2014, the EP held the 191st position on the Billboard 200 album chart. On the R&B Albums chart, the EP peaked at No. 12 in late June 2014, and it also reached No. 35 on the Independent Albums chart.\n\nIn August 2014, Wyatt made a cameo in fellow \"\" co-star Faith Evans' music video \"I Deserve It\", featuring Missy Elliott and Sharaya J. Later that year, Wyatt was featured as a vocalist on the track \"Make Love\" by Faith Evans.\n\nIn the fall of 2015, she signed a multi-album distribution deal for her Aratek Entertainment company with INgrooves Music Group, announcing upcoming promo singles. On November 20, 2015, she released her new R&B single \"Sexy Song.\" The track is set to be the lead single from her album \"Rated Love\", which was released through Aratek Entertainment on April 22, 2016. \"Sexy Song\" was at No. 26 and trending upward on the Adult R&B Songs chart as of early December 2015. \"Love Me\" was released as the albums second single on March 18, 2016.\n\nIn August 2016, it was announced that she and her husband Michael Ford had joined the cast of the sixth season of \"Marriage Boot Camp: Reality Stars\" set for an October airdate. On October 13, 2016, Wyatt revealed a new single \"Jodeci\" on her Instagram account \"I think we got a new one with my new single Jodeci!!! I wanna know what ya'll think\" revealing it would be released with a deluxe version of her album Rated Love on October 21, 2016.\n\nIt was announced on January 31, 2017, via Wyatt's social media accounts that a covers album \"Keke Covers\" would be released on February 14, 2017, \"My YouTube cover series #kekecovers comes the cover album 'Keke Covers' #COMINGSOON #FEB14 #LOVERSDAY2017\".\n\nOn July 28, 2017, Wyatt released the lead single \"Summertime\" taken from her upcoming fifth studio album \"Country Fried Soul\".\n\nWyatt has served as a spokesperson for the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV). As spokesperson, she shares her experience as a long-term victim of domestic abuse. She is also a supporter of the Saving our Daughters organization.\n\nWyatt was 18 years old when she married Rahmat Morton, her road manager. A domestic violence situation between Wyatt and Morton was widely reported in the urban news circuit in 2001, with Wyatt explaining that she had stabbed her husband out of self-defense and to protect her children. Wyatt filed for divorce from Morton in 2009 after an escalation of violence, relocating her family from Kentucky to Atlanta, Georgia. They have 3 children together. (Wyatt was pregnant with her fourth child by the end of the marriage, but suffered a still birth.)\n\nShe remarried in 2010 to Michael Jamar (born: Michael Ford) an ordained minister who went to appear with Wyatt in the reality TV show \"\". As of 2013, the couple were raising six children together, three fathered by Wyatt's first husband, and two fathered by Ford. The sixth child is her step-child from Ford's previous relationship. Wyatt and her husband had their eighth child in early 2015. Wyatt announced in April 2017 that she was pregnant with her ninth child. In early September 2017, it was reported that the couple were divorcing while she was eight months pregnant. In October 2017, Wyatt gave birth to her ninth child, a son named Kendall Miguel.\n\nIn November 2018, she announced that she had married Zachariah Darring in October 2018. On October 14, 2019, she announced she was pregnant with her tenth child with her husband Zachariah. She gave birth to her tenth child on January 6, 2020; a son named Ke’Riah Darring.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979166", "title": "The King of Chicago", "text": "The King of Chicago\n\nThe King of Chicago is a 1986 action adventure strategy computer game by Doug Sharp. Based on numerous Hollywood mobster movies, this game is set in the 1930s, but some sequences towards the end of the game take place in 1986. The Macintosh version of the game is animated using claymation, while other versions utilize drawn graphics.\n\nThe player starts in Chicago with a small mafia-type mob and follow Al Capone in being the mob-king of the city. The goal of the game is to increase the size of one's gang in order to take over all mobster activity in the city. The player must do this by a certain date in order to be included in the formation of the New York syndicate.\n\nThe game features many mobster activities, such as drive-by shootings, bombings, illegal gambling and bribing of corrupt government officials. The player must murder and out-deal his opponents in order to win control of the city. As if that weren't enough, the player also has to stay one step ahead of the law and keep his girlfriend satisfied by catering to her whims and desires, or risk losing her.\n\nThe game has many endings determined by the choices the player makes. Wrong choices could end in the player's death or arrest. But there are several ways to win the game; one such way is to kill the leader of the main rival gang.\n\nThis game was first developed by Doug Sharp on the Mac, then limited to a monochrome display, using graphics based on digitized images of clay models. The game was then given a complete visual redesign by the inhouse Cinemaware art team for release on the Amiga, a powerful home computer of the era. It was then ported to other systems. It was eventually released for the Apple II, Atari ST, DOS, Sharp X68000. The Mac version was published by Mindscape and later versions for US platforms published by Cinemaware itself. Distribution in the UK, including platforms found almost exclusively there and in Europe, was done by Mirrorsoft.\n\nIn July, 2012, Cinemaware announced they were planning to release an iOS emulated version of the Amiga edition of \"The King of Chicago\". the game has been released on the app store.\n\n\"Macworld\" reviewed the Macintosh version of \"The King of Chicago\", praising its attempt to bridge the gap between movies and video games, stating that \"\"The King of Chicago\" delivers a game that comes one step closer to the computer entertainment dream: a real-time movie controlled by the user.\" \"Macworld\" praises \"The King of Chicago's\" gameplay and graphics, calling the claymation graphics \"innovative\" and gameplay \"consistently entertaining\", furthermore stating that \"Everything is handled with self-parodying wit and interchanges between characters are terrifically funny. I've never had so much fun playing a computer game.\" \"Macworld\" heavily criticized the lack of a save feature, calling it \"appalling that a game that takes hours to complete won't let you save\", and although characters behave differently in different playthroughs, \"Macworld\" expressed that the game suffers from \"eventual repetitiveness\", saying that \"eventually you find yourself watching some scenes again and again.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1979183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979183", "title": "Reading North (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Reading North (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nReading North was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. The constituency covered an area in and around the town of Reading in the county of Berkshire.\n\nThe Reading North parliamentary constituency was first created for the 1950 general election by splitting the previous parliamentary constituency of Reading into North and South divisions. These constituencies were merged back into a single Reading constituency in for the 1955 general election.\n\nThe Reading North constituency was recreated in 1974, when it was contested and won for the Conservative Party by Tony Durant. In 1983 the constituencies in Reading were reorganised, creating the new constituencies of Reading East and Reading West. Tony Durant went on to hold the Reading West constituency until 1997.\n\nIn both its incarnations, the constituency included Reading town centre.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Reading wards of Abbey, Battle, Castle, Caversham East, Caversham West, Tilehurst, and Victoria.\n\nIt was then abolished and absorbed into the re-established Borough Constituency of Reading, with the exception of the Tilehurst ward, which was transferred to Newbury.\n\n1974–1983: The County Borough of Reading wards of Abbey, Battle, Castle, Caversham, Katesgrove, Minster, Norcot, Thames, and Tilehurst.\n\nThe Tilehurst and Norcot wards were transferred back from Newbury; the remaining wards were previously part of the abolished Borough Constituency of Reading.\n\nThe constituency was abolished for the 1983 general election, with the majority forming the basis of the new County Constituency of Reading West, whilst northern areas, including Caversham, formed part of the new County Constituency of Reading East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979185", "title": "Cassel, California", "text": "Cassel, California\n\nCassel is a census-designated place (CDP) in Shasta County, California. Cassel sits at an elevation of . The 2010 United States census reported Cassel's population was 207. The ZIP Code is 96016. The community is inside area code 530.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 2.1 square miles (5.4 km²), 96.44% of it land and 3.56% of it water.\n\nThis region experiences hot and dry summers, with highs over 90 °F in July and August. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Cassel has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csb\" on climate maps.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Cassel had a population of 207. The population density was 98.6 people per square mile (38.1/km²). The racial makeup of Cassel was 194 (93.7%) White, 0 (0.0%) African American, 3 (1.4%) Native American, 0 (0.0%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 4 (1.9%) from other races, and 6 (2.9%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 6 persons (2.9%).\n\nThe Census reported that 207 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 93 households, out of which 17 (18.3%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 65 (69.9%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 2 (2.2%) had a female householder with no husband present, 3 (3.2%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 2 (2.2%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 2 (2.2%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 18 households (19.4%) were made up of individuals and 9 (9.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.23. There were 70 families (75.3% of all households); the average family size was 2.54.\n\nThe population was spread out with 32 people (15.5%) under the age of 18, 7 people (3.4%) aged 18 to 24, 29 people (14.0%) aged 25 to 44, 78 people (37.7%) aged 45 to 64, and 61 people (29.5%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 57.7 years. For every 100 females, there were 105.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.4 males.\n\nThere were 140 housing units at an average density of 66.7 per square mile (25.7/km²), of which 81 (87.1%) were owner-occupied, and 12 (12.9%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 5.7%; the rental vacancy rate was 20.0%. 173 people (83.6% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 34 people (16.4%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the state legislature Cassel is in , and .\nFederally, Cassel is in .\n\nThe Pacific Crest National Scenic Trail passes East of Cassel.\n\nJust North of the town is the site of Packway Materials who have repurposed broken construction equipment into sculpture.\n"}
{"id": "1979203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979203", "title": "Media in New York City", "text": "Media in New York City\n\nNew York City has been called the media capital of the world. The media of New York City are internationally influential and include some of the most important newspapers, largest publishing houses, biggest record companies, and most prolific television studios in the world. It is a major global center for the book and magazine publican, music, newspaper, and television industries.\n\nNew York is also the largest media market in North America (followed by Los Angeles, Chicago, and Toronto). Some of the city's media conglomerates include CNN (WMN&S), the Hearst Corporation, NBCUniversal, The New York Times Company, the Fox Corporation and News Corp, the Thomson Reuters Corporation, WarnerMedia, and ViacomCBS. Seven of the world's top eight global advertising agency networks are headquartered in New York. Three of the \"Big Four\" record labels are also headquartered or co-headquartered in the city. One-third of all American independent films are produced in New York. More than 200 newspapers and 350 consumer magazines have an office in the city and the book-publishing industry employs about 25,000 people.\n\nTwo of the three national daily newspapers in the United States are \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\". Major tabloid newspapers in the city include the \"Daily News\", \"Newsday\" (which is technically headquartered in Melville, New York), and the \"New York Post\", founded in 1801 by Alexander Hamilton. The city also has a major ethnic press, with 270 newspapers and magazines published in more than 40 languages. \"El Diario La Prensa\" is New York's largest Spanish-language daily and the oldest in the nation. \"The New York Amsterdam News\", published in Harlem, is a prominent African-American newspaper. \"The Village Voice\" was the largest alternative newspaper, ceasing all forms of publication August 31, 2018.\n\nThe television industry developed in New York and is a significant employer in the city's economy. The four major American broadcast networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, are all headquartered in New York. Many cable channels are based in the city as well, including MTV, Fox News, HBO and Comedy Central. In 2005 there were more than 100 television shows taped in New York City.\n\nNew York is also a major center for non-commercial media. The oldest public-access cable television channel in the United States is the Manhattan Neighborhood Network, founded in 1971. WNET is the city's major public television station and a primary provider of national Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) programming. WNYC, a public radio station owned by the city until 1997, has the largest public radio audience in the United States. The City of New York operates a public broadcast service, NYC Media, that produces several original New York Emmy Award-winning shows covering music and culture in city neighborhoods, as well as city government-access television (GATV).\n\nNew York City is home to a number of major online media companies, including Verizon's digital content subsidiary Oath Inc. and its operations under the AOL brand, along with news and entertainment companies like BuzzFeed and VICE Media.\n\nThe book publishing industry in the United States is based in New York. Publishing houses in the city range from industry giants such as Penguin Group (USA), HarperCollins, Random House, Scholastic, Simon & Schuster, and Macmillan to small niche houses like Melville House and Lee & Low Books. New York has also been the setting for countless works of literature, many of them produced by the city's large population of writers (which have included Paul Auster, Don DeLillo, Bret Easton Ellis, Jonathan Safran Foer, Jonathan Franzen, Jhumpa Lahiri, Jonathan Lethem, John O'Hara, Dorothy Parker, Thomas Pynchon, Susan Sontag and many others). The New York City metro area, home to the largest number of Jews and Italians outside Israel and Italy, respectively, has also been a flourishing scene for both Jewish American literature and Italian-American literature.\n\nNew York is also home to PEN America, the largest of the 141 centers of PEN International, the world’s oldest human rights organization and the oldest international literary organization. PEN America plays an important role in New York's literary community and is active in defending free speech, the promotion of literature, and the fostering of international literary fellowship. Author Jennifer Egan is its current president.\n\nSome of the most important literary journals in the United States are in New York. These include \"The Paris Review\", \"The New York Review of Books\", \"n+1\", and \"New York Quarterly\". Other New York literary publications include \"Circumference\", \"Open City\", \"The Manhattan Review\", \"The Coffin Factory\", \"Fence\", and \"Telos\". New York is also home to the US offices of \"Granta\".\n\nNew York is a prominent location for the American entertainment industry, with many films, television series, books, and other media being set there. , New York City was the second largest center for filmmaking and television production in the United States, producing about 200 feature films annually, employing 130,000 individuals; the filmed entertainment industry has been growing in New York, contributing nearly US$9 billion to the New York City economy alone as of 2015, and by volume, New York is the world leader in independent film production – one-third of all American independent films are produced in New York City. The Association of Independent Commercial Producers is also based in New York. In the first five months of 2014 alone, location filming for television pilots in New York City exceeded the record production levels for all of 2013, with New York surpassing Los Angeles as the top North American city for the same distinction during the 2013/2014 cycle. International film makers are featured prominently in New York City as well.\n\nIn the earliest days of the American film industry, New York was the epicenter of filmmaking. However, the drier weather of Hollywood and tax incentives offered at the time by filming in Los Angeles made California a better choice for film production throughout much of the 20th century. The Kaufman Astoria Studios film studio, built during the silent film era, was used by the Marx Brothers and W.C. Fields, and has expanded its footprint in Queens. It has also been used for \"The Cosby Show\", \"Sesame Street\" and the films of Woody Allen. The recently constructed Steiner Studios is a 15-acre (61,000 m²) modern movie studio complex in a former shipyard where \"The Producers\" and \"The Inside Man\", a Spike Lee movie, were filmed.\n\nNew York was, and to a certain extent still is, also important within the animation industry. Until 1938, it served as the home of Fleischer Studios (who produced the Popeye, Betty Boop, and Color Classics shorts for Paramount Pictures) as well as the Van Beuren Studios (who produced animated shorts for RKO Radio Pictures) until 1937. It would later be the home for Famous Studios (who replaced Fleischer Studios and continued the production of Popeye shorts for Paramount) from 1943 to the 1960s. Its current position in the animation world is as an alternative to Los Angeles (where most U.S. animation is produced), and the city now houses several schools and school programs concerning animation, and stands as a source of work for animators working for any medium, from advertising to film.\n\nSilvercup Studios has expanded in Long Island City, Queens with numerous soundstages, production and studio support space, offices for media and entertainment companies, stores, 1,000 apartments in high-rise towers, a catering hall and a cultural institution, built at the edge of the East River in Queens, overlooking Manhattan, and maintaining its status as the largest production house on the U.S. East Coast. Steiner Studios in Brooklyn still has the largest individual soundstage, however. Miramax Films, a Big Ten film studio, was the largest motion picture distribution and production company headquartered in the city until it moved to Burbank, California in January 2010. Many smaller independent producers and distributors are located in New York.\n\n\nNew York City has a long history in American magazine publishing based in New York City.\n\nIn the 1930s, New York-based RCA was the nation's largest manufacturer of phonographs. In the late 19th and early 20th century, most sheet music in the United States—especially the popular songs of the day, many now standards—was printed at Tin Pan Alley, so called because the constant sound of new songs being tried out on pianos in the publishing houses was said to sound like a tin pan. By the early 1960s the radio and musical stars of the Golden Age of Broadway gave way to the Brill Building's \"Brill Sound\".\n\nSalsa music, which got its start in New York City in the mid-1960s, was popularized by the New York record label Fania Records, which developed a highly polished \"Fania sound\" that came to be synonymous with salsa.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, hip hop labels including Def Jam, Roc-A-Fella and Bad Boy Records were founded in New York, creating what is known as East Coast hip hop. These labels continue to be among the largest hip-hop labels in the world. Other influential New York-based hip hop labels, past and present, include Cold Chillin' Records, Jive Records, Loud Records, Rawkus Records and Tommy Boy Records.\n\nTwo of the \"Big Four\" music labels are headquartered in the city: Sony Music Entertainment and Warner Music Group. The world headquarters of MTV is also in New York.\n\nMany major music magazines are headquartered in the city as well, including \"Blender Magazine\", \"Punk Magazine\", \"Spin\" and \"Rolling Stone\".\n\nNew York City is home to 4 of the 10 largest papers in the United States. These include \"The New York Times\" (circulation 1.1 million), the \"Daily News\" (circulation 795,000), and \"New York Post\" (circulation 650,000). \"The Wall Street Journal\" (circulation 2.1 million), published in New York City, is a national-scope business newspaper and the first or second most-read newspaper in the nation, depending on measurement method.\n\"El Diario La Prensa\" (circulation 265,000) is New York's largest Spanish-language daily and the oldest in the nation. There are also several borough-specific newspapers, such as \"The Brooklyn Daily Eagle\" and \"The Staten Island Advance\". Free daily newspapers mainly distributed to commuters include \"amNewYork\", \"Hoy\" and \"Metro New York\". In addition to the print newspapers, \"BKLYNER\" is the leading daily digital news publication reporting on local news and events in Brooklyn.\n\nThe city's ethnic press is large and diverse. Major ethnic publications include the Roman Catholic diocesan paper for Brooklyn-Queens, \"The Tablet\" and Jewish-American newspapers \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" (פֿאָרװערטס; \"Forverts\", published in Yiddish and English) (founded in 1897), and African-American newspapers, including the long-time newspaper \"The New York Amsterdam News\" (founded in 1909) and Brooklyn-based Our Time Press. \"The Epoch Times\", an international newspaper published by the Falun Gong, has English and Chinese editions in New York. There are seven dailies published in the Chinese and four in Spanish. Multiple daily papers are published in Italian, Greek, Polish, and Korean, and other weekly newspapers serve dozens of different ethnic communities, with ten separate newspapers focusing on the African-American community alone. Many nationally distributed ethnic newspapers are based in Astoria, Chinatown or Brooklyn. Over 60 ethnic groups, writing in 42 languages, publish some 300 non-English language magazines and newspapers in New York City.\n\nEthnic variation is not the only measure of the diversity of New York City's newspapers, with editorial opinions running from left-leaning at alternative papers like the \"Village Voice\", to conservative at the \"New York Post\". \"New York Observer\" covers politics and the city's rich and powerful with unusual depth. The tradition of a free press owes much to John Peter Zenger, a New York publisher who was acquitted in his 1735 landmark court case, setting the precedent that truth was a legitimate defense against accusations of libel.\n\nMajor newspapers emphasizing coverage of the New York metropolitan region outside the city include \"Newsday\", which covers primarily Long Island but also New York City, (especially Brooklyn and Queens), \"The Journal News\", which covers Westchester County, to the north along the Hudson River and \"The Bergen Record\" and \"The Star-Ledger\", of Newark which cover northern New Jersey across the New York Bay and Hudson River to the west.\n\nNew York City's digital companies, sometimes described as \"Silicon Alley\", include both software companies and companies known primarily as content producers. Among the former are Tumblr (now owned by Yahoo!), FourSquare and AOL. Among the latter are Gawker Media, BuzzFeed, and some of AOL's holdings, including HuffPost and Weblogs, Inc. The satirical newspaper \"The Onion\" (online-only since 2013) was based in New York from 2000 to 2012.\n\nNew York City has a tradition as an important place in radio broadcasting. Edward R. Murrow defined American broadcast journalism with his World War II reporting from Europe relayed back to CBS in New York and onward to the rest of the nation.\n\nWNYC, New York's flagship public radio station, is the most-listened to commercial or non-commercial radio station in Manhattan and has the largest audience of any public radio station in the United States. It produces several news and cultural programs for national syndication.\n\nThe current WQXR-FM, a public radio station, is New York City's only classical radio station. The former WQXR-FM (today WXNY-FM), is now a Spanish station as of November 1, 2009. The license was formerly owned by \"The New York Times\", and swapped with the former WCAA (today WQXR-FM) with \"Univision\". The \"Times\" sold WCAA and the intellectual property of WQXR-FM (call letters and format) to the New York Public Radio.\n\nWBAI in Manhattan, with news and information programming, is one of the few socialist radio stations operating in the United States.\n\nFordham University's WFUV, New York University's WNYU and Columbia University's WKCR are also important non-commercial stations in the city.\n\nThe first New York City radio station to feature a phone-in talk format was WNBC in the late 1960s, (with Long John Nebel in the early morning hours) but the format began in earnest in New York in 1970, when WMCA radio dropped its \"Good Guys\" top-40 radio format in favor of the \"Dial-Log Radio\" slate of call-in shows. In addition to mainstay Barry Gray, the format featured such prominent talkers as Nebel, Alex Bennett and Bob Grant.\n\nRight-wing talk radio came to New York when WABC switched from an all music format to talk in 1982. Though it began with a moribund \"Talkradio\" format delivered via satellite from KABC Los Angeles, the station eventually became the home of nationally syndicated conservative powerhouse Rush Limbaugh, who in the Reagan years railed against liberal figures like civil-rights advocate Jesse Jackson and former New York Governor Mario Cuomo. Other high-profile conservative talk radio hosts with national profiles include Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity at WABC.\n\nLiberals responded, first with the short-lived (only nine years) WEVD format with Bill Mazer's \"Mazer in the morning\" and Sam Greenfield in the afternoon followed by Alan Colmes from 11 PM to 2AM. In March 2004 the Air America Radio network started, based in New York City, with actor-comedians Al Franken and Janeane Garofalo as their front line stars. A personality who goes by one name, \"Lionel\", who was a host on WABC also joined the Air America's New York local lineup. Air American's flagship station was originally WLIB, then WWRL at the time of its January 2010 demise. WWRL and listener supported WBAI continue broadcasting progressive talk.\n\nNew York is also home to several famous \"shock jock\" morning drive shows. They include Elvis Duran and the Morning Show on Z100 and included Opie and Anthony before they moved to Sirius Satellite Radio. The nation's first female shock jock, Wendy Williams, had a popular syndicated afternoon show on Urban AC WBLS from 2002-2009. WXRK, formerly known as 92.3 \"K-Rock\", used to be the home of Howard Stern until his move from terrestrial radio to satellite, though Stern still broadcasts from New York City.\n\nWQHT, also known as \"Hot 97\", is an influential high-profile commercial radio station that is arguably the nation's premier hip-hop station. Doctor Dré and Ed Lover were morning hosts at the station in the 1990s. The highest-rated Spanish-language radio show in the United States is the morning radio program \"El Vacilón de la Mañana\", broadcast on WSKQ and formerly hosted by Luis Jimenez.\n\nNew York became home to America's first 24-hour-per-day sports talk station, WFAN, in 1987.\n\nThe following is a list of radio stations in New York City.\n\nAM:\nFM:\n\nNew York City is the home of the three traditional major American television networks, ABC, CBS and NBC, as well as Spanish-language network Univision. They each have local broadcast owned and operated stations which serve as the flagship stations of their networks.\n\nIt is also the headquarters of several large cable television channels, including MTV, Fox News, HBO, and Comedy Central. Silvercup Studios, located in Queens was the production facility for the popular television shows \"Sex and the City\" and \"The Sopranos\". MTV broadcasts programming from its sound stage overlooking Times Square, several blocks away from The Ed Sullivan Theater, the theater housing the \"Late Show with Stephen Colbert\". \"Saturday Night Live\" is broadcast from NBC's studios at 30 Rockefeller Center, where \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon\", \"Late Night with Seth Meyers\", \"NBC Nightly News\" and \"The Today Show\" is also taped. BET is headquartered on 57th Street. \"The Colbert Report\" is produced by Comedy Central on 54th Street, and \"The Daily Show\", also produced by Comedy Central, is produced just a few blocks over on 11th avenue and West 53rd street. Glenn Beck's The Blaze TV has a studio in Manhattan. Over a thousand people are involved with producing the various \"Law & Order\" television series. In 2005 there were more than 100 new and returning television shows taped in New York City, according to the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting.\n\nWNET, New York's largest public television station, is a primary national provider of PBS programming. The oldest public-access television network in the United States is the Manhattan Neighborhood Network, well known for its eclectic local origination programming that ranges from a jazz hour to discussion of labor issues to foreign language and religious programming. There are eight other Public-access television channels in New York, including Brooklyn Community Access Television (BCAT). As part of use of local rights-of-way, the cable operators in New York have granted Public, educational, and government access (PEG) organizations channels for programming. They also carry the New York State legislative channel available on cable packages with sufficient bandwidth.\n\nAnother notable channel in the city is NY1, established in 1992 as Time Warner Cable's first local news channel and acquired with the rest of Time Warner Cable by Charter Communications in May 2016. NY1 is known for its beat coverage of city neighborhoods, and its coverage of City Hall and state politics is closely watched by political insiders.\n\nFor years, several soap operas were filmed in the New York City area, including \"Another World\", \"As the World Turns\", \"Guiding Light\", \"All My Children\" and \"One Life to Live\". As of 2012, there are no New York soap operas left on the air.\n\nBold letters indicate a network owned-and-operated station, and Bold italics indicate a network flagship station.\n\nThe City of New York operates a public broadcast service, NYC Media, (on WNYE-TV Channel 25) that produces several original Emmy Award-winning shows including \"Blue Print New York\" and \"Cool in Your Code\", as well as coverage of city government. Other popular programs on WNYE-TV include music shows; \"New York Noise\" showcases music videos of local, underground, and indie rock musicians as well as coverage of major music-related events in the city like the WFMU Record Fair, interviews of New York icons (like The Ramones and Klaus Nomi), and comedian hosts (like Eugene Mirman, Rob Huebel, and Aziz Ansari). \"The Bridge\", similarly, chronicles old school hip hop. The channel has won 14 New York Emmys and 14 National Telly awards.\n\nThe City University of New York's cable channel provides on air telecourses in psychology, physics, geography, history, as well as vast array of cultural programing on CUNY TV. New York University (NYU) has its NYUTV.\n\nBecause of its sheer size and cultural influence, New York City has been the subject of many different, and often contradictory, portrayals in mass media. From the sophisticated and worldly metropolis seen in many Woody Allen films, to the hellish and chaotic urban jungle depicted in such movies as Martin Scorsese's \"Taxi Driver\" (1976), New York has served as the unwitting backdrop for virtually every conceivable viewpoint on big city life.\n\nIn the early years of film New York City was characterized as urbane and sophisticated. By the city's crisis period in the 1970s, however, films like \"Midnight Cowboy\" (1969), \"The French Connection\" (1971), and \"Death Wish\" (1974) showed New York as full of chaos and violence. With the city's renaissance in the 1990s came new portrayals on television; \"Seinfeld\", \"Friends\", and \"Sex and the City\" showed life in the city to be glamorous and interesting. Nonetheless a disproportionate number of crime dramas, such as \"Law & Order\" and the \"Spider-Man\" film series, continue to use the city as their setting despite New York's status as the safest large city in the United States after plummeting crime rates over many years.\n\nAn essay appearing in the Arts section of \"The New York Times\" in April 2006 quoted several filmmakers, including Sidney Lumet and Paul Mazursky, describing how modern cinema shows the city as far more \"teeming, terrifying, exhilarating, unforgiving\" than contemporary New York actually is, and the consequential challenge this poses for filmmakers. The article quotes Robert Greenhut, Woody Allen's producer, as saying that despite the increased sanitization of modern New York, \"New Yorkers' personalities are different to Chicago. There's a certain kind of vibrancy and tone that you can't get elsewhere. The labor pool is more interesting than elsewhere — the salesgirl with one line, or the cop. That's who directors are looking for.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979209", "title": "Kate Spade", "text": "Kate Spade\n\nKatherine Noel Valentine Brosnahan Spade (December 24, 1962 – June 5, 2018) was an American fashion designer and entrepreneur. She was the founder and former co-owner of the designer brand Kate Spade New York.\n\nSpade was born Katherine Noel Brosnahan in Kansas City, Missouri, the daughter of June (Mullen) and Francis (Frank) Brosnahan, who owned a road-construction company. She was of mostly Irish descent. After graduating from St. Teresa's Academy, an all-female Catholic high school, Spade attended the University of Kansas. She later transferred to Arizona State University. She joined the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority and graduated with a journalism degree in 1985, thinking she would go into television production. While in college, she worked in sales at Carter's Men Shop, a men's clothing store in Phoenix. It was there where she met co-worker Andy Spade, who later became her husband and business partner.\n\nBy 1986, the couple had moved to Manhattan. Kate worked in the accessories department at \"Mademoiselle\" magazine. She left \"Mademoiselle\" in 1991, achieving the rank of Senior Fashion Editor/Head of Accessories. While working for \"Mademoiselle\", she had noticed that the market lacked stylish, affordable and sensible handbags and decided to create her own. \"I wanted a functional bag that was sophisticated and had some style,\" she would recall. \n\nKate and Andy founded Kate Spade New York in January 1993. Spade was initially undecided on the brand's name, because she and Andy had not yet married, and \"Kate Brosnahan\" seemed a cumbersome name for a fashion label. She considered a number of names, but agreed when Andy suggested \"Kate Spade\", as she would take the name Spade after their marriage.\n\nSpade made six prototypes with Scotch Tape and paper, and found a manufacturer in East New York willing to work with a startup to produce the bags. To finance the company, Andy, who had worked as a copywriter, withdrew his 401(k) pension plan and sometimes paid employees with personal checks. The couple spent their shipping season living at friends' apartments since their own was filled with boxed handbags.\n\nAfter an early show at the Javits Center at which the department-store chain Barneys ordered a few bags, Spade decided to put the bag's labels on the outside, a change that took her all night to alter but established the brand. \n\nThe bags, priced in the $150 to $450 (USD) range, quickly became popular, particularly in New York. That was \"a real shift\" in fashion, said Fern Mallis, director of the Council of Fashion Designers of America (CFDA) during the 1990s. \"Everybody had Kate Spade bags. You could afford them, and happily buy more than one.\"\n\nYoung American women at the time also liked the bags' sophisticated look. One woman recalled that the Kate Spade bags looked 'mature, without being too adult for a teenager,' unlike higher-priced brands such as Burberry or Louis Vuitton. \"At the turn of the last century, her bag came to encapsulate a decidedly Manhattan moment in time,\" a moment when \"Vogue\" editor-in-chief Anna Wintour recalled that it was impossible to walk a block in the city without seeing one.\n\nThe company exclusively sold handbags at first, but soon expanded to clothing, jewelry, shoes, stationery, eyewear, baby items, fragrances, and gifts. In 1996, the Kate Spade brand opened its first boutique, a shop in Manhattan's trendy SoHo district, and moved its headquarters into a space in West 25th Street.\n\nIn 1999, Spade sold a 56% stake in her business to Neiman Marcus Group, helping to expand the brand worldwide.\n\nIn 2004, \"Kate Spade at home\" was launched as a home collection brand. It featured bedding, bath items, china, wallpaper, table decor, flatware, and various decoration items. A Kate Spade store was opened in Aoyama, Tokyo, Japan.\n\nSpade also published three books on the respective subjects of etiquette, entertainment, and fashion: \"Manners\", \"Occasions\", and \"Style\".\n\nBy 2006, Spade had sold her remaining 44% shares to Neiman Marcus Group. The Group sold the label in 2006 to Liz Claiborne Inc., for $124 million; it was later renamed Fifth & Pacific. The company was later purchased by Coach, Inc. in May 2017; both Coach and Kate Spade are now part of Tapestry, Inc.\n\nAfter selling the remaining portion of her ownership in her brand, Spade took several years off to focus on her newborn daughter.\n\nIn 2016, she launched a new collection of luxury footwear and handbags under the brand name Frances Valentine. The name stemmed from a hybrid of family names; Frances is a family name on Spade's paternal side. \"Valentine\" was Spade's maternal grandfather's middle name, having been born on Valentine's Day. Spade later legally added Valentine to her full name. \n\nAfter Spade's death, the brand released a collection of designs called \"Love Katy\" in her memory. Spade had several years' worth of designs and inspirations for the brand, and the company plans to launch them.\n\nSpade married Andy Spade, the brother of actor/comedian David Spade, in 1994. They had separated a few months before her death. \n\nThe couple had one child, Frances Beatrix Spade, born in 2005. \n\nActress Rachel Brosnahan was Spade's niece.\n\nA housekeeper found Spade dead in her Manhattan apartment on June 5, 2018. Her death was ruled a suicide by hanging. Police reported she had left a note addressed to her daughter. The day after his wife's death, Andy Spade released a statement: \"Kate suffered from depression and anxiety for many years. She was actively seeking help and working closely with doctors to treat her disease, one that takes far too many lives. We were in touch with her the night before and she sounded happy. There was no indication and no warning that she would do this. It was a complete shock. And it clearly wasn't her. There were personal demons she was battling.\"Within a week of her death, the flagship Kate Spade New York store in Manhattan (and soon other stores nationwide) displayed a sign in its front window reading: \"Kate Spade, the visionary founder of our brand, has passed. Our thoughts are with her family at this incredibly heartbreaking time. We honor all the beauty she brought into this world\". \n\nIn 1996, the CFDA awarded Spade \"America's New Fashion Talent in Accessories\" for her classic designs. In 1998, the organization again honored her for \"Best Accessory Designer of the Year\".\n\nHer home collection won her three design awards in 2004, including, \"House Beautiful's\" \"Giants of Design Award for Tastemaker\", \"Bon Appétit\"s \"American Food and Entertaining Award for Designer of the Year\", and \"Elle Decor\"s \"Elle Decor International Design Award for Bedding\".\n\nIn 2017, she was inducted into the Entrepreneur Hall of Fame at the Henry W. Bloch School of Management at the University of Missouri, Kansas City.\n\nAlso in 2017, she was named one of the Most Creative People in Business by \"Fast Company\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1979213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979213", "title": "Transportation in New York City", "text": "Transportation in New York City\n\nThe transportation system of New York City is a network of complex infrastructural systems. New York City, being the most populous city in the United States, has a transportation system which includes one of the largest subway systems in the world; the world's first mechanically ventilated vehicular tunnel; and an aerial tramway. New York City is also home to an extensive bus system in each of the five boroughs; citywide and Staten Island ferry systems; and numerous yellow taxis and boro taxis throughout the city. Private cars are less used compared to other cities in the rest of the United States.\n\nWithin the New York City metropolitan area, the airport system—which includes John F. Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport (located in New Jersey), Stewart Airport and a few smaller facilities—is one of the largest in the world. The Port of New York and New Jersey, which includes the waterways around New York City and its metropolitan area, is one of the busiest seaports in the United States. There are also three commuter rail systems, the PATH rapid transit system to New Jersey, and various ferries between Manhattan and New Jersey. Numerous separate bus systems also operate to Westchester County, Nassau County, and New Jersey. For private vehicles, a system of expressways and parkways connects New York City with its suburbs.\n\nThe history of New York City's transportation system began with the Dutch port of Nieuw Amsterdam. The port had maintained several roads; some were built atop former Lenape trails, others as \"commuter\" links to surrounding cities, and one was even paved by 1658 from orders of Petrus Stuyvesant, according to Burrow, et al. The 19th century brought changes to the format of the system's transport: the establishment of a Manhattan street grid through the Commissioners' Plan of 1811, as well as an unprecedented link between the then-separate cities of New York and Brooklyn via the Brooklyn Bridge, in 1883.\n\nThe Second Industrial Revolution fundamentally changed the city – the port infrastructure grew at such a rapid pace after the 1825 completion of the Erie Canal that New York became the most important connection between all of Europe and the interior of the United States. Elevated trains and subterranean transportation ('El trains' and 'subways') were introduced between 1867 and 1904. In 1904, the first subway line became operational. Practical private automobiles brought an additional change for the city by around 1930, notably 1927 Holland Tunnel. With automobiles gaining importance, the later rise of Robert Moses was essential to creating New York's modern road infrastructure. Moses was the architect of all of the parkway, many other important roads, and seven great bridges.\n\nNew York City is distinguished from other U.S. cities for its low personal automobile ownership and its significant use of public transportation. New York City has, by far, the highest rate of public transportation use of any American city, with 67.2% of workers commuting to work by this means in 2006. About one in every three users of mass transit in the United States and two-thirds of the nation's rail riders live in New York City or its suburbs. However, New York City also has the longest mean travel time for commuters (39 minutes) among major U.S. cities.\n\nNew York is the only city in the United States where over half of all households do not own a car (Manhattan's non-ownership is even higher, around 75%; nationally, the rate is 8%). However, absolute figures for car ownership are still high when compared to other cities: in 2019, 55% of households were not car owners, indicating that 45% of households did own a car.\n\nNew York City's uniquely high rate of public transit use makes it one of the most energy-efficient cities in the United States. Gasoline consumption in the city today is at the rate of the national average in the 1920s. New York City's high rate of transit use saved of oil in 2006 and $4.6 billion in gasoline costs. New York saves half of all the oil saved by transit nationwide.\n\nThe reduction in oil consumption meant 11.8 million metric tons of carbon dioxide was kept out of the air. The New York City metro area was ranked by the Brookings Institution as the U.S. metro area with the lowest per-capita transportation-related carbon footprint and as the fourth lowest overall per-capita carbon footprint in 2005 among the 100 largest metro areas of the United States, outranked only by Honolulu, Los Angeles and Portland.\n\nThe city's transportation system, and the population density it makes possible, also have other effects. Scientists at Columbia University examined data from 13,102 adults in the city's five boroughs and identified correlations between New York's built environment and public health. New Yorkers residing in densely populated, pedestrian-friendly areas have significantly lower body mass index (BMI) levels compared to other New Yorkers. Three characteristics of the city environment—living in areas with mixed residential and commercial uses, living near bus and subway stops and living in population-dense areas—were found to be inversely associated with BMI levels.\n\nDespite the energy efficiency that results from high transit use, the city's streets are generally seen as being dangerous to pedestrians and cyclists. , there are on average 225,000 crashes, 61,000 injuries, and 200+ deaths due to automobiles every year in New York City. Approximately 75% of city street space is devoted to moving cars and trucks at speed and parking these vehicles, while the other 25% of the street is left for pedestrians, bikes, and store fronts.\n\nOf all people who commute to work in New York City, 39% use the subway, 23% drive alone, 11% take the bus, 9% walk to work, 7% travel by commuter rail, 4% carpool, 1.6% use a taxi, 1.1% ride their bicycle to work, and 0.4% travel by ferry. 54% of households in New York City do not own a car, and rely on public transportation.\n\nWhile the so-called car culture dominates in most American cities, mass transit has a defining influence on New York life. The subway is a popular location for politicians to meet voters during elections and is also a major venue for musicians. Each week, more than 100 musicians and ensembles – ranging in genre from classical to Cajun, bluegrass, African, South American and jazz – give over 150 performances sanctioned by New York City Transit, under the Music Under New York program, at a few dozen locations throughout the subway system.\n\n3.7 million people were employed in New York City; Manhattan is the main employment center with 56% of all jobs. Of those working in Manhattan, 30% commute from within Manhattan, while 17% come from Queens, 16% from Brooklyn, 8% from the Bronx, and 2.5% from Staten Island. Another 4.5% commute to Manhattan from Nassau County and 2% from Suffolk County on Long Island, while 4% commute from Westchester County. 5% commute from Bergen and Hudson counties in New Jersey. Some commuters come from Fairfield County in Connecticut. Some New Yorkers reverse commute to the suburbs: 3% travel to Nassau County, 1.5% to Westchester County, 0.7% to Hudson County, 0.6% to Bergen County, 0.5% to Suffolk County, and smaller percentages to other places in the metropolitan area.\n\nOn average, New Yorkers spend 1 hour and 27 minutes per weekday commuting with public transit. Of these, 31% ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 15 minutes, but 23% of riders wait for an average of over 20 minutes. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is .\n\nThe Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) operates most of New York City's transit systems. Using census data, the MTA reported in August 2006 that ridership on its buses, subways and commuter trains in recent years has grown faster than population growth, indicating that more New Yorkers are choosing to use mass transit, despite the poor service in some areas of New York City by mass transit. The MTA attributed the ridership gains to the introduction of the MetroCard in 1993, and the replacement of more than 2,800 rolling stock since 2000.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, the authority said, ridership on city buses and subways grew by 36%, compared with a population gain in the city of 7%. In the suburbs, it said, a 14% increase in ridership on Metro-North and the Long Island Rail Road outpaced a suburban population gain of 6%. With dramatic increases in fuel prices in 2008, as well as increased tourism and residential growth, ridership on buses and subways grew 3.1% up to about 2.37 billion trips a year compared to 2007. This is the highest ridership since 1965.\n\nIn 2013, ridership on the New York City Subway was 1.7 billion, the highest ridership since 1946, despite Hurricane Sandy-related subway closures. Ridership in city buses was 803 million.\n\nOver 5 million people ride the transit network each weekday, and the system is a major venue for commerce, entertainment, and political activism. Much of the city, excluding Staten Island, relies on the subway, which is open 24 hours a day, as its main source of transportation. Campaigning at subway stations is a staple of New York elections akin to candidate appearances at small town diners during presidential campaigns in the rest of the country. Each week, more than 100 musicians and ensembles – ranging in genre from classical to Cajun, bluegrass, African, South American, and jazz – give over 150 performances sanctioned by New York City Transit at 25 locations throughout the subway system, many under the Music Under New York program. There are many more who are unauthorized performers called buskers, who range from professionals putting on an impromptu show to panhandlers seeking donations by way of performance.\n\nOne outcome of the city's extensive mass transit use is a robust local newspaper industry. The readership of many New York dailies consists in large part by transit riders who read during their commutes. The three-day transit strike in December 2005 briefly depressed circulation figures, underscoring the relationship between the city's commuting culture and newspaper readership.\n\nThe subways of New York have been venues for beauty pageants and guerrilla theater. The MTA's annual Miss Subways contest ran from 1941 to 1976 and again in 2004 (under the revised name \"Ms. Subways\").\n\nThe subways and commuter rail systems also have some artworks in their stations, commissioned under the MTA Arts & Design umbrella.\n\nThe dominant mode of transportation in New York City is rail. Only 6% of shopping trips in Manhattan's Central Business District involve the use of a car. The city's public transportation network is the most extensive and among the oldest in North America. Responsibility for managing the various components of the system falls to several government agencies. The largest and most important is the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), a public benefit corporation in the state of New York, which runs two of the city's three rapid transit systems, most of its buses, and two of its three commuter rail networks. Ridership in the city increased 36% to 2.2 billion annual riders from 1995 to 2005, far outpacing population growth.\nAverage weekday subway ridership was 5.076 million in September 2006, while combined subway and bus ridership on an average weekday that month was 7.61 million.\n\nThe New York City Subway is the largest subway system in the world when measured by number of stations (), and the eighth-largest when measured by annual ridership (1.76 billion passenger trips in 2015). It is the second-oldest subway system in the United States after the rapid transit system in Boston. In 2002, an average 4.8 million passengers used the subway each weekday. During one day in September 2005, 7.5 million daily riders set a record for ridership. In 2013, the subway delivered over 1.71 billion rides, averaging approximately 5.5 million rides on weekdays, about 3.2 million rides on Saturdays, and about 2.6 million rides on Sundays. Ridership has been consistently increasing over the last several years, especially because of rising gas prices and the subway's energy efficiency. Life in New York City is so dependent on the subway that the city is home to three of only five 24-hour subway systems in the USA. The city's subway services run through all boroughs except Staten Island, which is served 24/7 by the Staten Island Railway.\n\nSubway riders pay with the MetroCard, which is also valid on all other rapid transit systems and buses in the city, as well as the Roosevelt Island tramway. The MetroCard has completely replaced tokens, which were used in the past, to pay fares. Fares are loaded electronically on the card. By 2023, a contactless system called OMNY will replace the MetroCard.\n\nThe Port Authority Trans-Hudson (PATH) is a rapid transit system that links Manhattan to Jersey City, Hoboken, Harrison and Newark, in New Jersey. A primary transit link between Manhattan and New Jersey, PATH carries 240,000 passengers each weekday on four lines.\n\nWhile some PATH stations are adjacent to subway stations in New York City and Newark as well as Hudson-Bergen Light Rail stations in Hudson County, there are no free transfers. The PATH system spans 13.8 miles (22.2 km) of route mileage, not including track overlap. Like the New York City Subway, PATH operates 24 hours a day. Opened in 1908 as the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad, a privately owned corporation, PATH since 1962 has been operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.\nJohn F. Kennedy and Newark Liberty airports are served by intermodal rail systems. AirTrain JFK is an 8.1 mi (13 km) rapid transit system that connects 24 hours a day Kennedy to New York's subway and commuter rail network in Queens. It also provides free transit between airport terminals. For trips beyond the airport, the train costs $7.75. Roughly 4 million people rode the AirTrain to and from Kennedy in 2006, an increase of about 15% over 2005. AirTrain Newark is a 1.9-mile (3 km) monorail system connecting Newark's three terminals to commuter and intercity trains running on the Northeast Corridor rail line.\nNew York City's commuter rail system is the most extensive in the United States, with about 250 stations and 20 rail lines serving more than 150 million commuters annually in the tri-state region. Commuter rail service from the suburbs is operated by two agencies. The MTA operates the Long Island Rail Road on Long Island and the Metro-North Railroad in the Hudson Valley and Connecticut. New Jersey Transit operates the rail network west of the Hudson River. These rail systems converge at the two busiest train stations in the United States, Penn Station and Grand Central Terminal, both in Manhattan.\n\nIn addition, connections are available to nearby commuter rail systems: Southeast Connecticut's Shore Line East in New Haven, and Southeast Pennsylvania's SEPTA in Trenton, New Jersey. Service is being considered to Northeast Pennsylvania as far as Scranton, Pennsylvania via the Lackawanna Cut-Off.\n\nWhile rail freight transportation in New York City and Long Island has atrophied (most freight activity takes place in northern New Jersey), the city has more frequent passenger rail service (intercity and commuter) than anywhere else in the nation. Intercity service is provided by Amtrak. Fifty-four trains run each day on the busiest route—the Northeast Corridor from New York to Philadelphia. For trips of less than to other Northeastern cities, Amtrak is often cheaper and faster than air travel. Amtrak accounts for 47% of all non-automobile intercity trips between New York and Washington, D.C. and about 14% of all intercity trips (including those by automobile) between those cities. Amtrak's high-speed Acela trains run from New York to Boston and Washington, D.C., via the Northeast Corridor, using tilting technology and fast electric locomotives. New York City's Penn Station is the busiest Amtrak station in the United States by annual boardings. In 2004 it saw 4.4 million passenger boardings, more than double the next busiest station, Union Station in Washington, D.C.\n\nOvernight trains connect New York City with Chicago (where numerous connections are available to the west coast services), Atlanta, New Orleans, and Miami. There are two daily trains to Miami, one daily train to Charlotte, and one daily train to Savannah. Chicago is connected with New York City by two trains: one runs daily via Upstate New York and Cleveland, while another runs three times a week on a longer route via Cincinnati. Major destinations with frequent service include Albany, Baltimore, Boston, Harrisburg, Philadelphia, Providence, and Washington, D.C. There are also international daily trains to Toronto and Montreal in Canada, via the Empire Corridor to Albany and points west.\n, over 5,710 MTA Regional Bus Operations-operated buses carried about 2.5 million daily passengers 24/7 on more than 238 local routes, 62 express routes, and 7 Select Bus Service routes, amounting to 793 million annual bus trips. Buses owned by MTA account for 80% of the city's surface mass transit. New York City has the largest clean-air diesel-hybrid and compressed natural gas bus fleet in the United States. Local bus routes are labeled with a number and a prefix identifying the primary borough (B for Brooklyn, Bx for the Bronx, M for Manhattan, Q for Queens, and S for Staten Island). Express bus routes operated under MTA New York City Bus use the letter X rather than a borough label. Express bus routes operated under MTA Bus (formerly controlled by the NYC Department of Transportation) use a two-borough system with an M at the end (i.e., BM, BxM, SIM, or QM). Additionally, MTA offers precise bus arrival time using QR code located at each stop. Some stops also have digital panels indicating arrival times.\n\nNew York Waterway operates connecting bus routes to/from the West Midtown Ferry Terminal and East 34th Street Ferry Landing.\n\nPrivate bus companies Hampton Jitney and Hampton Luxury Liner operate daily, year-round service from points on the east side of Manhattan to the villages and hamlets of Long Island's east end, including the Hamptons, Montauk, and the North Fork. Hampton Jitney also runs limited service to and from Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn.\n\nSeveral Chinatown bus lines, which began operating in 1997, offer curbside intercity coach service, mainly to Chinatown and Midtown Manhattan. Two discount intercity bus services, BoltBus and Megabus, have provided bus service between New York City and several other U.S. cities since 2008. In addition, Tripper Bus and Vamoose Bus provide bus service between New York City and the Washington, D.C. suburbs of Arlington, Virginia, and Bethesda, Maryland. BestBus provides daily service from a stop along West 34th Street near 9th Avenue to Washington, D.C., Silver Spring, Maryland, and Manassas, Vienna, and Springfield in Virginia and summer weekend service to Rehoboth Beach and Dewey Beach in Delaware.\n\nOther transit in the city includes:\n\nThere are several major transit terminals in the New York metropolitan area. They include train stations, bus terminals, and ferry landings.\n\nMajor rail stations include:\n\nMajor bus hubs include:\n\nThe busiest ferry in the United States is the Staten Island Ferry, which annually carries over 19 million passengers on the 5.2 mile (8.4 km) run between St. George Ferry Terminal and South Ferry. Service is provided 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and takes approximately 25 minutes each way. Each day eight boats transport almost 65,000 passengers during 104 boat trips. Over 33,000 trips are made annually. The Ferry has remained free of charge since 1997. Vehicles have not been allowed on the Ferry since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, though bicycles are permitted on the lower level at no cost. The ferry ride is a favorite of tourists as it provides excellent views of the Lower Manhattan skyline and the Statue of Liberty.\n\nSince the 1980s ferry service on the Hudson River and East River has been restored and significantly expanded providing regular service to points in Manhattan, mostly below 42nd Street. Pier 11 at Wall Street, East 34th Street Ferry Landing, West Midtown Ferry Terminal and Battery Park City Ferry Terminal are major embarkation points. The terminals are run in public-private partnership with privately owned carriers.\n\nIn February 2015, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that the city government would begin NYC Ferry to extend ferry transportation to traditionally underserved communities in the city. The first routes of NYC Ferry opened in 2017. All of the system's routes have termini in Manhattan, with routes reaching to Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx, as well as a future Staten Island route.\n\nUnder the NY Waterway logo, routes are run to Hoboken Terminal, Weehawken Port Imperial, Edgewater Landing, and Paulus Hook Ferry Terminal as well as other ferry slips along the west bank of the Hudson in New Jersey. Its East River shuttles between Wall Street and East 34th Street call at four slips in Brooklyn and Queens. It also operates routes to the Raritan Bayshore.\n\nSeaStreak runs to the Raritan Bayshore, supplementing the unaffiliated NY Waterway service. However, from 2012 to 2014, it also ran weekday morning and afternoon/evening service between East 34th Street and Pier 11 in Manhattan and Rockaway Park, Queens, with a stop at Brooklyn Army Terminal. The service began in late 2012 in the wake of massive subway infrastructure damage and service disruptions in Queens and Brooklyn from Hurricane Sandy, and was originally intended only as a temporary transportation alternative until subway service was restored, but it proved to be popular and was extended several times after that. However, it was ultimately discontinued in October 2014, despite vigorous efforts by local transportation advocates, civic leaders and elected officials to convince the city government to continue funding the subsidized service.\n\nNew York Water Taxi makes an East River crossing to Red Hook. Liberty Water Taxi travels between BPC Ferry Terminal and Liberty State Park in Jersey City stopping at Paulus Hook. The companies also run seasonal excursions, notably to the Yankee Stadium and Gateway National Recreation Area beaches.\n\nAdditionally, there is year-round ferry service to Ellis Island and Liberty Island and seasonal service to Governor's Island. Circle Line Downtown and Circle Line Sightseeing operate tourist routes into the Upper New York Bay or circumnavigate Manhattan.\n\nFerry landings include:\n\nDespite New York's reliance on public transit, roads are a defining feature of the city. Manhattan's street grid plan greatly influenced the city's physical development. Several of the city's streets and avenues, like Broadway, Wall Street and Madison Avenue are also used as shorthand or metonym in American vernacular for national industries located there: theater, finance, and advertising, respectively.\n\nIn Manhattan, there are twelve numbered avenues that run parallel to the Hudson River, and 220 numbered streets that run perpendicular to the river.\n\nAn advanced convergence indexing road traffic monitoring system was installed in New York City for testing purposes in May 2008.\n\nTo keep roadways, tunnels, and bridges safe for pedestrians and drivers, New York City has made efficient use of timers to regulate traffic lighting and help conserve energy.\n\nWith its Gothic-revival double-arched stone towers and diagonal suspension wires, the Brooklyn Bridge is one of the city's most recognized architectural structures, depicted by artists such as Hart Crane and Georgia O'Keeffe. The Brooklyn Bridge's main span is , and was the longest in the world when it was completed. The Williamsburg Bridge and Manhattan Bridge are the two others in the trio of architecturally notable East River crossings. The Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge, which links Manhattan and Queens, is an important piece of cantilever bridge design. The borough of Staten Island is connected to Brooklyn through the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. The George Washington Bridge, spanning the Hudson River between New York City and Fort Lee, New Jersey, is the world's busiest bridge in terms of vehicular traffic.\n\nNew York has historically been a pioneer in tunnel construction. Most carry rail lines, but there are four exceptions. The Lincoln Tunnel, which carries 120,000 vehicles per day under the Hudson River between New Jersey and Manhattan, is the world's busiest vehicular tunnel. The Holland Tunnel, also under the Hudson River, was the first mechanically ventilated vehicular tunnel in the world and is considered a National Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Two other notable tunnels connect Manhattan to other places; one is the Queens Midtown Tunnel, and the other is the Hugh L. Carey Tunnel. At 9,117 feet (2,779 m), the Hugh L. Carey Tunnel (formerly the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel) is the longest underwater tunnel in North America.\n\nA less favored alternative to commuting by rail and boat is the New York region's expressway network, designed by Robert Moses. The city's extensive network of expressways includes four primary Interstate Highways: Interstate 78, Interstate 80, Interstate 87 and Interstate 95. Interstate 78 and Interstate 87, which have, respectively, their eastern and southern termini in the city, as well as Interstate 95 enter the city limits, while Interstate 80's eastern terminus is in Teaneck, New Jersey. I-278 and I-287 each serve as a partial beltway around the city; Interstate 278 in Staten Island, Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx, and Interstate 287 in Westchester County, Rockland County, and Northern New Jersey. I-495 begins at the Queens Midtown Tunnel as the Queens-Midtown Expressway, becomes the Horace Harding Expressway between Queens Blvd and the Nassau County limits and finally becomes the Long Island Expressway into the Long Island suburbs. The 'LIE' moniker is commonly used by denizens of the city to describe the entire length of highway.\n\nNew York's limited-access parkways, another Moses Project, are frequently congested as well, despite being designed from the outset to only carry cars, as opposed to commercial trucks or buses. The FDR Drive (originally known as the East River Drive) and Harlem River Drive are two such routes that run along the eastern edge of Manhattan. The Henry Hudson Parkway, the Bronx River Parkway and the Hutchinson River Parkway link the Bronx to nearby Westchester County and its parkways; the Grand Central Parkway and Belt Parkway provide similar functions for Long Island's parkway system.\n\nThe city's traffic lights are controlled from a Department of Transportation center in Long Island City, with frequent adjustments to alleviate the city's chronic congestion.\n\nAround 48% of New Yorkers own cars, yet fewer than 30% use them to commute to work, most finding public transportation cheaper and more convenient for that purpose, due in large part to traffic congestion which also slows buses. To ease traffic, the Mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, in 2007 proposed congestion pricing for motor vehicles entering Manhattan's business district from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. However, this proposal was defeated when Sheldon Silver, Speaker of the New York State Assembly, announced that the bill would not come up for a vote in his chamber.\n\nThe number of gas stations in Manhattan is 40 and falling, causing congestion around them.\n\nAlthough the rate of electric vehicle ownership in New York City is low compared to the rate of ownership of traditional gas vehicles, there were over 3,000 electric vehicles registered to New York City and Westchester residents between 2011 and 2014, out of almost 300,000 total vehicles registered during this time. There were over 200 public charging stations in New York City, including 105 charging stations in Manhattan, by the end of March 2016. Most charging stations are 208 V or 240 V \"Level 2 chargers,\" but there are also 120 V \"Level 1 chargers\" in private homes and workplaces; 480 V \"DC fast chargers\" in some locations; and several Tesla Superchargers around the city, for use only by Tesla, Inc.-manufactured vehicles.\n\nCongestion pricing in New York City was a proposed traffic congestion fee for vehicles traveling into or within lower and midtown Manhattan. The congestion pricing charge was one component of Mayor Michael Bloomberg's plan to improve the city's future environmental sustainability while planning for population growth, entitled \"PlaNYC 2030: A Greener, Greater New York.\" However, it was not approved as it was never put to a vote on the Assembly.\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, the growth of e-commerce companies such as Amazon has resulted in an increase in delivery trucks within New York City, with 1.5 million packages being delivered per day by 2019. Several logistics hubs and warehouses have been built within the city to more quickly distribute packages in the New York City area. In 2016, NYCDOT commissioner Polly Trottenberg said that 90% of goods transported into New York City arrived via truck.\n\nThe influx of large motor vehicles on the already constricted city streets has had a considerable effect on the flow of traffic. In the most congested areas of Manhattan traffic vehicle traffic moves 23% slower than it has from 2010 to 2019, and for the bridges and tunnels funneling traffic to and from the city, traffic has slowed down even more considerably. As a result, traffic-related pollution increased around 9% from 1990 to 2019, even when adjusted for population growth.\n\nThough it is legal for delivery trucks to double park in most locations while making deliveries during off-peak hours, this often leads to congestion on the surrounding streets when double parking occurs during peak hours. There are often complaints that delivery trucks take up bike lanes and parking spaces. In 2018 alone, four delivery companies (UPS, FedEx, FreshDirect, and Peapod) were fined a combined $27 million due to parking and traffic violations. However, some delivery companies continued to double-park, incorporating any double-parking fines into the delivery fee. Further, the city's Stipulated Parking Fine Program allows drivers to eliminate their previous double-parking violations by paying a predetermined fine without challenging it in court. As a result, in 2019, the NYCDOT started enforcing rules to restrict deliveries in the midtown zone during peak hours, impose a time limit on deliveries, and ban commercial double-parking on streets with one lane of traffic. To reduce peak-hour traffic and truck emissions, the NYCDOT also operates the Off-Hour Deliveries Program in Manhattan's midtown zone, which requires deliveries in that zone to be made between 7 pm to 6 am.\n\nThere are 13,237 taxis operating in New York City, not including over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles. Their distinctive yellow paint has made them New York icons.\n\nTaxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission. \"Medallion taxis\", the familiar yellow cabs, are historically the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail. In 2013, a new type of street hailed livery vehicles called \"boro taxis\" in \"apple green\" color are permitted to pick up passengers in the outer boroughs and the northern part of Manhattan. A cab's availability is indicated by the light on the top of the car. When the light is lit, the cab is empty and available; when it is not lit, the cab is unavailable.\n\nFares begin at US$3.00 and increase based on the distance traveled and time spent in slow traffic. The passenger also must pay for tolls incurred during the ride. The average cab fare in 2000 was US$6.00; over US$1 billion in fares were paid that year in total.\n\nSince 1999, 241 million passengers have ridden in taxis in New York City. According to the 2000 U.S. Census, of the 42,000 cabbies in New York, 82% are foreign born: 23% from the Caribbean (the Dominican Republic and Haiti), and 20% from South Asia (India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh). Additionally, a large number of American citizen taxi drivers in New York are Puerto Rican or of Puerto Rican descent. In 2014, 23.1% of taxi drivers were from Bangladesh, 13.2% from Pakistan, 9.3% from India, 6.5% from Haiti, 5.9% from the U.S., and 4.4% from Egypt.\n\nIn 2005, New York introduced incentives to replace its current yellow cabs with electric hybrid vehicles then in May 2007, New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, proposed a five-year plan to switch New York City's taxicabs to more fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles as part of an agenda for New York City to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as surging fuel costs. In 2010, Nissan won a contract to provide the New York with a design based on their NV200 minivan model.\n\nCycling in New York City is a rapidly growing mode of transport. In 2009, an estimated 200,000 city residents bicycle on a typical day, and make 655,000 trips each day, greater than the number of the ten most popular bus routes in the city.\n\nThe city annually hosts the largest recreational cycling event in the United States, the Five Boro Bike Tour, in which 30,000 cyclists ride through the city's boroughs.\n\nMore than 500 people annually work as bicycle rickshaw, or pedicab, drivers, who in 2005 handled one million passengers. The City Council voted twice, including an override of Mayor Bloomberg's veto due to the market cap, in 2007 to license pedicab owners and drivers and allow only 325 pedicab licenses. Neither the limit on pedicabs nor the law itself went into effect due to a successful New York City Pedicab Owners' Association lawsuit over permit issuance. Ultimately, 943 pedicab business owners permits were issued in November 2009 after a second law was passed to address shortcomings of the 2007 law. Today, pedicabs meet market demand in midtown for both ecological transport as well as quick trips within the central business district during afternoon rush hours when motor traffic moves cross town at an average speed of 4.5 miles per hour.\n\nWalk and bicycle modes of travel account for 21% of all modes for trips in the city; nationally the rate for metro regions is about 8%. In 2000 New York had the largest number of walking commuters among large American cities in both total number and as a proportion of all commuters: 517,290, or 5.6%. By way of comparison, the next city with the largest proportion of walking commuters, Boston, had 119,294 commuter pedestrians, amounting to 4.1% of that city's commuters.\n\nCitibank sponsored the introduction of 6,000 public bicycles for the city's bike-share project, Citi Bike, in mid-2013. Research conducted by Quinnipiac University showed that a majority of New Yorkers supported the initiative. Throughout the first year operations, there were more than 100,000 registered members who rode over , including 70,000 members in the first three months alone. In 2014, Citi Bike announced that it would expand its operations by 6,000 bikes and add 375 new docking stations by 2017. In November 2018, a further, five-year expansion was announced, which would double the bike-share system's service area to . In addition, the number of bicycles would more than triple, from 12,000 to 40,000. Stalls would be installed in the remainder of Manhattan, as well as parts of Brooklyn, Queens, and the Bronx.\n\nA \"green wave\" refers to the programming of traffic lights to allow for continuous traffic flow (a series of green lights) over a number of intersections in one direction. In New York City, this “green wave” prioritizes bikers by timing traffic lights around the average biking speed, in addition to mitigating the negative effects of heavy automotive congestion.After a series of bicyclist deaths in 2019, the highest death toll for cyclists in two decades, the city decided to retime traffic lights, so that vehicles would have to travel an average of between consecutive green lights.\n\nNew York City has many forms of semi-formal and informal public transportation, including \"dollar vans\", or \"jitneys\". Dollar vans serve major areas in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx that lack adequate subway service. In 2006, the New York City Council began debate on greater industry regulation, including requiring all dollar vans to be painted in a specific color to make them easier to recognize, similar to the public light buses in Hong Kong. The vans pick up and drop off anywhere along a route, and payment is made at the end of a trip.\n\nSimilar to dollar vans, Chinese vans serve predominantly Chinese communities in Chinatown; Flushing; Sunset Park; Elmhurst; Bensonhurst and Homecrest.\n\nJitney buses also provide frequent, essential transportation to parts of Hudson County and Bergen County in New Jersey. Of particular note is the frequent Interstate express service offered along New Jersey Route 4 between the George Washington Bridge Bus Terminal and Paterson, New Jersey, provided by Spanish Transportation.\n\nHighly competitive Chinatown bus lines operate routes from New York City's Chinatowns to other Chinatowns in the Northeast, with frequent service to major cities like Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington, D.C. These companies use full-size coaches and offer fares much lower than traditional carriers like Greyhound and Coach USA, who in turn have gone after the Chinatown carriers by offering online fares as low as $1 on BoltBus, NeOn, and Megabus services.\n\nBuilt in 1976 to shuttle island residents to Midtown, the Roosevelt Island Tramway was originally intended to be a temporary commuter link for use until a subway station was established for the island. However, when the subway finally connected to Roosevelt Island in 1989, the tram was too popular to discontinue use.\n\nThe Tramway is operated by the Roosevelt Island Operating Corp (RIOC). Each cable car has a capacity of 125 passengers. Travel time from Roosevelt Island to Manhattan is just under five minutes and the fare is the same as a subway ride.\n\nIn 2006, service was suspended on the tramway for six months after a service malfunction that required all passengers to be evacuated.\n\nNew York City is the top international air passenger gateway to the United States. New York is the busiest air gateway in the nation. In 2011 more than 104 million passengers used the major airports serving the city, John F. Kennedy International (also known as JFK), Newark Liberty International, and LaGuardia. Teterboro serves as a primary general aviation airport. JFK and Newark both connect to regional rail systems by a light rail service.\n\nJFK and Newark serve long-haul domestic and international flights. The two airports' outbound international travel accounted for about a quarter of all U.S. travelers who went overseas in 2004. LaGuardia caters to short-haul and domestic destinations.\n\nJFK is the major entry point for international arrivals in the United States and is the largest international air freight gateway in the nation by value of shipments. About 100 airlines from more than 50 countries operate direct flights to JFK. The JFK-London Heathrow route is the leading U.S. international airport pair. The airport is located along Jamaica Bay near Howard Beach, Queens, about east of downtown Manhattan.\n\nNewark was the first major airport serving New York City and is the fifth busiest international air gateway to the United States. Amelia Earhart dedicated the Newark Airport Administration Building in 1935, which was North America's first commercial airline terminal. In 2003, Newark became the terminus of the world's longest non-stop scheduled airline route, Continental's service to Hong Kong. In 2004, Singapore Airlines broke Continental's record by starting direct 18-hour flights from Newark to Singapore. The airport is located in Newark, New Jersey, about west of downtown Manhattan.\n\nLaGuardia, the smallest of New York's primary airports, handles domestic flights. It is named for Fiorello H. LaGuardia, the city's great Depression-era mayor known as a reformist and strong supporter of the New Deal. A perimeter rule prohibits incoming and outgoing flights that exceed 1,500 miles (2,400 km) except on Saturdays, when the ban is lifted, and to Denver, which has a grandfathered exemption. As a result, most transcontinental and international flights use JFK and Newark. The airport is located in northern Queens about from downtown Manhattan. Plans were announced in July 2015 to entirely rebuild LaGuardia Airport in a multibillion-dollar project to replace its aging facilities.\n\nManhattan has three public heliports, used mostly by business travelers. A regularly scheduled helicopter service operates flights to JFK Airport from the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, located at the eastern end of Wall Street. There are also the East 34th Street Heliport and the West 30th Street Heliport\n\nThe Port of New York and New Jersey, with its natural advantages of deep water channels and protection from the Atlantic Ocean, has historically been one of the most important ports in the United States, and is now the third busiest in the United States behind South Louisiana and Houston, Texas in volume of cargo. In 2011, more than 34 million tons of oceanborne general cargo moved through the port. Bulk cargo represented another 52 million tons per year. Some 367,000 vehicles were imported and 284,000 were exported. In 2005 more than 5,300 ships delivered to the port goods that went to 35% of the U.S. population. The port is experiencing rapid growth. Shipments increased 5.2% in 2011. There are three cargo terminals on the New York City side of the harbor, including the Howland Hook Marine Terminal on Staten Island, and the combined Red Hook Container Terminal/Brooklyn Marine Terminal. Several additional larger cargo terminals and a passenger terminal are on the New Jersey side.\n\nOriginally focused on Brooklyn's waterfront, especially at the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park, most container ship cargo operations have shifted to the Port Newark-Elizabeth Marine Terminal on Newark Bay. The terminal, operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, is the largest port complex on the East Coast, with 4.3 million TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units) of containerized cargo, which accounts for 61% of the North Atlantic container market. $208 billion of cargo passed through the Port of New York and New Jersey in 2011. The top five trading partners at the port are China, India, Italy, Germany, and Brazil.\n\nThe New York Harbor is also a major hub for passenger ships. More than half a million people depart annually from Manhattan's New York Passenger Ship Terminal on the Hudson River, accounting for five percent of the worldwide cruise industry and employing 21,000 residents in the city. The \"Queen Mary 2\", the world's second largest passenger ship and one of the few traditional ocean liners still in service, was designed specifically to fit under the Verrazano Bridge, itself the longest suspension bridge in the United States. The Brooklyn Cruise Terminal is her regular port of call for transatlantic runs from Southampton, England. Cape Liberty Cruise Port in Bayonne is the third passenger terminal servicing the city.\n\nWater quality in the New York Harbor improved dramatically in the late 20th century. New Yorkers regularly kayak and sail in the harbor, which has become a major recreational site for the city.\n\nSeveral proposals for expanding the New York City transit system are in various stages of discussion, planning, or initial funding. Some proposals will compete with others for available funding:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979216", "title": "Members of the 13th Dáil", "text": "Members of the 13th Dáil\n\nThis is a list of members who were elected to the 13th Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Oireachtas (legislature) of Ireland. These TDs (Members of Parliament) were elected at the 1948 general election on 4 February 1948 and met on 18 February 1948. The 13th Dáil was dissolved by President Seán T. O'Kelly, at the request of the Taoiseach John A. Costello on 7 May 1951. The 13th Dáil lasted 1,211 days.\n\nGovernment coalition parties denoted with bullets (•)\n\nThis is a graphical comparison of party strengths in the 13th Dáil from February 1948.\n\nThe list of the 147 TDs elected, is given in alphabetical order by constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979219", "title": "Catheys Valley, California", "text": "Catheys Valley, California\n\nCatheys Valley (formerly, Cathay and Cathey's Valley) is a census-designated place in Mariposa County, California. It lies in Catheys Valley 22 miles (35.2 km) northeast of Merced, and southwest of Mariposa, at an elevation of 1325 feet (404 m). As of the 2010 census, Catheys Valley had a population of 825. Catheys Valley was named after Andrew Cathey, a native of North Carolina, who settled in the valley around 1850. The ZIP Code is 95306. The community is inside area code 209.\n\nCathey's Valley was named after Andrew D. Cathey, born in 1804 in Buncombe, North Carolina. He married Mary Deaver in 1828. Andrew was an adventurous young man in his early life. He decided to leave North Carolina on an exploratory trip to California with the Rowland-Hammond-Wills families from Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia. Their wagons loaded with household goods, they blazed a trail southward finally settling in Benton, Arkansas.\n\nWhen the Gold Rush began in 1849, many men left their families in search of gold. Andrew, his son Daniel, and son-in-law Benjamin Wills, traveled by river boat from Fort Smith Arkansas to New Orleans and then took a ship to the Isthmus of Panama. In Panama, they boarded another ship bound for San Francisco; from there they caught a stage overland to Indian Gulch, Mariposa County, California.\n\nIn 1851, Andrew returned to Arkansas for his family. The Cathey-Wills, Rowland, Hammond, families organized a wagon train to California. Some of the families were those who had come from North Carolina earlier, leaving the Hammonds to start from Collegeville, Arkansas.\n\nAndrew Cathey was appointed Captain of the Cathey-Wills wagon train. About twenty families traveled in covered wagons pulled by oxen. Horses were used to drive the approximate thirty head of cattle. It is said that only one steer was lost on the entire trip, and it was believed stolen by the Indians.\n\nA trip journal shows that they traveled to Fort Smith, Arkansas where they re-grouped and purchased supplies for the trip that began on April 2. They traveled the southern route through Ft. Bliss near El Paso, Fort Tucson, Arizona, then began following the Gila River, an alternative to the Santa Fe Trail. As the wagon train moved across the land, more people joined them. Special duties were assigned to everyone. When they reached the Rio Grande, the wagon beds had to be taken apart and all bolt holes were tightly plugged with wooden pegs. The cracks were caulked with what they had available. Together, they formed a ferry-like raft to transport their families, their livestock, and household goods across the river. The Geary's had started out with the Oatman family. The Oatman's had been warned the Indians were on the warpath. the Geary's joined with the Cathey wagon train and later they came upon the aftermath of the Oatman Wagon Train. Upon seeing the burned wagons and recognizing Mrs. Oatmans clothing, Mrs Geary she was overcome with grief. Although the Cathey's never encountered any hostility by the Indians.\n\nThe wagon party took only a very few days off to wash clothes and rest the oxen. It is said many of the women walked barefoot. One serious threat was when their water barrels began to get low, an order was given: no more water. People and animals were rationed only one or two sips when it was really needed. It had been days since they crossed a stream and mountains were still some distance away. After they had almost given up hope of finding water, one of the teamsmen suddenly noticed his oxen raised their heads and sniffed the air. In good judgment, the teamsman gave the oxen their reign. They immediately left the trail, and on top of a knoll, under a large rock was a basin full of fresh water!\n\nAfter leaving Ft. Yuma, a Mrs. Warner, who had just buried a child en route in New Mexico, gave birth to another child. The family continued on to El Monte, in southern California. The Wills family broke away from the wagon train. The remaining wagon party traveled over the Tejon Pass, across the San Joaquin Valley to just below Millertown, where they crossed over the San Joaquin River. They proceeded north, crossing over Mariposa Creek and through the McDermott place, up Bear Creek, and on to Indian Gulch where they arrived on October 27, 1852. It was a long, arduous journey of living in tents and wagons for two years and enduring countless hardships. They sold milk from their herd to the miners.\n\nCathey's Valley Named After Andrew Cathey and his sons- In 1854, Andrew D. Cathey purchased a ranch from a Mr. Evans. Evans drove a hard bargain and Andrew finally agreed to pay him $1,500 for a quit-claim. This became Andrew and his wife Mary's first, new, real home. Her sons lived at home for about ten years before they all became larger independent landowners. Cathey's Valley now bears his name.\n\nAndrew Cathey soon became very involved in civic and political activities. He enjoyed exhibiting his abundant produce in the Merced Fair. A few of his trees and vines are still standing, although very sparse after nearly 150 years.\n\nAndrew and his wife, Mary, very devout Christians, helped build a church, school and cemetery on land they donated.\n\nRecently a large mariposite stone monument was built by many donors and volunteer labor in memory and honor of the Andrew D Cathey family and history of Cathey's Valley. The monument is located at the Cathey's Valley Park. Visitors may read the early history plaque and see the 1879 one room school house. The school house was restored by the Cathey's Valley Historical Society.\n\nThe first Catheys Valley post office opened in 1879, and closed in 1881. The Cathay post office opened in 1882, closed in 1918, re-opened in 1919, and changed its name to Catheys Valley in 1964.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of , virtually all land.\n\nCatheys Valley is categorized as being within the 9a USDA hardiness zone, meaning temperatures can get as low as 20 to 25 °F.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Catheys Valley had a population of 825. The population density was 35.2 people per square mile (13.6/km²). The racial makeup of Catheys Valley was 730 (88.5%) White, 6 (0.7%) African American, 12 (1.5%) Native American, 12 (1.5%) Asian, 1 (0.1%) Pacific Islander, 33 (4.0%) from other races, and 31 (3.8%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 80 persons (9.7%).\n\nThe Census reported that 825 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 316 households, out of which 93 (29.4%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 208 (65.8%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 22 (7.0%) had a female householder with no husband present, 17 (5.4%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 16 (5.1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 5 (1.6%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 54 households (17.1%) were made up of individuals and 17 (5.4%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.61. There were 247 families (78.2% of all households); the average family size was 2.92.\n\nThe population was spread out with 184 people (22.3%) under the age of 18, 56 people (6.8%) aged 18 to 24, 146 people (17.7%) aged 25 to 44, 300 people (36.4%) aged 45 to 64, and 139 people (16.8%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 47.2 years. For every 100 females, there were 109.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 107.4 males.\n\nThere were 381 housing units at an average density of 16.2 per square mile (6.3/km²), of which 224 (70.9%) were owner-occupied, and 92 (29.1%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.2%; the rental vacancy rate was 16.7%. 544 people (65.9% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 281 people (34.1%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the state legislature Catheys Valley is located in the 14th Senate District, represented by Republican Tom Berryhill, and in the 25th Assembly District, represented by Republican Kristin Olsen.\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, Catheys Valley is in .\n\nHome of New England Patriots 2005 1st round Pick Logan Mankins\n"}
{"id": "1979228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979228", "title": "Sirkeci railway station", "text": "Sirkeci railway station\n\nSirkeci railway station (), listed on maps as Istanbul railway station (), is a railway terminal in Istanbul. The terminal is located on the tip of Istanbul's historic peninsula right next to the Golden Horn and just northwest of Gülhane Park and the Topkapı Palace. Sirkeci Terminal, along with Haydarpaşa Terminal on the other side of the Bosphorus, are Istanbul's two intercity and commuter railway terminals. Built in 1890 by the Oriental Railway as the eastern terminus of the world-famous Orient Express, Sirkeci Terminal has become a symbol of the city. As of 19 March 2013 service to the station had been indefinitely suspended due to the rehabilitation of the existing line between Kazlıçeşme and Halkalı for the new Marmaray commuter rail line. On 29 October 2013, a new underground station opened to the public and is currently serviced by Marmaray trains travelling across the Bosphorus. Sirkeci Terminal has a total of 4 platforms (3 above, 1 underground) with 7 tracks (5 above, 2 underground). Formerly, commuter trains to Halkalı would depart from tracks 2, 3 and 4 while regional trains to Kapıkule, Edirne and Uzunköprü along with international trains to Bucharest, Sofia and Belgrade would depart from tracks 1 and 5.\n\nAfter the Crimean War, the Ottoman authorities concluded that a railway connecting Europe with Istanbul was necessary. The first contract was signed with Labro, a British member of parliament, in January 1857. The contract was cancelled three months later because Labro was unable to provide the investment capital required. Similar second and third contracts signed with British and Belgian entrepreneurs in 1860 and 1868 ended with the same result. On 17 April 1869 the concession for the \"Rumeli Railroad\" was awarded to Baron Maurice de Hirsch (Moritz Freiherr Hirsch auf Gereuth), a Bavaria-born banker from Belgium. The project foresaw a route from Istanbul via Edirne, Plovdiv and Sarajevo to the shore of the Sava River. The construction of the first from Istanbul to Halkalı began on 4 June 1870 and was completed on 4 January 1871. An extension of the line to Sirkeci was demanded as the starting point since Yeşilköy was too far away from Eminönü, the main business district of that epoch. The first proposed option for the line was a route from Beyazit down to the shore of the Golden Horn. The Ottoman Sultan Abdülaziz decided and permitted the route to run on the shoreline of the Sea of Marmara bordering the walls of Topkapı Palace’s lower garden. The extension line was completed on 21 July 1872. In 1873, a \"temporary\" terminus station in Sirkeci was built.\n\nThe construction of a new terminal building began on 11 February 1888. The terminus, which was initially named \"Müşir Ahmet Paşa Station\", was opened on 3 November 1890, replacing the temporary one. The architect of the project was August Jasmund, a Prussian who was sent to Istanbul by the German government in order to study Ottoman architecture, but lectured architectural design at the School of Polytechnics in Istanbul (now Istanbul Technical University). The terminal building which rises on an area of is one of the most famous examples of European Orientalism, and has influenced the designs of other architects. The building was also modern, having gas lighting and heating provided by large tile stoves made in Austria in winter.\n\nThe terminal restaurant became a meeting point for journalists, writers and other prominent people from the media in the 1950s and 1960s. The same restaurant, today called \"Orient Express\", is a popular spot among tourists.\n\nThe current station is preserved in its original state, but the areas around the terminal building have largely changed since 1890. The Istanbul Railway Museum which opened in September 2005 is located in the station.\n\nMembers of the Mevlevi Dervish order regularly conduct ceremonies at Sirkeci Terminal, which tourists and other members of the public can observe for an admission fee.\n\nThe terminal constitutes the main connection node of the Turkish railway network with the rest of Europe. The two main lines of connection are provided by the line running between Istanbul and Thessaloniki, Greece, and the Bosphorus Express serving daily between Sirkeci and Gara de Nord in Bucharest, Romania. Connections to Sofia and Belgrade are established with wagons attached to the Bosphorus Express train.\n\nOn 4 October 1883 the first voyage of the \"Orient Express\" departed from Gare de l'Est in Paris, France, with farewell music from Mozart’s Turkish March. The train was a project of Belgian businessman Georges Nagelmackers. The route passed through Strasbourg, Karlsruhe, Stuttgart, Ulm, and Munich in Germany, Vienna in Austria, Budapest in Hungary, Bucharest in Romania, Rousse and Varna in Bulgaria ending in Sirkeci. The travel took 80 hours for the 3,094 kilometers.\n\nThe direct \"Orient Express\" stopped running on 19 May 1977, and the \"Orient Express\" via Vienna was cut back and terminated at Budapest and later only to Vienna. With the opening in 2007 of a new high-speed line from Paris to Strasbourg, the Orient Express was cut again to run from Strasbourg to Vienna, before finally being withdrawn in 2009 after over 130 years.\n\nThis is not to be confused with the Venice Simplon Orient Express, a luxury tourist train utilising restored coaches used during the 1930s. The VSOE still makes one journey per year to Istanbul, but mostly travels between Calais and Venice.\n\nBetween July 2005 and February 2011 the Friendship Express, (an international InterCity train jointly operated by the Turkish State Railways (TCDD) and TrainOSE S.A. linking [[Istanbul] and [[Thessaloniki New Railway Station|Thessaloniki]], Greece) terminated at Sirkeci railway station.\n\nSince May 2013 there are currently no international trains from Sirkeci terminal. For trains to Bulgaria only there is a replacement bus service to [[Halkalı railway station|Halkali]] from where a daily train to Sofia with through cars to Bucharest is offered.\n\nSirkeci is an underground railway station along the trans-Bosphorus [[Marmaray]] tunnel. This underground station was opened on 29 October 2013 along with four other stations (Kazlıçeşme, Yenikapı, Üsküdar and Ayrılık Çeşmesi) on the Marmaray line. Sirkeci is serviced by TCDD trains running between [[Kazlıçeşme railway station|Kazlıçeşme]] (west of Sirkeci) and [[Ayrılık Çeşmesi railway station|Ayrılık Çeşmesi]] (east of Sirkeci on the Asian side) with 6- to 10-minute intervals. Once the rehabilitation of the existing rail lines are complete, Marmaray commuter service will run west to Halkalı and east to Gebze. This service is expected to commence in 2016.\n\nConstruction of the Marmaray tunnel started in 2004 and was expected to open in April 2009. However, due to several important archaeological discoveries at Yenikapı, the opening was delayed until October 2013.\n\nSirkeci saw 681,212 boardings in February 2017, making it the fourth busiest station on the Marmaray line. Sirkeci made up 14% of all passenger boardings on the line.\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Fatih]]\n[[Category:Golden Horn]]\n[[Category:Marmaray|Sirkeci]]\n[[Category:Ottoman architecture in Istanbul]]\n[[Category:Railway stations in Istanbul Province|Sirkeci Terminal]]\n[[Category:Railway stations opened in 1890]]\n[[Category:1890 establishments in the Ottoman Empire]]"}
{"id": "1979239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979239", "title": "Swiss Democrats", "text": "Swiss Democrats\n\nThe Swiss Democrats (; ; ; ) are a nationalist political party in Switzerland. It was called the National Action against the Alienation of the People and the Home (; \"NA\") until 1977 and the National Action for People and Home () until 1990, when it was renamed to its current name.\n\nThe \"Nationale Aktion\" was originally a far-right xenophobic movement pursuing an anti-immigration agenda, founded in 1961. The party \"emerged as a reaction to the influx of foreign workers,\" particularly Italians, during this time. The party submitted several popular initiatives that supported reduced immigration, most notably that narrowly failed. Its first representative in the National Council was James Schwarzenbach, who was first elected in 1967.\n\nAfter a hostile split with Schwarzenbach in 1971, who formed the Republican Movement, the party lost most of its momentum during the 1970s. It had a strong resurgence in the early 1980s, and it won 5 seats in the 1991 federal elections, the most it had ever held.\n\nAfter another hostile split with former president Valentin Oehen in 1986, the party was renamed to its current name in 1990. After 1998, the party lost nearly all significance in national politics because of the absorption of right-wing votes into the growing Swiss People's Party.\n\nIn the 2003 federal elections, the party won 1.0% of the vote and 1 out of 200 seats in the National Council. This seat was lost in the 2007 elections, where the SD fell to 0.5% of the popular vote. After their severe election loss, the party congress decided not to disband but to continue competing in elections, striving to return to parliament.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979240", "title": "Cazadero, California", "text": "Cazadero, California\n\nCazadero is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in western Sonoma County, California, United States with a population of 420. Nearby towns include Jenner, Annapolis, Stewart's Point, Duncans Mills, Villa Grande, Rio Nido, Guerneville, Monte Rio, and The Sea Ranch. The downtown of Cazadero consists of two churches, a general store, a post office, a hardware store, an auto repair garage, private office space, and the Cazadero Volunteer Fire Department.\n\nCazadero is the general area from the confluence of Austin Creek and the Russian River at the intersection of California State Route 116 and Cazadero Highway running north to the small town of the same name. The town is approximately 6 miles from Route 116. Cazadero Highway parallels Austin Creek which is a principal tributary of the lower Russian River. Austin Creek flows southward from two major forks through the town to the Russian River. Just north of the town, Cazadero Highway is joined by Fort Ross Road which is a winding, narrow road that meanders west before reaching State Route 1 on the Pacific Ocean near an old fort established by the Russians after they claimed the area in the 19th century. Located in the Sonoma Coast AVA, Cazadero can also be considered part of Wine Country. Flowers, Fort Ross, Hirsch and Wild Hog Wineries have Cazadero addresses and all operate in the vicinity of the town. Cazadero is approximately from the Pacific Ocean, the Sonoma Coast and the mouth of the Russian River.\n\nCazadero was the northern terminus of the North Pacific Coast Railroad, originally laid as narrow-gauge track in the 1870s. This railhead was fed by several smaller-gauge systems dedicated to logging and networks of logging roads and trails which brought trees to Duncans Mill for processing and shipment south to San Francisco. Local legend holds that much of San Francisco was rebuilt after the disastrous April 1906 earthquake and fire using redwood and other lumber from the Cazadero area. Cazadero timbers are also known to have been used in pilings sunk to support the old eastern span of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge (which was replaced by a new span in 2013; the old eastern span was subsequently demolished.)\n\nMany creeks in Cazadero join Austin Creek as it makes its way to the Russian River. The principal tributary in the area is Kidd Creek which finds its source on the south east slopes of Pole Mountain which rises to approximately just a few miles from the Pacific coastline. Kidd Creek flows west to east in two main forks which join near the CazSonoma Inn before flowing into Austin Creek about 3 miles south of town. The rapid rise in elevation from the coast to mountains west of Cazadero ensures that the area receives substantial rainfall as Pacific storms come onshore in spring and winter, releasing rain from clouds saturated with ocean moisture. Cazadero receives an average of of rain a year, and is reputed to be the second-wettest town in California, after Gasquet.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 7.1 square miles (18.4 km), 99.98% of it land and 0.02% of it water.\n\nThis region experiences warm (but not hot) and dry summers, with no average monthly temperatures above 71.6 °F. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Cazadero has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csb\" on climate maps.\n\nCazadero is in a forested area where there is plant life, including redwoods, oaks and bay trees. Tanoak is also common and it is the principal species suffering from sudden oak death in the area. Research has implicated bay trees as a vector for sudden oak death. Bays (which are unaffected by the pathogen) frequently grow in close proximity to oaks and redwoods in coastal California. Rarer plants in the area include the calypso orchid (\"Calypso bulbosa\"), which can be found on the floors of redwood forests, fern glens and boggy areas in the area.\n\nCommon birds include Steller's jay, common raven, great egret, great blue heron, hummingbird, pileated and acorn woodpecker. Northern flickers are also found in the area. Mammals include the mountain lion, coyote, deer, bobcat, wild boar, skunk, opossum, raccoon and fox. River otters are found in creeks and the Russian River. Anadromous fish such as coho salmon and steelhead are found in local streams but are threatened by overfishing and habitat destruction caused by logging practices. The area is also home to frog and toad species, owing to the wet landscape and the presence of numerous seasonal vernal pools. Creeks in the area have crawfish, newts and rarer freshwater shrimp.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Cazadero had a population of 354. The population density was 49.7 people per square mile (19.2/km). The racial makeup of Cazadero was 318 (89.8%) White, 1 (0.3%) African American, 7 (2.0%) Native American, 5 (1.4%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 5 (1.4%) from other races, and 18 (5.1%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 23 persons (6.5%).\n\nThe Census reported that 100% of the population lived in households.\n\nThere were 164 households, out of which 37 (22.6%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 71 (43.3%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 12 (7.3%) had a female householder with no husband present, 6 (3.7%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 18 (11.0%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 5 (3.0%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 49 households (29.9%) were made up of individuals and 15 (9.1%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.16. There were 89 families (54.3% of all households); the average family size was 2.75.\n\nThe population was spread out with 60 people (16.9%) under the age of 18, 20 people (5.6%) aged 18 to 24, 83 people (23.4%) aged 25 to 44, 142 people (40.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 49 people (13.8%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 46.7 years. For every 100 females, there were 122.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 117.8 males.\n\nThere were 335 housing units, at an average density of 47.1 per square mile (18.2/km), of which 65.9% were owner-occupied and 34.1% were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.8%; the rental vacancy rate was 9.2%. 67.8% of the population lived in owner-occupied housing units and 32.2% lived in rental housing units.\n\nThe area is home to a number of camps, including BSA Camp Royaneh, Camp Cazadero, and the Cazadero Performing Arts Camp.\n"}
{"id": "1979243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979243", "title": "Geography of Washington, D.C.", "text": "Geography of Washington, D.C.\n\nWashington, D.C., in the United States, is located at (the coordinates of the Zero Milestone, on The Ellipse). According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a geographical area of , of which is land, and the remaining (10.16%) of which is water.\n\nWashington is surrounded by the states of Virginia (on its southwest side) and Maryland (on its southeast, northeast, and northwest sides); it interrupts those states' common border, which is the south shore of the Potomac River both upstream and downstream from the District. The portion of the Potomac River that passes Washington is virtually entirely within the District's border, as the District extends to the south bank. The city contains the historic \"federal city\", the territory of which was formerly part of those two adjacent states before they respectively ceded it for the national capital. The land ceded from Virginia was returned by Congress in 1847, so what remains of the modern District was all once part of Maryland.\n\nThe topography of the District of Columbia is highly similar to the physical geography of much of Central and DC Metro Maryland. The District has three major natural flowing bodies of water: the Potomac River and two tributaries, the Anacostia River and Rock Creek. The confluence of the Potomac and Anacostia forms the historic peninsula known as Arsenal Point. The District also includes the Washington Channel, which flows into the junction of the Anacostia and Potomac rivers. There are also three man-made reservoirs: Dalecarlia Reservoir, which crosses over the northwest border of the District from Maryland, McMillan Reservoir near Howard University, and Georgetown Reservoir upstream of Georgetown. A fourth, minor reservoir is at Fort Reno in Tenleytown.\n\nWashington, D.C. is situated in a topographic bowl. The bottom of the bowl, where the White House and Capitol are located, is in the floodplain of the junction of the Anacostia and Potomac Rivers. Extending out from the floodplain is a series of rising river terraces. These high ridges nearly surround the city. The highest of these terraces is at 200 feet above sea level and is fronted by an escarpment which is very prominent along the east side of the Anacostia River. Steep sided ravines and small streams cut through the upper terrace east of the Anacostia River at frequent intervals. Examples of these stream valleys can be found at Forts Dupont and Stanton.\n\nThe City of Washington is located on the fall line—the border of two considerably different geological terrains or provinces; the hard rock of the Piedmont Plateau to the north and west, and the soft sediments of the Atlantic Coastal Plain to the east. The Piedmont Plateau is located north and west of the city. This area is characterized by deeply cut valleys and prominent ridges.\n\nThe highest point in the District of Columbia is 410 feet (125 m) above sea level at Reno Reservoir in Tenleytown. The lowest point is sea level, which occurs along all of the Anacostia shore and all of the Potomac shore except the uppermost mile (the Little Falls-Chain Bridge area). The sea level Tidal Basin rose eleven feet during Hurricane Isabel on September 18, 2003. The geographic center of the District of Columbia is near 4th Street NW, L Street NW, and New York Avenue NW, not, as is sometimes stated, under the Capitol dome. (The Capitol, however, marks the intersection of the District's four administrative quadrants.)\n\nOther prominent geographical features of Washington, D.C., include Theodore Roosevelt Island, Columbia Island, the Three Sisters, and Hains Point.\n\nSome areas, especially around the National Mall and parts of Foggy Bottom, were marshes or parts of the river that have been filled in.\n\nDuring the 18th century, significant portions of the region were forested, with species including rabbits, turkey, pheasants, woodcocks, turtles, and quail, as well as numerous bird species including mockingbirds, bluebirds, hummingbirds, and orioles. Other indigenous species include black snake, garter snake, rattlesnake, copperhead, bullfrog and other types of frogs, ground squirrels, flying squirrels, skunks, opossums, raccoons, foxes, beavers, deer, wolves, and bears. Snipes and various types of ducks inhabited swampy areas, as well as soruses.\n\nNative tree species include willow, birch, cedar, and oak. Other plant species found along the Potomac during the early 19th century include yellow jessamine, prickly pear cactus, white horehound, sweet fennel, wild cherries, and wild strawberries. The large percentage of parkland contributes to a high urban tree canopy coverage of 35%.\n\nIn 1965, President Lyndon Johnson called the Potomac River a \"national disgrace\" and used the river to illustrate the need for the Clean Water Restoration Act of 1966. The river is now home to a vibrant warm-water fishery and naturally reproducing bald eagles have returned to its banks. Despite its intensely urbanized landscape, the District of Columbia is a center for research on urban wildlife management, invasive species management, urban stream restoration, and the aquatic ecology of urban streams. The National Park Service's Center For Urban Ecology is a regional source of expertise and applied science for the region.\n\nEarthquake activity in the District of Columbia is low. No earthquakes have been centered within the District, nor are there any faults. However, it has felt earthquakes centered in Virginia, Maryland and other surrounding states and also large earthquakes in Canada and New England.\n\nThe District felt the 1811–1812 New Madrid earthquakes, and according to old records, residents were \"badly frightened\". In March 1828, President John Quincy Adams felt a \"violent\" earthquake in the White House and wrote it in his journal. The 1886 Charleston earthquake (magnitude 6.6 to 7.3) was felt in DC. The strongest earthquake in Virginia happened in 1897 and was felt in the District. An earthquake in 1925 in Canada, estimated about magnitude 7, was felt over an area of 2 million square miles. Another 6.2 earthquake in 1935 caused damage in New York and shook residents from Maine to Wisconsin.\n\nThe 2011 Virginia earthquake was felt in Washington and caused damage to landmarks and monuments such as the Washington Monument and the Washington National Cathedral.\n\nWashington, D.C. is located in the humid subtropical climate zone (Köppen climate classification: \"Cfa\"), exhibiting four distinct seasons. Its climate is typical of the South. The District is located in USDA plant hardiness zone 8a near downtown, and zone 7b elsewhere in the city, indicating a temperate climate. As implied in the previous sentence, the downtown area exhibits an urban heat island (UHI) build-up that can especially exacerbate the sultriness of summer nights.\n\n\n\n\nThe highest recorded temperature was on July 20, 1930, and August 6, 1918, while the lowest recorded temperature was on February 11, 1899, right before the Great Blizzard of 1899. The extreme low daily high temperature was , occurring one day before the all-time minimum, while the extreme high daily low temperature was on July 23–24, 2011 and July 16, 1983. Monthly mean temperatures have ranged from in January 1918 to in July 2011, while the corresponding range for the annual mean is in 1904 to in 2012.\n\nWashington, D.C., was created to serve as the national capital from its inception. The Residence Act of 1790 required that the capital's territory would be located along the Potomac River within an area that Maryland and Virginia would cede to the federal government, but permitted the nation's first president, George Washington, to select the territory's precise location. President Washington then chose for the territory a square whose sides were in length and whose corners were directly north, east, south and west of its center. The area of the square contained the existing towns of Georgetown and Alexandria, as well as two small villages, Hamburgh in the Foggy Bottom area and Carrollsburg near the confluence of the Potomac and Anacostia rivers.\n\nThe Residence Act had granted the president the authority to locate the federal capital's territory only as far south and east as the mouth of the Anacostia River in Maryland. However, President Washington wanted to expand the territory's area southward so that its boundaries could encompass the town of Alexandria. In 1791, Congress amended the Residence Act to approve President Washington's selected site, which included the portion of the territory that Virginia would cede.\n\nThe location of the capital had many natural advantages: the Potomac was navigable up to the territory, allowing for boat traffic; the established ports at Alexandria and Georgetown could provide an important economic base for a major city; and the territory's inland location was close to the Northwest Territory. During 1791–1792, Andrew Ellicott and several assistants, including Benjamin Banneker, surveyed the boundary between the federal territory and the states of Virginia and Maryland, placing marker stones at every mile point (see Boundary Stones (District of Columbia)). Many of the stones are still standing.\n\nA new federal city, named in 1791 as the “City of Washington” in the “Territory of Columbia”, was then laid out in a largely undeveloped area at the center of the 100 square mile federal territory. This city, which Pierre (Peter) L’Enfant designed, was bounded to the north by Boundary Street (now Florida Avenue) at the base of the escarpment of the Atlantic Seaboard Fall Line, to the southeast by the Anacostia River, to the southwest by the Potomac River and to the west by Rock Creek. Although L’Enfant designed the city's original layout in 1791, surveyor Andrew Ellicott revised it in 1792 (see Streets and highways of Washington, D.C.).\nThe remainder of the territory was designated as Washington County (on the Maryland side of the Potomac) and Alexandria County (on the Virginia side).\n\nThe land from the state of Virginia was eventually returned to the state in 1846, effective 1847. This land in Virginia makes up the modern area of Arlington County and the old part of Alexandria, Virginia, both of which are considered suburbs of Washington. In fact, the Arlington National Cemetery and the Pentagon complex are both located in Arlington but are largely tied to the federal government in Washington. Between 1790 and 1846, Alexandria was referred to as “Alexandria, D.C.”\n\nGeorgetown was originally part of Maryland and was the only significant population in the area that would become the District of Columbia. Georgetown became part of the District when the Federal City was first created, but remained an independent city, referred to as \"Georgetown, D.C.,\" until 1871, when it was merged with Washington City and Washington County, completing the process of Washington and the District of Columbia occupying the same geographic borders.\n\nThe monumental core of the city consists of the National Mall and many key federal buildings, monuments, and museums, including the Washington Monument, Lincoln Memorial, and the National Air and Space Museum. Its layout is based on that proposed by the McMillan Commission report in 1901.\n\nTo preserve the grandeur of the National Mall, the White House, the Capitol, and various other key locations, the entire city is subject to strict building height limits. This limitation was placed in effect just prior to the 20th century when government officials realized that structural steel \"skyscrapers\" could overwhelm the city. In 1899, Congress enacted a height limit for the District prohibiting private buildings from rising more than 130 feet. Contrary to popular belief, no law has ever restricted buildings to the height of the United States Capitol or Washington Monument.\n\nA revised height law in 1910 did away with that fixed maximum. The newer legislation, still in effect today, states that no new building may be more than 20 feet taller than the width of the street in front of it. The current law is codified as D.C. CODE ANN. § 6-601.05. Thus, Washington has a relatively modest skyline in comparison to the majority of American cities. However, the District is ringed by high-rise buildings in many nearby suburbs like Arlington, Silver Spring, and Bethesda.\n\nThe District of Columbia is divided into eight wards and 37 Advisory Neighborhood Commissions (ANCs) within these wards. The total number of named neighborhoods is 127. The ANCs serve to advise the D.C. Council on neighborhood matters. The Council is required by law to give their opinions \"great weight,\" though what that means is up to the Council to decide.\n\nSince 2000 the demographics of many neighborhoods have changed markedly.\n\nThe District of Columbia is bordered by various cities, towns, villages, and unincorporated CDPs in the states of Maryland and Virginia. Following is a list of those adjacent communities.\n\n\nIn addition to the above named places, there are other small unincorporated parts of Prince George's County, Maryland, which also border the District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979244", "title": "Federal Democratic Union of Switzerland", "text": "Federal Democratic Union of Switzerland\n\nThe Federal Democratic Union of Switzerland (German: \"Eidgenössisch-Demokratische Union\", EDU; French: \"Union Démocratique Fédérale\", UDF; Italian: \"Unione Democratica Federale\", UDF; Romansch: \"Uniun Democrata Federala\", UDF) is a national-conservative political party in Switzerland. Its ideology is politically conservative, Protestant fundamentalist, and right-wing populist. It is similar to the Christian right in the United States, and its top goals were to promote \"biblical values\" and oppose other cultures and values.\nFounded in 1975, the party's current president is . The party is a minor political party which polls around 1% of the vote and holds only one out of 200 seats in the Swiss national council as of 2019.\n\nThe EDU was founded in 1975 as a split of the Republican Movement and the Nationale Aktion. The EDU maintains that it split from the Evangelical People's Party.\n\nAt the beginning of its existence, the EDU's platform was strongly influenced by the ideology of Otto Strasser, revolutionary nationalism, and solidarism. Despite being nationalistic and patriotic, the party supported socialist economic policies as opposed to capitalism or communism. In the early 1980s, the EDU underwent an ideological shift, with fundamentalist Christianity and the Bible becoming the most important parts of its ideology. It promoted socially conservative policies. At the same time, the EDU adopted right-wing populist positions on issues such as immigration, integration into supranational unions, and Islam. It adopted strongly pro-Israel views.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, support of the EDU grew particularly with conservative free-church groups, both traditional and newly established. The language of the EDU was influenced during this time by a directive and on the basis of interest in dispensationalism from an eschatological tone.\n\nIn 1991, the EDU entered the Swiss National Council with one seat, and in 2003, it gained a second seat. Despite remaining a small, fringe party, it grew from having section in nine cantons in 1991 to twenty-three in 2003. The EDU had its greatest electoral success in the Canton of Bern and became relatively strong in the canton. In addition, its party newspaper, the \"EDU Standpunkt\", had a circulation of between 31,000-45,000 and even up to 500,000 during national elections. The party created a French newspaper with a circulation of about 10,000. The EDU sponsored several referendums, attempting to block socially liberal legislation, but its attempts were unsuccessful.\n\nThe EDU received 1.3% of the popular vote in the 2007 elections, and retained one of its two seats in the Swiss National Council, held by Andreas Brönnimann, who represented the canton of Berne.\n\nHowever, in the 2011 elections, the party lost its seat in the Swiss National Council, even though it still received the same percentage of the popular vote. In the 2019 elections the party won one seat in the Swiss National Council, regaining representation.\n\nThe EDU is a politically conservative, Protestant fundamentalist, and right-wing populist party. It is similar to the Christian right in the United States, and its top goals were to promote \"biblical values\" and oppose other cultures and values.\n\nThe EDU sees itself as a Christian party and uses the Bible as the guideline for its policies. On questions concerning the environment, the EDU stands rather center-left, however with family, social, and educational policy, the EDU takes a conservative stance. The EDU want a debt-free state.\n\nThe EDU has close connections to free churches.\n\nThe EDU rejects equating homosexual and heterosexual marriages and is committed against abortion, euthanasia, and the exploitation of women by sexist advertising. Thus, the EDU calls that abortion should not be financed by public funds and suicide tourism should be prohibited. Also, the EDU is against heroin clinics and calls for a smoking ban in restaurants and bars. The EDU supports traditional families. The EDU is skeptical of the equalization of both genders, saying that is neglecting of children, and believes that the main caregivers of children are ideally the parents. The EDU opposes the criminalization of homophobia.\n\nThe EDU sponsored an unsuccessful referendum, held on November 27, 2016 in the Canton of Zürich, that would have defined marriage as only between one man and one woman.\n\nThe EDU is critical of the European Union, the UN, and NATO. As a Eurosceptic party, it is against membership in the EU, however it supports bilateral treaties with it. The EDU views the increased immigration to Switzerland as an integration problem and says that to increase security, adjusting the freedom of movement, the Schengen Agreement, and the Dublin Regulation with the EU is necessary. Also, the EDU is in support for permanent neutrality and is against peace-keeping missions of the Swiss military. The EDU supported the Swiss minaret ban, and the federal popular initiative \"Against mass immigration\".\n\nIn environmental policy, the EDU does not see the real problem as in climate change, but rather in the enormous consumption of resources and energy. Thus, the EDU supports a dedicated, time-limited incentive tax on the oil tax for fossil fuels and propellants and calls the replacement of the Climate Cent and the CO2 tax (gasoline, etc.). The proceeds of this incentive tax would go to renewable energy sources such as water, wind, and solar energy and would promote energy efficiency. In the long term, the EDU wants to phase out nuclear energy in Switzerland. The EDU supports the expansion of the public transportation system, but only supports the implementation of large projects when funding is secured.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979254", "title": "Upwey, Dorset", "text": "Upwey, Dorset\n\nUpwey is a suburb of Weymouth in south Dorset, England. The suburb is situated on the B3159 road in the Wey valley. The area was formerly a village until it was absorbed into the Weymouth built-up area. It is located four miles north of the town centre in the outer suburbs. During the Census 2001 the combined population of Upwey and neighbouring Broadwey was 4,349.\n\nThe village has a 13th-century parish church, dedicated to Saint Laurence, and a manor house, Upwey Manor, which was owned by the Gould family. A disc barrow is located above the village on the Ridgeway at map reference . The former United Reformed Church was built in 1880–81 and closed in 1992.\n\nThe River Wey rises at the foot of the chalk ridge of the South Dorset Downs, which rise above Upwey to the north, and flows through the village. The source is known as the Upwey wishing well and was a tourist attraction as far back as the Victorian era. There is now a tea room at the site, complete with mature water gardens. In the 18th century a water mill was built on the river, rebuilt in 1802; it featured in Thomas Hardy's \"The Trumpet Major\"; he also wrote a poem \"At the Railway Station, Upway\", which most likely relates to Upwey station. Another famous name associated with Upwey is that of Lucille Ball the American actress, comedian who was proud of her family and heritage. Her genealogy can be traced back to the earliest settlers in the colonies. One direct ancestor, William Sprague (1609–1675), left England on the ship Lyon's Whelp for Plymouth/Salem, Massachusetts. They were from Upwey, Dorset, England. Along with his two brothers, William helped to found the city of Charlestown, Massachusetts. Other Sprague relatives became soldiers in the US Revolutionary War and two of them became governors of the state of Rhode Island.\n\nUpwey features in Edward Chaney's \"Genius Friend: G.B. Edwards and The Book of Ebenezer le Page\" as the place in which Chaney got to know Gerald Edwards and encouraged him to complete his novel. Edwards died in the since-demolished 654 Dorchester Road, Upwey, on 29 December 1976.\n\nUpwey lends its name to Upwey, Victoria, in Melbourne, near Belgrave, Victoria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979276", "title": "Radioropa Info", "text": "Radioropa Info\n\nRadioropa Info was the name of various German-language privately owned longwave radio stations. They were mainly active in the 1990s, with break in the middle of the decade.\n\nRadioropa was initially only available on satellite. It then began using time on the Radio Wolga longwave service on 261 kHz at the Burg AM transmitter in Burg bei Magdeburg, Saxony-Anhalt. Radioropa then obtained FM frequencies in Rhineland-Palatinate and Saxony. When the Soviet army withdrew from the former East Germany in 1994, Radioropa took over 261 kHz completely. Longwave transmission stopped during 1994/1995 because the cost of renting transmission time was too high. After a new contract with Deutsche Telekom was negotiated, Radioropa resumed broadcasting on longwave.\n\nRadioropa Info broadcast news. Later it mainly rebroadcast programmes supplied by other stations. Since listenership on longwave and satellite radio was too low, Radioropa Info applied for FM frequencies at the end of the 1990s. FM licenses were not granted and Radioropa Info went out of business on 31 December 2000.\n\nIn 2002, Europe 1 requested permission to use the 261 kHz frequency for a new radio station for motorists and truckers; , this request has not been granted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979279", "title": "Masterfile (library)", "text": "Masterfile (library)\n\nMasterfile Corporation is a stock photography library in Toronto, Ontario, Canada It is represented in over 100 other countries around the world by independent agents and distributors.\n\nMasterfile is a visual content provider. A generalist stock photo library, with a lifestyle focus, Masterfile has a collection of millions of Rights-Managed and Royalty-Free photos and illustrations. The collection covers all genres and subjects.\n\nImages are licensed to commercial buyers for use in advertising, editorial and other media. Royalties are paid to the contributing artists. The images are stored digitally, showcased, licensed and delivered instantly to business clients worldwide via the Internet 24/7.\n\nMuch like Getty Images, Masterfile has come under fire in recent years for aggressively defending copyrighted images. Unlike Getty, Masterfile has been known to litigate for thousands of dollars in damages against corporations, individuals and small businesses who knowingly or unknowingly made use of Masterfile images without having obtained a license.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979285", "title": "Coleville, California", "text": "Coleville, California\n\nColeville is a census-designated place in Mono County, California. It is located in the Antelope Valley on the West Walker River 26 miles (42 km) northwest of Bridgeport, at an elevation of 5141 feet (1567 m). The population was 495 at the 2010 census.\n\nColeville is located in northern Mono County. It is the hometown of General John Abizaid and the birthplace of trick shooter Lillian Smith. Coleville is located on U.S. Route 395. The ZIP Code is 96107. The community is inside area codes 442 and 760.\n\nColeville is one of the three northernmost communities in Mono County. According to the Mono County government, Antelope Valley, including Coleville, is expected to see significant population growth. It is named after California's first congressman, Cornelius Cole, who arrived with his brother during the gold rush and established a law firm in San Francisco before entering politics. He died, at the age of 102, in Los Angeles where he owned a large plantation that occupied the area that is now Hollywood.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 13.8 square miles (35.6 km²), all land.\n\nThis region experiences warm (but not hot) and dry summers, with no average monthly temperatures above 71.6 °F. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Coleville has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csb\" on climate maps.\n\nColeville is served by the Antelope Valley Fire Protection District, founded in 1947 and covering of the Antelope Valley. The District maintains a training facility in Coleville.\n\nColeville is served by the Antelope Valley Water District, which was formed in 1961.\n\nThe first post office at Coleville was established in 1868. The name honors Cornelius Cole, a United States Senator. On June 1, 2007, the Larson fire threatened Coleville while burning and causing US$3,000,000 damage.\n\nColeville is in the Eastern Sierra Unified School District. An elementary school and a high school (Coleville High School) are located in Coleville.\n\nDue to Coleville's geographic isolation from other California schools, Coleville High competes in the Nevada Interscholastic Activities Association along with four other similarly-isolated California schools.\n\nColeville also has a public library.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Coleville had a population of 495. The population density was 36.0 people per square mile (13.9/km²). The racial makeup of Coleville was 386 (78.0%) White, 6 (1.2%) African American, 10 (2.0%) Native American, 8 (1.6%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 62 (12.5%) from other races, and 23 (4.6%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 110 persons (22.2%).\n\nThe Census reported that 495 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 171 households, out of which 90 (52.6%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 129 (75.4%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 8 (4.7%) had a female householder with no husband present, 4 (2.3%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 6 (3.5%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 2 (1.2%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 25 households (14.6%) were made up of individuals and 8 (4.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.89. There were 141 families (82.5% of all households); the average family size was 3.23.\n\nThe population was spread out with 167 people (33.7%) under the age of 18, 66 people (13.3%) aged 18 to 24, 170 people (34.3%) aged 25 to 44, 60 people (12.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 32 people (6.5%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 25.7 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 101.2 males.\n\nThere were 201 housing units at an average density of 14.6 per square mile (5.6/km²), of which 48 (28.1%) were owner-occupied, and 123 (71.9%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.0%; the rental vacancy rate was 4.7%. 107 people (21.6% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 388 people (78.4%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the California State Legislature, Coleville is in , and in .\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, Coleville is in .]\n\n"}
{"id": "1979286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979286", "title": "Billina", "text": "Billina\n\nBillina is a fictional character in the classic children's series of Oz books by American author L. Frank Baum. She is first introduced in \"Ozma of Oz\" (1907).\n\nIn \"Ozma of Oz\", Billina becomes Dorothy Gale's animal companion after she and the girl are on a small ship are thrown overboard. Dorothy was traveling on an ocean voyage to Australia with her Uncle Henry when a violent storm hit, thus tossing the ship over the waves. The two wash up on the uncharted shores of the enchanted country of Ev in a chicken coop they had taken refuge in. Billina serves in this adventure, the role that Dorothy's pet dog Toto served in the first Oz book, \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\" (1900).\n\nA spunky, sassy and talkative chicken, Billina was originally named Bill because, she tells Dorothy, \"no one could tell whether I was going to be a hen or a rooster\". Dorothy insists on changing the hen's name to a feminine form. Billina endures several scares with the Kansas farm girl before they defeat the Nome King as only a hen can since eggs are poisonous to Nomes. At the end of the novel, Billina settles in the Emerald City in the magical Land of Oz.\n\nIn \"The Road to Oz\" (1909), Billina accompanies Tik-Tok into welcoming Dorothy, Shaggy Man, Button-Bright, and Polychrome to Oz. Billina is later present at Princess Ozma's royal birthday party.\n\nLater books reveal that Billina has hatched many chicks (their father unknown). She names all of them Dorothy after her young friend. Gender confusion reappears, however, and the proud mother discovers that some of those chicks will be \"horrid roosters\"; she changes the males' names to Daniel.\n\nOne of Baum's earliest books described raising Hamburg chickens, and he drew on that expertise in depicting Billina.\n\nBillina appears in \"The Fairylogue and Radio-Plays\" (1908) with the credit \"The Yellow Hen as Herself\". Presumably a real hen was used in this lost film, as a real dog was used for Toto, also credited with playing himself.\n\nIn Disney's \"Return to Oz\" (1985), Billina is a main character. She is an animatronic puppet performed by Mak Wilson and voiced by Denise Bryer. Like the books, Billina arrived in the Land of Oz with Dorothy Gale. Later on, she hides in Jack Pumpkinhead's head. During the final battle against the Nome King in his monstrous form, Billina unintentionally lays an egg which falls into the Nome King's mouth enough to kill him. When Princess Ozma is crowned, upon being freed from the mirror by Dorothy, Billina elects to remain in the Land of Oz.\n\nBillina appears in \"Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz\". She is depicted as a red hen whose clucking can be understood by Scarecrow and is often seen inside Tin Man's chest compartment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979289", "title": "Mixed waste (radioactive/hazardous)", "text": "Mixed waste (radioactive/hazardous)\n\nAccording to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, mixed waste (MW) is a waste type defined as follows; \"MW contains both hazardous waste (as defined by RCRA and its amendments) and radioactive waste (as defined by AEA and its amendments). It is jointly regulated by NRC or NRC's Agreement States and EPA or EPA's RCRA Authorized States. The fundamental and most comprehensive statutory definition is found in the Federal Facilities Compliance Act (FFCA) where Section 1004(41) was added to RCRA: \"The term 'mixed waste' means waste that contains both hazardous waste and source, special nuclear, or byproduct material subject to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.\"\n\nMixed waste is much more expensive to manage and dispose of than waste that is solely radioactive. Waste generators can avoid higher charge back costs by eliminating or minimizing the volume of mixed waste generated.\n\nThe EPA defines hazardous waste as the following: A subset of solid wastes that pose substantial or potential threats to public health or the environment and meet any of the following criteria identified 40 CFR 260 and 261:\n\n"}
{"id": "1979293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979293", "title": "Alternative List", "text": "Alternative List\n\nThe Alternative List (), abbreviated to AL, is a socialist political party in Switzerland.\n\nThe AL has existed since 1990 as a loose coalition of left-wing activists. At the beginning of 2007, the AL Zurich was transformed into a political union. Beside Zürich, the AL is active in the cantons of Schaffhausen and Aargau.\n\nThe AL works closely with the Swiss Labour Party, solidaritéS and other leftist parties and organisations. They're participating in the new Swiss party Alternative Left, but no group of the Alternative List is constituted as a section of the party yet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979294", "title": "Solidarity (Switzerland)", "text": "Solidarity (Switzerland)\n\nSolidarity () is a far-left political party in Switzerland. The party is a member of the European Anticapitalist Left.\n\nThe party was founded in 1992 in Geneva. In the 1995 federal elections it received 0.3% of the vote, failing to win a seat. Its vote share increased to 0.5% in the 1999 elections, and a party member running on a list named \"Alliance of the Left (Solidarity–Independents)\" won a seat in the National Council. The party retained its seat in the 2003 elections, but lost parliamentary representation following the 2007 elections, in which its vote share fell to 0.4%.\n\nThe 2011 elections saw the vote share reduced to 0.3%, and although its vote share increased to 0.5% in the 2015 elections, the party remained seatless. Running with the Swiss Party of Labour in the 2019 elections, the party once again won a seat in the National Council, with the electoral alliance receiving a vote share of 1.0%.\n"}
{"id": "1979295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979295", "title": "Coulterville, California", "text": "Coulterville, California\n\nCoulterville (formerly, Maxwell's Creek) is a census-designated place in Mariposa County, California. It is located on Maxwell Creek northwest of Mariposa, at an elevation of 1699 feet (518 m). Coulterville had a population of 201 at the 2010 census. It is a mining town located in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada. The ZIP Code is 95311. The community is inside area code 209.\n\nThe place was settled in 1850 by George W. Coulter, for whom it is also named. For a time Coulter lived in a tent flying the American Flag, prompting local Mexicans to call the place \"Banderita\" (Spanish for \"small flag\"). The Maxwell's Creek post office opened in 1852 and changed its name to Coulterville in 1853. The name Maxwell honors George Maxwell, with whom Coulter cast lots to determine the name of the town.\n\nCoulterville is registered as California Historical Landmark #332. A large portion of the downtown was listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Coulterville Main Street Historic District.\n\nThe 1867 Brevet General James F. Rusling inspection report notes that most of the Stockton to Coulterville area was \"in almost continuous wheat-fields\" May 24th - 26th, 1866. .\n\nThe intersection of California State Route 49 and California State Route 132, where the Hotel Jeffery sits, appears briefly in the movie Road Queen (Part 1).\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 3.2 square miles (10.9 km²), 99.98% of it land, and 0.02% of it water.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Coultervillle had a population of 201. The population density was 47.7 people per square mile (18.4/km²). The racial makeup of Coultervillle was 181 (90.0%) White, 0 (0.0%) African American, 5 (2.5%) Native American, 1 (0.5%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 0 (0.0%) from other races, and 14 (7.0%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 20 persons (10.0%).\n\nThe Census reported that 201 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 95 households, out of which 19 (20.0%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 34 (35.8%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 9 (9.5%) had a female householder with no husband present, 11 (11.6%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 8 (8.4%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 1 (1.1%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 32 households (33.7%) were made up of individuals and 11 (11.6%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.12. There were 54 families (56.8% of all households); the average family size was 2.61.\n\nThe population was spread out with 30 people (14.9%) under the age of 18, 15 people (7.5%) aged 18 to 24, 35 people (17.4%) aged 25 to 44, 77 people (38.3%) aged 45 to 64, and 44 people (21.9%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 52.9 years. For every 100 females there were 116.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 113.8 males.\n\nThere were 130 housing units at an average density of 30.8 per square mile (11.9/km²), of which 65 (68.4%) were owner-occupied, and 30 (31.6%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 5.6%; the rental vacancy rate was 11.4%. 134 people (66.7% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 67 people (33.3%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nIn the California State Legislature, Coulterville is in , and in .\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, Coulterville is in .\n\nCoulterville, along with its neighboring communities of Greeley Hill and Lake Don Pedro (Mariposa Cnty. portion) comprise County Supervisorial District 3 of the county of Mariposa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979299", "title": "Giza pyramid complex", "text": "Giza pyramid complex\n\nThe Giza pyramid complex, also called the Giza Necropolis, is the site on the Giza Plateau in Greater Cairo, Egypt that includes the Great Pyramid of Giza, the Pyramid of Khafre, and the Pyramid of Menkaure, along with their associated pyramid complexes and the Great Sphinx of Giza. All were built during the Fourth Dynasty of the Old Kingdom of Ancient Egypt. The site also includes several cemeteries and the remains of a workers' village.\n\nThe site is at the edges of the Western Desert, approximately 9 km (5 mi) west of the Nile River in the city of Giza, and about 13 km (8 mi) southwest of the city centre of Cairo.\n\nThe Great Pyramid and the Pyramid of Khafre are the largest pyramids built in ancient Egypt, and they have historically been common as emblems of ancient Egypt in the Western imagination. They were popularised in Hellenistic times, when the Great Pyramid was listed by Antipater of Sidon as one of the Seven Wonders of the World. It is by far the oldest of the ancient Wonders and the only one still in existence.\n\nThe Pyramids of Giza consist of the Great Pyramid of Giza (also known as the Pyramid of Cheops or Khufu and constructed ), the somewhat smaller Pyramid of Khafre (or Chephren) a few hundred meters to the south-west, and the relatively modest-sized Pyramid of Menkaure (or Mykerinos) a few hundred meters farther south-west. The Great Sphinx lies on the east side of the complex. Current consensus among Egyptologists is that the head of the Great Sphinx is that of Khafre. Along with these major monuments are a number of smaller satellite edifices, known as \"queens\" pyramids, causeways and valley pyramids.\n\nKhufu's pyramid complex consists of a valley temple, now buried beneath the village of Nazlet el-Samman; diabase paving and nummulitic limestone walls have been found but the site has not been excavated. The valley temple was connected to a causeway which was largely destroyed when the village was constructed. The causeway led to the Mortuary Temple of Khufu. Of this temple the basalt pavement is the only thing that remains. The mortuary temple was connected to the king's pyramid. The king's pyramid has three smaller queen's pyramids associated with it and five boat pits. The boat pits contained a ship, and the two pits on the south side of the pyramid still contained intact ships when excavated. One of these ships has been restored and is on display.\n\nKhufu's pyramid still has a limited number of casing stones at its base. These casing stones were made of fine white limestone quarried from the nearby range.\n\nKhafre's pyramid complex consists of a valley temple, the Sphinx temple, a causeway, a mortuary temple and the king's pyramid. The valley temple yielded several statues of Khafre. Several were found in a well in the floor of the temple by Mariette in 1860. Others were found during successive excavations by Sieglin (1909–10), Junker, Reisner, and Hassan. Khafre's complex contained five boat-pits and a subsidiary pyramid with a serdab.\nKhafre's pyramid appears larger than the adjacent Khufu Pyramid by virtue of its more elevated location, and the steeper angle of inclination of its construction—it is, in fact, smaller in both height and volume. Khafre's pyramid retains a prominent display of casing stones at its apex.\n\nMenkaure's pyramid complex consists of a valley temple, a causeway, a mortuary temple, and the king's pyramid. The valley temple once contained several statues of Menkaure. During the 5th Dynasty, a smaller ante-temple was added on to the valley temple. The mortuary temple also yielded several statues of Menkaure. The king's pyramid has three subsidiary or queen's pyramids.\nOf the four major monuments, only Menkaure's pyramid is seen today without any of its original polished limestone casing.\n\nThe Sphinx dates from the reign of king Khafre. During the New Kingdom, Amenhotep II dedicated a new temple to Hauron-Haremakhet and this structure was added onto by later rulers.\n\nKhentkaus I was buried in Giza. Her tomb is known as LG 100 and G 8400 and is located in the Central Field, near the valley temple of Menkaure. The pyramid complex of Queen Khentkaus includes: her pyramid, a boat pit, a valley temple and a pyramid town.\n\nMost construction theories are based on the idea that the pyramids were built by moving huge stones from a quarry and dragging and lifting them into place. The disagreements center on the method by which the stones were conveyed and placed and how possible the method was.\n\nIn building the pyramids, the architects might have developed their techniques over time. They would select a site on a relatively flat area of bedrock—not sand—which provided a stable foundation. After carefully surveying the site and laying down the first level of stones, they constructed the pyramids in horizontal levels, one on top of the other.\n\nFor the Great Pyramid of Giza, most of the stone for the interior seems to have been quarried immediately to the south of the construction site. The smooth exterior of the pyramid was made of a fine grade of white limestone that was quarried across the Nile. These exterior blocks had to be carefully cut, transported by river barge to Giza, and dragged up ramps to the construction site. Only a few exterior blocks remain in place at the bottom of the Great Pyramid. During the Middle Ages (5th century to 15th century), people may have taken the rest away for building projects in the city of Cairo.\n\nTo ensure that the pyramid remained symmetrical, the exterior casing stones all had to be equal in height and width. Workers might have marked all the blocks to indicate the angle of the pyramid wall and trimmed the surfaces carefully so that the blocks fit together. During construction, the outer surface of the stone was smooth limestone; excess stone has eroded as time has passed.\n\nThe pyramids of Giza and others are thought to have been constructed to house the remains of the deceased pharaohs who ruled over Ancient Egypt. A portion of the pharaoh's spirit called his \"ka\" was believed to remain with his corpse. Proper care of the remains was necessary in order for the \"former Pharaoh to perform his new duties as king of the dead.\" It's theorized the pyramid not only served as a tomb for the pharaoh, but also as a storage pit for various items he would need in the afterlife. \"The people of Ancient Egypt believed that death on Earth was the start of a journey to the next world.\" The embalmed body of the King was entombed underneath or within the pyramid to protect it and allow his transformation and ascension to the afterlife.\n\nThe sides of all three of the Giza pyramids were astronomically oriented to the north–south and east–west within a small fraction of a degree. Among recent attempts to explain such a clearly deliberate pattern are those of S. Haack, O. Neugebauer, K. Spence, D. Rawlins, K. Pickering, and J. Belmonte. The arrangement of the pyramids is a representation of the Orion constellation according to the disputed Orion correlation theory.\n\nThe work of quarrying, moving, setting, and sculpting the huge amount of stone used to build the pyramids might have been accomplished by several thousand skilled workers, unskilled laborers and supporting workers. Bakers, carpenters, water carriers, and others were also needed for the project. Along with the methods utilized to construct the pyramids, there is also wide speculation regarding the exact number of workers needed for a building project of this magnitude. When Greek historian Herodotus visited Giza in 450 BC, he was told by Egyptian priests that \"the Great Pyramid had taken 400,000 men 20 years to build, working in three-month shifts 100,000 men at a time.\" Evidence from the tombs indicates that a workforce of 10,000 laborers working in three-month shifts took around 30 years to build a pyramid.\n\nThe Giza pyramid complex is surrounded by a large stone wall, outside which Mark Lehner and his team discovered a town where the pyramid workers were housed. The village is located to the southeast of the Khafre and Menkaure complexes. Among the discoveries at the workers' village are communal sleeping quarters, bakeries, breweries, and kitchens (with evidence showing that bread, beef, and fish were staples of the diet), a hospital and a cemetery (where some of the skeletons were found with signs of trauma associated with accidents on a building site). The workers' town appears to date from the middle 4th Dynasty (2520–2472 BC), after the accepted time of Khufu and completion of the Great Pyramid. According to Lehner and the AERA team:\n\nWithout carbon dating, using only pottery shards, seal impressions, and stratigraphy to date the site, the team further concludes;\n\nAs the pyramids were constructed, the mastabas for lesser royals were constructed around them. Near the pyramid of Khufu, the main cemetery is G 7000, which lies in the East Field located to the east of the main pyramid and next to the Queen's pyramids. These cemeteries around the pyramids were arranged along streets and avenues. Cemetery G 7000 was one of the earliest and contained tombs of wives, sons and daughters of these 4th Dynasty rulers. On the other side of the pyramid in the West Field, the royals sons Wepemnofret and Hemiunu were buried in Cemetery G 1200 and Cemetery G 4000 respectively. These cemeteries were further expanded during the 5th and 6th Dynasties.\n\nThe West Field is located to the west of Khufu's pyramid. It is divided into smaller areas such as the cemeteries referred to as the Abu Bakr Excavations (1949–50, 1950–1,1952 and 1953), and several cemeteries named based on the mastaba numbers such as Cemetery G 1000, Cemetery G 1100, etc. The West Field contains Cemetery G1000 – Cemetery G1600, and Cemetery G 1900. Further cemeteries in this field are: Cemeteries G 2000, G 2200, G 2500, G 3000, G 4000, and G 6000. Three other cemeteries are named after their excavators: Junker Cemetery West, Junker Cemetery East and Steindorff Cemetery.\n\nThe East Field is located to the east of Khufu's pyramid and contains cemetery G 7000. This cemetery was a burial place for some of the family members of Khufu.\nThe cemetery also includes mastabas from tenants and priests of the pyramids dated to the 5th Dynasty and 6th Dynasty.\n\nThis cemetery dates from the time of Menkaure (Junker) or earlier (Reisner), and contains several stone-built mastabas dating from as late as the 6th Dynasty. Tombs from the time of Menkaure include the mastabas of the royal chamberlain Khaemnefert, the King's son Khufudjedef was master of the royal largesse, and an official named Niankhre.\n\nThe Central Field contains several burials of royal family members. The tombs range in date from the end of the 4th Dynasty to the 5th Dynasty or even later.\n\nTombs dating from the Saite and later period were found near the causeway of Khafre and the Great Sphinx. These tombs include the tomb of a commander of the army named Ahmose and his mother Queen Nakhtubasterau, who was the wife of Pharaoh Amasis II.\n\nThe South Field includes mastabas dating from the 1st-3rd Dynasties as well as later burials. Of the more significant of these early dynastic tombs are one referred to as \"Covington's tomb\", otherwise known as Mastaba T, and the large Mastaba V which contained artifacts naming the 1st Dynasty pharaoh Djet. Other tombs date from the late Old Kingdom (5th and 6th Dynasty).\nThe south section of the field contains several tombs dating from the Saite period and later.\n\nIn 1990, tombs belonging to the pyramid workers were discovered alongside the pyramids, with an additional burial site found nearby in 2009. Although not mummified, they had been buried in mud-brick tombs with beer and bread to support them in the afterlife. The tombs' proximity to the pyramids and the manner of burial supports the theory that they were paid laborers who took great pride in their work and were not slaves, as was previously thought. Evidence from the tombs indicates that a workforce of 10,000 laborers working in three-month shifts took around 30 years to build a pyramid. Most of the workers appear to have come from poor families. Specialists such as architects, masons, metalworkers and carpenters, were permanently employed by the king to fill positions that required the most skill.\n\nThere are multiple burial-shafts and various unfinished shafts and tunnels located in the Giza complex discovered and mentioned prominently by Selim Hassan in his \"Excavations at Giza 1933-1934\" report. \"Very few of the Saitic [referring to the Saitic Period.] shafts have been thoroughly examined, for the reason that most of them are flooded.\"\n\nThe Osiris Shaft is a narrow burial-shaft leading to three levels for a tomb and below it a flooded area. It was first mentioned by Selim Hassan. A thorough excavation was conducted by a team led by Hawass in 1999. It was opened to tourist in November 2017.\n\nDuring the New Kingdom, Giza was still an active site. A brick-built chapel was constructed near the Sphinx during the early 18th dynasty, probably by King Thutmose I. Amenhotep II built a temple dedicated to Hauron-Haremakhet near the Sphinx. The future pharaoh Thutmose IV visited the pyramids and the Sphinx as a prince and in a dream was told that clearing the sand from the Sphinx would be rewarded with kingship. This event is recorded in the Dream Stela, which he had installed between the Sphinx's front legs. During the early years of his reign, Thutmose IV, together with his wife Queen Nefertari, had stelae erected at Giza. Pharaoh Tutankhamun had a structure built, which is now referred to as the king's resthouse.\nDuring the 19th Dynasty, Seti I added to the temple of Hauron-Haremakhet, and his son Ramesses II erected a stela in the chapel before the Sphinx and usurped the resthouse of Tutankhamun.\n\nDuring the 21st Dynasty, the Temple of Isis Mistress-of-the-Pyramids was reconstructed. During the 26th Dynasty, a stela made in this time mentions Khufu and his Queen Henutsen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979301", "title": "Alert Airport", "text": "Alert Airport\n\nAlert Airport is located at Alert, Nunavut, Canada, approximately south of the true North Pole. It is operated by the Canadian Department of National Defence and is part of Canadian Forces Station Alert. A weather station was established on the site in 1950, and in 1957 construction began on the military facilities which are still in use to this day. It is the northernmost airport in the world.\n\nRadar and navigation equipment are trailer units that can be moved around the airport. The airport's fire and rescue operations are supported by a 2012 KME/Fort Garry Fire Truck ARFF. Two bulldozers are used to grade the runway when needed.\n\nThere have been two crashes involving fatalities at the airfield since it was established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979302", "title": "Arviat Airport", "text": "Arviat Airport\n\nArviat Airport, , is located at Arviat, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the government of Nunavut. Local taxis provide service between the hamlet and the airport for $7.00.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979303", "title": "Baker Lake Airport", "text": "Baker Lake Airport\n\nBaker Lake Airport, , is located southwest of Baker Lake, Nunavut, Canada. It is operated by the government of Nunavut.\n\nOokpik Aviation operates charter flights.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979305", "title": "Cambridge Bay Airport", "text": "Cambridge Bay Airport\n\nCambridge Bay Airport is located southwest of Cambridge Bay, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the government of Nunavut.\n\nIn December 2005 the Government of Nunavut announced that they would spend $18 million to pave the runway.\n\nOn 14 May 2008 a press release from the then Premier of Nunavut, Paul Okalik, and Member of the Legislative Assembly, Keith Peterson, indicated that over the next three years the runway would be widened and lengthened.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979306", "title": "Cape Dorset Airport", "text": "Cape Dorset Airport\n\nCape Dorset Airport is located at Cape Dorset, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the Government of Nunavut.\n\nTurbo-prop aircraft are used and handled at this airport due to the runway surface and length.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979308", "title": "Clyde River Airport", "text": "Clyde River Airport\n\nClyde River Airport is located northeast of Clyde River, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the government of Nunavut.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979309", "title": "Coral Harbour Airport", "text": "Coral Harbour Airport\n\nCoral Harbour Airport is located northwest of Coral Harbour, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the government of Nunavut.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979310", "title": "Eureka Aerodrome", "text": "Eureka Aerodrome\n\nEureka Aerodrome is located at Eureka, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by Environment Canada.\n"}
{"id": "1979311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979311", "title": "Gjoa Haven Airport", "text": "Gjoa Haven Airport\n\nGjoa Haven Airport is located southwest of Gjoa Haven, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the government of Nunavut.\n\nThe airport is a single storey building and located next to several trailers. The runway and taxiways are packed gravel or dirt. The runway is not marked and other than a non-directional beacon (NDB), lacks navigation aids.\n"}
{"id": "1979312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979312", "title": "Anjuman Sunnat-ul-Jamaat Association", "text": "Anjuman Sunnat-ul-Jamaat Association\n\nThe Anjuman Sunnat-ul-Jamaat Association (ASJA) is the largest and most influential Muslim organisation of Trinidad and Tobago. Founded in 1936, its current president is Imam Yacoob Ali. Larger than 80% of the Trinidadian Muslim belongs to Anjuman Sunnatul jamaat association. It controls 53 mosques 7 Primary School and 2 secondary schools.The members of this organization are Sunni Hanafi Muslim adhering to the  traditional practices of Mawlid\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979313", "title": "Hall Beach Airport", "text": "Hall Beach Airport\n\nHall Beach Airport is located at Hall Beach, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the government of Nunavut.\n\nCanadian Helicopters operates flights as part of the North Warning System.\n"}
{"id": "1979314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979314", "title": "Messner", "text": "Messner\n\nMessner is a surname. It is an occupational name of Austro-Bavarian origin, in which dialect it means sacristan/sexton.\n\nPeople with the name Messner include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979318", "title": "The Cookout", "text": "The Cookout\n\nThe Cookout is a 2004 American comedy film, directed by Lance Rivera, written by Queen Latifah and Shakim Compere. The film introduces Quran Pender (credited as \"Storm P\") as Todd Anderson and starring Ja Rule, Tim Meadows, Jenifer Lewis, Meagan Good, Jonathan Silverman, Farrah Fawcett, Frankie Faison, Eve, Danny Glover, and a special appearance by Latifah. This was the last film for both Carl Wright and Farrah Fawcett their respective deaths in 2007 and 2009.\n\nTodd Anderson (Quran Pender) has just signed a 5-year/$30 million contract with his hometown basketball team the New Jersey Nets, he purchases many new luxuries for himself and his family including a new house in a well established, high class neighborhood called Garden Ridges Estates for him and his gold digging girlfriend Brittany (Meagan Good). Keeping with family tradition, he and his parents Em and JoJo (Jenifer Lewis and Frankie Faison) decides to host a regular family reunion cookout in his new place. He does not plan for it to clash with an important business meeting for an endorsement deal which his agent Wes (Jonathan Silverman) arranges. He even meets Garden Ridge's local security guard (Queen Latifah). \n\nMeanwhile, Bling Bling (Ja Rule) is jealous that his former classmate Todd has made it with his basketball contract after being insulted and embarrassed in front of the neighborhood when Todd did not recognize who he was. He plans to get many pairs of sneakers signed by the upcoming star to sell on eBay and become rich.\n\nAlthough the meeting is scheduled to take place in the morning, the guests are to arrive in the afternoon. One by one, members of Todd's eccentric family like Willie and Nelson (Jerod Mixon and Jamal Mixon), country cousins Jemar and Jasper (Shawn Andrew and Godfrey), aspiring lawyer Uncle Leroy (Tim Meadows), Todd's grandpa (Carl Wright), cousin Little Dee (Denee Busby) and her kids, and Em's sister Nettie (Rita Owens) alongside her husband Frank (Reg E. Cathey) and son Jamal (Kevin Phillps) begin to arrive before expected disrupting his business interview. As Em keeps Brittany busy, the neighbors Judge Crowley (Danny Glover) and his wife (Farrah Fawcett) are drawn to the cookout.\n\nWhilst on his way to Todd's new house, he crashes his car due to his clumsy friend Wheezer (Ruperto Vanderpool), tries to ride in the truck of a poo salesman (Vincent Pastore), and then tries to steal a new Mercedes from a parking garage without realizing the car belongs to Todd's girlfriend Brittany. After finding out, he holds her at gunpoint and forces her to drive him there.\n\nTodd is concerned mainly about his image, as his family's antics are making a poor impression on his neighbors when the security guard visits. Todd's childhood friend Becky (Eve) arrive. After a talk with her, Todd apologizes to his mother for losing his temper. She forgives him after settling her differences with Nettie.\n\nWhen Bling Bling and Wheezer invade the cookout so they can get Todd's autograph, the ensuing chaos makes Todd realize how much he needs his family. He realizes that he loves the family for the way they are and gets a shock by the endorsement interviewer. Bling Bling and Wheezer are defeated by the security guard, Jemar, and Jasper and are arrested by the police. Todd breaks up with Brittney and marries Becky as DJ Enuff performs at the party.\n\nA postscript states that Todd scores 26 points in his debut in New Jersey as he and Becky use the car bed he originally slept in. Leroy failed his bar exam for the 16th time and his conspiracy book was a bestseller. Little Dee finally got a father figure for her kids and moved in next to Todd. Jamal complete med school and broke up with Brittany three times. The security guard Mildred Smith left Garden Ridges and became a cop who gained a record of different tickets written out.\n\n\nThe film opened on 1,303 screens, and opened at #8 in the box office with a gross of $5,000,900. After seven weeks, it ended with a domestic gross of $11,814,019 and made $195,051 from foreign countries, for a total of $12,009,070 world-wide.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film received a rating 5%, based on 41 reviews, with the consensus reading, \"Good-natured but prepared with an absence of craft, The Cookout is an unappetizing collection of warmed-over jokes.\" On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 15 out of 100, based on 14 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nOn September 3, 2011, a sequel, \"The Cookout 2\" premiered on BET. Quran Pender, Ja Rule, Frankie Faison, Rita Owens, and Denee Busby were the only cast members to reprise their roles. Despite the title, the plot itself is not about a cookout at all with the cookout occurring earlier in the film. Talk show host Wendy Williams had a brief cameo as reporter Piers Gabriel in the original. In the sequel, she makes a special guest appearance as herself hearing about Todd's experiences in the film. Charlie Murphy co-stars in the film as Coach Ashmokeem, the brother of Bling Bling (Rule). The rest of the principal cast consists of Freeze Luv, Faizon Love, Big Boi, Jalen Rose, Michael K. Williams, Fat Joe, Jay Pharaoh, Vivica A. Fox, and Mike Tyson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979322", "title": "Air Scandic", "text": "Air Scandic\n\nAir Scandic was an airline from Jersey, Channel Islands, operating charter flights for various UK tour operators, most of which operated out of Manchester Airport.\n\nOver the years, Air Scandic operated the following aircraft types:\n"}
{"id": "1979327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979327", "title": "Derek Laud", "text": "Derek Laud\n\nDerek George Henry Laud (born 9 August 1964) is a British lobbyist, businessman, political adviser, speechwriter, and journalist. He received public attention when he was a contestant in the 2005 series of the British reality television show \"Big Brother\". Laud is co-founder and the executive director of the New City Initiative, a think tank and financial lobbying company. He is also a partner, partnership secretary, Director of the Advisory Board, and Director of Corporate Affairs at wealth management company Stanhope Capital LLP. Laud was the first black member of the Conservative Monday Club and first black master of foxhounds in the United Kingdom.\n\nDerek Laud was born on 9 August 1964 in Chelsea, London. \n\nLaud was a member of the Conservative Monday Club. In October 1984, Laud produced a policy paper under the auspices of the Club's Immigration and Race Relations Committee titled \"The Law, Order and Race Relations\". Laud considered himself on the liberal wing of the Club, and resigned following disagreements about apartheid South Africa.\n\nLaud subsequently became a researcher and special adviser, working for Conservative Members of Parliament and government ministers in the mid-1980s. Laud also worked as an advisor to Sir Gordon Downey, the former Auditor General, Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards, and Chairman of the Personal Investment Authority.\n\nIn the second half of the 1980s, Laud became an aide and speechwriter for then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. During this period, Laud also contributed to speeches for other leading Conservative politicians including Alan Clark and Michael Heseltine. Laud was a campaign aide and fundraiser for then Prime Minister John Major during the 1992 general election campaign.\n\nIn the 1997 general election, Laud was selected as the Conservative parliamentary candidate for Tottenham, a constituency with a large non-white population that had been represented by black Labour MPs since 1987, but stepped down shortly before the election citing \"business reasons\". \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that Laud had withdrawn his candidacy after being convicted for drink driving in the United States. Laud was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated, failure to keep right, and driving without a licence in the August 1996 incident. Three people in a car struck by Laud suffered physical injuries.\n\nIn May 2019 Laud stood for the Liberal Democrats in Witney, for election to West Oxfordshire District Council.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Laud worked for Strategy Network International (SNI), a lobbying company linked with apartheid South Africa and UNITA, the Angolan armed opposition group. Laud recommended the recruitment of Conservative Members of Parliament Michael Colvin and Neil Hamilton as consultants for SNI.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, Laud worked in private equity finance for John Beckwith, and was a director of numerous companies owned and controlled by the Pacific Group.\n\nIn 1992 Laud co-founded the lobbying company Ludgate Laud with Michael Colvin. In 1996 Laud acquired part of Ludgate Laud with an annual fee income of around £500,000 from the public relations company Ludgate Communications.\n\nLaud is a partner, partnership secretary, Director of the Advisory Board, and Director of Corporate Affairs at wealth management company Stanhope Capital LLP.\n\nLaud is also co-founder and the executive director of New City Initiative, a think tank and financial lobbying company.\n\nIn 2015 he published \"The Problem With Immigrants\" through political publishing house Biteback.\n\nLaud was a contestant on \"Big Brother\" in 2005, the sixth series of the British reality television series \"Big Brother\", in which a number of contestants live in an isolated house trying to avoid being evicted by the public. Laud was the tenth person to be evicted from the Big Brother House after losing in a head-to-head with Eugene Sully.\n\nLaud appeared on a charity edition of the television quiz show \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" on 17 September 2005, partnering Edwina Currie. Laud appeared on the BBC television discussion programme \"Question Time\" in November 2005.\n\nAn enthusiastic fox hunter, Laud was made Master of Foxhounds for the New Forest Hunt in 1999, becoming the first black master of foxhounds in the United Kingdom.\n\nLaud is an advocate for the gambling addiction charity GamCare and the dog protection charity Dogs Trust, the latter of which was his chosen charity when he appeared on \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\".\n\nLaud's nickname is \"Golly\", in reference to his collection of Robertson's jam golliwoggs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979336", "title": "Configuration item", "text": "Configuration item\n\nThe term configuration item (CI) refers to the fundamental structural unit of a configuration management system. Examples of CIs include individual requirements documents, software, models, and plans. The configuration-management system oversees the life of the CIs through a combination of processes and tools by implementing and enabling the fundamental elements of identification, change management, status accounting, and audits. This system aims to avoid the introduction of errors related to lack of testing as well as of incompatibilities with other CIs.\n\nThe term \"configuration item\" can be applied to anything designated for the application of the elements of configuration management and treated as a single entity in the configuration-management system. Configuration items, their versions, and their changes form the basis of any configuration audit. \n\n\nExamples of CI types are:\n\nEntities of Change management, Incidents and Problem management and other processes are sometimes also considered a Configuration items.\n\nConfiguration items are represented by their properties. These properties can be common to all the configuration items (e.g. unique item code that we will generate, description of function, end of the lifecycle or business owner that is approving configuration item changes and technical owner, i.e. administrator, that is supporting it and implementing the changes). Further properties can be specific for the given item type. Hardware devices will have some properties, database servers another and application and certificates again other properties.\n\nExamples of common properties:\n\n\nIdentifying properties\n\nIdentifying properties (highlighted in red) allow us to distinguish between particular instances of these items.\n\nA release (itself, a versioned entity) may consist of several configuration items. The set of changes to each configuration item will appear in the release notes, and the notes may contain specific headings for each configuration item. A complex hardware configuration item may have many levels of configuration items beneath its top level; each configuration item level must meet the same fundamental elements of the configuration management system.\n\nIn addition to its purpose in the implementation and management of a change, each configuration item's listing and definition should act as a common vocabulary across all groups connected to the product. One should define the CI at a level such that an individual involved with product marketing and an individual responsible for implementation can agree to a common definition when they use the name of the configuration item. Selection and identification of configuration items for a particular project can be seen as the first step in developing an overall architecture of the product from the top down.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979339", "title": "Step into Christmas", "text": "Step into Christmas\n\n\"Step into Christmas\" is a Christmas song written by Elton John and Bernie Taupin, and performed by Elton John. It was released as a stand-alone single in November 1973 with the song \"Ho, Ho, Ho (Who'd Be a Turkey at Christmas)\" as the B-side. Upon its original 1973 release, the song peaked at No. 24 on the UK Singles Chart, and it reached a new peak of No. 8 on the same chart in 2019. In the United States, the single reached No. 56 on the \"Cash Box\" Top 100 Singles chart and No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Christmas Singles chart.\n\n\"Step into Christmas\" was later included as a bonus track on the 1995 remastered re-issue of the album \"Caribou\", even though it was released in the \"Goodbye Yellow Brick Road\" era. It also appears on the albums \"Elton John's Christmas Party\", \"Rare Masters\", \"To Be Continued\", \"Diamonds\" and various Christmas compilation albums. Two versions with different vocals are known to exist: the original single mix and a version recorded for John's 1973 performance of \"Step into Christmas\" on \"The Gilbert O'Sullivan Show\" television program (which featured Bernie Taupin standing in for Ray Cooper on percussion).\n\nIn 2009, \"Step into Christmas\" was the ninth most played Christmas song of the noughties in the UK. In December 2018 the song was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry for sales of 400,000 copies. In December 2019 it was certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry for sales of 600,000 copies.\n\nAccording to liner notes about the song (in \"Rare Masters\" and \"Elton John's Christmas Party\"), the track and its B-side, both produced by Gus Dudgeon, were recorded during a session on 11 November 1973 at London's Morgan Studios, which was owned by drummer Barry Morgan, who had played on several of John's early albums. \"Step into Christmas\" was mixed to sound like one of producer Phil Spector's 1960s recordings, using plenty of compression and imitating his trademark wall of sound technique. This was intentional according to both John and Taupin, and an homage of sorts to Christmas songs by Spector-produced groups such as The Ronettes.\n\nA music video was produced to promote the single,\nand is notable for its cameo appearance of Taupin, who is seen briefly playing tubular bells during the song's bridge. John is also seen holding his Watford F.C. supporters card. John would later go on to own the club.\n\n\"Step into Christmas\" was covered by the band The Wedding Present on their 1992 single \"No Christmas\" and also covered by The Business for the holiday EP \"Bollocks to Christmas\". The song was also covered by The Puppini Sisters on their 2010 holiday album \"Christmas with The Puppini Sisters\".\n"}
{"id": "1979344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979344", "title": "List of settlements in Samos", "text": "List of settlements in Samos\n\nThis is a list of settlements in the island of Samos, Greece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979354", "title": "Configuration interaction", "text": "Configuration interaction\n\nConfiguration interaction (CI) is a post-Hartree–Fock linear variational method for solving the nonrelativistic Schrödinger equation within the Born–Oppenheimer approximation for a quantum chemical multi-electron system. Mathematically, \"configuration\" simply describes the linear combination of Slater determinants used for the wave function. In terms of a specification of orbital occupation (for instance, (1s)(2s)(2p)...), \"interaction\" means the mixing (interaction) of different electronic configurations (states). Due to the long CPU time and large memory required for CI calculations, the method is limited to relatively small systems.\n\nIn contrast to the Hartree–Fock method, in order to account for electron correlation, CI uses a variational wave function that is a linear combination of configuration state functions (CSFs) built from spin orbitals (denoted by the superscript \"SO\"),\n\nwhere Ψ is usually the electronic ground state of the system. If the expansion includes all possible CSFs of the appropriate symmetry, then this is a full configuration interaction procedure which exactly solves the electronic Schrödinger equation within the space spanned by the one-particle basis set. The first term in the above expansion is normally the Hartree–Fock determinant. The other CSFs can be characterised by the number of spin orbitals that are swapped with virtual orbitals from the Hartree–Fock determinant. If only one spin orbital differs, we describe this as a single excitation determinant. If two spin orbitals differ it is a double excitation determinant and so on. This is used to limit the number of determinants in the expansion which is called the CI-space. \n\nTruncating the CI-space is important to save computational time. For example, the method CID is limited to double excitations only. The method CISD is limited to single and double excitations. Single excitations on their own do not mix with the Hartree–Fock determinant. These methods, CID and CISD, are in many standard programs. The Davidson correction can be used to estimate a correction to the CISD energy to account for higher excitations. An important problem of truncated CI methods is their size-inconsistency which means the energy of two infinitely separated particles is not double the energy of the single particle.\n\nThe CI procedure leads to a general matrix eigenvalue equation:\n\nwhere c is the coefficient vector, e is the eigenvalue matrix, and the elements of the hamiltonian and overlap matrices are, respectively,\n\nSlater determinants are constructed from sets of orthonormal spin orbitals, so that formula_5, making formula_6 the identity matrix and simplifying the above matrix equation.\n\nThe solution of the CI procedure are some eigenvalues formula_7 and their corresponding eigenvectors formula_8.\nThe eigenvalues are the energies of the ground and some electronically excited states. By this it is possible to calculate energy differences (excitation energies) with CI methods. Excitation energies of truncated CI methods are generally too high, because the excited states are not that well correlated as the ground state is. For equally (balanced) correlation of ground and excited states (better excitation energies) one can use more than one reference determinant from which all singly, doubly, ... excited determinants are included (multireference configuration interaction). \nMRCI also gives better correlation of the ground state which is important if it has more than one dominant determinant. This can be easily understood because some higher excited determinants are also taken into the CI-space.\nFor nearly degenerate determinants which build the ground state one should use the multi-configurational self-consistent field (MCSCF) method because the Hartree–Fock determinant is qualitatively wrong and so are the CI wave functions and energies. \n\n"}
{"id": "1979358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979358", "title": "Dillo Day", "text": "Dillo Day\n\nDillo Day is an annual all-day music festival at Northwestern University that takes place at the end of May or beginning of June on the Lakefill. Initiated in 1972, it is organized by Mayfest Productions, a Northwestern student group, and is the largest completely student-run festival of its kind.\n\nThe festival has its roots in May Day, or Mayfete. Mayfete was a time when students would celebrate the \"renunciation of the May Queen of the temporal world for a spiritual one,\" according to a 1951 history of the event. Although little is known about the early days, May Day was originally a celebration of the women of Northwestern. The crowning of the May Queen was the central event, and the pomp included a Maypole dance and cotillion. May Day expanded to May Week in 1946 to accommodate a women's sing, men's sing, and an honors ceremony.\n\nArmadillo Day began in 1972. In 1981 the A&O board first produced a free two day outdoor concert event to coincide with Armadillo Day, featuring rockabilly revivalist Robert Gordon on Friday, and blues legend Muddy Waters on Saturday. The all-day Saturday concert event on the shores of Lake Michigan has continued the tradition of presenting major industry artists. Food trucks and a \"Dillo Village\" surround the two stages. Northwestern University lists Dillo Day as one of its most notable traditions.\n\nOn May 30th, 2020, Mayfest Productions hosted Digital Dillo, a virtual replacement for the annual music festival. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Dillo Day would not have been able to take place in an in-person format. As an alternative, students received a link to a livestream on which they could watch live performances and Q&A sessions with the artists. The virtual lineup included Rico Nasty, Jai Wolf, and The Regrettes.\n\n\nStudent Acts: \n\n\nMain Stage\n\nWNUR x Nongshim Stage\n\n\nStudent Acts\n\nMain Stage\n\nWNUR Stage\n\n\n2015 (Note: Dillo Day was canceled in 2015 due to high winds.)\n\nMain Stage\n\n\nWNUR Stage\n\n\n2014\n\nMain Stage\n\nIndieU Stage presented by WNUR\n\n2013 \n\n2012 \n\n2011 \n\n2010 \n\n2009 \n\n2008 \n\nPast headlining bands include The Roots, Cake, and Lupe Fiasco in 2007, and Robert Randolph and the Family Band and Ben Folds in 2006. Performers from previous years include George Clinton, Yellowman, Third World, The Wailers, The Crystal Method, Outkast, and Bela Fleck and the Flecktones.\n\nStephen Colbert mentioned Dillo Day at his 2011 Northwestern University commencement speech (Northwestern is Colbert's alma mater, where he was a theater major in the 1980s).\n\n"}
{"id": "1979360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979360", "title": "John N. Erlenborn", "text": "John N. Erlenborn\n\nJohn Neal Erlenborn (February 8, 1927 – October 30, 2005) was an American lawyer and a former Republican member of the U.S. Congressional Delegations from Illinois, representing the 14th (then after 1980s redistricting the 13th) district. \n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Erlenborn attended Immaculate Conception High School (Elmhurst, Illinois), Loyola University Chicago and Loyola University Chicago School of Law. He represented his district for twenty years, from January 1965 to January 1985, a period which began with the 89th U.S. Congress. He retired after serving in the 98th U.S. Congress.\n\nHe subsequently became an adjunct faculty member of the Georgetown University Law Center, and served as a board member for the Legal Services Corporation from 1989 to 2001. He died on October 30, 2005, at age 78, after suffering from Lewy body disease. The majority of his papers and other materials created during his time in office are held at the archives of Benedictine University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979367", "title": "Vincent Ogé", "text": "Vincent Ogé\n\nVincent Ogé (; c. 1755 – 6 February 1791) was a French aristocrat of mixed descent who instigated a rebellion against white colonial authority in French Saint-Domingue that lasted from October to December 1790 in the area outside Cap-Français, the colony's main city. The Ogé revolt of 1790 foretold the massive slave uprising of August 1791 that eventually led to the Haitian Revolution.\n\nOgé was a wealthy and educated free man of colour born in Dondon, Saint-Domingue, of one-quarter African descent and three-quarters French ancestry (a \"quadroon\"). He was the third son of Jacques Ogé, a white man and Jacqueline Ossé, a free woman of color. With eight children, the Ogé family was large, and Vincent is often confused with his older brother Jacques, who was also involved in what was known as the Ogé revolt. The family owned a coffee plantation in Dondon parish and his mother later held a contract to supply meat to the town's butchers. Educated in Bordeaux, Ogé returned to work with his uncle and namesake Vincent Ogé, a merchant in the major colonial city of Cap-Français (today's Cap-Haïtien). Vincent Ogé \"jeune\" (the younger), as he was called for most of his life, eventually took over his uncle's business. He leased valuable urban properties, traded coffee and imported French products to the colony.\n\nIn 1789 he was in Paris on business when the French Revolution broke out. By August of that year he had approached a group of colonial planters living in Paris to propose changing racial laws in the colony that discriminated against light-skinned men regardless of their wealth and education. Independently Julien Raimond, from a similar background in Saint-Domingue, spoke to the group of planters about the same time. When the planters (called \"grands blancs\") rebuffed their ideas, Ogé and Raimond began to attend meetings in Paris of a group headed by Étienne Dejoly, a white lawyer. He was a member of the Society of the Friends of the Blacks (\"Société des Amis des Noirs\"), an anti-slavery society founded in 1788 in Paris by Jacques Pierre Brissot.\n\nTogether with Dejoly, Raimond and Ogé quickly became the leaders of this group. They began to pressure the French National Assembly to give them representation and to force the colonists to allow voting rights for wealthy free men of color. Like others of their class, both men owned slaves in Saint-Domingue, and they claimed they did not intend to weaken slavery. Instead, they said, making free men of color equal to whites in political rights would strengthen their devotion to France and make the system of slavery more secure.\n\nIn October 1790 Ogé returned to Saint-Domingue determined to obtain voting privileges for free men of color, whether by persuasion or force. He believed that an amendment passed by the General Assembly of France in March of that year asserted the equality of free men of property. It read \"all the proprietors... ought to be active citizens.\" Ogé believed this gave him the right to vote in upcoming colonial elections. He put pressure on the colonial governor and other authorities to guarantee the voting rights of wealthy free men of color; the colonial governor Count de Blanchelande refused. While free men of color had become educated and some were wealthy property owners, colonial laws excluded them from voting and holding office, and limited them in other ways.\n\nAfter his return to Saint-Domingue, Vincent Ogé sent this letter from Grande Rivière, his camp in the Department of the North, to the President of the Assembly of that department:\n\nWith support Ogé obtained from the British abolitionist Thomas Clarkson in London, Ogé returned to Saint-Domingue via Charleston, South Carolina. Though planters accused him of purchasing firearms in the United States, there is no evidence of this. In October 1790, he arrived in Saint-Domingue. Meeting with Jean-Baptiste Chavannes, another free man of color, militiaman, and veteran of the American Revolution, Ogé soon gathered a force of about 250 to 300 free men of color. This group of men successfully defeated or frightened away several detachments of colonial militia sent out from Cap-Français.\n\nOgé and his rebels were flushed out by a larger force of professional soldiers and forced across the border into the Spanish colony of Santo Domingo. On 20 November 1790, Ogé and 23 of his associates, including Jean-Baptiste Chavannes, were captured in Hinche, then part of the Spanish controlled part of Hispaniola. They surrendered after receiving guarantees of safety, but the Spanish authorities nevertheless returned Ogé and his men to the colonial government of de Blanchelande in Le Cap.\n\nVincent Ogé was brutally executed by being broken on the wheel in the public square in Le Cap on 6 February 1791. Dozens more of his men were severely punished in February 1791. Their treatment served only to heat up the already boiling cauldron of dissatisfaction among free men of color and slaves in the colony. Ogé became an important symbol of the injustices of a colonial slave society that wanted to restrict the benefits of the French Revolution to whites only.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979375", "title": "JMP (statistical software)", "text": "JMP (statistical software)\n\nJMP (pronounced \"jump\") is a suite of computer programs for statistical analysis developed by the JMP business unit of SAS Institute. It was launched in 1989 to take advantage of the graphical user interface introduced by the Macintosh. It has since been significantly rewritten and made available for the Windows operating system. JMP is used in applications such as Six Sigma, quality control, and engineering, design of experiments, as well as for research in science, engineering, and social sciences.\n\nThe software can be purchased in any of five configurations: JMP, JMP Pro, JMP Clinical, JMP Genomics and the JMP Graph Builder App for the iPad. JMP can be automated with its proprietary scripting language, JSL. The software is focused on exploratory visual analytics, where users investigate and explore data. These explorations can also be verified by hypothesis testing, data mining, or other analytic methods. In addition, discoveries made through graphical exploration can lead to a designed experiment that can be both designed and analyzed with JMP.\n\nJMP was developed in the mid- to late-1980s by John Sall and a team of developers to make use of the graphical user interface introduced by the Apple Macintosh. It originally stood for \"John's Macintosh Project\" and was first released in October 1989. It was used mostly by scientists and engineers for design of experiments (DOE), quality and productivity support (Six Sigma), and reliability modeling. Semiconductor manufacturers were also among JMP's early adopters.\n\nInteractive graphics and other features were added in 1991 with version 2.0. Version 2 was twice the size as the original, though it was still delivered on a floppy disk. It required 2 MB of memory and came with 700 pages of documentation. Support for Microsoft Windows was added with version 3.1 in 1994. Rewritten with Version 4 and released in 2002, JMP could import data from a wider variety of data sources and added support for surface plots. Version 4 also added time series forecasting and new smoothing models, such as the seasonal smoothing method, called Winter's Method, and ARIMA (Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average). It was also the first version to support JSL, JMP Scripting Language.\n\nIn 2005, data mining tools like a decision tree and neural net were added with version 5 as well as Linux support, which was later withdrawn in JMP 9. Later in 2005, JMP 6 was introduced. JMP began integrating with SAS in version 7.0 in 2007 and has strengthened this integration ever since. Users can write SAS code in JMP, connect to SAS servers, and retrieve and use data from SAS. Support for bubble plots was added in version 7. JMP 7 also improved data visualization and diagnostics.\n\nJMP 8 was released in 2009 with new drag-and-drop features and a 64-bit version to take advantage of advances in the Mac operating system. It also added a new user interface for building graphs, tools for choice experiments and support for Life Distributions. According to \"Scientific Computing\", the software had improvements in \"graphics, QA, ease-of-use, SAS integration and data management areas.\" JMP 9 in 2010 added a new interface for using the R programming language from JMP and an add-in for Excel. The main screen was rebuilt and enhancements were made to simulations, graphics and a new Degradation platform. In March 2012, version 10 made improvements in data mining, predictive analytics, and automated model building.\n\nVersion 11 was released in late 2014. It included new ease-of-use features, an Excel import wizard, and advanced features for design of experiments. Two years later, version 12.0 was introduced. According to \"Scientific Computing\", it added a new \"Modeling Utilities\" submenu of tools, performance improvements and new technical features for statistical analysis. Version 13.0 was released in September 2016 and introduced various improvements to reporting, ease-of-use and its handling of large data sets in memory.\n\nJMP consists of JMP, JMP Pro, JMP Clinical and JMP Genomics, as well as the Graph Builder iPad App. JMP Clinical and JMP Genomics combine JMP with SAS software.\n\nJMP software is partly focused on exploratory data analysis and visualization. It is designed for users to investigate data to learn something unexpected, as opposed to confirming a hypothesis. JMP links statistical data to graphics representing them, so users can drill down or up to explore the data and various visual representations of it.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/wics.162\"></ref> Its primary applications are for designed experiments and analyzing statistical data from industrial processes.\n\nJMP is a desktop application with a wizard-based user interface, while SAS can be installed on servers. It runs in-memory, instead of on disk storage. According to a review in \"Pharmaceutical Statistics\", JMP is often used as a graphical front-end for a SAS system, which performs the statistical analysis and tabulations. JMP Genomics, used for analyzing and visualizing genomics data, requires a SAS component to operate and can access SAS/Genetics and SAS/STAT procedures or invoke SAS macros. JMP Clinical, used for analyzing clinical trial data, can package SAS code within the JSL scripting language and convert SAS code to JMP.\n\nJMP is also the name of the SAS Institute business unit that develops JMP. As of 2011 it had 180 employees and 250,000 users.\n\nThe JMP Scripting Language (JSL) is an interpreted language for recreating analytic results and for automating or extending the functionality of JMP software. JSL was first introduced in JMP version 4 in 2000. JSL has a LISP-like syntax, structured as a series of expressions. All programming elements, including if-then statements and loops, are implemented as JSL functions. Data tables, display elements and analyses are represented by objects in JSL that are manipulated with named messages. Users may write JSL scripts to perform analyses and visualizations not available in the point-and-click interface or to automate a series of commands, such as weekly reports. SAS, Python, R, and Matlab code can also be executed using JSL.\n\nIn 2007, a wildlife monitoring organization, WildTrack, started using JMP with the Footprint Identification Technology (FIT) system to identify individual endangered animals by their footprints. In 2009, the Chicago Botanic Garden used JMP to analyze DNA data from tropical breadfruit. Researchers determined that the seedless, starchy fruit was created by the deliberate hybridization of two fruits, the breadnut and the dugdug. The Herzenberg Laboratory at Stanford has integrated JMP with the Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FACS). The FACS system is used to study HIV, cancer, stem-cells and oceanography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979386", "title": "Akwas", "text": "Akwas\n\nAkwas by Mike Roy is a Sunday only adventure comic strip which ran from June 14, 1964 to March 28, 1965, and was syndicated through 1972. It featured the Native American character Akwas in realistic historical adventures set before Christopher Columbus' voyage to the Americas. \n\nThe best format is the half page; the strip is also found in a third of a page and tabloid formats, which drop one or more panels. The strip had a topper called \"Indian Lore and Crafts\".\n\nThere were four stories: \"Cricket Kidnapped\", \"The Dream Fast\", \"Mission to the Huron\", and \"Jessakid\". Toward the end of the strip, as it appeared in fewer and fewer newspapers, Mike Roy attempted to revive interest by giving Akwas superpowers. The strip ended shortly after this. \n\nNone of the stories have been reprinted, but one Akwas strip can be seen on the cover of \"Comics Revue\" #266.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979393", "title": "Afton State Park", "text": "Afton State Park\n\nAfton State Park is a state park of Minnesota, USA, on the St. Croix River in Washington County. Its hiking trails offer views of the river, rolling glacial moraine, and bluffland it preserves. It is a popular place for birdwatching, picnics, camping, and other typical outdoor recreational activities. To deter overuse of a state park only from downtown St. Paul, there is no vehicle access to the camping area or swimming beach.\n\nThe park is located approximately south of the town of Afton, Minnesota. The park surrounds the unaffiliated Afton Alps ski area on three sides. The name \"Afton\" was given to this area by its settlers as a reference to the Robert Burns poem \"Afton Water\", which is about the River Afton in Scotland.\n\nThe park lies on a glacial moraine, scribed with deep ravines running down to the St. Croix River. Sandstone outcrops have been exposed in some of the ravines. The vertical drop from the blufftop to the water is .\n\nA few patches of remnant prairie survived the decades of farming that took place on the blufftop. Today the former fields are being restored to prairie and oak savanna. The ravines leading down to the riverbank are thickly wooded with oak, aspen, birch, and cherry.\n\nWith William O'Brien State Park growing increasingly crowded in the 1960s, Minnesota was on the lookout for more recreational land near Minneapolis–Saint Paul. Very little state park-caliber land remained, especially along the scenic and well-settled St. Croix River. Therefore, it was a surprise when an undeveloped property directly on the river, containing the last beach on the Minnesota side, went on the market in 1967. Although some of the blufftop had been farmed, the steep ravines had deterred most other development. State park officials and advocacy groups acted quickly and purchased the property the next summer. Many local residents opposed the new state park, fearing the onslaught of visitors it would attract. Resistance continued after the park was authorized by legislation in 1969, and acquisition of property to fill out the park dragged on for thirteen years. Residents did achieve a few key compromises. The park entrance was moved from the north to the west side, snowmobiles were banned, and the road was shortened from its original plan. Thus the camping area and beach are only accessible by hiking. Afton State Park finally opened to the public in 1982, with the visitor center only being completed the following year.\n\nDuring the 2011 Minnesota state government shutdown, all state parks were closed, leaving Afton open to a serious vandalism and burglary of three park buildings. A group of a dozen young men drove around the gate into the park, where they ransacked an administrative building and vandalized two camper cabins. The shingles of one of the latter were pried off and burned in a campfire. State parks were open to people entering on foot, and an early-morning hiker alerted authorities to the suspicious presence of vehicles. Some of the group scattered and hid, but the Washington County Sheriff's department conducted a manhunt through the park and arrested all but one of the suspects.\n\nAfton State Park's campground has 28 backpacking sites. The various sites are a hike up a large hill. Firewood and water are provided in the campground. There is also a canoe site off of the St. Croix River open only to paddlers. The park also offers two drive-in group campsites which can each accommodate up to 40 people. In the fall of 2009, Afton opened four new camper cabins that include electricity.\n\nThere are more than of hiking trails in the park. Some of the trails cover the tops of the bluffs, the bluffs themselves, and the floodplain of the St. Croix River. Other trails criss-cross the prairie areas of the park. A paved trail open to bicycles extends from the park entrance to the visitor center. of hiking trail are open to horseback riding. In winter of trail are groomed for cross-country skiing. Many of them are quite challenging as they climb and descend steep hills. are maintained for winter hiking and for snowshoeing. Snowshoers can also trek anywhere in the park, provided they stay off the groomed ski trails.\n\nThe park has two picnic areas and four reservable picnic shelters, one of which is in the visitor center and is heated in winter. There is a swimming beach on the river, and the park provides equipment for volleyball and horseshoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979400", "title": "Nick &quot;Peanut&quot; Baines", "text": "Nick &quot;Peanut&quot; Baines\n\nNicholas Matthew \"Peanut\" Baines (born 21 March 1978) is an English musician. He is the keyboardist for the indie rock band Kaiser Chiefs.\n\nIn an interview for the 2005 Austin City Limits Music Festival DVD extras disc, Baines said he got the nickname \"peanut\" at school when, aged 10 or 11, he drew a picture of himself and his head looked like a peanut.\n\nHe plays guitar as well as keyboard, and in the same 2005 interview he said that he has played \"music for most of my life\". He, Nick Hodgson, and Simon Rix started playing in bands at school when they were about 15. He also remembers: \"We were into stuff like Guns N' Roses. It was really cool to be able to play a song and actually finish it\". The Beatles have been a major influence on the band, \"as they should be on most musicians\". Kaiser Chiefs were not an overnight success; singer Ricky Wilson has stated that it \"took ten years of playing in this band to 'get lucky.\n\nHe is known by his fans for wearing a hat all the time (as he is going bald) and for being the one the other Kaiser Chiefs pull pranks on; bassist Simon Rix has said \"We bully Peanut onstage\". In an interview in Australia, singer Ricky Wilson said: \"He likes to go the front and clap, and while he was at the front clapping, we all went off. Left him there on his own.\" When the interviewer asked \"For how long?\", Wilson answered: \"Hours.\"\n\nPeanut missed a gig in LA in November 2008 and the filming of the \"Good Days Bad Days\" video due to appendicitis.\n\nUntil the arrival of drummer Vijay Mistry, Baines was the only member of Kaiser Chiefs who did not sing. He studied at university for four years in Newcastle. He is now a resident of the Finsbury Park area of North London.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979412", "title": "Trinity School for Ministry", "text": "Trinity School for Ministry\n\nTrinity School for Ministry (TSM), formerly known as Trinity Episcopal School for Ministry, is an Anglican seminary in Ambridge, Pennsylvania. It is generally associated with low church, evangelical Anglicanism.\n\nIn the mid 1970s, several prominent evangelical-leaning Episcopal clergy and lay leaders became disillusioned with what they considered the liberal theology and \"theological relativism\" of the existing Episcopal seminaries. Some members of this group had been involved with the charismatic movement that began in the mid-1960s in some parishes, while others, many associated with the Fellowship of Witness, held to a more traditional Anglican Evangelicalism. These advocates for conservatism in the Episcopal Church of the United States began to meet and plan a new seminary with a curriculum based on orthodox Protestant theology and evangelical principles.\n\nIn 1976, Alfred Stanway, a retired Australian missionary bishop to Tanganyika (present-day Tanzania), accepted the call to become the first dean of TSM. Beginning with 17 students and meeting in rented space, Trinity held its first classes in September 1976. Stanway served for two years before retiring. His successor, John Rodgers, oversaw major growth during his 12-year tenure. In 1989, William C. Frey resigned as Bishop of Colorado to become the third dean and president. In 1996, Peter C. Moore, a founding board member and noted evangelical leader, became the fourth Dean and President. Paul F. M. Zahl was elected Trinity's fifth dean in 2004. He stepped down in May 2007, and Rodgers came out of retirement to serve as Interim Dean and President for one year. English evangelical Rev. Dr. Justyn Terry was named the school's dean in August 2008 and remained in office until returning to his homeland. He now serves as academic dean of Wycliffe Hall, Oxford, England. In May 2016 The Rev'd Dr. Laurie Thompson was asked to serve as the interim dean. Subsequently, the board invited Thompson to become the seventh Dean and President. He was installed on the eve of St. Patrick, March 16, 2017 at St. Stephen's church in Sewickley. Dr. Sarah Lebhar Hall was the preacher on Joshua 1:1-12.\n\nIn 2007, Trinity dropped the word \"Episcopal\" from its name on some of its publications and printed materials. The school's official name, however, remains unchanged. The modification was made in acknowledgement of the growing number of realigning Anglican bodies sending students to the seminary, including the Anglican Church in North America, the Anglican Mission in the Americas, the Reformed Episcopal Church and the Convocation of Anglicans in North America, the latter two of which are sub-provinces of the ACNA (see Anglican realignment).\n\nTrinity has \"board members, faculty, staff, students and alumni on both sides\" of movements to realign. Trinity remains, however, an independent institution, neither owned nor controlled by any diocese, parish or province. It remains a participant in meetings of the Episcopal seminaries.\n\nTrinity now serves 150 full-time and part-time students on its campus in Ambridge and 75 more in online degree programs. Many former professors have become bishops in the Episcopal Church or other Anglican bodies around the world.\n\nFounded by leaders of the evangelical wing of the Episcopal Church, TSM has become a central player in the renewal movement in the Episcopal Church. The majority of its over 1,000 graduates who currently serve as clergy and lay leaders are evangelical. Some of the alumni, faculty, and trustees of the school have been among those who support conservative theology within the Episcopal Church, advocating historic views on matters such as the virgin birth, deity of Jesus, and the literal resurrection of Jesus, as well as moral stances such as opposition to abortion and an affirmation of a traditional Christian view of marriage. Some of the graduates of this institution have assumed leadership positions within the Anglican realignment movement, been deposed by the Episcopal Church, and are now members of the Anglican Church in North America.\n\nAlthough unquestionably evangelical, the seminary includes students, faculty, and staff from among evangelical, charismatic, and Anglo-Catholic wings of Anglicanism, as well as members of other conservative Christian denominations.\n\nAlthough it is an Anglican seminary, Trinity School for Ministry is home to students from a wide variety of denominations. TSM maintains an MDiv with a Presbyterian track, with students from the Evangelical Presbyterian Church. The North American Lutheran Seminary of the North American Lutheran Church has also been located at TSM since its founding in 2013.\n\nTSM is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada and is a charter member of the Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979414", "title": "Fitchburg Railroad", "text": "Fitchburg Railroad\n\nThe Fitchburg Railroad is a former railroad company, which built a railroad line across northern Massachusetts, United States, leading to and through the Hoosac Tunnel. The Fitchburg was leased to the Boston and Maine Railroad in 1900. The main line from Boston to Fitchburg is now operated as the MBTA Fitchburg Line; Pan Am Railways runs freight service on some other portions.\n\nA horse-drawn railroad from Boston to Brattleboro, Vermont, via Fitchburg was proposed in 1828.\n\nThe Charlestown Branch Railroad was incorporated April 4, 1835, as a short branch from the Boston and Lowell Railroad near Lechemere Point in Cambridge, across the Miller's River to the Charlestown waterfront, ending at Swett's Wharf (Sweet's Wharf in some sources) right before the Charlestown Navy Yard. It opened in January 1840 with horse-drawn trains.\n\nThe Fitchburg Railroad was incorporated March 3, 1842, to run from Boston to Fitchburg, and bought land next to the Charlestown Branch in May 1843. Construction began on May 20, and the first section to Waltham opened on December 20, 1843, operated by the Charlestown Branch until May 1, 1844. Further sections opened to Concord June 17, 1844, Acton October 1, 1844, Shirley December 30, 1844, and Fitchburg March 5, 1845. The new track next to the Charlestown Branch opened in August 1844; the Fitchburg Railroad leased the Charlestown Branch itself on September 1, 1845, and outright bought the branch on January 31, 1846.\n\nThe original Charlestown terminal was southwest of City Square, west of the Warren Bridge (). In 1848 a new bridge opened, carrying the line from Charlestown, across the Charles River, to downtown Boston. The downtown Boston terminal was on the north side of Causeway Street between Haverhill Street and Beverly Street until the North Station union station opened in 1893.\n\nIn 1854 Henry David Thoreau wrote in his work \"Walden\" about his skepticism of the Fitchburg Railroad near Walden Pond.\n\nThe Boston and Maine Railroad leased the Fitchburg for 99 years from July 1, 1900 as its Fitchburg Division. The two companies merged to form a new B&M December 1, 1919. The MBTA bought the line from Boston to Fitchburg, along with many other lines, from the B&M on December 27, 1976. Guilford Transportation took over the former B&M in June 1983.\n\nPassenger service ran only to Fitchburg after 1960. On January 18, 1965, service was cut back to West Concord, but was restored to Ayer on June 28, 1965. On March 1, 1975, it was cut back to South Acton, but was restored to Fitchburg and beyond to Gardner on January 13, 1980. Gardner service was ended on January 1, 1987, when Amtrak took over the MBTA contract, due to a dispute between Amtrak and Guilford; the MBTA only owned the trackage to Fitchburg.\n\nThe Fitchburg Line west of the old Stony Brook Railroad, which now junctions east of the old Ayer Junction, now serves as part of Pan Am Railways' main line between Mattawamkeag, Maine, and Mechanicville, New York.\n\nThe Harvard Branch Railroad was incorporated and opened in 1849, splitting from the Fitchburg in Somerville and running to Harvard Square. It was never leased or owned by the Fitchburg, and was never successful, closing in 1855.\n\nThe Lexington and West Cambridge Railroad was chartered in 1845 and opened in 1846 as a branch from the Fitchburg near the present-day Alewife Brook Reservation area (now considered part of North Cambridge) to Lexington. The Fitchburg operated it from opening, leasing it from 1847 to 1859. In 1868 it was reorganized as the Lexington and Arlington Railroad and bought by the Boston and Lowell Railroad in 1870. The connection to the Fitchburg was cut (but reopened in 1927). Passenger service ceased in January 1977 due to a blizzard, never to resume. Freight operation ended in 1981, and the line was formally abandoned in 1991 to make way for the Minuteman Commuter Bike Trail.\n\nThe Watertown Branch Railroad was incorporated 1847, first as an independent short line RR, but was quickly taken over by the Fitchburg. It ran from the main line in Cambridge through Watertown to Waltham. It opened in 1851 and was soon the main passenger line between Boston and Waltham and one of the few branch lines to be double tracked. Passenger service on the line ended in 1938. The middle section of the line in the Watertown Square area was abandoned in 1960. This split the branch in two. The west side of the branch was mostly abandoned in 2000. The east side of the branch contained only one customer, Newly Weds Foods. The last delivery made was in early 2007, with the last move occurring on the line in early 2008. The entire branch is now either abandoned or out of service.\n\nThe Lancaster and Sterling Railroad was incorporated in 1846 and immediately merged with the Fitchburg Railroad. It was built from a junction at South Acton roughly southwest to Hudson, opening in 1850. The Marlborough Branch Railroad was incorporated in 1852 and opened in 1855, continuing the line from Hudson south to Marlborough. It was leased by the Fitchburg in 1853 and bought outright in 1863. This branch made South Acton a major junction and service point on the Fitchburg Route. A turntable and engine house existed in South Acton to service trains well into the 20th century. Passenger service from Marlborough ceased in 1932, and the section between Maynard and Hudson was abandoned in 1943. The section between Hudson saw its last passenger traffic via the Central Massachusetts Railroad in 1939, but it was not abandoned until 1980. Passenger service to Maynard via the Fitchburg mainline in South Acton ceased in 1958. The line was formally abandoned in 1979. It is in the process of being converted into the Assabet River Rail Trail.\n\nThe Peterborough and Shirley Railroad was incorporated in 1845 and opened as a branch from the Fitchburg in Ayer to West Townsend in 1848, continuing to Mason, New Hampshire, in 1849 or 1850. The Fitchburg Railroad leased it in 1847 and bought it in 1860, with an extension to Greenville opening at some point.\n\nThe Brookline and Milford Railroad was incorporated and built in 1892 from the Peterborough and Shirley at Squannacook Junction north to the Wilton Railroad in Milford, New Hampshire. It was merged into the Fitchburg in 1895.\n\nThe Vermont and Massachusetts Railroad was chartered in 1844 and immediately merged the Brattleborough and Fitchburg Railroad of Vermont into itself. The first section, from Fitchburg to Baldwinville, opened in 1847 and was operated by the Fitchburg Railroad until 1849. Further extensions opened to Athol and Miller's Falls in 1848, and to Brattleboro, Vermont, in 1850. Later in 1850, a branch from Grout's Corner west to Greenfield opened. A short branch to Turner's Falls opened in 1870 or 1871.\n\nThe original main line north from Miller's Falls was leased to the Rutland Railroad in 1870, which leased itself to the Vermont Central Railroad in 1871, which became the Central Vermont Railroad in 1872. This was a continuation of the New London Northern Railroad, built south from Miller's Falls in 1867 and also leased to the Vermont Central in 1871.\n\nIn 1874 the Fitchburg Railroad leased the rest of the V&M, extending its line west to Greenfield (and beyond via the Troy and Greenfield Railroad - see below).\n\nThe Ashburnham Railroad was chartered in 1871 and opened in 1874 from the V&M at South Ashburnham to Ashburnham. The Fitchburg bought it in 1885.\n\nThe Turners Falls Branch connected the main line at Turners Falls Junction to Turners Falls. It opened in 1871.\n\nThe Cheshire Railroad was chartered in New Hampshire in 1844, consolidating with the Winchendon Railroad of Massachusetts (chartered 1845) in 1845. The first section opened in 1847, from the Vermont and Massachusetts Railroad at South Ashburnham to Winchendon; an extension to Troy, New Hampshire, also opened in 1847. Extensions to Keene, New Hampshire, and Bellows Falls, Vermont, opened in 1848 and 1849, forming a connection between the Fitchburg Railroad and the Vermont Central Railroad (via trackage rights over the V&M east of South Ashburnham). \n\nThe Cheshire Railroad was merged into the Fitchburg in 1890, becoming the Cheshire Branch. Passenger service ended in 1958, and the line was abandoned in sections, Winchendon north in 1970 (after the bankruptcy of the Rutland RR) and in 1984 for the rest.\n\nThe Monadnock Railroad was incorporated in 1848, but did not open from Winchendon to Jaffrey, New Hampshire, until December 1870 and to Peterborough in 1871, from which the Peterborough and Hillsborough Railroad continued the line north after 1878. The Boston, Barre and Gardner Railroad, running south from Winchendon, leased the Monadnock in 1874, but transferred the lease to the Cheshire Railroad in 1880 to keep it out of the hands of the Boston and Albany. The Fitchburg took control of the Monadnock in 1890.\n\nThe Barre and Worcester Railroad was chartered in 1847 and reorganized in 1857 as the Boston, Barre and Gardner Railroad. It opened in 1871 between the Worcester and Nashua Railroad at Barber (from which it ran to Worcester via trackage rights) and the V&M in Gardner. An extension in 1874 took it to the Cheshire Railroad at Winchendon.\n\nThe BB&G leased the Monadnock Railroad in 1874, but reassigned the lease to the Cheshire in 1880. The BB&G was merged into the Fitchburg in 1885.\n\nThe Troy and Greenfield Railroad was incorporated and chartered in 1848, with a planned line from the Vermont border in Williamstown east through the Hoosac Tunnel to Greenfield. The first section opened from the state line to the west end of the tunnel at North Adams in 1859. The tunnel itself opened in 1875, before which the Troy and Boston Railroad leased the T&G. The T&G was consolidated into the Fitchburg Railroad in 1887.\n\nThe Southern Vermont Railroad was chartered in 1848 to connect the T&G across the southwest corner of Vermont to the New York state line. It opened in 1859 and was leased by the Troy and Boston Railroad, but in 1860 the T&G bought it. The Fitchburg bought the Southern Vermont directly in 1891.\n\nThe Troy and Boston Railroad was chartered in 1849 to continue the line west to Troy, New York. It was consolidated into the Fitchburg in 1887. The Troy and Bennington Railroad was organized in 1851 to build a branch from the Troy and Boston at Hoosick Junction to the Vermont state line towards Bennington. It opened in 1852, continuing as the Western Vermont Railroad (leased by the Troy and Boston from 1857 until it was reorganized into the Bennington and Rutland Railway in 1865).\n\nThe Deerfield River Railroad opened in 1885 as a private narrow gauge railroad connecting the V&M at the Hoosac Tunnel to the Deerfield Company saw mills at Readsboro, Vermont. It was taken over by the Hoosac Tunnel and Wilmington Railroad in 1886 and later extended to Wilmington, Vermont. The line was never owned by the Fitchburg or Boston and Maine Railroad, and was abandoned from Readsboro to Wilmington in 1937. The remainder of the line from the connection with the Boston & Maine at Hoosac Tunnel to Readsboro was abandoned in 1971.\n\nThe Boston, Hoosac Tunnel and Western Railway was organized in 1877 and opened in 1879 on a line from the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad at Rotterdam Junction, west of Schenectady, east to Mechanicville and beyond, closely paralleling the Troy and Boston into southwestern Vermont. The Fitchburg bought the BHT&W in 1887.\n\nThe Hoosac Tunnel and Saratoga Railway was chartered in 1880, and was leased by the BHT&W in 1882. In 1886 it merged with the Saratoga Lake Railway (also chartered 1880 and leased to the BHT&W in 1882) to form the Troy, Saratoga and Northern Railroad. The combined line was built in 1886 and 1887, with a main line from Mechanicville (never built south to Troy) north and west to Saratoga Springs, and a branch east to Schuylerville. The Fitchburg Railroad leased it in 1887.\n\nThis list shows all stations and junctions that have existed on the original Fitchburg Railroad between Boston and Fitchburg. Minor relocations of stations are not noted. A list of current stations is also available.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979417", "title": "A354 road", "text": "A354 road\n\nThe A354 is a primary route in England which runs from Salisbury in Wiltshire to Easton on the Isle of Portland in Dorset, a total distance of . From Salisbury the road crosses Cranborne Chase. At Woodyates the road follows the route of Ackling Dyke, a Roman Road for a short distance. The A354 briefly merges with the A350 at the Blandford Forum bypass before crossing the Dorset Downs and merging with the A35 at the Puddletown bypass. to the west it splits from the Dorchester bypass and runs south. The road now bypasses Upwey and Broadwey on a new section of road which has some 2 lane sections going north and 1 lane continuously going south towards Weymouth. After the old and new sections meet at Manor Roundabout the road follows down Weymouth Way alongside Radipole Lake. The final stretch runs across a short bridge over Chesil beach onto Portland.\n\nThe project was to build a single carriageway road, with crawler lane along part, linking the A354 Manor Roundabout near Radipole to the A354 at the top of the Ridgeway Hill.\nThe main carriageway of the Weymouth Relief Road opened on Thursday 17 March 2011.\n\nThe 2012 Olympics at Portland played a major factor in making £89m funding for the road available.\n\n1983 - The Dorset Structure Plan proposed to construct the A354 Weymouth, Ridgeway to Mount Pleasant improvement as a primary route.\n\nDecember 1987 to April 1988 - a public inquiry was held into proposals for development in the Lorton area which included a new single-carriageway route running from Mount Pleasant to Littlemoor. These proposals were refused consent by the Secretary of State.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1992 - various studies and consultation exercises undertaken into alternative route options and alignments for a dual carriageway road between the Ridgeway and north Weymouth.\n\n1992 - work on a planning application and Environmental Statement for this scheme began.\n\nJuly 1994 - a dual carriageway road along the alignment was granted planning permission.\n\n1996 - A public inquiry into the Compulsory Purchase and Side Road Orders was held. The Secretary of State approved these orders. However, work on the scheme was never started as, following a Government review of road construction, the funding for the scheme was not forthcoming. The planning permission lapsed after 5 years.\n\nFollowing the lapse of permission Dorset County Council undertook a review of the previously consented scheme. The previous dual carriageway route was rejected in light of changing policy guidance, developments within the area of the proposed route and new information about the ecological value of areas along the route.\n\nA new preferred route for a single carriageway road was identified, running from Manor Roundabout alongside the eastern side of the Weymouth/Dorchester railway to Littlemoor, through Littlemoor and then parallel with the alignment of the railway to the Ridgeway (often referred to as the Orange Route).\n\nDecember 2003 - the Government Office of the South West confirmed that this scheme was 'Provisionally Accepted', subject to completion of all relevant statutory processes and final approval of Ministers.\n\nSeptember 2005 - a planning application and Environmental Statement for a road along the preferred route was submitted by Dorset County Council. However, the application was not determined as, following its submission and at the request of the planning authority, the council carried out further studies, including an examination of the potential for further reducing the effects on the environment, especially those parts which are nationally designated.\n\nAs a result of the council's re-assessment, changes were made to the September 2005 proposals, primarily to the stretch of road through the AONB.\n\nMarch 2011 - Relief Road was opened\n\n"}
{"id": "1979418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979418", "title": "501(c) organization", "text": "501(c) organization\n\nA 501(c) organization is a nonprofit organization in the federal law of the United States according to and is one of over 29 types of nonprofit organizations exempt from some federal income taxes. Sections 503 through 505 set out the requirements for obtaining such exemptions. Many states refer to Section 501(c) for definitions of organizations exempt from state taxation as well. 501(c) organizations can receive unlimited contributions from individuals, corporations, and unions.\n\nFor example, a nonprofit organization may be tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) if its primary activities are charitable, religious, educational, scientific, literary, testing for public safety, fostering amateur sports competition, preventing cruelty to children, or preventing cruelty to animals.\n\nAccording to the IRS Publication 557, in the \"Organization Reference Chart\" section, the following is an exact list of 501(c) organization types and their corresponding descriptions.\nUnder Section 511, a 501(c) organization is subject to tax on its \"unrelated business income\", whether or not the organization actually makes a profit, but not including selling donated merchandise or other business or trade carried on by volunteers, or certain bingo games. Disposal of donated goods valued over $2,500, or acceptance of goods worth over $5,000 may also trigger special filing and record-keeping requirements.\n\nTax exemption does not excuse an organization from maintaining proper records and filing any required annual or special-purpose tax returns, e.g., and . Prior to 2008, an annual return was not generally required from an exempt organization accruing less than $25,000 in gross income yearly. Since 2008, most organizations whose annual gross receipts are less than $50,000 must file an annual information return known as Form 990-N. Form 990-N must be submitted electronically using an authorized IRS e-file provider. Form 990, Form 990-EZ, and Form 990-PF may be filed either by mail or electronically through an authorized e-file provider.\n\nFailure to file required returns such as Form 990 (Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax) may result in fines of up to $250,000 per year. Exempt or political organizations, excluding churches or similar religious entities, must make their returns, reports, notices, and exempt applications available for public inspection. The organization's Form 990 (or similar such public record as the Form 990-EZ or Form 990-PF) is available for public inspection and photocopying at the offices of the exempt organization, through a written request and payment for photocopies by mail from the exempt organization, or through a direct Form 4506-A \"Request for Public Inspection or Copy or Political Organization IRS Form\" request to the IRS of for the past three tax years. Form 4506-A also allows the public inspection or photocopying access to Form 1023 \"Application for Recognition of Exemption\" or Form 1024, Form 8871 \"Political Organization Notice of Section 527 Status\", and Form 8872 \"Political Organization Report of Contribution and Expenditures\". Internet access to many organizations' 990 and some other forms are available through GuideStar. Certain organizations are exempt from filing Form 990, such as churches, their integrated auxiliaries, and conventions or associations of churches; the exclusively religious activities of any religious order; and religious organizations; and most organizations whose annual gross receipts are less than $5,000. Failure to file such timely returns and to make other specific information available to the public also is prohibited.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2017 the IRS revoked the nonprofit status of more than 760,000 nonprofit organizations for failing file the 990 form.\n\n501(c)(3) tax-exemptions apply to entities that are organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes; or for testing for public safety, to foster national or international amateur sports competition, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals. The 501(c)(3) exemption also applies for any unincorporated community chest, fund, cooperating association, or foundation that is organized and operated exclusively for those purposes. There are also supporting organizations—often referred to in shorthand form as \"Friends of\" organizations. , provides a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for some donors who make charitable contributions to most types of 501(c)(3) organizations, among others.\n\nThe IRS explains that to be tax-exempt, \"an organization must be organized and operated exclusively for exempt purposes ... and none of its earnings may inure to any private shareholder or individual.\" Private inurement means that the organization's assets must not unduly benefit a person.\n\nOrganizations described in section 501(c)(3) are prohibited from conducting political campaign activities to intervene in elections to public office. On the other hand, public charities (but not private foundations) may conduct a limited amount of lobbying to influence legislation. Although the law states that \"No substantial part...\" of a public charity's activities can go to lobbying, charities may register for a 501(h) election allowing them to lawfully conduct lobbying activities as long as their financial expenditure does not exceed a specified amount. 501(c)(3) organizations risk loss of tax exempt status if any of these rules are violated.\n\nA 501(c)(3) organization is allowed to conduct some or all of its charitable activities outside the United States. Donors' contributions to a 501(c)(3) organization are tax-deductible only if the contribution is for the use of the 501(c)(3) organization, and that the 501(c)(3) organization is not merely serving as an agent or conduit of a foreign charitable organization. Additional procedures are required of 501(c)(3) organizations that are private foundations.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization is a social welfare organization, such as a civic organization or a neighborhood association. An organization is considered by the IRS to be operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare if it is primarily engaged in promoting the common good and general welfare of the people of the community. Net earnings must be exclusively used for charitable, educational, or recreational purposes.\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", 501(c)(4) organizations:...are allowed to participate in politics, so long as politics do not become their primary focus. What that means in practice is that they must spend less than 50 percent of their money on politics. So long as they don't run afoul of that threshold, the groups can influence elections, which they typically do through advertising.\n\n501(c)(4)s are similar to 501(c)(5)s and 501(c)(6)s in that the organizations may inform the public on controversial subjects and attempt to influence legislation relevant to its program and, unlike 501(c)(3) organizations, they may also participate in political campaigns and elections, as long as their primary activity is the promotion of social welfare and related to the organization's purpose.\n\nThe income tax exemption for 501(c)(4) organizations applies to most of their operations, but income spent on political activities—generally the advocacy of a particular candidate in an election—is taxable. An \"action\" organization generally qualifies as a 501(c)(4) organization. An \"action\" organization is one whose activities substantially include, or are exclusively, direct or grassroots lobbying related to advocacy for or against legislation or proposing, supporting, or opposing legislation that is related to its purpose.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization may directly or indirectly support or oppose a candidate for public office as long as such activities are not a substantial amount of its activities.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization that lobbies must register with the Clerk of the House if it lobbies members of the House or their staff. Likewise, a 501(c)(4) organization must register with the Secretary of the Senate if it lobbies members of the Senate or their staff. In addition, the 501(c)(4) organization must either inform its members the amount it spends on lobbying or pay a proxy tax to the Internal Revenue Service. Lobbying expenses and political expenses are not deductible as business expenses.\n\nThe use of 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), and 501(c)(6) organizations has been affected by the 2007 case \"FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.\", in which the Supreme Court struck down the part of the McCain-Feingold Act that prohibited 501(c)(4)s, 501(c)(5)s, and 501(c)(6)s from broadcasting electioneering communications. The Act defined an electioneering communication as a communication that mentions a candidate's name 60 days before a primary or 30 days before a general election.\n\nContributions to 501(c)(4) organizations are not tax-deductible as charitable donations unless the organization is either a volunteer fire department or a veterans organization. Dues or contributions to 501(c)(4) organizations may be deductible as a business expense under IRC 162, although amounts paid for intervention or participation in any political campaign, direct lobbying, grass roots lobbying, and contact with certain federal officials are not deductible. If a 501(c)(4) engages in a substantial number of these activities, then only the amount of dues or contributions that can be attributed to other activities may be deductible as a business expense.\n\nThe organization must provide a notice to its members containing a reasonable estimate of the amount related to lobbying and political campaign expenditures, or else it is subject to a proxy tax on its lobbying and political campaign expenditures. It must also state that contributions to the organization are not deductible as charitable contributions during fundraising.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization is not required to disclose their donors publicly, with the exception of organizations that make independent expenditures as of 2018. The former complete lack of disclosure led to extensive use of the 501(c)(4) provisions for organizations that are actively involved in lobbying, and has become controversial. Criticized as \"dark money\", spending from these organizations on political advertisements has exceeded spending from Super PACs. Spending by organizations that do not disclose their donors increased from less than $5.2 million in 2006 to well over $300 million during the 2012 election season.\n\nEvery organization, including a 501(c)(4) organization, that expressly advocates for the election or defeat of a particular political candidate and spends more than $250 during a calendar year must disclose the name of each person who contributed more than $200 during the calendar year to the Federal Election Commission. The Federal Election Commission is required to enforce this provision based on a federal court decision in 2018.\n\nThe origins of 501(c)(4) organizations date back to the Revenue Act of 1913, which created a new group of tax-exempt organizations dedicated to social welfare in a precursor to what is now Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(4).\n\nThe Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 introduced a new requirement on 501(c)(4) organizations. Within 60 days of the organization's formation, a 501(c)(4) organization is required to file Form 8976 with the Internal Revenue Service as notification that it is operating as a section 501(c)(4) organization. The Internal Revenue Service will acknowledge receipt of the notification, but the acknowledgment is not a determination that the organization qualifies for section 501(c)(4) tax-exempt status. A 501(c)(4) organization is not required to send the notification if the organization was formed on or before 8 July 2016, and it either applied for a determination letter using Form 1024 or filed a Form 990 between 19 December 2015 and 8 July 2016.\n\nAs of January 2018, the application for recognition of exemption as a 501(c)(4) organization is a new form, Form 1024-A, rather than Form 1024.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2017 the number of 501(c)(4) organizations dropped from almost 140,000 to less than 82,000. In 2017 revocations of 501(c)(4) groups comprised 58% which usually is only 15% of the total nonprofits which have their tax status revoked by the IRS for their failure to file the 990 form.\nA 501(c)(5) organization is a labor organization, an agricultural organization, or a horticultural organization. Labor unions, county fairs, and flower societies are examples of these types of groups. Labor union organizations were a primary benefactor of this organization type, dating to the 19th century. According to the Internal Revenue Service, a 501(c)(5) organization has a duty of providing service to its members first. The organization's benefits may not inure to a specific member, but the rules for inurement vary among the three different types of organizations under this segment. A 501(c)(5) organization can make unlimited corporate, individual, or union contributions.\n\nA labor organization may pay benefits to its members because paying benefits improves all members' shared working conditions. An agricultural organization can provide financial assistance to its members in order to improve the conditions of those engaged in agricultural pursuits generally. Members can benefit in incidental ways from the organization's exempt activities as long as the benefits are available to all persons.\n\nThe first exemption for labor organizations from corporate income tax was enacted as part of the Payne–Aldrich Tariff Act of 1909.\n\nThe Revenue Act of 1913 excluded \"labor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations\" from income tax liability.\n\nMuch like 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(6) organizations, 501(c)(5) organizations may also perform some political activities. 501(c)(5) organizations are allowed to attempt to influence legislation that is related to the common union interests of its members.\n\n501(c)(5) organizations can receive unlimited contributions from corporations, individuals, and labor unions. The names and addresses of contributors are not required to be made available for public inspection. All other information, including the amount of contributions, the description of noncash contributions, and any other information, is required to be made available for public inspection unless it clearly identifies the contributor.\n\nA union membership dues paid to a 501(c)(5) organization are generally an ordinary and necessary business expense. The membership dues are tax-deductible in full unless a substantial part of the 501(c)(5) organization's activities consists of political activity, in which case a tax deduction is allowed only for the portion of membership dues that are for other activities.\n\nBecause associations involved in fishing and seafood harvesting were having difficulties qualifying for reduced postal rates, in 1976 Congress established Internal Revenue Code Section 501(5) to define \"agriculture\" as the art or science of cultivating land, harvesting crops or aquatic resources, or raising livestock.\n\nEvery organization, including a 501(c)(5) organization, that expressly advocates for the election or defeat of a particular political candidate and spends more than $250 during a calendar year must disclose the name of each person who contributed more than $200 during the calendar year to the Federal Election Commission. The Federal Election Commission is required to enforce this provision based on a federal court decision in 2018.\n\nA 501(c)(6) organization is a business league, a chamber of commerce like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a real estate board, a board of trade, a professional football league or an organization like the Edison Electric Institute and the Security Industry Association, that are not organized for profit and no part of the net earnings goes to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.\n\nA business league may qualify if it is an association of persons having a common business interest, whose purpose is to promote the common business interest and whose activities improve business conditions rather than actually conduct the business itself. Members of the organization must be of the same trade, business, occupation, or profession in order to qualify. A chamber of commerce or board of trade could qualify for similar reasons except that they may promote the common economic interests of all the commercial enterprises in a given trade or community.\n\nAn association would not qualify if its principal activities consist of securing benefits and performing particular services for members.\n\nAn association that promotes the common interests of certain hobbyists would not qualify because the Internal Revenue Service does not consider hobbies to be activities conducted as businesses.\n\nAn organization whose primary activity is advertising the products or services of its members does not qualify because the organization is performing a service for its members rather than promoting common interests. If an organization's primary activity is advertising the products or services of its members' industry as a whole, however, the organization will generally qualify if it also performs other services for its members.\n\nMuch like 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(5) organizations, 501(c)(6) organizations may also perform some political activities. 501(c)(6) organizations are allowed to attempt to influence legislation that is related to the common business interests of its members.\n\nA 501(c)(6) organization may receive unlimited contributions from corporations, individuals, and labor unions. The names and addresses of contributors are not required to be made available for public inspection, with the exception of a 501(c)(6) organization that makes independent expenditures. All other information, including the amount of contributions, the description of non-cash contributions, and any other information, is required to be made available for public inspection unless it clearly identifies the contributor. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is a large political spender, and Freedom Partners used its status as a 501(c)(6) organization to raise and distribute over $250 million during the 2012 election campaigns without disclosing its donors. The group's existence was not publicly known until nearly a year after the election.\n\nA business' membership dues paid to a 501(c)(6) organization are generally an ordinary and necessary business expense. The membership dues are tax-deductible in full unless a substantial part of the 501(c)(6) organization's activities consists of political activity, in which case a tax deduction is allowed only for the portion of membership dues that are for other activities.\n\nEvery organization, including a 501(c)(6) organization, that expressly advocates for the election or defeat of a particular political candidate and spends more than $250 during a calendar year must disclose the name of each person who contributed more than $200 during the calendar year to the Federal Election Commission. The Federal Election Commission is required to enforce this provision based on a federal court decision in 2018.\n\nThe predecessor of IRC 501(c)(6) was enacted as part of the Revenue Act of 1913 likely due to a U.S. Chamber of Commerce request for an exemption for nonprofit \"civic\" and \"commercial\" organizations, which resulted in IRC 501(c)(4) for nonprofit \"civic\" organizations and IRC 501(c)(6) for nonprofit \"commercially-oriented\" organizations. The Revenue Act of 1928 amended the statute to include real estate boards. In 1966, professional football leagues were added to the described organizations.\n\nThe Revenue Act of 1913 related to professional football leagues had both antitrust and tax provisions: The antitrust provision was enacted to permit the merger of the National and American Football Leagues to go forward without fear of an antitrust challenge under either the 1914 Clayton Antitrust Act or the 1914 Federal Trade Commission Act. IRC 501(c)(6) amendment was enacted in 1966 to ensure that a professional football league's exemption would not be jeopardized because it administered a players' pension fund. Additionally, a professional sports league's exemption is not to be jeopardized because its primary source of revenue is the sale of television broadcasting rights to its games because the broadcasting of games increases public awareness of the sport.\n\nIn 2013, Senator Tom Coburn introduced legislation to disallow a tax exemption for the National Football League, the Professional Golfers' Association, and other professional sports organizations. Coburn estimated the tax exemption cost $100 million, but he said he could not get other members of Congress to support the legislation.\n\nA 501(c)(7) organization is a social or recreational club that is organized for pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofitable purposes. Members must share interests and have a common goal directed toward pleasure and recreation, and the organization must provide opportunities for personal contact among members. The organization's facilities and services must be open to its members and their guests only. The organization must be a club of individuals, and no individual may derive profit from the organization's net earnings. Examples include college alumni associations; college fraternities or college sororities operating chapter houses for students; country clubs; amateur sport clubs; supper clubs that provide a meeting place, library, and dining room for members; hobby clubs; and garden clubs.\n\nA substantial amount of the 501(c)(7) organization's activities must be related to social and recreational activities for its members. No more than 35 percent of its gross receipts may derive from non-members, and no more than 15 percent of its gross receipts is permitted to come from use of its facilities or services by the general public. An organization that exceeds these limits may lose its 501(c)(7) status.\n\nWhen a group of eight or fewer individuals, at least one of whom is a member, uses the organization's facilities and the member pays for the other individuals, the Internal Revenue Service will assume the nonmembers are the guests of the member, and the revenue is deemed to be derived from the member. Similarly, if at least 75 percent a group using club facilities are members of the organization, the Internal Revenue Service will assume the nonmembers are the guests of the member, and the revenue is deemed to be derived from the member. It is the responsibility of the organization to maintain these records. If the organization does not keep sufficient records to link revenue to a member, the Internal Revenue Service assumes the revenue came from a nonmember.\n\nThe organization is subject to unrelated business income tax for the revenue derived from nonmember use of its facilities and services, less allowable deductions. If the organization sells assets that were previously used for recreational or social purposes, the proceeds are not considered unrelated business income as long as the proceeds are reinvested in the organization.\n\nA 501(c)(7) organization cannot have a policy of discriminating on the basis of race, color, or religion. Nevertheless, a 501(c)(7) organization is permitted to limit its members to a particular religion in order to further the teachings of that religion. An auxiliary of a 501(c)(8) fraternal benefit society that limits membership to members of a particular religion is allowed to do so as well. The Internal Revenue Service has determined that 501(c)(7) are not prohibited from discriminating against ethnic groups.\n\nAn individual's donation to a fraternity is only a tax-deductible charitable contribution if the contribution \"is to be used exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.\"\n\nThe predecessor of Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(7) was part of the Revenue Act of 1913, which provides a tax-exemption to \"fraternal beneficiary societies, orders, or associations operating under the lodge system or for the exclusive benefit of the members of a fraternity itself operating under the lodge system\". Congress justified the tax-exemption with the reasoning that the members join together to provide themselves with recreational or social organization without further tax consequences, similar as if they had paid for the benefits directly. Tax-exemption was available for organizations operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofitable purposes.\n\nIn 1969, Congress passed a law stating that social and recreational clubs were permitted to engage in some unrelated business income, subject to income tax.\n\nA 501(c)(8) organization is a fraternal benefit society.\n\nThe society must have members of a similar calling, recreation, or profession, or members who work together to accomplish a worthy goal. The members have associated themselves in order to help each other and to promote the common cause. The society must have written documentation of its eligibility standards for membership, classes of membership, a process of admission, and rights and privileges of members.\n\nThe members must have a common bond, which may be based on religious beliefs, gender, occupation, ethnicity, or shared values.\n\nThe society must have a supreme governing body and subordinate lodges into which members are elected, initiated, or admitted in accordance with its laws. The supreme governing body should be composed of delegates elected directly by members or intermediate assemblies.\n\nThe society must offer benefits to members, which may include life insurance, medical insurance, scholarships, educational programs, travel opportunities, and discount programs. Revenue generated from providing benefits to non-members must be insubstantial to the society and may be taxable as unrelated business income.\n\nFraternal benefit societies trace their lineage back through mutual benefit societies, friendly societies and eventually to medieval guilds. Many fraternal benefit societies were founded to serve the needs of immigrants and other under-served groups who shared common bonds of religion, ethnicity, gender, occupation or shared values.\n\nSection 38 of the Payne–Aldrich Tariff Act of 1909 was the first law to provide a tax-exemption for fraternal beneficiary societies. The tax-exemption was later codified as section 501(c)(8) with the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.\n\nA 501(c)(13) organization is a certain type of cemetery company.\n\nThere are two primary types of eligible cemetery companies. A mutual cemetery company must be either \"owned by and operated exclusively for the benefit of its lot owners who hold such lots for bona fide burial purposes and not for the purpose of resale\" or engages in the burial of impoverished people performing similar charitable activities. A nonprofit cemetery corporation must be incorporated solely for the purpose of the burial or the cremation of bodies and no part of its net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. Any net gain by the cemetery must be devoted to certain cemetery functions, such as the cemetery's operations, maintenance, and improvements; acquisition of cemetery property; and investment of the net gain in order to provide additional income for cemetery functions. Net gains are not allowed to be distributed to individuals.\n\nThe cemetery may restrict burials and cremations to a certain group of people, such as impoverished people, people adherent to a certain religion, or people who lived in a certain community, as long as it still serves a broad class of people and operates for public purposes, but a 501(c)(13) organization may not enforce overly restrictive restrictions.\n\nA perpetual care fund that is used by a profit-making cemetery to maintain cemetery properties and burial lots is not eligible under 501(c)(13). On the other hand, a nonprofit organization may have a perpetual care fund without jeopardizing its exemption under Section 501(c)(13).\n\nA cemetery that owns or operates a morgue, whether on its own grounds or elsewhere, is not eligible under 501(c)(13) because the Internal Revenue Service does not consider mortuary services necessarily incident to burial purposes. The provision of traditional burial services that directly support and maintain basic tenets and beliefs of a religion regarding burial of its members\" may still be eligible under 501(c)(13).\n\nA cemetery that buries animals is not eligible under 501(c)(13).\n\nA cemetery company wishing to be recognized under Section 501(c)(13) needs to prepare and file Form 1024 with the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nCharitable contributions to a 501(c)(13) organization are tax-deductible to the donor. Payments for perpetual care of a particular lot or a particular crypt are not considered tax-deductible charitable contributions. Payments made as part of the purchase price of a burial lot or crypt are not considered tax-deductible charitable contributions, even if a portion of the payment is for the perpetual care of the entirety of the cemetery. Bequests or gifts to a 501(c)(13) cemetery is not deductible for federal estate tax purposes or gift tax purposes.\n\nHistorically, cemeteries were exempt from local property taxes and excise taxes in most states because states generally considered cemeteries to be performing a recognized civic service.\n\nThe Tariff Act of 1913 provided an exemption from federal income taxes for mutual cemetery companies that were organized and operated exclusively \"for the benefit of their members\". In 1921, Congress extended the tax-exemption to cemetery companies that are not mutual and to cemetery companies that are not operated for profit as well as any corporation solely incorporated to operate a cemetery and whose net gains do not inure to any person.\n\nIn 1970, Congress included crematorium in the definition of cemetery for the purposes of Section 501(c)(13).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979433", "title": "Raimondo Del Balzo Orsini", "text": "Raimondo Del Balzo Orsini\n\nRaimondo Del Balzo Orsini (also known as \"Raimondello\"; 1350–55 – 17 January 1406) was a nobleman from the Kingdom of Naples. He was Count of Soleto (1382), Prince of Taranto (1399–1406), Duke of Bari, Grand Constable of the Kingdom of Naples, Gonfalonier of the Holy Roman Church (1385, confirmed in 1399 together with the principality of Taranto). He was a member of the influential Orsini family of Rome. Although he is considered one of the most important people in the history of southern Italy, relatively little is known about his life.\n\nRaimondo was born in Taranto, the second son of Nicola Orsini (1331–1399), 3rd Count of Nola, grand Justiciar and also Grand Chancellor of the Kingdom of Naples, and his wife Giovanna of Sabran. His paternal grandparents were Roberto Orsini di Nola (1295–1345), 2nd Count of Nola, Grand Justiciar of Naples, and the heiress Sveva Del Balzo (born in the first years of 14th century), Countess of Soleto, heiress of des Baux. The family is later known as del Balzo Orsini.\n\nNothing is known of his childhood and early youth, and the first mention of him dates to February 1372, describing him as a squire in the Avignon Papacy. Sveva Del Balzo died in 1375, bequeathing Soleto to Nicola on the condition that he give it to Raimondo, who would then take on the Del Balzo name. However, Nicola instead gave it to his eldest son Roberto. This forced Raimondo to seek his fortune elsewhere. According to legend, he went on a pilgrimage to the Middle East, though there is no documentary evidence of that. It is known that in February 1378, he arrived in Prussia and participated in the Galicia–Volhynia Wars, during which time he was made a knight of the Teutonic Order.\n\nHe returned to Italy in 1381, getting involved in the dispute between Louis I, Duke of Anjou, and Charles of Durazzo over which of them would succeed Joanna I of Naples after she was excommunicated for supporting Antipope Clement VII. At first he supported Louis, but switched his allegiance to Charles in 1382. In September 1384, he returned to the ranks of Louis, who died shortly afterwards, meaning that Charles became King of Naples. His reign was short-lived, however, as he too was excommunicated by Pope Urban VI. Charles retaliated by besieging the pope at Nocera, but in July 1385 Raimondo freed the pope.\n\nSoon after this incident, Raimondo married Mary of Enghien, the Countess of Lecce. This came about because Louis, Count of Enghien (Mary's uncle) was (like Raimondo) a trusted advisor of both Louis I and his son Louis II (Louis II later became King of Naples). His position as Mary's husband and thus the dominus of the County of Lecce allowed him to reclaim Soleto from his brother, officially becoming the Count upon his father's death in 1399. Additionally, over the years, he received numerous possessions and titles, many in the Terra di Otranto region.\n\nMeanwhile, Charles's son Ladislaus returned to reconquer Naples. Despite his many years of service to Louis's family, Raimondo knew he was allied with the losing side, and switched allegiances once more on the promise that he would be given the Principality of Taranto, which happened in April 1399. However, by 1405, Ladislaus came into conflict with Pope Innocent VII, whom he had previously supported on the condition that the pope not challenge his claim to the throne. Innocent excommunicated Ladislaus, but offered to pardon any of Louis II's supporters who came to his side, which Raimondo did, but he died soon afterwards on 17 January 1406, before Ladislaus had even learned of Raimondo's betrayal.\n\nRaimondo is buried at the church of Santa Caterina d'Alessandria in Galatina, which he had commissioned, together with his son and heir Giovanni Antonio.\n\nDespite having been one of the most important people in the history of southern Italy, there has been little scholarship done on Raimondo's life. One reason for this is that there are only six surviving documents from his years in the government of the Kingdom of Naples. This is likely due his being declared a nonperson by Ladislaus, resulting in the destruction of many sources that would give insight into his life.\n\nIn addition to the above, he was lord (both \"de facto\" and \"de jure\") of a number of other localities. He was said to be the secondmost powerful and possibly the richest man in the Kingdom of Naples.\n\nRaimondello and Mary had the following children:\n\n"}
{"id": "1979439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979439", "title": "Venomous Villain", "text": "Venomous Villain\n\nVenomous Villain (VV:2) is the fourth studio album by British-American rapper and producer MF Doom, and the second to be released under his alias Viktor Vaughn. It was released through Insomniac on August 3, 2004.\n\nAt Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, \"Venomous Villain\" received an average score of 71 based on 11 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\"Exclaim!\"s Thomas Quinlan found the album to be \"a great follow-up to \"Vaudeville Villain\"\", while noting that due to its short length and the presence of numerous guest performers, it nonetheless \"leaves you wishing for a lot more Doom\".\n\nCritic Robert Christgau ranked the album at number 71 on his year-end \"Dean's List\".\n"}
{"id": "1979443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979443", "title": "USS Acree", "text": "USS Acree\n\nUSS \"Acree\" (DE-167) was a in service the United States Navy from 1943 to 1946. She was scrapped in 1973. \n\n\"Acree\" She was named for John White Acree, a LTJG serving aboard the . Acree died while leading a damage-control party on 26 October 1942 during the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands. The ship was laid down on 30 November 1942 by the Federal Shipbuilding and Drydock Company, Kearny, New Jersey; launched on 9 May 1943; sponsored by Mrs. John W. Acree, the widow of LTJG Acree; and commissioned at the New York Navy Yard on 19 July 1943, Lieutenant Commander William H. Siegmund, USNR, in command.\n\nAfter shakedown off Bermuda and training out of Norfolk, Virginia, the destroyer escort sailed for the South Pacific on 28 September, transited the Panama Canal on 5 October, stopped briefly at the Galapagos Islands three days later, and steamed on independently to Bora Bora in the Society Islands, where she arrived on the 18th. After refueling, \"Acree\" rendezvoused with SS \"Mormactern\" on 25 October and escorted her to Nouméa, New Caledonia.\n\nAs a member of Escort Division 11, \"Acree\" carried out numerous convoy and anti-submarine patrol operations in the South Pacific during the next six months. Her stops included Espiritu Santo in the New Hebrides; Lautoka, Fiji Islands; Guadalcanal; Nouméa, New Caledonia; and the Russell Islands. This routine was broken on 28 April 1944 when the ship joined the anti-submarine screen of Task Group (TG) 50.17, which was formed to refuel Vice Admiral Marc Mitscher's Fast Carrier Task Force, TF 58. She completed this assignment on 3 May, sailed back to Purvis Bay, and began antisubmarine patrol duty off that port.\n\nOn 9 June, \"Acree\" became a member of TG 53.19 slated to take part in the invasion of the Marianas. She arrived off the southern end of Tinian Island on 7 July and provided illuminating and harassing fire on Tinian Town. The destroyer escort opened fire at 1905 and continued firing at 40-minute intervals throughout the night. She moved to Saipan Harbor the next day and later joined the anti-submarine screen off Saipan.\n\nFor the next four months, \"Acree\" carried out escort and patrol duties in the central Pacific. On 13 November, \"Acree\" departed Eniwetok bound for the United States. She stopped at Pearl Harbor on the 21st and arrived at San Francisco on 3 December 1944 and, the following day entered the United Engineering Co., Ltd., shipyard at Alameda, California, for overhaul.\n\nThe destroyer escort got underway for sea trials on 31 January 1945; sailed for Hawaii on 4 February; and, following her arrival at Pearl Harbor on the 10th, participated in training exercises north of the Hawaiian Islands in company with the destroyer escort and escort carrier . \"Acree\" returned to Eniwetok on 24 March and spent the remainder of the war escorting convoys and acting as a barrier patrol off Pacific islands such as Guam, Eniwetok, Ulithi, Saipan, and Kwajalein.\n\nFollowing Japan's surrender, the ship got underway from Kwajalein on 15 September, bound for home. After a one-day stop at Pearl Harbor, she resumed her eastward voyage and reached San Diego, California, on 28 September. On 6 October, she sailed for the east coast and, after transiting the Panama Canal, arrived at New York on 20 October to begin a pre-inactivation availability. On 29 November, the destroyer escort arrived at Green Cove Springs, Florida, where she was decommissioned on 1 April 1946.\n\n\"Acree\" was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 1 July 1972 and sold on 19 July 1973 to the Boston Metals Co., of Baltimore, Maryland, for scrapping.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979445", "title": "Telford FM", "text": "Telford FM\n\n107.4 Telford FM was a commercial local radio station broadcasting in Telford, Shropshire and the surrounding areas including Bridgnorth and Newport from 3 May 1999 until 10am on 20 September 2010.\n\nThe station was later renamed as 'The Severn' to match their sister station and become more Shropshire wide. The management and studio location stayed the same during this time in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979447", "title": "Michael McConnell", "text": "Michael McConnell\n\nMike or Michael McConnell is the name of:\n"}
{"id": "1979448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979448", "title": "The Famous Teddy Z", "text": "The Famous Teddy Z\n\nThe Famous Teddy Z is an American sitcom that was broadcast on CBS during the fall of 1989. The series was created by Hugh Wilson and inspired by the true story of Jay Kantor, who was a mailroom clerk at MCA and later became Marlon Brando's agent.\n\nThe series starred Jon Cryer as Theodore \"Teddy\" Zakalokis, a young man working in a Hollywood talent agency in order to avoid being stuck in his Greek-American family's bakery. When Hollywood star Harland Keyvo (a caricature of Marlon Brando) meets Teddy Z, he is so impressed by his honesty that he makes him his new agent. The humor is derived from Teddy's innocent approach to the business, contrasted with the snake-like behavior of his fellow agents. The cast also included Jane Sibbett, Alex Rocco, Milton Selzer, Josh Blake, and Erica Yohn.\n\n\n\nThe theme song was written by Guy Moon, Stephanie and Steve Tyrell and performed by Bill Champlin of the rock group Chicago.\n\nRocco's character, Al Floss, also made a crossover appearance on \"Murphy Brown\", as the agent for several of that show's characters.\n\nThe series pilot was seen to be far stronger than subsequent episodes, but the series received two Primetime Emmy Award nominations, including one for the pilot, and for Alex Rocco, who won an Emmy as Best Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series, but low ratings led CBS to drop it with five episodes unaired. It was later run in its entirety on Comedy Central in 1993 with episodes introduced by Rocco, and by Trio under the heading \"Brilliant But Canceled.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1979450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979450", "title": "Very high-level programming language", "text": "Very high-level programming language\n\nA very high-level programming language (VHLL) is a programming language with a very high level of abstraction, used primarily as a professional programmer productivity tool.\n\nVery high-level programming languages are usually domain-specific languages, limited to a very specific application, purpose, or type of task, and they are often scripting languages (especially extension languages), controlling a specific environment. For this reason, very high-level programming languages are often referred to as goal-oriented programming languages.\n\nThe term VHLL was used in the 1990s for what are today more often called high-level programming languages (not \"very\") used for scripting, such as Perl, Python, Ruby, and Visual Basic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979455", "title": "List of highest-income counties in the United States", "text": "List of highest-income counties in the United States\n\nThere are 3,144 counties and county-equivalents in the United States. The source of the data is the U.S. Census Bureau and the data is current as of the indicated year. Independent cities are considered county-equivalent by the Census Bureau.\n\nBefore the American Civil War, the wealthiest counties were primarily located in Louisiana and Mississippi.\n\nLoudoun County, Virginia, a suburb of District of Columbia, is the highest-income county by median household income. Another District of Columbia suburb, Arlington County, Virginia, ranked as the highest-income county by median family income as of 2013.\n\nMany of the top counties in the following lists are found in the Northeast Megalopolis, particularly in the Washington metropolitan area and the New York metropolitan area.\n\nPresented below are the 25 highest-income counties (with populations of 65,000 or greater) in the United States by median household income according to the 2016 American Community Survey prepared by the US Census Bureau. Five of the counties are located in Virginia, five in Maryland, four in California, three in New Jersey, two in New York, and one each in: Colorado, Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio, Tennessee, and Texas. (Disclaimer: This only includes counties that participated in this single survey)\n\nSource: US Census Bureau: 2000 Census\n\nNumber of counties by state in the top 100: Virginia 10 plus 5 independent cities, Maryland 9, California 8, New Jersey 8, Georgia 7, Colorado 6, Illinois 6, Minnesota 5, New York 5, Texas 5, Alaska 3, Connecticut 3, Ohio 3, Pennsylvania 3, Wisconsin 2, Massachusetts 2, Michigan 2, Indiana 1, Kansas 1, Kentucky 1, Missouri 1, New Hampshire 1, New Mexico 1, Tennessee 1, Utah 1. Twenty-five states do not have any counties in the top 100.\n\n\"United States of America: $41,994\"\n\nNumber of counties by state in the top 100: Colorado 10, Virginia 7 counties plus 3 independent cities, New Jersey 9, California 8, Florida 6, New York 6, Georgia 4, Maryland 4, Minnesota 4, Connecticut 3, Massachusetts 3, Michigan 3, Pennsylvania 3, Texas 3, Illinois 2, North Carolina 2, Ohio 2, Washington 2, Wisconsin 2, Idaho 1, Alaska 1, Alabama 1, District of Columbia 1, Indiana 1, Kansas 1, Missouri 1, Nevada 1, New Hampshire 1, New Mexico 1, Rhode Island 1, Tennessee 1, Utah 1, Wyoming 1. Eighteen states do not have any counties in the top 100. \n\"United States of America per capita average: $21,587\"\n\nFor more detailed lists of rankings of counties and places in the individual states, see the following pages:\n"}
{"id": "1979458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979458", "title": "Chambal River", "text": "Chambal River\n\nThe Chambal River is a tributary of the Yamuna River in central India, and thus forms part of the greater Gangetic drainage system. The river flows north-northeast through Madhya Pradesh, running for a time through Rajasthan, then forming the boundary between Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh before turning southeast to join the Yamuna in Uttar Pradesh state.\n\nIt is a legendary river and finds mention in ancient scriptures. The perennial Chambal originates at janapav, south of Mhow town, near manpur Indore, on the south slope of the Vindhya Range in Madhya Pradesh. The Chambal and its tributaries drain the Malwa region of northwestern Madhya Pradesh, while its tributary, the Banas, which rises in the Aravalli Range, drains southeastern Rajasthan. It ends a confluence of five rivers, including the Chambal, Kwari, Yamuna, Sind, Pahuj, at Pachnada near Bhareh in Uttar Pradesh state, at the border of Bhind and Etawah districts.\n\nThe Chambal River is considered pollution free, and hosts an amazing riverine faunal assemblage including 2 species of crocodilians – the mugger and gharial, 8 species of freshwater turtles, smooth-coated otters, gangetic river dolphins, skimmers, black-bellied terns, sarus cranes and black-necked storks, amongst others.\n\nThe long Chambal River originates from the Singar Chouri peak on the northern slopes of the Vindhyan escarpment near Mandav, South-West of Mhow in Indore District, Madhya Pradesh state, at an elevation of about . The river flows first in a northerly direction through Madhya Pradesh (M.P.) for about and then in a generally north-easterly direction for through Rajasthan. The Chambal flows for another between M.P. and Rajasthan and a further between M.P. and Uttar Pradesh(U.P.). It enters U.P. and flows for about before joining the Yamuna River in Jalaun District at an elevation of , to form a part of the greater Gangetic drainage system.\n\nFrom its source down to its junction with the Yamuna, the Chambal has a fall of about . Of this, around is within the first reach from its source. It falls for another in the next , where it enters the gorge past the Chaurasigarh Fort. During the next of its run from the Chaurasigarh Fort to Kota city, the bed falls by another . For the rest of its run, the river passes through the flat terrain of the Malwa Plateau and later the Gangetic Plain with an average gradient of 0.21 m/km.\n\nThe Chambal is a rainfed catchment with a total drained area up to its confluence with the Yamuna of . The drainage area resembles a rectangle up to the junction of the Parvathi and Banas Rivers with the Chambal flowing along its major axis. The Chambal Basin lies between latitudes 22° 27' N and 27° 20' N and longitudes 73° 20' E and 79° 15' E. On its south, east and west, the basin is bounded by the Vindhyan mountain ranges and on the north-west by the Aravallis. Below the confluence of the Parvathi and Banas, the catchment becomes narrower and elongated. In this reach, it is bounded by the Aravalli mountain ranges on the North and the Vindhyan hill range on the south.\n\nThe Vindhyan scarps, in the northwest, flank the left bank of the Chambal, and subsequently, is mainly drained by it. The Chambal rising within about 16 km of the Narmada river, appears as a consequent on the Mesozoic surface, superimposed on the scarps, and cuts straight through them, with subsequent tributaries on the softer shales. The River Chambal and its tributaries Kali Sindh and Parbati have formed a triangular alluvial basin, about above the narrow trough of the lower Chambal in Kota. It is a typical anterior-drainage pattern river, being much older than the rivers Yamuna and Ganges, into which it eventually flows.\n\nThe tributaries of the Chambal include Shipra, Choti Kalisindh, Sivanna, Retam, Ansar, Kalisindh, Banas, Parbati, Seep, Kuwari, Kuno, Alnia, Mej, Chakan, Parwati, Chamla, Gambhir, Lakhunder, Khan, Bangeri, Kedel and Teelar.\n\nAccording to Crawford (1969), the Chambal river valley is part of the Vindhyan system which consists of massive sandstone, slate and limestone, of perhaps pre-Cambrian age, resting on the surface of older rocks.\nHillocks and plateaus represent the major landforms of the Chambal valley. The Chambal basin is characterised by an undulating floodplain, gullies and ravines. The Hadauti plateau in Rajasthan occurs in the upper catchment of the Chambal River to the southeast of the Mewar Plains. It occurs with the Malwa plateau in the east. Physiographically, it can be divided into Vindhyan scarp land and Deccan Lava (Malwa) plateau. According to Heron (1953), the eastern pediplain, occurring between the Vindhyan plateau and the Aravalli hill range, contains a thin veneer of Quaternary sediments, reworked soil and river channel fills. At least two erosional surfaces can be recognised within the pediplain are the Tertiary age. The Vindhyan upland, the adjoining Chambal valley and the Indo-Gangetic alluvial tract (older alluvium) are of Pleistocene to Sub-recent age. Badland topography is a characteristic feature of the Chambal valley, whereas kankar has extensively developed in the older alluvium.\n\nThe area lies within the semi-arid zone of north-western India at the border of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh States, and the vegetation consists of ravine, thorn forest, a sub-type of the Northern Tropical Forests (Sub-group 6B/C2 of the revised classification of Champion & Seth, 1968). This sub-type typically occurs in less arid areas with 600–700 mm rainfall. Limited examples of Saline/Alkaline Babul Savannah (5E/8), a type of Northern Tropical Dry Deciduous Forest, also occurs. Evergreen riparian vegetation is completely absent, with only sparse ground-cover along the severely eroded river banks and adjacent ravine lands.\n\nThe semiarid tract in Madhya Pradesh is represented by Chambal catchment extending up to Narmda and Betla Rivers. Over 1000 flowering plants have bean reported including \"Anogeissus latifoia, A. pendula, Tectona grandis, Lannea coromandelica, Diospyros melanoxylon, Sterculia urens, Mitragyna parviflora, Butea monosperma, Emblica officinalls, Boswellia serrata, Bridelia squamosa\" and \"Hardwickia binata\". Species composition at shrub and ground layer is similar to that of semiarid regions of Gujarat. \nA few climbers of this area include species of \"Rhynchosia, Atylosia, Cocculus, Cissampelos, Ipomoea, Pergularia daemia, Pueraria tuberosa\" and \"Tinospora cordifolia\".\n\nThorny bushes or small trees commonly found in this area include \"Capparis deciduas, Capparis sepiaria, Balanites aegyptiaca, Acacia senegal, A. nilotica, A. leucophloea, Prosopis juliflora, Butea monosperma, Maytenus emarginata, Tamarix sp., Salvadora persica, S. oleoides, Crotalaria medicaginea, C. burhia, Clerodendrum phlomidis, Calotropis procera, Xanthium indicum\" and \"Leptadenia pyrotechnica\" associated with climbers such as \"Maerua oblongifolia, Pergularia daemia, Ceropegia bulbosa\", herbs e.g., \"Argemone mexicana, Farsetia hamiltonii, Tephrosia purpurea, Cleome viscosa, Tribulus terrestris, Glinus lotoides, Sericostoma pauciflorum, Rivea sp., Ipomoea sp., Pedalium murex, Sesamum mulayanum, Lepidagathis sp, Boerhavia diffusa, Chrozophora sp.\", and grasses like \"Cyprus sp., Fimbristylis sp., Brachiaria sp., Cenchrus sp., Dichanthium sp.\", etc.\n\nThe National Chambal Sanctuary lies between 24°55' to 26°50' N and 75°34' to 79°18'E in Dholpur. It consists of the large arc described by the Chambal between Jawahar Sagar Dam in Rajasthan and the Chambal-Yamuna confluence in Uttar Pradesh. Over this arc, two stretches of the Chambal are protected as the National Chambal Sanctuary status - the upper sector, extending from Jawahar Sagar Dam to Kota Barrage, and the lower sector, extending from Keshoraipatan in Rajasthan to the Chambal-Yamuna confluence in Uttar Pradesh.\n\nThe sanctuary was gazetted 'in order to facilitate the restoration to \"ecological health\" of a major north Indian river system and provide full protection for the gravely endangered gharial (\"Gavialis gangeticus\").\n\nAdministrative approval of the Government of India for the establishment of the National Chambal Sanctuary was conveyed in Order No. 17-74/77-FRY (WL) dated 30 September 1978. The Sanctuary has sanctuary status declared under Section 18(1) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Since such a declaration is carried out by individual states for territory falling within their jurisdiction, there are three separate notifications covering the National Chambal Sanctuary - the Madhya Pradesh portion was gazetted in the Government of Madhya Pradesh Notice No. F.15/5/77-10(2) dated 20 December 1978, the Uttar Pradesh portion was gazetted in the Government of Uttar Pradesh Notice No. 7835/XIV-3-103-78 dated 29 January 1979 and the Rajasthan portion was gazetted in the Government of Rajasthan Notice No.F.11(12)Rev.8/78 dated 7 December 1979.\n\nIn a stretch of 96 km, from km 344 to km 440 from its source, the Chambal flows through a deep gorge, while lower down, there are wide plains. The Gandhisagar Dam is located near the center of this reach. As there is a deep gorge immediately upstream of the dam, the reservoir has a large storage capacity despite its comparatively low height. For the next 48 km, the river flows through the Kundal Plateau, and the Rana Pratap Sagar Dam is constructed at the lower end of this. The topography permits fairly good storage upstream of the dam. Further down, the Jawahar Sagar Dam is located in the middle of the Kota gorge. The Kota Barrage is located near Kota town, where the river emerges from the gorge section into the plateau. The total area draining the Kota Barrage is 27,319 km.\n\nThe Chambal River is used for hydropower generation at Gandhi Sagar dam, Rana Pratap Sagar dam and Jawahar Sagar Dam and for annual irrigation of 5668.01 square kilometres in the commands of the right main canal and the left main canal of the Kota Barrage.\n\nThe Gandhi Sagar dam is the first of the four dams built on the Chambal River, located on the Rajasthan-Madhya Pradesh border. It is a 64 metre high masonry gravity dam, with a live storage capacity of 6,920 MCM (million cubic metres) and a catchment area of 22,584 km, of which only 1,537 km is in Rajasthan. The dam was completed in the year 1960. The hydro-power station comprises five generating units of 23 MW capacity each. The water released after power generation is used for irrigation through Kota Barrage.\n\nThe Rana Pratap Sagar dam is a dam located 52 km downstream of Gandhi Sagar dam on across the Chambal River near Rawatbhata in Chittorgarh district in Rajasthan. It was completed in the year 1970 and it is the second in the series of Chambal Valley Projects. It is 54 meters high. The power house is located on the left side of the spillway and consists of 4 units of 43 MW each, with firm power generation of 90 MW at 60% load factor. The total catchment area of this dam is 24,864 km, of which only 956 km are in Rajasthan. The free catchment area below Gandhi Sagar dam is 2,280 km. The live storage capacity is 1,566 MCM.\n\nThe Jawahar Sagar Dam is the third dam in the series of Chambal Valley Projects, located 29 km upstream of Kota city and 26 km downstream of Rana Pratap Sagar dam. It is a concrete gravity dam, 45 meter high and 393 m long, generating 60 MW of power with an installed capacity of 3 units of 33 MW. The work was completed in 1972. The total catchment area of the dam is 27,195 km, of which only 1,496 km are in Rajasthan. The free catchment area below Rana Pratap Sagar dam is 2,331 km.\n\nThe Kota Barrage is the fourth in the series of Chambal Valley Projects, located about 0.8 km upstream of Kota City in Rajasthan. Water released after power generation at Gandhi Sagar dam, Rana Pratap Sagar dam and Jawahar Sagar Dams, is diverted by Kota Barrage for irrigation in Rajasthan and in Madhya Pradesh through canals on the left and the right sides of the river. The work on this dam was completed in 1960.\nThe total catchment area of Kota Barrage is 27,332 km, of which the free catchment area below Jawahar Sagar Dam is just 137 km. The live storage is 99 MCM. It is an earthfill dam with a concrete spillway. The right and left main canals have a headworks discharge capacity of 188 and 42 m/s, respectively. The total length of the main canals, branches and distribution system is about 2,342 km, serving an area of 2,290 km of CCA. The Barrage operates 18 gates to control flow of flood and canal water downstream, and serves as bridge between parts of Kota on both side of the river.\n\nThe ancient name of the Chambal was \"Charmanvati\", meaning the river on whose banks leather is dried. In due course of time, this river became famous as the river of ‘charman’ (skin) and was named as \"Charmanvati\".\n\nThe epic Sanskrit narrative the Mahabharata, refers to the Chambal river as the \"Charmanyavati\" : originating from the blood of thousands of animals sacrificed by the Aryan King Rantideva. \n\nCharmanwati was the southern boundary of Panchala Kingdom. King Drupada ruled the southern Panchalas up to the bank of the Charmanwati river (1:140).\n\nAccording to folklore the Chambal area was part of Shakuni’s kingdom and the dice-game played thereabouts. After the attempted disrobing of Draupadi (the daughter of Drupada) she cursed any one who would drink the water of the Charmanwati river.\nThus it is believed that due to the curse by Draupadi, have helped the Chambal to survive unpolluted by man, and its many animal inhabitants to thrive relatively untouched. The Chambal remains one of India’s most pristine rivers.\n\nThe Chambal ravine hosts tourist lodge and other facilities to promote eco-tourism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979466", "title": "Taxus baccata", "text": "Taxus baccata\n\nTaxus baccata is a conifer native to western, central and southern Europe, northwest Africa, northern Iran and southwest Asia. It is the tree originally known as yew, though with other related trees becoming known, it may now be known as common yew, English yew, or European yew. Primarily grown as an ornamental, most parts of the plant are poisonous, and consumption of the foliage can result in death.\n\nThe word \"yew\" is from Proto-Germanic \"*īwa-\", possibly originally a loanword from Gaulish \"*ivos\", compare Breton \"ivin,\" Irish \"ēo\", Welsh \"ywen\", French \"\" (see Eihwaz for a discussion). In German it is known as \"Eibe\". \"Baccata\" is Latin for \"bearing berries\". The word \"yew\" as it was originally used seems to refer to the color brown. The yew (μίλος) was known to Theophrastus, who noted its preference for mountain coolness and shade, its evergreen character and its slow growth.\n\nMost Romance languages, with the notable exception of French (\"if\"), kept a version of the Latin word \"taxus\" (Italian \"tasso\", Corsican \"tassu\", Occitan \"teis\", Catalan \"teix\", Gasconic \"tech\", Spanish \"tejo\", Asturian \"texu\", Portuguese \"teixo\", Galician \"teixo\" and Romanian \"tisă\") from the same root as \"toxic\". In Slavic languages, the same root is preserved: Polish \"cis\", Russian \"tis\" (\"тис\"), Serbian-Croatian-Bosnian-Montenegrin \"tisa\"/\"тиса\", Slovakian \"tis\", Slovenian \"tisa\". Albanian borrowed it as \"tis\".\n\nIn Iran, the tree is known as \"sorkhdār\" (, literally \"the red tree\").\n\nThe common yew was one of the many species first described by Linnaeus. It is one of around 30 conifer species in seven genera in the family Taxaceae, which is placed in the order Pinales.\n\nIt is a small to medium-sized evergreen tree, growing (exceptionally up to ) tall, with a trunk up to (exceptionally ) in diameter. The bark is thin, scaly brown, coming off in small flakes aligned with the stem. The leaves are flat, dark green, long and broad, arranged spirally on the stem, but with the leaf bases twisted to align the leaves in two flat rows either side of the stem, except on erect leading shoots where the spiral arrangement is more obvious. The leaves are poisonous.\n\nThe seed cones are modified, each cone containing a single seed, which is long, and partly surrounded by a fleshy scale which develops into a soft, bright red berry-like structure called an aril. The aril is long and wide and open at the end. The arils mature 6 to 9 months after pollination, and with the seed contained, are eaten by thrushes, waxwings and other birds, which disperse the hard seeds undamaged in their droppings. Maturation of the arils is spread over 2 to 3 months, increasing the chances of successful seed dispersal. The seeds themselves are poisonous and bitter, but are opened and eaten by some bird species including hawfinches, greenfinches and great tits. The aril is not poisonous, it is gelatinous and very sweet tasting. The male cones are globose, in diameter, and shed their pollen in early spring. The yew is mostly dioecious, but occasional individuals can be variably monoecious, or change sex with time.\n\n\"Taxus baccata\" can reach 400 to 600 years of age. Some specimens live longer but the age of yews is often overestimated. Ten yews in Britain are believed to predate the 10th century. The potential age of yews is impossible to determine accurately and is subject to much dispute. There is rarely any wood as old as the entire tree, while the boughs themselves often become hollow with age, making ring counts impossible. Evidence based on growth rates and archaeological work of surrounding structures suggests the oldest yews, such as the Fortingall Yew in Perthshire, Scotland, may be in the range of 2,000 years, placing them among the oldest plants in Europe. One characteristic contributing to yew's longevity is that it is able to split under the weight of advanced growth without succumbing to disease in the fracture, as do most other trees. Another is its ability to give rise to new epicormic and basal shoots from cut surfaces and low on its trunk, even at an old age.\n\nThe Fortingall Yew in Perthshire, Scotland, has the largest recorded trunk girth in Britain and experts estimate it to be 2,000 to 3,000 years old, although it may be a remnant of a post-Roman Christian site and around 1,500 years old. The Llangernyw Yew in Clwyd, Wales, can be found at an early saint site and is about 1,500 years old. Other well known yews include the Ankerwycke Yew, the Balderschwang Yew, the Caesarsboom, the Florence Court Yew, and the Borrowdale Fraternal Four, of which poet William Wordsworth wrote. The Kingley Vale National Nature Reserve in West Sussex has one of Europe's largest yew woodlands.\nThe oldest specimen in Spain is located in Bermiego, Asturias. It is known as \"Teixu l'Iglesia\" in the Asturian language. It stands tall with a trunk diameter of and a crown diameter of 15 m. It was declared a Natural Monument on April 27, 1995 by the Asturian Government and is protected by the Plan of Natural Resources.\n\nA unique forest formed by \"Taxus baccata\" and European box (\"Buxus sempervirens\") lies within the city of Sochi, in the Western Caucasus.\n\nThe oldest Irish Yew (\"Taxus baccata\" 'Fastigiata'), the Florence Court Yew, still stands in the grounds of Florence Court estate in County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland. The Irish Yew has become ubiquitous in cemeteries across the world and it is believed that all known examples are from cuttings from this tree.\n\nThe entire yew bush, except the aril (the red flesh of the berry covering the seed), is poisonous. It is toxic due to a group of chemicals called taxine alkaloids. Their cardiotoxicity is well known and act via calcium and sodium channel antagonism, causing an increase in cytoplasmic calcium currents of the myocardial cells. The seeds contain the highest concentrations of these alkaloids. If any leaves or seeds of the plant are ingested, urgent medical advice is recommended as well as observation for at least 6 hours after the point of ingestion. The most cardiotoxic taxine is Taxine B followed by Taxine A – Taxine B also happens to be the most common alkaloid in the \"Taxus\" species. \n\nYew poisonings are relatively common in both domestic and wild animals who consume the plant accidentally, resulting in \"countless fatalities in livestock\". The taxine alkaloids are absorbed quickly from the intestine and in high enough quantities can cause death due to cardiac arrest or respiratory failure. Taxines are also absorbed efficiently via the skin and \"Taxus\" species should thus be handled with care and preferably with gloves. \"Taxus baccata\" leaves contain approximately 5 mg of taxines per 1 g of leaves. \n\nThe estimated lethal dose (LD) of taxine alkaloids is approximately 3.0mg/kg body weight for humans. \"The lethal dose for an adult is reported to be 50 g of yew needles. Patients who ingest a lethal dose frequently die due to cardiogenic shock, in spite of resuscitation efforts.\" There are currently no known antidotes for yew poisoning, but drugs such as atropine have been used to treat the symptoms. \nTaxine remains in the plant all year, with maximal concentrations appearing during the winter. Dried yew plant material retains its toxicity for several months and even increases its toxicity as the water is removed. Fallen leaves should therefore also be considered toxic. Poisoning usually occurs when leaves of yew trees are eaten, but in at least one case a victim inhaled sawdust from a yew tree.\n\nIt is difficult to measure taxine alkaloids and this is a major reason as to why different studies show different results.\n\nMinimum lethal dose, oral LD for many different animals were tested:\n\nChicken 82.5 mg/kg\n\nCow 10.0 mg/kg\n\nDog 11.5 mg/kg\n\nGoat 60.0 mg/kg\n\nHorse 1.0–2.0 mg/kg\n\nPig 3.5 mg/kg\n\nSheep 12.5 mg/kg\n\nSeveral studies have found taxine values under 20 mg/kg in mice and rats. (For symptoms of human toxicity, see Taxine alkaloids.)\n\nMale and monoecious yews in this genus release toxic pollen, which can cause the mild symptoms (). The pollen is also a trigger for asthma. These pollen grains are only 15 microns in size, and can easily pass through most window screens.\n\nYews in this genus are primarily separate-sexed, and males are extremely allergenic, with an OPALS allergy scale rating of 10 out of 10. Completely female yews have an OPALS rating of 1, and are considered \"allergy-fighting\". Male yews bloom and release abundant amounts of pollen in the spring; completely female yews only trap pollen while producing none.\n\nIn the ancient Celtic world, the yew tree (\"*eburos\") had extraordinary importance; a passage by Caesar narrates that Cativolcus, chief of the Eburones poisoned himself with yew rather than submit to Rome (\"Gallic Wars\" 6: 31). Similarly, Florus notes that when the Cantabrians were under siege by the legate Gaius Furnius in 22 BC, most of them took their lives either by the sword, by fire, or by a poison extracted \"ex arboribus taxeis\", that is, from the yew tree (2: 33, 50–51). In a similar way, Orosius notes that when the Astures were besieged at \"Mons Medullius\", they preferred to die by their own swords or by the yew tree poison rather than surrender (6, 21, 1). \n\nThe area of Ydre in the South Swedish highlands is interpreted to mean \"place of yews\". Two localities in particular, Idhult and Idebo, appear to be further associated with yews.\n\nThe yew is traditionally and regularly found in churchyards in England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland and Northern France (particularly Normandy). Some examples can be found in La Haye-de-Routot or La Lande-Patry. It is said up to 40 people could stand inside one of the La-Haye-de-Routot yew trees, and the Le Ménil-Ciboult yew is probably the largest at 13 m diameter. Yews may grow to become exceptionally large (over 5 m diameter) and may live to be over 2,000 years old. Sometimes monks planted yews in the middle of their cloister, as at Muckross Abbey (Ireland) or abbaye de Jumièges (Normandy). Some ancient yew trees are located at St. Mary the Virgin Church, Overton-on-Dee in Wales.\n\nIn Asturian tradition and culture, the yew tree was considered to be linked with the land, people, ancestors and ancient religion. It was tradition on All Saints' Day to bring a branch of a yew tree to the tombs of those who had died recently so they would be guided in their return to the Land of Shadows. The yew tree has been found near chapels, churches and cemeteries since ancient times as a symbol of the transcendence of death. They are often found in the main squares of villages where people celebrated the open councils that served as a way of general assembly to rule village affairs.\n\nIt has been suggested that the sacred tree at the Temple at Uppsala was an ancient yew tree. The Christian church commonly found it expedient to take over existing pre-Christian sacred sites for churches. It has also been suggested that yews were planted at religious sites as their long life was suggestive of eternity, or because, being toxic when ingested, they were seen as trees of death. Another suggested explanation is that yews were planted to discourage farmers and drovers from letting animals wander onto the burial grounds, the poisonous foliage being the disincentive. A further possible reason is that fronds and branches of yew were often used as a substitute for palms on Palm Sunday. \n\nSome yew trees were actually native to the sites before the churches were built. King Edward I of England ordered yew trees to be planted in churchyards to offer some protection to the buildings. Yews are poisonous so by planting them in the churchyards cattle that were not allowed to graze on hallowed ground were safe from eating yew. Yew branches touching the ground take root and sprout again; this became a symbol of death, rebirth and therefore immortality.\n\nIn interpretations of Norse cosmology, the tree \"Yggdrasil\" has traditionally been interpreted as a giant ash tree. Some scholars now believe errors were made in past interpretations of the ancient writings, and that the tree is most likely a European yew (\"Taxus baccata\").\n\nIn the \"Crann Ogham\"—the variation on the ancient Irish \"Ogham\" alphabet which consists of a list of trees—yew is the last in the main list of 20 trees, primarily symbolizing death. There are stories of people who have committed suicide by ingesting the foliage. As the ancient Celts also believed in the transmigration of the soul, there is in some cases a secondary meaning of the eternal soul that survives death to be reborn in a new form.\n\nCertain compounds found in the bark of yew trees were discovered by Wall and Wani in 1967 to have efficacy as anti-cancer agents. The precursors of the chemotherapy drug paclitaxel (taxol) were later shown to be synthesized easily from extracts of the leaves of European yew, which is a much more renewable source than the bark of the Pacific yew (\"Taxus brevifolia\") from which they were initially isolated. This ended a point of conflict in the early 1990s; many environmentalists, including Al Gore, had opposed the destructive harvesting of Pacific yew for paclitaxel cancer treatments. Docetaxel can then be obtained by semi-synthetic conversion from the precursors.\n\nWood from the yew is classified as a closed-pore softwood, similar to cedar and pine. Easy to work, yew is among the hardest of the softwoods; yet it possesses a remarkable elasticity, making it ideal for products that require springiness, such as bows. Due to all parts of the yew and its volatile oils being poisonous and cardiotoxic, a mask should be worn if one comes in contact with sawdust from the wood.\n\nOne of the world's oldest surviving wooden artifacts is a Clactonian yew spear head, found in 1911 at Clacton-on-Sea, in Essex, UK. Known as the Clacton Spear, it is estimated to be over 400,000 years old.\n\nYew is also associated with Wales and England because of the longbow, an early weapon of war developed in northern Europe, and as the English longbow the basis for a medieval tactical system. The oldest surviving yew longbow was found at Rotten Bottom in Dumfries and Galloway, Scotland. It has been given a calibrated radiocarbon date of 4040 BC to 3640 BC and is on display in the National Museum of Scotland. Yew is the wood of choice for longbow making; the heartwood is always on the inside of the bow with the sapwood on the outside. This makes most efficient use of their properties as heartwood is best in compression whilst sapwood is superior in tension. However, much yew is knotty and twisted, and therefore unsuitable for bowmaking; most trunks do not give good staves and even in a good trunk much wood has to be discarded.\n\nThere was a tradition of planting yew trees in churchyards throughout Britain and Ireland, among other reasons, as a resource for bows. \"Ardchattan Priory whose yew trees, according to other accounts, were inspected by Robert the Bruce and cut to make at least some of the longbows used at the Battle of Bannockburn.\"\n\nThe trade of yew wood to England for longbows was so robust that it depleted the stocks of good-quality, mature yew over a vast area. The first documented import of yew bowstaves to England was in 1294. In 1350 there was a serious shortage, and Henry IV of England ordered his royal bowyer to enter private land and cut yew and other woods. In 1423 the Polish king commanded protection of yews in order to cut exports, facing nearly complete destruction of local yew stock. In 1470 compulsory archery practice was renewed, and hazel, ash, and laburnum were specifically allowed for practice bows. Supplies still proved insufficient, until by the Statute of Westminster in 1472, every ship coming to an English port had to bring four bowstaves for every tun. Richard III of England increased this to ten for every tun. This stimulated a vast network of extraction and supply, which formed part of royal monopolies in southern Germany and Austria. In 1483, the price of bowstaves rose from two to eight pounds per hundred, and in 1510 the Venetians would only sell a hundred for sixteen pounds. In 1507 the Holy Roman Emperor asked the Duke of Bavaria to stop cutting yew, but the trade was profitable, and in 1532 the royal monopoly was granted for the usual quantity \"if there are that many.\" In 1562, the Bavarian government sent a long plea to the Holy Roman Emperor asking him to stop the cutting of yew, and outlining the damage done to the forests by its selective extraction, which broke the canopy and allowed wind to destroy neighbouring trees. In 1568, despite a request from Saxony, no royal monopoly was granted because there was no yew to cut, and the next year Bavaria and Austria similarly failed to produce enough yew to justify a royal monopoly. Forestry records in this area in the 17th century do not mention yew, and it seems that no mature trees were to be had. The English tried to obtain supplies from the Baltic, but at this period bows were being replaced by guns in any case.\n\nToday European yew is widely used in landscaping and ornamental horticulture. Due to its dense, dark green, mature foliage, and its tolerance of even very severe pruning, it is used especially for formal hedges and topiary. Its relatively slow growth rate means that in such situations it needs to be clipped only once per year (in late summer).\n\nWell over 200 cultivars of \"T. baccata\" have been named. The most popular of these are the Irish yew (\"T. baccata\" 'Fastigiata'), a fastigiate cultivar of the European yew selected from two trees found growing in Ireland, and the several cultivars with yellow leaves, collectively known as \"golden yew\". In some locations, e.g. when hemmed in by buildings or other trees, an Irish yew can reach 20 feet in height without exceeding 2 feet in diameter at its thickest point, although with age many Irish yews assume a fat cigar shape rather than being truly columnar.\n\nThe following cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:- \n\n\nEuropean yew will tolerate growing in a wide range of soils and situations, including shallow chalk soils and shade, although in deep shade its foliage may be less dense. However it cannot tolerate waterlogging, and in poorly-draining situations is liable to succumb to the root-rotting pathogen \"Phytophthora cinnamomi\".\n\nIn Europe, \"Taxus baccata\" grows naturally north to Molde in southern Norway, but it is used in gardens further north. It is also popular as a bonsai in many parts of Europe and makes a handsome small- to large-sized bonsai.\n\nIn England, yew has historically been sometimes associated with privies (outside toilets), possibly because the smell of the plant keeps insects away.\n\nThe late Robert Lundberg, a noted luthier who performed extensive research on historical lute-making methodology, states in his 2002 book \"Historical Lute Construction\" that yew was historically a prized wood for lute construction. European legislation establishing use limits and requirements for yew limited supplies available to luthiers, but it was apparently as prized among medieval, renaissance, and baroque lute builders as Brazilian rosewood is among contemporary guitar-makers for its quality of sound and beauty.\n\nClippings from ancient specimens in the UK, including the Fortingall Yew, were taken to the Royal Botanic Gardens in Edinburgh to form a mile-long hedge. The purpose of this \"Yew Conservation Hedge Project\" is to maintain the DNA of \"Taxus baccata\". The species is threatened by felling, partly due to rising demand from pharmaceutical companies, and disease.\n\nAnother conservation programme was run in Catalonia in the early 2010s, by the Forest Sciences Centre of Catalonia (CTFC), in order to protect genetically endemic yew populations, and preserve them from overgrazing and forest fires. In the framework of this programme, the 4th International Yew Conference was organised in the Poblet Monastery in 2014, which proceedings are available.\n\nThere has also been a conservation programme in northern Portugal and Northern Spain (Cantabrian Range).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979481", "title": "David Hersey", "text": "David Hersey\n\nDavid Hersey (born November 30, 1939) is a lighting designer who has designed the lighting for over 250 plays, musicals, operas, and ballets. His work has been seen in most corners of the globe and his awards include the Tony Award for Best Lighting Design for \"Evita\", \"Cats\", and \"Les Misérables\", the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Lighting Design for \"Cats\", \"Miss Saigon\", and \"Equus\", and the 1996 Laurence Olivier Award for Lighting Design.\n\nHersey has been the lighting designer for National Theatre, Royal Shakespeare Company and West End productions, as well as opera at the English National Opera (among others) and ballet at the Royal Ballet. He has been the lighting designer for Broadway productions, starting with Evita in 1980 through \"Equus\" in 2008.\n\nHersey has also been active in the world of theme parks in Florida and Italy, as well as lighting extravaganzas at The Mirage, Treasure Island Hotel and Casino, and Bellagio hotels in Las Vegas. He is the founder of DHA Designs, which concentrates on the design of specialist architectural lighting. For ten years he was lighting consultant to the Royal National Theatre and is a past chairman of the Association of Lighting Designers.\n\nMost recently he has taken on the position of lighting designer for the play Fiddler on the roof done by CFT\n\nDavid Hersey was born in Rochester, New York and attended Oberlin College. In 1967 he moved to London, England. Married to Demetra Maraslis, his children are: a daughter Miranda Hersey, b. 1969 (from previous marriage); a son Demetri Alexander Hersey, b. 1978; and a daughter Ellen Katherine Hersey, born 1980.\n\nDavid Hersey has received awards and nominations for lighting design for the following productions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979482", "title": "Natalizumab", "text": "Natalizumab\n\nNatalizumab, sold under the brand name Tysabri among others, is a medication used to treat multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease. It is a humanized monoclonal antibody against the cell adhesion molecule α4-integrin. It is given by intravenous infusion every 28 days. The drug is believed to work by reducing the ability of inflammatory immune cells to attach to and pass through the cell layers lining the intestines and blood–brain barrier. Natalizumab has proven effective in treating the symptoms of both diseases, preventing relapse, vision loss, cognitive decline and significantly improving quality of life in people with multiple sclerosis, as well as increasing rates of remission and preventing relapse in multiple sclerosis.\n\nNatalizumab, is a monoclonal antibody which targets a protein called α4β1 integrin on white blood cells involved in inflammation. By attaching to integrin, natalizumab is thought to stop white blood cells from entering the brain and spinal cord tissue, thereby reducing inflammation and the resulting nerve damage.\n\nThe most common side effects are urinary tract infection, nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), headache, dizziness, nausea (feeling sick), joint pain and tiredness.\n\nNatalizumab was approved for medical use in the United States in 2004. It was subsequently withdrawn from the market by its manufacturer after it was linked with three cases of the rare neurological condition progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) when administered in combination with interferon beta-1a, another immunosuppressive drug often used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. After a review of safety information and no further deaths, the drug was returned to the US market in 2006 under a special prescription program. As of June 2009, ten cases of PML were known. However, twenty-four cases of PML had been reported since its reintroduction by October 2009, showing a sharp rise in the number of fatalities and prompting a review of the chemical for human use by the European Medicines Agency. By 2010, 31 cases of PML were attributed to natalizumab while by 2018 this had risen to 757 cases. The FDA did not withdraw the drug from the market as benefits outweigh the risks. In the European Union, it has been approved only for multiple sclerosis and only by itself as the initial cases of PML, and later the fatalities, were said by the manufacturers to be linked to the use of previous medicines by the person.\n\nNatalizumab is FDA-approved for the treatment of multiple sclerosis; in the US it is also used for Crohn's disease.\n\nNatalizumab offers a limited improvement in efficacy compared to other treatments for MS, but due to the lack of information about long-term use, as well as potentially fatal adverse events, reservations have been expressed over the use of the drug outside of comparative research with existing medications. Natalizumab is used as a monotherapy.\n\nIn the EU, natalizumab is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in adults with highly active relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis for the following patient groups:\n\nProgressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an opportunistic infection caused by the JC virus, and that occurs only in patients who are immunocompromised, has affected an estimated 212 patients as of 2012, or 2.1 in every 1,000 using natalizumab. It was first observed in seven patients who received natalizumab in late 2008; three cases were noted in clinical trials in 2006 leading to the drug being temporarily pulled from the market; two cases were reported to the FDA in August 2008; and two cases were announced in December 2008. By January 21, 2010 the FDA noted a total of 31 confirmed cases of PML, with the chance of developing the infection increasing as the number of infusions received by a patient increased. Because of this association, the drug label and package insert accompanying the drug will be updated to include this information. As of February 29, 2012, there were 212 confirmed cases of PML among 99,571 patients treated with natalizumab (2.1 cases per 1000 patients). All 54 patients with PML for whom samples were available before the diagnosis were positive for anti–JC virus antibodies. When the risk of PML was evaluated according to three risk factors, it was lowest among the patients who had used natalizumab for the shortest periods, those who had used few if any immunosuppressant drugs to treat MS in the past, and lastly who were negative for anti–JC virus antibodies. The incidence of PML in the low risk group was estimated to be 0.09 cases, or less, per 1000 patients. Patients who had taken natalizumab for longer, from 25 to 48 months, who were positive for anti–JC virus antibodies, had taken immunosuppressants before the initiation of natalizumab therapy had the highest risk of developing PML. Their risk is fully 123 times higher than the low risk group. (incidence, 11.1 cases per 1000 patients [95% CI, 8.3 to 14.5]).\nWhile none of them had taken the drug in combination with other disease-modifying treatments, previous use of MS treatments increases the risk of PML between 3 and 4-fold. In 2016, EMA recommended all people taking natalizumab should undergo full MRI scans at least once a year due to concerns of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). In addition, more frequent MRI scans (e.g. every 3 to 6 months) should be performed using simplified protocols should be considered for those at higher risk of PML.  \n\nPostmarketing surveillance in early 2008 revealed that 0.1% of people taking natalizumab experience clinically significant liver injury, leading to the FDA, EMEA and manufacturers recommending that the medication be discontinued in patients with jaundice or other evidence of significant liver damage. This rate is comparable to other immune-suppressing drugs. Evidence of hepatotoxicity in the form of elevated blood levels of bilirubin and liver enzymes can appear as soon as six days after an initial dose; reactions are unpredictable and may appear even if the patient does not react to previous treatment. Such signs reoccur upon rechallenge in some patients, indicating that damage is not coincidental. In the absence of any blockage these liver function tests are predictors of severe liver injury with possible sequelae of liver transplantation or death.\n\nCommon adverse effects include fatigue and allergic reactions with a low risk of anaphylaxis, headache, nausea, colds and exacerbation of Crohn's disease in a minority of patients with the condition. Adolescents with Crohn's disease experience headache, fever and exacerbation of Crohn's disease. Natalizumab is contraindicated for people with known hypersensitivity to the drug or its components and in patients with a history of PML (see interactions).\n\nNatalizumab has also been linked to melanoma, though the association is unclear. The long-term effects of the drug are unknown and concern has been expressed over the risks of infection and cancer.\n\nNatalizumab can increase the risk of infections, including the brain infection PML. PML is a very serious condition that may result in severe disability or death. The risk of PML increases the longer a person has been receiving natalizumab, especially in people treated for more than two years. The risk is also higher for people who used medicines that suppress the immune system before starting natalizumab, or if the person has antibodies against the virus that causes PML.\n\nAbout 6% of the people in studies developed long-lasting antibodies against natalizumab, which reduced the medicine's effectiveness.\n\nNatalizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against alpha-4 (α4) integrin, the first drug developed in the class of selective adhesion molecule inhibitors. α4-integrin is required for white blood cells to move into organs, and natalizumab's mechanism of action is believed to be the prevention of immune cells from crossing blood vessel walls to reach affected organs.\n\nThe symptom-causing lesions of MS are believed to be caused when inflammatory cells such as T-lymphocytes pass through the blood–brain barrier through interaction with receptors on the endothelial cells. Natalizumab appears to reduce the transmission of immune cells into the central nervous system by interfering with the α4β1-integrin receptor molecules on the surfaces of cells. The effect appears to occur on endothelial cells expressing the VCAM-1 gene, and in parenchymal cells expressing the osteopontin gene. In animals used to model MS and test therapies, repeated administration of natalizumab reduced migration of leukocytes into the brain's parenchyma, and also reduced lesioning, though it is uncertain if this is clinically significant for humans.\n\nIndividuals with MS dosed with natalizumab demonstrated increased CD34-expressing cells, with research suggesting a peak in expression after 72 hours.\n\nThe interaction of the α4β7 integrin and the addressin (also known as MADCAM1) endothelial cell receptor is believed to contribute to the chronic bowel inflammation that causes Crohn's disease. Addressin is primarily expressed in the endothelium of venules in the small intestine and are critical in guiding T-lymphocytes to lymphatic tissues in Peyer's patches. In CD patients, sites of active inflammation of the bowel in CD patients have increased expression of addressin, suggesting a connection between the inflammation and the receptor. Natalizumab may block interaction between the α4β7 integrin and addressin at sites of inflammation. Animal models have found higher levels of VCAM-1 expression in mice with irritable bowel syndrome and the VCAM-1 gene may also play a part in CD but its role is not yet clear.\n\nNatalizumab appears to interact with other immune-modulating drugs to increase the risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an often-fatal opportunistic infection caused by the JC virus. In 2005, two people taking natalizumab in combination with interferon beta-1a developed PML. One died, and the other recovered with disabling sequelae. A third fatal case initially attributed to an astrocytoma was reported in a patient being treated for Crohn's disease. Though the patient was being treated with natalizumab in combination with azathioprine, corticosteroids and infliximab, indications of PML infection appeared only after natalizumab monotherapy was re-introduced. No deaths from progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have been linked to natalizumab when it was not combined with other immune-modulating drugs and other rates of opportunistic infections are not increased in patients taking natalizumab possibly due to the drug's mechanism of action. Other than a prior history of PML, there is no known method to identify patients at risk of developing PML. Natalizumab's label indicates that it is contraindicated for immunosuppressed individuals or those with a history of PML. Due to the uncertain risk of PML, natalizumab is only available through a restricted distribution program. By January 21, 2010 the United States Food and Drug Administration reported a total of 31 confirmed cases of PML associated with natalizumab.\n\nThough the small number of cases precludes conclusion on the ability of natalizumab alone to induce PML, its black box warning states that the drug has only been linked to PML when combined with other immune-modulating drugs and natalizumab is contraindicated for use with other immunomodulators. Corticosteroids may produce immunosuppression, and the Tysabri prescribing information recommends that people taking corticosteroids for the treatment of Crohn's disease have their doses reduced before starting natalizumab treatment. The risk of developing PML was later estimated to be 1 in 1,000 (0.1%) over 18 months though the longer term risks of PML are unknown.\n\nBiogen Idec announced the initiation of the first clinical trial of natalizumab as a potential cancer treatment as of September 5, 2008.\n\nNatalizumab was originally approved for treatment of multiple sclerosis in 2004, through the FDA's accelerated Fast Track program, due to the drug's efficacy in one-year clinical trials. In February 2005, four months after its approval, natalizumab was withdrawn voluntarily by the manufacturer after two cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Groups representing individuals with MS lobbied to have the drug returned to the US market and in June, 2006, after recommendation by an advisory committee and a review of two years of safety and efficacy data, the FDA re-approved natalizumab for patients with all relapsing forms of MS (relapse-remitting, secondary-progressive, and progressive-relapsing) as a first-line or second-line therapy. Patients taking natalizumab must enter into a registry for monitoring. Natalizumab is the only drug after alosetron withdrawn for safety reasons that returned to the US market.\n\nIn April 2006, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use recommended authorizing natalizumab to treat relapsing-remitting MS, and natalizumab was approved for medical use in the European Union in June 2006.\n\nHealth Canada added natalizumab to Schedule F of the Food and Drug Regulations on April 3, 2008, as a prescription drug requiring oversight from a physician.\n\nIn 2007, the EMA rejected the application to market natalizumab for Crohn's disease due to concerns over its risk/benefit ratio. In January 2008, the FDA approved it for the induction of remission and maintenance of remission for moderate to severe Crohn's disease. \n"}
{"id": "1979490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979490", "title": "Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue", "text": "Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue\n\nSaint-Vaast-la-Hougue is a commune in the Manche department in Normandy in north-western France.\n\nSaint-Vaast is the Norman name of Saint Vedast and Hougue is a Norman language word meaning a \"mound\" or \"loaf\" and comes from the Old Norse word \"haugr\".\n\nSaint-Vaast-la-Hougue is situated in the Manche \"département\", in the Normandy \"région\". It is in the Quettehou canton, of the Cherbourg arrondissement. The town had a population of 2,097 in 1999. The island of Tatihou forms part of the Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue commune.\n\nSaint-Vaast-la-Hougue is located in Normandy and was a part of the Duchy of Normandy.\n\nIn 1001, near Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue, Néel I de Saint-Saveur (related with Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte in the Cotentin Peninsula) (occasionally named Nigel or Niel), a Norman baron of the House of Saint-Sauveur (), repulsed an Anglo-Saxon incursion led by King Æthelred; a pillaging raid in reprisal for the Viking expeditions into the Anglo-Saxon kingdom. The raid failed thanks to the effort of Neel who exterminated the invaders at the Battle of Val-de-Saire.\n\nWhen Edward III landed 12,000 men in France on 12 July 1346 and proceeded toward what would become the battle of Crecy, it was on the sandy stretch that lies between La Hougue and St Vaast.\n\nThe naval Battle of La Hougue took place off the town in 1692. On 3 June 1692 during a heated battle with the Anglo-Dutch fleet, twelve French ships were sunk in the vicinity of the Island of Tatihou, just off the coast of Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue. It was the decisive naval battle of the Nine Years' War, also known as the War of the English Succession.\n\nFollowing the French defeat, two fortified towers were built from 1694 onwards on the mound at La Hougue and Tatihou Island by a student of Vauban, Benjamin de Combes, in order to defend the bay.\n\nA French frigate squadron anchored at Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue was attacked by a British squadron at the Action of 15 November 1810, which ultimately led to the destruction of the French ship French frigate Elisa (1808)|\"Elisa\".\n\nThe harbor was developed during the course of the 19th century. The jetty was built between 1828 and 1845, followed by the quayside from 1846 to 1852. Later on, breakwaters were added around the harbor. In 1982, the port was closed off with two large hydraulic gates which keep the water level constant at low tide. This allowed the construction of a large marina which can accommodate 704 yachts, including 100 moorings for visitors. Nowadays, the post is shared by fishing boats and yachts.\n\nSaint-Vaast-la-Hougue was the first harbor to be freed by Allied Forces during World War II, in 1944.\n\nSaint-Vaast-la-Hougue was a very active whaling center, as there was a dense population of the then common gray whale (which is now extinct in the Atlantic). The now rare right whale was likely also taken. The first of what may prove to be many more gray whales found its way through the now ice-free Northwest Passage in 2010 so perhaps they will eventually breed off Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue once more.\n\nSaint-Vaast-la-Hougue organize a regular Book Festival, \"Ancres & Encres\". Jean Raspail and Jean-Pierre Thiollet may be mentioned among the authors invited in the last ten years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979500", "title": "Janek Wiśniewski", "text": "Janek Wiśniewski\n\nJanek Wiśniewski () is a fictional name given to a real person, Zbigniew Eugeniusz Godlewski (August 3, 1952December 17, 1970), shot dead by security forces during the Polish 1970 protests in the city of Gdynia. The event was popularized across the country in the poem and song, known by the name of \"Ballad of Janek Wiśniewski\".\n\nOn December 17, 1970, during Poland's demonstrations against the Communist regime, the army fired into the crowd of workers emerging from a commuter train in Gdynia, under the pretext of preventing an industrial sabotage action. At least 40 innocent people were killed by police . The image of an anonymous young man's body carried on a door panel through the cordons of police and tanks inspired author Krzysztof Dowgiałło to write the poem about him. The name Wiśniewski was invented by Dowgiałło for the ballad to symbolize an 18-year worker killed by the military or the militia. Not knowing his real name, the author gave him a symbolic name sounding typically Polish. Later it was established by the opposition that the killed man was named Zbigniew Godlewski and had lived in nearby Elbląg.\n\nThe music for the song \"Pieśń o Janku z Gdyni\" (also known as \"Ballada o Janku Wiśniewskim\") was written by Mieczysław Cholewa. The song, along with the story of Janek Wiśniewski, was popularized when it was performed at the end of the 1981 movie \"Man of Iron\" (by actress Krystyna Janda along with Jacek Kaczmarski). After the fall of communism in Poland, a major street in Gdynia was named after Janek Wiśniewski and also a street in Elbląg was named after Zbigniew Godlewski.\n\nIn 2011, a Polish movie about the events of December 17, titled \"Czarny Czwartek - Janek Wiśniewski padł\" (\"Black Thursday - Janek Wiśniewski Has Fallen\"), was released in cinemas. The title was inspired by a line in \"Pieśń o Janku z Gdyni\". The song was covered by Kazik Staszewski and used in the movie trailer.\n"}
{"id": "1979513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979513", "title": "The Clientele", "text": "The Clientele\n\nThe Clientele is a London-based indie pop band, currently composed of lead singer/guitarist Alasdair MacLean, drummer Mark Keen and bassist James Hornsey.\n\nThe band has experienced more success in the United States than they have in their native Britain, and are currently signed to Merge Records, an independent record label based out of North Carolina. They have conducted several extensive U.S. tours throughout their existence.\n\nMacLean and Hornsey both grew up in Hampshire, England, and began collaborating musically while still in school, after MacLean saw that Hornsey had written the name of the band Felt on his pencil case. The band formed in 1991, with Innes Phillips sharing singing and songwriting duties with MacLean; their original name was \"The Butterfly Collectors\". The band recorded an album's worth of material but failed to get any label interest. Innes left the band (and would go on to found The Relict); the rest of the group re-formed in 1997, after which they moved to London and released a number of singles that were eventually collected on \"Suburban Light\" (2000). That compilation won the band glowing reviews; \"SF Weekly\" said the band \"offers a brand of appealingly melancholy pop that might just surpass that of its forebears.\" \"The Violet Hour\" (2003) was their first album proper, which again saw great acclaim, but, as yet, little commercial success.\n\nAugust 2005 saw the release of their second full album, \"Strange Geometry\", the first the band recorded with a producer, Brian O'Shaughnessy, who had previously produced Primal Scream. It was notable for a much cleaner production sound than the reverb-heavy sound that had previously been their defining characteristic; it was also the first time the band had used a strings section on one of their records. The task of writing these arrangements was given to Louis Philippe. One single, \"Since K Got Over Me\", was released from the album. Another song from the album, \"(I Can't Seem) To Make You Mine\", was featured on the soundtrack of the film \"The Lake House\".\n\n\"Strange Geometry\" was quickly followed by a collection of recordings from 1991 to 1996, featuring Innes Phillips, called \"It's Art, Dad\". After a U.S. tour in August 2006, The Clientele became a four-piece again, adding Mel Draisey (on violin, keys and percussion), who became their first female member. They then recorded the album \"God Save The Clientele\" with producer Mark Nevers, known for his work with Merge labelmates Lambchop; the album again featured several Louis Philippe-composed string arrangements. \"God Save The Clientele\" was released in May 2007 in the United States. \"Bonfires on the Heath\" followed in October 2009, and \"Minotaur\", a Mini-LP, was released on 17 July 2010.\n\nOn 6 July 2011, the band announced on its website that The Clientele would be taking an indefinite hiatus.\n\nThe band announced that it would reunite for a lone gig at The Bell House in Brooklyn on 21 March 2014.\n\nSince then, the 'Suburban Light' album has been reissued with bonus tracks and gave the band a Billboard top 30 album for the first time in their history. They also released two new singles in 2014, 'Falling Asleep' and 'On A Summer Trail'. The band have continued to tour in both the US and Europe, and MacLean is writing songs which may constitute a forthcoming album. On 24 March 2016, the group's official Facebook page posted an image of the mixing board at Brian O'Shaughnessy's Bark Studios in London, with the implication that the group were recording new material. On 16 June 2017, the band announced a new album, \"Music for the Age of Miracles\", and a tour.\n\nTheir music has often been noted for its reverb-rich production and MacLean's distinctive breathy vocals (an effect achieved partly by MacLean singing with a microphone plugged into a guitar amplifier) and unique guitar style. Their lyrics take a strong inspiration from surrealist literature and art from the early 20th century; \"We Could Walk Together\" quotes a line (\"like a silver ring thrown into the flood of my heart\") from a 1928 poem by French surrealist Joë Bousquet; in its final two verses, the song \"What Goes Up\" quotes the poem \"Stupidity Street\" by Ralph Hodgson in its entirety. \n\n\n\n\n\nA detailed gear diagram of Alasdair Maclean's 2007 Clientele guitar rig is well-documented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979524", "title": "66th Street–Lincoln Center station", "text": "66th Street–Lincoln Center station\n\n66th Street–Lincoln Center is a local station on the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line of the New York City Subway. Located at the intersection of 66th Street and Broadway, it is served by the 1 train at all times and by the 2 train during late nights.\n\nOperation of the first subway began on October 27, 1904, with the opening of the original 28 stations of the New York City Subway from City Hall to 145th Street on the West Side Branch including the 66th Street station.\n\nOn November 29, 1962, a new entrance at the station opened, leading to the lobby of the Philharmonic Hall of Lincoln Center. The entrance led from the downtown platform of the station, but also provided access to the uptown platform by an underpass at the station's south end. This entrance was built as part of a $10.2 million underground complex by the New York City Parks Department for the Philharmonic Hall. The project was partially funded by a Federal grant, and the work was contracted out to Slattery Construction Company.\n\nThis underground station has two side platforms and four tracks. The two express tracks are used by the 2 train during daytime hours and the 3 train at all times.\n\nThe walls at the platform level were renovated in 2004 and are decorated with mosaics designed by New York artist Nancy Spero. Elevators to street level provide ADA-accessibility. There is also a crossunder between the uptown and downtown side platforms at the extreme south end of the station; however, it is not ADA-accessible, and there is no free ADA-accessible transfer between directions.\n\nThe station provides access to Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts just to the south, with Alice Tully Hall just to the west. All of the Lincoln Center venues are connected by underground concourses near the southern end of the station. Dante Park, upstairs at the south end, is named for the poet Dante Alighieri, whose statue is found there. Richard Tucker Park is nearby, at the north end of Lincoln Square.\n\nA number of schools are nearby as well, including the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts and some small schools located in the former Martin Luther King Jr. High School building.\n\nThis station also provides access to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979526", "title": "Religion in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Religion in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nTrinidad and Tobago is a multi-religious nation. The largest religious groups are the Protestant Christians (including Anglicans, Presbyterians, Methodist, Evangelicals, Pentecostals and Baptist), Roman Catholic Christians, Hindus, and Muslims. Two Afro-Caribbean syncretic faiths, the Shouter or Spiritual Baptists and the Orisha faith (formerly called Shangos, a less than complimentary term) are among the fastest growing religious groups. The fastest growing groups are a host of American-style Evangelical and Fundamentalist churches usually grouped as \"Pentecostal\" by most Trinidadians (although this designation is often inaccurate). The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (known as \"Mormons\") has also expanded its presence in the country since the late 1970s.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, 33.4% of the population was Protestant (including 12.0% Pentecostal, 5.7% Anglican, 4.1% Seventh-day Adventist, 3.0% Presbyterian or Congregational, 1.2% Baptist, and 0.1% Methodist), 21.5% was Roman Catholic, 14.1% was Hindu and 8% were Muslim. A small number of individuals subscribed to traditional Caribbean religions with African roots, such as the Spiritual Baptists (sometimes called Shouter Baptists) (5.7%); and the Orisha (0.1%). The smaller groups were Jehovah's Witnesses (1.5%) and unaffiliated (2.2%). There is also a small Buddhist community on the island.\n\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Trinidad and Tobago begins with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, in 1916 as the Caribbean was among the places Bahá'ís should take the religion to. The first Bahá'í to visit came in 1927 while pioneers arrived by 1956 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1957 In 1971 the first Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly was elected. A count of the community then noted 27 assemblies with Bahá'ís living in 77 locations. Since then Bahá'ís have participated in several projects for the benefit of the wider community and in 2005/10 various sources report near 1.2% of the country, about 10–16,000 citizens, are Bahá'ís.\n\n\n\nJewish settlement in Trinidad and Tobago dates back to the 17th century when a number of Jewish merchants from Suriname settled in the 1660s, when the island was still under Spanish control. By the 1790s, when it passed into British hands, the community had disappeared from record.\n\nIn the 19th century a small number of Sephardi Jewish families from Curaçao settled in Trinidad but left no trace of an organised community. In the late 1930s an estimated six hundred East European Jews settled in Trinidad, mainly Port of Spain, escaping the growth of Nazism in the region. The settlers established synagogues in rented houses in the capital and consecrated a Jewish cemetery. After World War Two the majority of Trinidadian Jews migrated to the United States, Israel, and Canada. In 2007 an estimated 55 Jews lived in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nThe Caribbean Union Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church recognizes 620 churches holding a membership of 236, 257 Adventists in Trinidad and Tobago, as of October 3, 2016. Because Seventh-day Adventists consider spiritual well-being to be holistic, there are notable contributions to the healthcare system, such as the Community Hospital of Seventh-day Adventists in Port of Spain, Trinidad. The University of the Southern Caribbean (formerly Caribbean Union College) is a Seventh-day Adventist educational facility providing Christian education to undergraduate and graduate students on the island of Trinidad.\n\nThe constitution of Trinidad and Tobago establishes the freedom of religion and prohibits religious discrimination. An anti-blasphemy law is part of the legal code but is not enforced.\n\nReligious groups may register with the government in order to be able to perform marriages, sponsor missionaries, or accept tax-exempt donations.\n\nVoluntary religious instruction is available as part of the public school curriculum. The government subsidizes religious private schools affiliated with Christian, Muslim, and Hindu groups.\n\nIn 2017, Trinidad and Tobago set a uniform minimum marriage age of 18 years. Previously, different age limits were enforced for different religious groups. While many organizations (and particularly religiously affiliated women's organizations) welcomed this change, some religious organizations such as the orthodox Hindu organization Sanatan Dharma Maha Saba stated that they would oppose the law on the grounds that it infringes on religious freedom.\n\nThe government of Trinidad and Tobago hosts the Inter-Religious Organization, an interfaith coordinating committee with representatives from 25 religious groups, including Christian, Muslim, Hindu, Orisha and Bahá'i groups. Chaplains from the various religious denominations present in Trinidad Tobago are able to provide religious services to inmates in prisons.\n\nThe Government of Trinidad and Tobago provides substantial subventions to religious groups. In 2003 the government provided TT$ 420,750 to religious groups.\n"}
{"id": "1979533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979533", "title": "Kelly v Sulivan", "text": "Kelly v Sulivan\n\nThe Supreme Court had only just come into existence. On April 8, 1875 the bill creating the court was passed and the court was inaugurated on November 18. The Court's very first sitting was on January 17, but there were no cases to be heard so they adjourned until spring.\n\nThat April the Supreme Court was given a reference question from the Senate of Canada (\"In Re \"The Brothers of the Christian Schools in Canada\"\"). The Senate wanted to know if a bill entitled \"An Act to incorporate the Brothers of the Christian Schools in Canada\" was constitutional and within the authority of the federal government. Only Ritchie, Strong, and Fournier JJ. were in attendance, each only giving a single-sentence judgement.\n\nIt was not until June that the Court had its first hearings with the case of \"Kelly v. Sullivan\".\n\nIn 1873, Prince Edward Island agreed to join Confederation, and one of the terms of union was that the federal government of Canada agreed to contribute $800,000 towards the purchase of absentee landholdings on the Island. To that end, the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island passed the \"Land Purchase Act, 1875\", which provided a procedure for the compulsory acquisition of all such estates that were larger than , other than untenanted estates less than . Awards in disputes relating to land values were made by the Commissioners of Public Lands, whose decisions could be appealed to the Supreme Court of Prince Edward Island under s. 45 of the Act within 30 days of the award. The same section provided that the Court could remit the award back to the Commissioners; otherwise, such awards were declared to be \"binding, final and conclusive on all parties.\"\n\nIn 1875, the Commissioner of Public Lands applied to acquire the lands of Charlotte Antonia Sulivan, and the resulting award determined that she was entitled to be paid $81,500. Sulivan, through her agent George Wastie DeBlois, appealed on the basis that the awards did not describe the lands in sufficient detail, that proper legal procedures had not been followed, and that the \"British North America Act\" did not permit such legislation as the \"Land Purchase Act\". The provincial Supreme Court agreed in January 1876.\n\nThe Province, through Francis Kelly, its Commissioner for Public Lands, lodged an appeal to the newly created Supreme Court of Canada, on the basis that:\n\n\nIn response, Sulivan's side contended:\n\n\nThe Court was unanimous in its ruling, although each justice issued a separate opinion. In the most comprehensive ruling, Richards CJ declared:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979543", "title": "Socket 5", "text": "Socket 5\n\nSocket 5 was created for the second generation of Intel P5 Pentium processors operating at speeds from 75 to 120 MHz as well as certain Pentium OverDrive and Pentium MMX processors with core voltage 3.3 V. It superseded the earlier Socket 4. It was released in March 1994. Consisting of 320 pins, this was the first socket to use a staggered pin grid array, or SPGA, which allowed the chip's pins to be spaced closer together than earlier sockets. Socket 5 was replaced by Socket 7 in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979544", "title": "Romek Strzałkowski", "text": "Romek Strzałkowski\n\nRoman \"Romek\" Strzałkowski (1943–1956) was a 13-year-old pupil killed during anti-communist protests in Poznań in 1956. He has become one of the best-known symbols of anti-communist resistance in Poland. Since 1981, one of Poznań's streets has been named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979553", "title": "Black theology", "text": "Black theology\n\nBlack theology, or black liberation theology, refers to a theological perspective which originated among African-American seminarians and scholars, and in some black churches in the United States and later in other parts of the world. It contextualizes Christianity in an attempt to help those of African descent overcome oppression. It especially focuses on the injustices committed against African Americans and black South Africans during American segregation and apartheid, respectively.\n\nBlack theology seeks to liberate non-white people from multiple forms of political, social, economic, and religious subjugation and views Christian theology as a theology of liberation – \"a rational study of the being of God in the world in light of the existential situation of an oppressed community, relating the forces of liberation to the essence of the Gospel, which is Jesus Christ\", writes James H. Cone, one of the original advocates of the perspective. Black theology mixes Christianity with questions of civil rights, particularly raised by the Black Power movement and the Black Consciousness Movement. Further, black theology has led the way and contributed to the discussion, and conclusion, that all theology is contextual – even what is known as systematic theology.\n\nModern American origins of contemporary black theology can be traced to July 31, 1966, when an \"ad hoc\" group of 51 concerned clergy, calling themselves the National Committee of Negro Churchmen, bought a full page ad in \"The New York Times\" to publish their \"Black Power Statement\", which proposed a more aggressive approach to combating racism using the Bible for inspiration.\n\nIn American history, ideas of race and slavery were supported by many Christians from particular readings of the Bible. The Southern Baptist Convention supported slavery and slaveholders; it was not until June 20, 1995, that the formal Declaration of Repentance was adopted. This non-binding resolution declared that racism, in all its forms, is deplorable\" and \"lamented on a national scale and is also repudiated in history as an act of evil from which a continued bitter harvest unfortunately is reaped.\" The convention offered an apology for \"condoning and/or perpetuating individual and systemic racism in our lifetime\" and repentance for \"racism of which many have been guilty, whether consciously or unconsciously. These historic events are used to associate Christianity with racism but the Bible stresses that race is irrelevant \"There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus\" (Galatians 3:28). Christianity is the most culturally diverse religion in the world. Yet Christ; the forerunner of christian behavior professed individuality and in living testimony is demonized for the pursuit of individually targeted sanctuary. Therefore, there must then be a dialogue regarding the implications of racism in today's society and to what extent historical, intellectual, social factors affect the plight of the black community. Cone relates that, once upon a time it was acceptable to lynch a black man by hanging him from the tree; but today's economics destroy him by crowding many into a ghetto and letting filth and despair (created by themselves) put final touch on a coveted death.\n\nBlack theology deals primarily with the African-American community to make Christianity real for black people. It explains Christianity as a matter of liberation here and now, rather than in an afterlife. The goal of black theology is not for special treatment. Instead, \"All Black theologians are asking for is for freedom and justice. No more, and no less. In asking for this, the black theologians, turn to scripture as the sanction for their demand. The Psalmist writes for instance, \"If God is going to see righteousness established in the land, he himself must be particularly active as \"the helper of the fatherless\" (Psalm 10:14) to \"deliver the needy when he crieth; and the poor that hath no helper\" (Psalm 72:12).\n\nBlack theology would eventually develop outside of the United States to the United Kingdom and parts of Africa, especially addressing apartheid in South Africa.\n\nJames H. Cone first addressed this theology after Malcolm X's proclamation in the 1950s against Christianity being taught as \"a white man's religion\". According to black religion expert Jonathan L. Walton:\nJames Cone believed that the New Testament revealed Jesus as one who identified with those suffering under oppression, the socially marginalized and the cultural outcasts. And since the socially constructed categories of race in America (i.e., whiteness and blackness) had come to culturally signify dominance (whiteness) and oppression (blackness), from a theological perspective, Cone argued that Jesus reveals himself as black in order to disrupt and dismantle white oppression.\n\nBlack theology contends that dominant cultures have corrupted Christianity, and the result is a mainstream faith-based empire that serves its own interests, not God's. Black theology asks whose side should God be on – the side of the oppressed or the side of the oppressors. If God values justice over victimization, then God desires that all oppressed people should be liberated. According to Cone, if God is not just, if God does not desire justice, then God needs to be done away with. Liberation from a false god who privileges whites, and the realization of an alternative and true God who desires the empowerment of the oppressed through self-definition, self-affirmation, and self-determination is the core of black theology.\n\nIntricate and largely philosophical views of God are largely ignored in preference for the concerns of the oppressed. The Old Testament God of Moses freeing the ancient Hebrews from Egyptian rulers was the central theme of African-American popular religion, as well as abolitionists like Harriet Tubman. White Christian concepts taught to black persons that they are to be disregarded or ignored. The aspects of God's person, his power and authority, as well as \"subtle indications of God's white maleness\" are said not to relate to the black experience, to the extent of sometimes being antagonistic. While trinitarian theology is a big concern, Jesus is still considered to be God. The focus is given to God's actions and his delivering of the oppressed because of his righteousness. Immanence is stressed over transcendence, and as a result God is seen to be \"in flux\" or \"always changing\".\n\nLikewise, Cone based much of his liberationist theology on God's deliverance of Israel from Egypt in the Book of Exodus. He compared the United States to Egypt, predicting that oppressed people will soon be led to a promised land. For Cone, the theme of Yahweh's concern was for \"the lack of social, economic, and political justice for those who are poor and unwanted in society.\" Cone also says that the same God is working for the oppressed black people of the 20th century, and that \"God is helping oppressed Blacks and has identified with them, God Himself is spoken of as 'black.'\"\n\nCone saw Christ from the aspect of oppression and liberation. Cone uses the Gospel of Luke to illustrate this point: \"the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the good news preached to them\" (Luke 7:22). \"'In Christ,' Cone argues, 'God enters human affairs and takes sides with the oppressed. Their suffering becomes his; their despair, divine despair.'\" Cone also argues that, \"We cannot solve ethical questions of the twentieth century by looking at what Jesus did in the first. Our choices are not the same as his. Being Christians does not mean following 'in his steps.'\"\n\nCone objected to the persistent portrayal of Jesus as white: \n\nBecause of the differences in thought between the black and white community, most black religious leaders attempt to make their services more accessible to other African Americans, who must identify with the faith in order to accept it. Another notable difference is Cone's suggestion as to what must occur if there is not reconciliation among the White community. He states, \"Whether the American system is beyond redemption we will have to wait and see. But we can be certain that black patience has run out, and unless white America responds positively to the theory and activity of Black Power, then a bloody, protracted civil war is inevitable.\"\n\nAnthony Bradley of \"The Christian Post\" interprets that the language of \"economic parity\" and references to \"mal-distribution\" as nothing more than channeling the views of Karl Marx. He believes James H. Cone and Cornel West have worked to incorporate Marxist thought into the black church, forming an ethical framework predicated on a system of oppressor class versus a victim much like Marxism.\n\nTrinity United Church of Christ, Chicago, has been cited in the press and by Cone as the best example of a church formally founded on the vision of black theology. The 2008 Jeremiah Wright controversy, over alleged racism and anti-Americanism in Wright's sermons and statements, caused then-Senator Barack Obama to distance himself from his former pastor.\n\nStanley Kurtz of the \"National Review\" wrote about the perceived differences with \"conventional American Christianity\". He quoted the black theologian Obery M. Hendricks Jr.: \"According to Hendricks, 'many good church-going folk have been deluded into behaving like modern-day Pharisees and Sadducees when they think they're really being good Christians.' Unwittingly, Hendricks says, these apparent Christians have actually become 'like the false prophets of Ba'al.'\" Kurtz also quotes Jeremiah Wright: \"How do I tell my children about the African Jesus who is not the guy they see in the picture of the blond-haired, blue-eyed guy in their Bible or the figment of white supremacists imagination that they see in Mel Gibson's movies?\"\n\nBlack theology was popularized in southern Africa in the early 1970s by Basil Moore, a Methodist theologian in South Africa. It helped to give rise to, and developed in parallel with, the Black Consciousness Movement. Black theology was particularly influential in South Africa and Namibia for motivating resistance to apartheid. This movement would also see be closely related to the South African Kairos Document.\n\nSouthern African black theologians include Barney Pityana, Allan Boesak, Itumeleng Mosala, Zephania Kameeta, Wesley Mabuza, and Maake Jonathan Masango.\n\nOn the African continent, black theology is often distinguished from African theology.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Robert Beckford is a prominent black theology practitioner. He was the first in the UK to develop and teach a course on black theology at an academic level.\n\nAlthough it is not limited to the British context, an academic journal which has been a key outlet for the discourse around black theology in Britain has been \"Black Theology\", edited by Anthony G. Reddie.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979557", "title": "List of dialling codes in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of dialling codes in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a list of telephone dialling codes in the United Kingdom, which adopts an open telephone numbering plan for its public switched telephone network. The national telephone numbering plan is maintained by Ofcom, an independent regulator and competition authority for the UK communications industries. This list is based on the official standard, but includes defunct codes and historical changes, including the derivation of the two letter identities, in cases where known. Dialling codes do not correspond to specific political boundaries: for example, the Coventry dialling code covers a large area of Warwickshire and the Manchester dialling code covers part or all of several neighbouring towns.\n\nWhen dialling within the country, all area codes are preceded by the national trunk prefix 0, which has been included in all listings in this article. 0 was traditionally the number dialled for the operator for trunk calls before subscriber trunk dialling (STD) was introduced and so was retained as a prefix for direct-dialled calls. In the majority of areas, the area code still corresponds to the original STD letter code. When dialling from abroad, the 0 prefix is not dialled. When dialling within the same area, the area code is not needed, save for a handful of areas that do require this. When calling from a mobile telephone, the area code is always needed.\n\nFor an explanation of the two-letter STD codes used below, see Introduction of area codes.\n\nELNS denotes Extended Linked Numbering Scheme areas, where an area code is associated with more than one place name.\n\n01426, 01523 and other non-standard 01 prefixes were briefly used for pagers in the late 1990s and then moved to new 076 prefixes in the Big Number Change in 2000/2001.\n\nThe 01632 area code is set aside for use as fictional numbers for drama as are parts of a number of other area codes.\n\nThe length of the area code part and the local number part is found as follows:\nThe number format '2+8' refers to, e.g. London, numbers using the (020) xxxx xxxx format.\n\nThe number format '5+4' refers to, e.g. Brampton, numbers using the (0169 77) xxxx format.\n\nIn the following areas, the area code must be included when dialling local numbers. This enables local numbers to start with 0 or 1 and was introduced to increase the number of available telephone numbers within these areas.\nUnlike the Crown Dependencies of Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man which use the UK area codes 01534, 01481 and 01624 respectively, telephone numbers in British Overseas Territories do not come under the UK telephone numbering plan. Some are within the North American Numbering Plan (NANP). These calls are treated as international calls. Below are the access codes for the overseas territories:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979571", "title": "Don Ivan Punchatz", "text": "Don Ivan Punchatz\n\nDon Ivan Punchatz (September 8, 1936 – October 22, 2009) was a science fiction and fantasy artist who drew illustrations for numerous books and publications, including magazines such as \"Heavy Metal\", \"National Geographic\", \"Playboy\", and \"Time\". He illustrated album covers, and provided the cover art for session guitarist Steve Hunter's debut solo album, \"Swept Away\". Characterized as a \"skilled hyperrealist with a penchant for the fantastic and absurd\" and \"elegantly weird,\" he produced cover art for books by Harlan Ellison, Isaac Asimov and others.\n\nPunchatz was born in Arlington, Texas. In 1970, he started the SketchPad Studio there, where he trained dozens of apprentices (known as \"the elves\") and came to be known as the \"Godfather of Dallas Illustration.\" During 1993, id Software hired him to create the \"Doom\" video game package art and logo. The result was named the second best game box art of all time by \"GameSpy\". His son, Gregor Punchatz, has worked on special effects for several movies, and also created monster sculptures for \"Doom\".\n\nPunchatz suffered a cardiac arrest on October 11, 2009 and died in an Arlington hospital on October 22, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979577", "title": "Hughes Mining Barge", "text": "Hughes Mining Barge\n\nThe Hughes Mining Barge, or HMB-1, is a submersible barge about 99 m (324 ft) long, 32 m (106 ft) wide, and more than 27 m (90 ft) tall. The \"HMB-1\" was originally developed as part of Project Azorian (more widely, but erroneously, known as \"Project Jennifer\"), the top-secret effort mounted by the Central Intelligence Agency to salvage the wreckage of the Soviet submarine \"K-129\" from the ocean floor.\n\nThe \"HMB-1\" was designed to allow the device that would be used to grasp and lift the submarine to be constructed inside the barge and out of sight, and to be installed in the \"Glomar Explorer\" in secrecy. This was done by towing the \"HMB-1\", with the capture device inside, to a location near Catalina Island (off the coast of California), and then submerging it onto stabilizing piers that had been installed on the seafloor. The \"Glomar Explorer\" was then maneuvered over the \"HMB-1\", the retractable roof was opened, and the capture device lifted into the massive \"moon pool\" of the ship, all within clear sight of people on the beach.\n\nAfter the conclusion of Project Azorian, the \"HMB-1\" was mothballed at the Todd Shipyard in San Francisco, California until November 1982. At that time, the United States Navy towed the huge barge to a Lockheed Martin facility in Redwood City, California, where it became a floating drydock for the construction and sea trials of the \"Sea Shadow\", an experimental stealth ship being tested by the Navy. Sea trials of the \"Sea Shadow\" continued until 1986.\n\nAfter several attempts to find the vessel a home at a museum, General Services Administration offered the \"HMB-1\" and \"Sea Shadow\" for sale as scrap. The vessels were bought by the Bay Ship & Yacht Company of Alameda, California for US$2.5 million in June 2012. Under the terms of the sale \"Sea Shadow\" had to be scrapped.\n\nThe \"HMB-1\" was refitted at Treasure Island for service as a covered drydock. This enables the shipyard to more easily control waste byproducts, maximize quality control for painting, and avoid loss of productivity due to bad weather.\n\nThe overhaul included new equipment to allow the dock to submerge and surface by pumping ballast water, rather than by the previous compressed air system. The barge is no longer capable of submerging completely. Like other floating drydocks, it takes on enough water to allow entry of a vessel, then pumps out ballast until the interior of the dock is above water.\n\nAs of August 2013, \"HMB-1\" was moored at the Bay Ship & Yacht Company facility on Main St. in Alameda, CA.In March 2015, the helipad was removed from atop the dry dock.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979580", "title": "List of U.S. states and territories by income", "text": "List of U.S. states and territories by income\n\nThis is a list of U.S. states, territories and the District of Columbia by income.\n\nData for the states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico is from the American Community Survey (Note that table does not reflect the margin of error in the values). ACS data is unavailable for American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. Virgin Islands; data for those territories is from 2010.\n\nMost data is from the 2010 to 2014 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates.\n\nSource for American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands and U.S. Virgin Islands: American FactFinder.\n\nWashington, D.C. and the inhabited U.S. territories (Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa) are not formally U.S. states, but their residents are U.S. citizens (except for American Samoa — people born in American Samoa are non-citizen U.S. nationals). Puerto Rico has a higher population than 21 U.S. states, while Washington, D.C. has a higher population than 2 U.S. states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979586", "title": "Missamma", "text": "Missamma\n\nMissamma () is a 1955 Indian Telugu-language romantic comedy film directed by L. V. Prasad. Produced by B. Nagi Reddy and Aluri Chakrapani Vijaya Vauhini Studios, its script was adapted by Chakrapani from two Bengali-language works: Rabindranath Maitra's play \"Manmoyee Girls School\" and Sharadindu Bandyopadhyay novel \"Detective\". The film stars N. T. Rama Rao, Savitri, Akkineni Nageswara Rao and Jamuna. \"Missamma\" tells the story of two unemployed people — M. T. Rao (Rama Rao) and Mary (Savitri) — who pose as a married couple to obtain employment in a high school founded by Gopalam (S. V. Ranga Rao), a zamindar. As Rao and Mary fall in love, Gopalam's nephew A. K. Raju (Nageswara Rao) learns that Mary is Gopalam's missing elder daughter Mahalakshmi; she is unaware of her true identity.\n\nProduction began in early 1954 with Bhanumathi Ramakrishna cast as the female lead, though she would eventually be replaced by Savitri. The film was simultaneously shot in Tamil as \"Missiamma\", with an altered cast. Principal photography ended that December; filming was delayed because of Bhanumathi's exit after filming a few reels, and the difficulty of managing two casts simultaneously. C. P. Jambulingam and Kalyanam edited the film; Marcus Bartley was the cinematographer, and S. Rajeswara Rao composed the music. \"Missamma\" focused on social issues such as unemployment, corruption, and freedom of worship.\n\n\"Missamma\" was released theatrically on 12 January 1955, two days before \"Missiamma\". Both versions were commercially successful, completing 100-day theatrical runs. The bilingual film brought recognition to its cast and studio, and words and phrases from \"Missamma\" became part of Telugu vernacular. The film was remade in Hindi as \"Miss Mary\" (1957), again directed by Prasad. In the same year, it was adapted into the Marathi film \"Jhakli Mooth\". Bapu, Mullapudi Venkata Ramana and Raavi Kondala Rao rewrote and adapted \"Missamma\" as \"Pelli Pustakam\" in 1991, with the premise of the original inverted: a married couple pretend to be unmarried to obtain employment.\n\nGopalam, the zamindar of Appapuram, is the principal of a high school named after his elder daughter Mahalakshmi. As a child, she went missing during a pilgrimage in Kakinada. Conditions at the school deteriorate due to mismanagement by Gopalam's nephew A. K. Raju, an amateur detective. This is exacerbated when Panthulu, an ayurvedic doctor, teaches the children. Gopalam decides to replace them with a male and a female graduate (preferably a married couple) capable of training his younger daughter Sita in singing besides teaching children at the school.\n\nMahalakshmi was found and adopted by a Madras-based Christian couple, Mr. and Mrs. Paul, who named her Mary. After graduation, Mary looks for a job to ease her family's financial situation. She accepts a loan from I. P. David, a loan shark who offers to waive the debt if she marries him. Mary and her former colleague M. T. Rao decide to pose as a married couple and apply for the jobs at Gopalam's school. Devaiah, a con artist and a beggar, befriends them and Rao asks him to accompany them to Appapuram. They find accommodation in a small house behind Gopalam's bungalow. Unaware of her true identity, Mary decides to call herself Mahalakshmi.\n\nGopalam and his wife Ammi, jovial by nature, treat the couple like their own children. Although Mary finds the Hindu customs strange, she says nothing to Gopalam and Ammi because she needs her job to repay David. She vents her frustration to Rao and Devaiah, who bear it patiently. Although Sita wanted Mary to teach her music, Mary's short temper diminishes her confidence and Rao takes over her music lessons.\n\nIn desperation, Mary decides to tell the truth to Gopalam and Ammi. To save their jobs, Rao makes up a far-fetched story that Mary is possessed by the soul of a Christian woman named after the mother of Jesus. Gopalam lies that he will marry Sita off to Rao. Raju, like Gopalam, is unaware of Rao's deception. In love with Sita, he wants to keep Rao away from her and turns to Mary for help in teaching music, which ends in disaster. At the end of their first month at the school, Rao and Mary receive their salaries and Mary repays her debt.\n\nRaju begins to suspect that Mary is the missing Mahalakshmi. After Ammi tells him that Mahalakshmi had a mole on her right foot, he and his assistant Govindan sneak into Mary's room at night but the plan backfires when they awaken her. After dreaming that Rao rescues her from David, she begins to fall in love with him.\n\nAt the end of the next month, Mary wants to return to Madras to be with the Pauls. At first Rao asks her to stay, but her reluctance makes him change his mind and he plans to lie later that Mary died after an illness. Gopalam and Ammi misunderstand, thinking that Mary is pregnant; they host a party, and Mary is confused. The night before she is due to leave, Rao pretends his leg is broken in an attempt to delay her departure. David arrives in the morning and tells Raju that Mary, a Christian, is posing as a Hindu for the job. Raju retrieves a necklace, stolen by David from Mary's house in Madras, which Mahalakshmi was wearing when she disappeared.\n\nDavid wants to marry Mary, but she declares her love for Rao. The Pauls arrive at Gopalam's house; Raju solves the mystery, and David is arrested. Although Mary learns that Gopalam and Ammi are her biological parents, she maintains her relationship with her foster family. Learning that Rao and Mary are not yet married, Gopalam announces their wedding and that of Sita and Raju.\n\n\nB. Nagi Reddy and Aluri Chakrapani signed L. V. Prasad to direct a bilingual film for Vijaya Vauhini Studios. The film's script, by Chakrapani, was based on two Bengali-language works: the play \"Manmoyee Girls School\" by Rabindranath Maitra, and the novel \"Detective\" by Sharadindu Bandyopadhyay. Chakrapani thought the plot of \"Manmoyee Girls School\", about two unemployed young people who pretend to be married to gain employment and fall in love, was too limited for a full-length film. He added the basic storyline of \"Detective\", in which an enthusiastic detective finds a missing woman and marries her. Prasad's relationship with Khan, a Muslim tailor near Kohinoor Studios in Bombay (now Mumbai), was the basis of the film's friendship between two men of different religions. The film was titled \"Missamma\" in Telugu and \"Missiamma\" in Tamil.\n\nPingali Nagendrarao and Thanjai N. Ramaiah Dass wrote the dialogue for the Telugu and Tamil versions, respectively. Marcus Bartley was signed as director of photography, and C. P. Jambulingam and Kalyanam edited the film. Madhavapeddi Gokhale and Kaladhar were its art directors. The film was processed at Vijaya Laboratory and recorded by Western Electric. M. S. Chalapathi Rao and Jagannadham were its executive producers.\n\n\"Missamma\"/\"Missiamma\" was the first bilingual film from Vijaya Vauhini Studios with different male actors in different versions, in contrast to \"Pathala Bhairavi\" (1951) and \"Pelli Chesi Choodu\" (1952) where the same actors were used in both versions. The producers cast N. T. Rama Rao as the male lead in the Telugu version and Gemini Ganesan (then known as R. Ganesh) replaced him in Tamil, while Bhanumathi Ramakrishna was initially cast as the female lead in both versions. S. V. Ranga Rao and Rushyendramani were cast as the female lead's biological parents, and Meenakshi and Doraswamy as her foster parents, in both versions.\n\nPrasad had completed four reels of film with Bhanumathi. She wrote to the producers, informing them that she would shoot only in the afternoon because Varalakshmi Vratam was being held at her home. The letter went astray and Chakrapani, a strict disciplinarian, chastised her for arriving late on set. When Bhanumathi refused to apologise, Chakrapani burnt the four reels in front of her and she quit the film. Although Nagi Reddy learned about the letter and tried to mediate, Chakrapani and Bhanumathi refused to reconcile. Chakrapani ordered Prasad to replace Bhanumathi with Savitri, who was initially cast as Sita. Jamuna was signed later for Sita's role, upon Savitri's recommendation.\n\nAfter the release of \"Devadasu\" (1953), Akkineni Nageswara Rao wanted to trade his tragic-romantic-hero image for a comic role in \"Missamma\", and was cast as the detective A. K. Raju. Nageswara Rao reportedly accepted the role for financial reasons, until he said that \"Missamma\" was the only film of his career that he lobbied to participate in. Relangi Venkata Ramaiah portrayed Devaiah, a con artist and beggar. Ramana Reddy was cast as the loan shark I. P. David. Valluri Balakrishna was cast as Govinda, the assistant of Raju. Although Chakrapani did not alter the character in adapting it from \"Detective\", the actors' body language was different.\n\nGummadi Venkateswara Rao was recommended to Chakrapani by Madhavapeddi Venkatramaiah. After auditioning other actors, Chakrapani asked Venkateswara Rao to make a cameo appearance as an interviewer. He received 5001,000 for a day's work, a generous salary for the time; actors in major film roles received 2,000 for 20 days of work. Chakrapani justified Venkateswara Rao's salary by saying that the actor's family included three children who had moved to Madras (now Chennai). For a photoshoot, Rama Rao lent Venkateswara Rao his coat and placed a tilaka on his forehead. Allu Ramalingaiah was cast as the comic teacher-cum-ayurvedic-doctor Panthulu.\n\nPrincipal photography began in early 1954, with both versions (with different casts) filmed simultaneously. The scene in which M. T. Rao and Mary lie to each other before boarding a bus to attend an interview after they were fired from their previous jobs was shot at the \"Chandamama\" office building, and the high-school set was built nearby. Photographs of Nagi Reddy's younger brother and cinematographer B. N. Konda Reddy's daughter (the latter as Gopalam's missing daughter) were used in the film. For the scene in which M. T. Rao jumps from a balcony, Gemini Ganesan doubled for Rama Rao.\n\nPasumarthi Krishnamurthy choreographed the film's songs. For \"Balanura Madana\" and \"Brindavanamadi Andaridi Govindudu Andarivadele\", Sita performed a Kuchipudi dance. \"Balanura Madana\" was a \"javali\" dance; Jamuna rehearsed both songs for about a month (since the actress was untrained in traditional dance), focusing on details during rehearsals. Filming was delayed because of Bhanumathi's exit and the difficulty of managing two casts simultaneously. Lasting for a year, it was wrapped up by the end of December 1954. The final length of the film was about . After they saw the final edited version, Nagi Reddy and Chakrapani gave Dodge automobiles to the film's principal cast.\n\nChakrapani described \"Missamma\" as a \"film for kids which should also be watched by adults\". In his 2015 book \"Madras Studios: Narrative, Genre, and Ideology in Tamil Cinema\", Swarnavel Eswaran Pillai wrote that the film interweaves romantic comedy and melodrama to tell Mary's love story, while Aditya Parankusam of \"The Hans India\" described it as a screwball comedy. \"Andhra Patrika\" noted in its review that Nageswara Rao's character had the shades of Sherlock Holmes, but was portrayed as an amateur detective until the end keeping in view the film's comic tone.\n\nIn addition to the protagonists, \"Missamma\" focuses on Mary's biological and foster parents. Four other charactersMary's creditor I. P. David, Rao's friend Devaiah, the schoolteacher-cum-doctor Panthulu and Raju's stoic assistant Govindainfluence the plot. Believing that comedy and suspense cannot be effectively sustained together, Chakrapani reveals Mary's true identity to the audience early in the film but the characters (including Mary) are unaware of her identity until the climax. Pa Dheenadhayalan of \"Dinamani\" described Mary as the antithesis of Savitri's role in \"Devadasu\". Chakrapani used the reception of Mary's modern dress and behaviour to depict the limitations of orthodox South Indian families. The lyrics of \"Adavari Matalaku Ardhale Verule\", as lip-synched by Rao's character, describe the complex behaviour of women with men.\n\nAccording to Pillai, \"Missamma\" shed light on the subtle, indirect way Telugu filmmakers dealt with the troublesome environment in Madras surrounding Tamil language and culture during the Visalandhra movement. Pillai wrote that the Krishna-Godavari River dispute between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh enabled viewers to grasp the metaphor of Pushkaram as signifying loss. The lyrics of \"Dharmam Chey\" addressed the plight of beggars, and \"Kavalante Isthale\" addressed society's changing views. \"Sitaram Sitaram\" was considered a satire of corrupt politicians, particularly the line \"\"Chandalantu Bhale Pracharam, Vandalu Velu tama palaharam\"\" (\"Fundraising becomes self-promotion, as hundreds and thousands are used for self-consumption\").\n\n\"Missamma\" also dealt with unemployment and freedom of religion. Gautaman Bhaskaran of \"Hindustan Times\" called it a \"powerful social document\" that spoke about the importance of religious tolerance with the help of its lead actors. Rama Rao's character, M. T. Rao, is pronounced \"Empty\" Rao (reflecting, according to Santhisri of \"Prajasakti\", the humiliation of the educated unemployed). Prasad's struggles during his early career influenced the examination of unemployment and being an educated \"misfit\". Pillai wrote that Chakrapani's \"poignant dialogues\" about the unemployment of the educated young people belied his image as a mainstream writer; in the scenes where Mary's Catholic faith is challenged, Chakrapani and Prasad \"underscore their imperative to highlight the differences\" and \"make a plea for peaceful co-existence\".\n\nThe soundtrack of \"Missamma\" was composed by S. Rajeswara Rao with lyrics by Pingali Nagendrarao. Audio mixing was supervised by A. Krishnan and Siva Ram. They were engineered by N. C. Sen Gupta and orchestrated by A. Krishnamurthy.\n\nWhen Nagi Reddy told Bhanumathi that P. Leela would sing for her character, Bhanumathi (a playback singer herself) refused to allow Leela to sing for her. After she left the film, Leela was signed to sing for Savitri. Unlike their previous films, Vijaya Vauhini Studios used A. M. Rajah instead of Ghantasala to sing for Rama Rao. Chakrapani chose P. Susheela to sing the two songs featuring Jamuna after he was impressed by her rendition of \"Anuragam Virisena\" in \"Kanna Talli\" (1953). Although she sang for \"Donga Ramudu\" (1955) first, \"Missamma\" was released earlier and was her breakthrough as a singer. \"Balanura Madana\" and its Tamil version, \"Ariya Paruvamada\", were Susheela's first songs for Rajeswara Rao. Despite singing \"Dharmam Chey\" and \"Sitaram Sitaram\", Relangi Venkata Ramaiah was not credited as a playback singer.\n\n\"Missamma\" soundtrack was released on HMV. It was commercially successful, with \"Adavari Matalaku Ardhale Verule\" becoming a classic love song. Rajeswara Rao's eldest son and musician Ramalingeswara Rao, in an interview to \"The Hindu\", remarked that his father was initially not happy with \"Missamma\" music as he only had to cater to Chakrapani's taste, who had his own view of mainstream cinema. He added that Rajeswara Rao was afraid of failure and rejection from filmmakers, and wanted to leave for Vizianagaram, until the soundtrack's success happened.\n\n\"Missamma\" was released on 12 January 1955 and \"Missiamma\" two days later, for Pongal. Both versions were commercially successful, completing 100-day theatrical runs.\n\n\"Missamma\" received positive reviews from critics when it was released. For \"Swatantra\" magazine, Govindarama (Gora) Sastry praised the film's universal theme and clean, subtle comedy. \"Andhra Patrika\", in its review dated 26 January 1955, noted that the film had strange characterisations which were portrayed by the film's cast competently. The reviewer also praised Chakrapani for this ability to generate humour from grave themes like unemployment and religion. In its February 1955 edition, \"Kinima\" magazine called \"Missamma\" a film made for everyone, praising Prasad's direction and the performances of the cast. The reviewer praised Chakrapani's sarcastic writing in particular, saying that in creating scenarios and characters, and making them converse, Chakrapani's writing drives the film wildly and amusingly, like he did in \"Pelli Chesi Choodu\".\n\nMadhuri Dasagrandhi, writing for \"Telangana Today\" in February 2018, felt that Savitri's character was not properly developed. She wrote that Mary was shown to be a Christian practising the Hindu saint Tyagaraja songs in the beginning, and was later portrayed as someone ignorant of Hindu mythology.\n\nA. V. Meiyappan of AVM Productions approached Nagi Reddy for the film's Hindi remake rights. Reddy insisted that Meiyappan retain Prasad, the director's Bollywood debut. Jamuna reprised her role, while singer Kishore Kumar reprised the role originally played by Nageswara Rao. The Hindi version, \"Miss Mary\", was released in 1957 and was one of the year's highest-grossing films. Composer Hemanta Mukherjee reused the melody of \"Brindavanamadi Andaridi Govindudu Andarivadele\" from the original as \"Brindavan Ka Krishan Kanhaiya\". Anant Mane 1957 Marathi-language film, \"Jhakli Mooth\", was also based on \"Missamma\".\n\nThe film's script was re-written by Mullapudi Venkata Ramana and Raavi Kondala Rao for \"Pelli Pustakam\" (1991), produced by Ramana and directed by Bapu. The film inverts the plot of \"Missamma\"; a married couple pretend to be unmarried to obtain employment. A 70-minute long Telugu-language Off-Off-Broadway version of \"Missamma\", written by Athaluri Vijayalakshmi and directed by Rajeswari Udayagiri, was staged on 16, 17, and 18 September 2016 at Johnson and Community theatres in New York City.\n\n\"Missamma\" was a popular 1950s Telugu film featuring Ramana Reddy and Relangi Venkata Ramaiah, considered the Laurel and Hardy of Telugu cinema at the time. According to film historian Film News Anandan, \"Missamma\" success inspired filmmakers to cast different actors for different versions of their films. The phrase \"Adavari Matalaku Arthale Verule\" became a Telugu idiom and the word \"Thailam\", used by Devaiah in the film, became synonymous with \"cash\". The film was a breakthrough in the careers of Savitri and Jamuna.\n\nP. Leela sang songs from \"Missamma\" in many concerts to a warm response. \"Njaan Ariyathen\", from the Malayalam-language film \"Jailppulli\" (1957), is loosely based on \"Brindavanamadi Andaridi Govindudu Andarivadele\". Prasad and Chakrapani later collaborated on \"Appu Chesi Pappu Koodu\" (1959), an above-average grosser before its profitable re-release. In their 2013 book, \"Routledge Handbook of Indian Cinemas\", K. Moti Gokulsing and Wimal Dissanayake wrote that \"Appu Chesi Pappu Koodu\", \"Missamma\", \"Gundamma Katha\" (1962) and \"Ramudu Bheemudu\" (1964) \"represented the scope comedy had in the 1950s and '60s.\" The storyline of \"Marunnattil Oru Malayali\" (1971) was noted for its similarity to \"Missamma\", since its female lead (a Christian) acts like a Brahmin girl. According to B. Vijayakumar of \"The Hindu\", this prompted Chakrapani to remake the film in Telugu as \"Sri Rajeswari Vilas Coffee Club\" in 1976.\n\n\"Adavari Matalaku Arthale Verule\" was remixed by Mani Sharma without altering its melody and lyrics for the Telugu-language film, \"Kushi\" (2001). It was sung by Korivi Muralidhar, who was known as \"Kushi\" Murali after the remixed version's success. Although Neelakanta entitled his 2003 comedy film \"Missamma\", it had no other similarity to the original. The 2010 independent Telugu film \"Missamma NRI\" was a variation on \"Missamma\", focusing on two immigrants who enter into a sham marriage. In September 2006, M. L. Narasimham listed \"Missamma\" with \"Shavukaru\" (1950), \"Samsaram\" (1950), \"Pelli Chesi Choodu\", \"Manohara\" (1954) and \"Appu Chesi Pappu Koodu\" as acclaimed films by the director after the release of \"Mana Desam\" (1949) and his association with Vijaya Vauhini Studios.\n\nHyderabad-based Goldstone Technologies acquired the film-negative rights of 14 Telugu films produced by Vijaya Vauhini Studios in late November 2007, including \"Mayabazar\" (1957) and \"Missamma\", to release digitally re-mastered versions in colour. Although the digitally remastered and colourised version of \"Mayabazar\" released in January 2010 was commercially successful, Goldstone decided not to remaster the remaining 14 films and said that most of the producers who sold the film-negative rights to TV channels lost control of them. According to Goldstone, ownership and copyright issues were an impediment. However, the colourised version of \"Brindavanamadi Andaridi Govindudu Andarivadele\" was used in the opening credits of \"Brindavanam\" (2010).\n\nCommemorating the centenary of Indian cinema, \"The Hindu\" listed \"Missamma\", \"Pathala Bhairavi\", \"Mayabazar\", \"Gundamma Katha\", \"Maduve Madi Nodu\" (1965), \"Ram Aur Shyam\" (1967), \"Julie\" (1975) and \"Shriman Shrimati\" (1982) as iconic films produced by Nagi Reddy. Hussain Sha Kiran, who co-wrote Sukumar \"Nannaku Prematho\" (2016), entitled his directorial debut \"Meeku Meere Maaku Meme\" after a scene in \"Missamma\" in which Mary tries to teach Raju music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979589", "title": "Gregor Punchatz", "text": "Gregor Punchatz\n\nGregor Punchatz (born 1967) is an artist hired by id Software to create sculptures for the Arch-Vile, Mancubus, Revenant and Spider Mastermind monsters for the \"Doom\" video game series. He built these models using steel armatures and foam latex.\n\nBefore working on the \"Doom\" models he did similar modelling work for a number of Hollywood movies, including \"\", \"RoboCop\", and \"RoboCop 2\". He was the animation director for \"\".\n\nGregor is the son of Don Ivan Punchatz, who created the \"Doom\" package art and logo. He lives in Dallas, Texas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979603", "title": "Seal of Louisiana", "text": "Seal of Louisiana\n\nThe Seal of Louisiana is the official government emblem of the State of Louisiana. Originally devised in 1812, the latest version was enacted in 2006.\n\nFollowing the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, the area that would later comprise the State of Louisiana was established as the Territory of Orleans. President Thomas Jefferson appointed William C. C. Claiborne as governor and he was authorized by the territory’s legislative council to design an official government seal. He produced a seal depicting an eagle holding a laurel wreath with fifteen stars to represent the states of the Union. When Louisiana became a state in 1812, the seal was changed to a pelican on its nest, plucking at its breast to draw blood to feed its young, a device known as the \"pelican in her piety\". Why the seal was changed from an eagle to a pelican is unknown, but it might have to honor the state’s Catholic heritage. Claiborne had married into a Catholic Louisiana family and had helped to incorporate Catholics into the political mainstream, during a time of intense anti-Catholicism elsewhere in the US. \n\nPrior to the Civil War, the \"pelican in her piety\" surrounded by the motto \"Justice, Union and Confidence\" was commonly used as the state's seal, after the Civil War, Union supplanted Justice as the ideal to uphold and the motto was changed to \"Union, Justice and Confidence\". The Great Seal of the State of Louisiana was adopted as the official state seal of Louisiana in 1902. The seal consists of a heraldic charge of the \"pelican in her piety\", representing a brown pelican (the official state bird) wounding her breast to feed her young from her own blood. This symbol, emblematic of Christian charity, is also found on the Louisiana state flag. The Louisiana state motto \"Union, Justice, Confidence\" surrounds the birds on the state seal. An outer ring further identifies it with the words \"State of Louisiana\".\n\nDuring the 19th century it was traditional in Louisiana flags and the state seal for the \"pelican in her piety\" to have three drops of blood on her chest. However, in later years the tradition (on both the state flag and seal) had been haphazardly followed, which was noticed by an eighth-grader at Vanderbilt Catholic High School in Houma who brought this to the attention of his state legislator. The issue was resolved in April 2006, when the Louisiana State Legislature passed a bill (House Bill 833/Act 92) which requires three drops of blood to be depicted on the pelican used in both the state's flag and seal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979611", "title": "Toby Longworth", "text": "Toby Longworth\n\nToby Longworth is a British actor who has appeared on film, radio and television. He is originally from Somerset, where he attended King Edward's School, Bath. He has worked most often as a voice actor, however, notably in several high-profile science-fiction projects, acclaimed audiobooks and video games.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1989 Longworth was part of a double-act, The Rubber Bishops with Bill Bailey, a former school friend from Bath. Toby left in 1989 to join the RSC. He was later a regular performer on the radio comedy \"Week Ending\".\n\nLongworth has appeared in many TV series including \"The Legacy of Reginald Perrin\", \"Nathan Barley\", \"Nighty Night\", \"The IT Crowd\" and \"Extras\". Most recently he has appeared in \"The Stand Up Sketch Show\" (2019) and \"Breeders\" (2020).\n\nLongworth provided the voices of Lott Dod and Gragra in \"\". He can also be heard in \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Tertiary to Quintessential Phases\" and \"Hexagonal Phase\", as Wowbagger and Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz.\n\nHe also appeared in some of the most iconic TV adverts of the 1990s - McDonalds ('Where Do Babies Come From'), Ikea ('Stop Being So English') and the series of ads for Ambrosia\n\nLongworth is a sought after voice actor and has recorded over 200 audiobooks and audiodramas, for authors such as Iain Banks, Jeff Noon and Peter F. Hamilton.\n\nFor Big Finish Productions including their Doctor Who spin-off range and taking the lead role as Judge Dredd in their line of audio plays based upon the 2000 AD series, as well as the supporting role of Wulf Sternhammer in the Strontium Dog series.\nIn Judge Dredd: Solo he provided the voices for all 34 roles, occasionally with the aid of vocal effects and multi-track recording.\n\nHe has given voice to over 120 of Games Workshop's Black Library audiobooks/audiodrama: Heart of Rage, Thunder from Fenris as well as the Horus Heresy dramas, Raven's Flight, Garro: Oath of Moment and Garro: Legion of One. He has also read for the audiobook versions of the Eisenhorn and Ravenor-trilogies.\n\nHe has narrated three documentaries for the BBC Worldwide Doctor Who DVD range, namely Paris in the Springtime on the 2005 DVD release of City of Death, A Matter of Time on the 2007 DVD box set of The Key to Time and Cheques, Lies and Videotape on the 2010 DVD release of Revenge of the Cybermen.\n\nIn 2003 Longworth was the voice of Judge Dredd in the video game Judge Dredd: Dredd vs Death. He has also voiced a number of the Broken Sword series of games, as well as Warhammer and Leisure Suit Larry. \n\nIn 2013 Toby voiced the protagonist and main character Oswald Mandus in the videogame .\n\n2014 he read and acted for the audio book version of the videogame novel .\n\nHis most recent recording (2019) was for Irony Curtain: From Matryoshka with Love and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979616", "title": "Arrondissements of the Manche department", "text": "Arrondissements of the Manche department\n\nThe 4 arrondissements of the Manche department are:\n\nIn 1800 the arrondissements of Saint-Lô, Avranches, Coutances, Mortain and Valognes were established. The arrondissement of Cherbourg was created in 1811. The arrondissements of Mortain and Valognes were disbanded in 1926.\n\nThe borders of the arrondissements of Manche were modified in January 2017:\n"}
{"id": "1979619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979619", "title": "Pennsylvania State Senate", "text": "Pennsylvania State Senate\n\nThe Pennsylvania State Senate is the upper house of the Pennsylvania General Assembly, the Pennsylvania state legislature. The State Senate meets in the State Capitol building in Harrisburg. Senators are elected for four year terms, staggered every two years such that half of the seats are contested at each election. Even numbered seats and odd numbered seats are contested in separate election years. The President Pro Tempore of the Senate becomes the Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania in the event of the sitting Lieutenant Governor's removal, resignation or death. In this case the President Pro Tempore and Lieutenant Governor would be the same person. The Pennsylvania Senate has been meeting since 1791.\n\nThe President of the Senate is the Lieutenant Governor, who has no vote except in the event of an otherwise tie vote.\n\nPresident of the Senate: John Fetterman (D)\nPresident Pro Tem of the Senate: Joe Scarnati (R)\n\nThe Senate is made up of 50 members who are elected by district. In 2012, a State Senate district had an average population of 254,047 residents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979623", "title": "Saint Anselm College", "text": "Saint Anselm College\n\nSaint Anselm College is a Benedictine, liberal arts college in Goffstown, New Hampshire. Founded in 1889, it is the third-oldest Catholic college in New England. Named for Saint Anselm of Canterbury (Archbishop of Canterbury from 1093 to 1109), the college continues to have a fully functioning and independent Benedictine abbey attached to it, Saint Anselm Abbey. As of 2017, its enrollment was approximately 2,000.\nAccording to the college, the student body is selected not only for their academic abilities but also for their personal character. The college's academic curriculum requires several philosophy and theology courses as well as the \"Conversatio\" program.\n\nSince the 1950s, the college has played an important role in the \"first in the nation\" New Hampshire primary, and has served as the national stage for many future presidents, candidates, and supporters. Presidents John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon each delivered important policy speeches there. The college has also been home to several national presidential debates which have attracted extensive media attention.\n\nThe first bishop of Manchester, Denis Mary Bradley, invited the Benedictine monks of St. Mary's Abbey in Newark, New Jersey, to form a college and preparatory school in his diocese. The monks that came to Manchester from Saint Mary's were primarily of German descent. This is due to the fact that Manchester was heavily populated with French Canadian and Irish immigrant mill workers, and Bradley was unable to find a suitable religious community that would not stir up ethnic tensions. The German monks accepted, and founded the third Catholic college in New England. On August 1, 1889, the New Hampshire legislature approved the incorporation of the Order of Saint Benedict of New Hampshire “for religious and charitable purposes, for the education of youth, for establishing churches and conducting services therein.” This historic date marked the founding of Saint Anselm College. A six-year curriculum in philosophy and theology was developed. In 1892, as Alumni Hall neared completion, a fire destroyed the college on a cold winter night in February. The fire was most likely caused from an ember from the heating stove's gate as it was not closed properly. Thankfully, no one was seriously hurt because of the fire. The monks were forced to rebuild the college, spending considerably less money on the construction, as they had received only $55,000 from the Insurance Commissioner of the State of New Hampshire. To save money, many bricks were salvaged from the previous structure and pieces of granite were cut from large granite rocks still visible on the current quad. In 1893, the current building that remains the center of campus was completed; the fire delayed the first academic semester by one year. The monks rebuilt the college, and on October 11, 1893 the college was officially rededicated. To avoid the possibility of another fire, a power house, which today serves as the college print shop, was constructed separately from the building. Two years later, in 1895, the New Hampshire legislature granted Saint Anselm College the right to bestow standard academic degrees upon its graduates. In 1912, the bell tower and ivy were added to the building; in 1923, the college's second chapel (the first being located on the second floor at the present-day business office) was constructed as a connecting wing. The second chapel serves today as the Alva deMars Megan Chapel Arts Center.\n\nThe Abbey Shield was designed by Pierre de Chaignon la Rose of Harvard University. It incorporates the personal coat of Anselm of Canterbury and the first seal of the state of New Hampshire. In 1927, by a monastic vote, the shield design was incorporated as the official shield of Saint Anselm Abbey and the college. The drops in each quadrant represent the three drops of blood on Anselm's coat of arms, and the sheaf of five arrows is taken from the first shield of the State of New Hampshire, representing the five original counties of the state. Hence, the Abbey Shield has been interpreted as Saint Anselm of New Hampshire.\n\nOne goal of the early college was to be a self-sufficient institution. The college had a farm that was over in size, complete with chickens, pigs and cows. The farm also included a full vegetable garden which extended from the lawn of Alumni Hall to the current parking lot located between Joan of Arc Hall and Davison Hall. Due to the hard work of the monks and several lay members from the local community, the college was agriculturally independent of the local community. Bonaventure Ostendarp founded the Studio of Christian Art in 1893 in order to sell paintings to local Catholic churches throughout the region. The current Raphael House of the Courts dorms was the original art studio for the monks, built in 1895.\n\nThe Benedictines who established Saint Anselm founded a preparatory school, as well. The preparatory school was a prestigious boarding school for elite men from around New England. In 1935, the monks decided to close the preparatory school to save money for the college's expansion. A notable alum of Saint Anselm Preparatory was Connecticut Senator Thomas J. Dodd.\n\nIn 1942, Saint Anselm became one of the institutions selected by the War Department for training of Army Aviation cadets. Thousands of young men were sent to the college to receive training and education before entering World War II. Cadets trained on large open fields which were located directly behind the present-day Coffee Shop. The U.S. government paid the college for training the cadets, and after the war, the college acquired two prefabricated government buildings which have been transformed into the modern-day coffee shop and bookstore. During World War II, several members of the monastic community served as Army chaplains; their names are inscribed on a monument in front of Alumni Hall dedicated to all graduates who have served in the armed forces. Also inscribed on the monument is the Latin and English versions of the Benedictine community's song. For more information see Saint Anselm Abbey Community Song.\n\nSaint Anselm came out of the tumultuous decade of the 1960s with no major disturbances or riots on campus despite various bomb threats called into campus, often from parties outside the college. Fr. Placidus Riley, OSB successfully led the college through these challenging times. Despite the backlash against the U.S. military on college campuses nationwide, the presence of a National Guard armory did not result in any major problems. However, in May 1970, final exams for that year were made optional as students showed support for the students of Kent State after the massacre of several unarmed college students protesting the Vietnam War. Students, faculty and members of the monastic community held prayer services and rallies throughout campus after the shootings.\n\nThe Institute of Saint Anselm Studies was founded in 2000, and the New Hampshire Institute of Politics was founded in 2001. In 2009, the college lost a notable trustee, Dominic DiMaggio, an All-Star center fielder for Boston Red Sox who served on the college's Board of Trustees from 1978 to 2009.\n\nIn 2013, Steven DiSalvo, the former president of Marian University, was named the 10th president of Saint Anselm. DiSalvo replaced Jonathan DeFelice after 24 years of service to the college. Father DeFelice was the longest serving college president in the state of New Hampshire. In 2015, DiSalvo announced that Saint Anselm had applied to enter the exploratory phase of NCAA Division III membership for all athletic programs.\n\nThe monks of Saint Anselm Abbey had the primary responsibility of the day-to-day operation of the college until 2009 when it handed many of those responsibilities to a 20-member board of trustees. A decade later, the monks sued the board and accused them of making changes to the college's bylaws that threatened the institution's Catholic identity.\n\nSaint Anselm's campus has been noted as one of the most beautiful college campuses in the United States, exemplified by the \"Princeton Review's\" number #17 \"Most Beautiful Campus\" ranking in 2011. The campus is situated in Goffstown, New Hampshire, with a portion of the athletic fields occupying the adjoining town of Bedford. The mailing address for students and faculty is Manchester, New Hampshire. There are a total of 60 buildings on campus, which spans over . Since 1977, over 40 buildings have been built. The oldest building on campus is Alumni Hall, which was originally constructed in 1891, and rebuilt in 1893 after a fire; at that time, the building was the entire original school.\n\nAlumni Hall was constructed by the Benedictine monks and local contractors from 1891 through the winter of 1892; the building was designed by Patrick W. Ford, an Irish-American architect from Boston. Nearing completion in February 1892, all that remained was for workers to continue to plaster the interior walls; sadly, a fire which was most likely caused by a heating stove's gate not closed completely, sparked an ember and destroyed the entire structure. Thankfully, no one was seriously hurt because of the fire. The monks were forced to rebuild the college, spending considerably less money on the construction, as they had only received $55,000 from the Insurance Commissioner of the State of New Hampshire. In an effort to save money, many bricks were salvaged from the previous structure and pieces of granite were cut from large granite rocks still visible on the current quad. In 1893, the current building that remains the center of campus was completed; the fire delayed the first academic semester by one year. To avoid the possibility of another fire, a power house was constructed separately from the building. Farmland complete with livestock, beanpoles and tomato plants lined the present-day quad and adjacent fields, as the monks were completely self-sufficient. In 1912, the bell tower (the inside is pictured to the right) and ivy were added to the building; in 1923, the college's second chapel (the first being located on the second floor at the present-day business office) was constructed as a connecting wing. Today this second chapel is the college's Chapel Arts Center, which hosts art exhibits and other cultural events. It still boasts ornate stained glass windows and painted ceilings.\n\nToday, Alumni Hall houses faculty offices, administrative offices, the Chapel Arts Center, a women's residence hall named \"Alumni Streets\", or \"Streets\" for short, and several \"smart classrooms\". Beneath the Chapel Arts Center is a photography lab, darkroom, and several faculty and student publication offices. Beneath \"Streets\" and the bell tower are the offices of the Dean of Students, the Registrar's Office, and the Office of Residential Life. Until 1919, the college consisted solely of Alumni Hall. Before this expansion, the monks lived on the second floor and students lived on the third and fourth floors. The first floor and basement had classrooms, a library and cafeteria.\n\nThe Abbey Church is the liturgical center of the college. It is frequently cited as the \"heart of campus.\" The upper church allows the college community to join with the monastic community for the daily celebration of the Eucharist and the Liturgy of the Hours. The lower church permits smaller groups of the community to assemble for worship and houses the Lady Chapel, the Saint Basil Byzantine Chapel, several other side altars, the former offices of Campus Ministry (relocated to the Jean Student Center), and meeting rooms. The Lower Church is the location of the weekly 9 p.m. Mass held on Wednesday nights. The original monastery was Alumni Hall. An interim monastery existed between 1919 and 1955 in what is now Joseph Hall, adjacent to Alumni Hall. The current monastery, built in 1955, is staffed with only a cook, as the monks perform all other tasks such as cleaning, maintenance and upkeep. Having four floors, including a basement, the monastery can house up to one hundred people, both monks and guests on retreat; as of 2019 approximately 30 rooms were filled. Elected in 2012, Abbot Mark Cooper, OSB, has served as the fifth Abbot of Saint Anselm Abbey and the \"ex officio\" Chancellor of the College. Male students frequently dine in the monastery as guests; they are required to comply with the Benedictine rule of silence while eating, which allows for contemplation and prayer. The monastery has a refectory, a smaller guest refectory, a smaller chapel, two welcoming rooms near the main entrance and is complete with elevator access to all four floors. The monastery also serves as the mother house for the Woodside Priory School and the abbot serves as the spiritual father for the monks who serve there. Saint Anselm Abbey is a member of the American-Cassinese Congregation of the Benedictine Confederation. Saint Anselm Abbey was founded from Saint Mary's Abbey in Newark, New Jersey.\n\nThe Saint Anselm College Geisel Library has three floors and over of space housing books, resources and electronic equipment. The library is complete with several reference desks, over 30 computers, and the Institute of Saint Anselm Studies. On the second floor, there are three enclosed study areas; two are group study rooms that are available for student use, and the third is named the Creaghe Room, a locked, faculty-only study.\n\nGeisel Library's collection of over 200,000 books originated in a sack of books brought by Hugo Paff from Saint Mary's Abbey in Newark, New Jersey; these books are still in the library and date back to the mid- to late-19th century. The college's first library, shaped around this initial collection, was situated on the first floor of Alumni Hall. During the early years of the college, Benedictines served as librarians on an ad hoc basis, but by 1929, Saint Anselm had its first official librarian, Cuthbert Redmond. New books were purchased under Edwin Davitt. By 1937, Saint Anselm could boast 8,000 books in several mini-libraries, as well as the main repository, by this time located on the second floor.\n\nThe college performed a self-study in 1950 that revealed the need for a larger library. Joseph Geisel, a prominent Manchester businessman, contributed $500,000 in stock, and in 1959 the college broke ground on Geisel Library; the library opened its doors in the fall of 1960. The library featured reading rooms, study areas, a reference center, a music room, seating for 385 students, and space for 100,000 volumes. Two expansions, one in 1973 and the final in 1992, each increased the library's area by . In 2012, the college updated several areas of the library; the computer work stations were moved, and new desks, tables, lamps, paint, couches and chairs, as well as the addition of two cutting-edge \"\"media:scape\"\" tables, which are designed to facilitate online group work, were added. In addition, Internet Technology (IT) has moved its Help Desk to the library.\n\nThe Dana Center for the Humanities is the premier performing arts center on the campus of Saint Anselm College. The center was home to the nationally recognized humanities program, \"Portraits of Human Greatness\", and is also the headquarters for the student theater group, the Anselmian Abbey Players. The Anselmian Abbey Players have been a center of theater, culture and music on campus for over 60 years. This tradition began in the fall of 1949 with a production of \"Career Angel\". Since then, this student-run organization has enjoyed a long record of excellence. The Abbey Players offer students the opportunity to develop their artistic talents both on and off the stage, stressing the importance of self-esteem, teamwork, and leadership. The Dana Center also hosts many touring companies throughout the year. These performances include classical theater, contemporary dance, concerts, and films. These performances attract visitors from throughout the region. On stage, international and domestic performers stage both traditional and modern programs ranging from contemporary Indian dance to Piedmont blues to Russian classical music.\n\nThe Dana Center has continued to be the site of the presidential debates since 2000. In 2009, the Saint Anselm College Choir earned the 8th most searched college choirs under Google search.\n\n34 buildings on campus are devoted to student housing, with approximately 95 percent of the student body living on campus. The majority of freshman males live in Dominic Hall, while most freshman females reside in either Joan of Arc Hall (commonly referred to as JOA) or Baroody Hall. Dominic Hall is a freshman dorm, located adjacent to the Coffee Shop and in close proximity to Alumni Hall and Bradley House. Dominic Hall houses over 205 students, offering mostly doubles, very few singles and several \"quads\", or four-person rooms. Dominic is affectionately nicknamed \"Dirty Dom\"; however, new lights, windows, doors and ceiling tiles have been installed and the custodial staff cleans the hallways and communal bathrooms five days a week. Joan of Arc is a female freshman residence hall where double-type rooms predominate. However, freshmen may be placed in any residence hall on campus. The Lowers are located near the NHIOP at the bottom of Saint Anselm Drive; these apartments were built in the mid-1990s and have a kitchen, one and a half bathrooms, a family room and bedrooms. A similar setup is available in Uppers; however, these dorms are slightly newer and are the favorite of seniors because they are located closer to central campus. Traditionally, residence halls have been single sex, though this began to change in the 2007–2008 academic year, when Brady Hall had female residents on its third floor while the bottom two floors were male. Hilary, Bertrand and Brady Halls are some of the largest on campus, as they can house over 120 students each. Holy Cross Hall, formerly named Building M has mostly singles and very few doubles; these rooms connect to a central hallway, two bathrooms and a large common room to form a \"Pod\".\n\nThe campus underwent a substantial facelift in 2009, as new faculty offices and instructional spaces were created within the newly renovated Saint Joan of Arc Convent, which is now known as Joseph Hall. Joseph Hall is named after the third Abbot of Saint Anselm Abbey and former Bishop of Portland, Maine, Bishop Joseph John Gerry. At an estimated cost of $2.5 million, Joseph Hall has a Bloomberg trading room, where business students learn to use a Bloomberg terminal for real-time tracking of financial markets. Constructed in 1919, Joseph Hall served as the first monastery outside of Alumni Hall for over 100 Benedictine monks. In 1955, when the current abbey was built, the Sisters of Saint Joan of Arc, from Quebec, Canada moved in from Bradley House (across campus), and the building was renamed the \"Saint Joan of Arc Convent.\" Their departure in 2008 ended over 50 years of service to the college, as the sisters were cooks, seamstresses and performed other domestic services for the monastic community.\n\nThe college opened a $2 million, fitness center in February 2009. The addition to Carr is a three-story glass center, with floor to ceiling windows overlooking the baseball and football fields, constructed on the south side of the building. The additions brought 37 cardiovascular machines, 39 strength pieces and 7,000 pounds of weights. Connecting to the addition are three indoor basketball/tennis courts equipped with scoreboards and a sound system. The basement of Carr has the varsity gym, football locker room, general locker rooms and administrative offices for the athletic department. In 2012, the college spent 1.3 million dollars by installing a synthetic turf field at Grappone Stadium, and added lights for nighttime practice.\n\nConstruction began on \"New Hall\" in the summer of 2013. The project was expected to cost over $9.5 million and is situated near the lower entrance of campus in back of Brady Hall. The residence hall, known as the \"Living Learning Commons\" (LLC), is able to hold 150 students, and has expanded the residential options for undergraduates and should eliminate the need for triple occupancy rooms. The residence hall's common spaces are air-conditioned, while the individual rooms are not. LLC also features student-friendly amenities such as a recycling room, bike storage, general storage space for students, and an elevator. Additionally, over is dedicated to common space, including modern kitchenettes, classroom space, and individual study areas on each floor.\n\nIn 2012, a new parking lot was constructed on college-owned land between Sullivan Arena and privately owned Clarke Farm, located in Bedford. This parking lot has replaced the former Joan of Arc parking lot, which was located between the Dana Center, Davison Dining Hall, and the Joan of Arc residence hall (JOA). The former parking lot was renovated, and the space is now occupied by a grassy quadrangle. A grotto was also built between JOA and Gadbois Hall and was dedicated in late 2014, with the placement of a religious statue. The quadrangle, referred to as the \"JOA Quad\" or the \"Campus Green,\" has lights and walkways and is lined with trees; the centerpiece is a brick patio with a large, granite seal of the college.\n\nSaint Anselm College RECYCLES was a greening movement which started on campus in 2009. Up to that time, recycling was limited on campus, and students had to resort to their own methods of recycling containers and other recyclables in dorms. An impromptu recycling program—Saint Anselm College RECYCLES—was started through the Knights of Columbus and the Club Soccer organization that served the Uppers section of campus, every Saturday, averaging around 650 pounds of material per week. In the 2010 spring semester, this plan funded by Club Soccer and the Knights of Columbus provided over fifty recycle bins, purchased from the city of Providence, Rhode Island. In the spring of 2010, the New Hampshire Institute of Politics installed seven recycling bins throughout its facilities. Inspired by this student-led activity, the college's physical plant purchased 120 bins for all of the apartments in the Uppers, Lowers and Falvey and Collins Houses. In the fall of 2010, Physical Plant installed five Waste Management recycling dumpsters throughout campus. Campus-wide recycling is planned by 2013.\n\nOn May 22, 2010, Saint Anselm had its first \"Green Graduation\". A proposal submitted by the three student founders of Saint Anselm College RECYCLES, Eric Ricci, Ryan McCarty, and Kevin McIntyre was accepted by the executive vice president of the college, Suzanne Mellon. Programs were printed on recycled paper, recycling containers were available for usage on the quad, plastic cups replaced bottled water, and water canisters replaced the large amounts of plastic required in previous years.\n\nAccording to the college website, Saint Anselm \"seeks to help you develop into a precise and critical thinker, articulate and clear communicator, and an active and compassionate citizen.\" Saint Anselm used to require the completion of a nationally recognized two-year Humanities program. The \"Portraits of Human Greatness\" program began freshman year and would end at the completion of a student's sophomore year. Seeking to develop a well-rounded student, the College replaced the program with the \"Conversatio\" lecture series. However, this has caused significant outcry from some alumni, charging that this \"new humanities program\" is too watered down. After the addition of \"Conversatio\" in 2014, the number of classes taken by full-time students dropped from 5 classes to 4 classes per semester, with the credit hours of each class increasing. By studying the humanities, comprising art, science, literature, philosophy, and theology, faculty and students attempt to understand profound issues, specifically focusing on the human condition. In addition, three philosophy and three theology courses are required in order for a student to graduate. Two out of the three required courses for philosophy are \"Nature and the Human Person\", which details the philosophy and psyche of the human being; \"Ethics\", which discusses issues ranging from medical to sexual ethics; and an elective of the student's choosing. One of the required theology courses is \"Biblical Theology\", which is an overview of the Old and New Testaments of the Bible.\n\nWhile the college does not have an established \"Honor Code\", there is a \"faith based honor code\", which requires students to remain faithful to the college's mission, faith and identity.\n\nSaint Anselm College has resisted what the college sees as the grade inflation trend at many of America's college's and universities. At Saint Anselm, the top 25 percent of the class has a 3.1 grade point average (GPA); the median grade at the college is around a 2.5 GPA. While the Dean's List at most schools begin at a 3.5 GPA, Saint Anselm awards students with the honor at a 3.1 GPA. According to a 2006 Fox News article, former Dean of the college Fr. Peter Guerin, OSB is quoted as saying that today's \"parents may view universities as a consumer market in which they're in a way paying for the diploma. ... Students who attend class on a regular basis and are paying tuition feel that they should be receiving that A, even if they have not deserved it.\" Some professors and administrators believe that inflating grades makes it harder for students to realize their academic strengths and weaknesses and may encourage students to take classes based on grade expectations. The practice also makes it harder for parents and students to determine whether or not the grade was earned. A curriculum committee was set up in 1980 to meet with the academic dean and review the grading policies on a monthly basis. The previous president of the college, Fr. Jonathan DeFelice, is quoted as saying, \"I cannot speak for everyone, but if I'm headed for the operating room, I will take the surgeon who earned his or her 'A' the honest way\".\n\nThe majority of the applicant pool is from the New England area. The selection process is composed of a comprehensive review of the applicant's high school transcript to determine whether he or she has taken the most challenging courses, personal recommendations from teachers and guidance counselor, an essay, and extracurricular involvement. As of 2010, SAT/ACT scores are optional for applicants. The acceptance rate is 67 percent, and labeled \"selective\" by US News and World Report. The college's applicant pool is relatively small, around 3,500 students, and the retention rate of Saint Anselm students from freshman to sophomore year is 76 percent. The average accepted high school GPA is a 3.2 on a scale of 4.\n\nIn 2015, Saint Anselm was recognized by \"Time\" magazine as one of the \"50 Best Liberal Arts Colleges\" in the nation. St. Anselm was ranked #18 among liberal arts colleges in the country for the best return on investment (ROI) according to \"Payscale.com\". In the same vein, the College was named #171 by The Economist's ranking of over 1,000 colleges, for best economic value. \"U.S. News and World Report's\" 2016 college rankings ranked Saint Anselm #112 in the nation.\n\nIn 2011, \"Forbes\" magazine ranked Saint Anselm as the 85th best college in the United States as well as 76th for private college and 40th in the Northeast. Recently, Saint Anselm was listed #100 among national liberal arts institutions that \"Kiplinger's\" judged as offering the best value. The Princeton Review's \"Best 373 Colleges\" publication has described Saint Anselm as \"one of the country's best institutions for undergraduate education.\" The Princeton Review describes the college as academically challenging, but rewarding, with \"passionate professors\" who make time to work individually with students. The college was also cited for providing opportunities for community and political engagement on its \"absolutely gorgeous\" campus, which earned the school the #17 \"Most Beautiful Campus\" ranking. The college was ranked #10 in the nation for the quality of food in The Princeton Review's 2015 rating. St. Anselm was ranked 20th on The Princeton Review's list of \"Most Religious Students\", and 12th with best \"Gown and Town\" relations. \"U.S. News & World Report\" has continually named Saint Anselm as one of the country's \"Colleges with Conscience\" for several years. \"The Washington Monthly\" ranked Saint Anselm College 153rd among \"Liberal Arts Colleges\" in 2011. In 2009, the Saint Anselm College Choir was the 8th most-searched college choir under Google search. In 2001, \"USNWR\" ranked Saint Anselm as #3 on the list of \"Most Comprehensive Bachelor's Program\".\n\nSaint Anselm has a student-faculty ratio of 11:1 and an average class size of 18 students. Saint Anselm does not have teaching assistants or graduate assistants. Saint Anselm has 145 full-time faculty and 62 part-time instructors; almost all faculty members (90 percent) have terminal degrees in their respective fields.\n\nSaint Anselm College offers majors in 32 subject areas. In addition to the one major required for graduation, students can also pursue as many minors as their course schedule allows.\n\nSome majors and minors offer special academic programs. Completion of these programs does not result in any minor or other recognition. If a student wishes to enter a professional school after graduation, he or she may undertake one of the pre-professional programs offered. Internships are required for some majors, where students can experience life outside of the classroom, however any student can enroll in an internship for elective credit. Saint Anselm participates in an archaeological excavation program allowing students to travel to Italy and unearth ancient Roman treasures. For prospective engineers, the college has agreements with other schools through the cooperative engineering program.\n\nPre-professional programs include Pre-Law, Pre-Medicine/Pre-Dental/Pre-Veterinary, and Pre-Theology. Starting freshman year, students are paired up with advisors who will help the student decide which courses to take and offer general guidance throughout their time at Saint Anselm. However, pre-professional students often complain about the quality of their advisors, as they are often labelled as inexperienced, and many students choose to side step the process entirely. The program culminates with a \"pre-professional interview\" where three professors hold a mock professional interview with a student.\n\nInternships – Students from virtually every major participate in internships; examples range from investment firms on Wall Street to the Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nArchaeological excavation – The Classics Department sponsors an excavation at Castel Viscardo, a city near Orvieto in Italy. Faculty and students from the college are excavating a site that was occupied from the early Etruscan to the late Roman periods. The excavation have yielded many historical and archaeological finds; Saint Anselm College sends over 25 students each summer to the Coriglia excavation, just outside town.\n\nThe Cooperative Engineering Program is a five-year cooperative liberal arts and engineering program in affiliation with the University of Notre Dame, the University of Massachusetts Lowell, The Catholic University of America, and Manhattan College in Riverdale, New York. Three years are spent fulfilling undergraduate liberal arts courses at Saint Anselm, and two years are spent at one of the universities above for an engineering degree.\n\nSaint Anselm College participates in the following national and international honor societies. Invitations from these societies are organized through each academic department, as students are usually invited membership by junior or senior year.\n\nDelta Epsilon Sigma, the Catholic equivalent to Phi Beta Kappa, is the oldest honor society at the college. Open to all majors, the Tau Chapter, founded in 1940, accepts only 40 members from the senior and junior classes.\n\nOther societies include the debate honor society Delta Sigma Rho, international social science honor society Pi Gamma Mu, history honor society Phi Alpha Theta, economics honor society Omicron Delta Epsilon, nursing honor society Sigma Theta Tau, Spanish language honor society Sigma Delta Pi, French honor society Pi Delta Phi, psychology honor society Psi Chi, politics honor society Pi Sigma Alpha, biology honor society Beta Beta Beta, and physics honor society Sigma Pi Sigma. The Dean's List of Scholars is an internal honor society accepting students that fulfill its requirements of a 3.1 semester GPA in at least four classes. Only the top 25 percent of the school generally qualifies for the list. Members receive a card of congratulations, signed by the Dean of the college. In 2017, the college announced that the GPA requirement would increase by 0.1 per year until the GPA requirement reached 3.4.\n\nLatin Honors upon graduation are:\n\nSince 1896, Saint Anselm graduates have participated in nearly exactly the same graduation ceremony.\n\nCommencement weekend begins on Friday afternoon as members of the senior class gather in the upper church of Saint Anselm Abbey for the annual honors convocation. The senior academic honors convocation begins with an invocation, said by the Abbot of Saint Anselm Abbey, and is followed by the conferral of academic awards, read by the Dean of the College. Virtually every academic department has an award to present to a senior of that major. Next the President of the college awards each Summa Cum Laude graduate; within this elite group the Chancellor's medal is awarded to the graduate with the highest academic grade point average.\n\nThe convocation is followed by the celebration of the Eucharist during a Roman Catholic Mass, which includes a homily delivered by the Abbot. The mass concludes with the singing of the Saint Anselm College Anthem as each graduand exits the church to meet their family and friends outside of the church and on the surrounding grounds for photographs and a reception in the Carr Center.\n\nThe Saint Anselm College Anthem was written by Augustine Kelly, Dean of the college, and composed by Bede Camera, director of the Saint Anselm College Choir and Choirmaster of Saint Anselm Abbey. It is sung at the conclusion of the Eucharist during Orientation, Opening of the school year, Family Weekend, Baccalaureate Mass, and the final 7 pm Mass of each semester by the Saint Anselm College Choir.\n\nThe convocation is followed by the celebration of the Eucharist during a Roman Catholic Mass, which includes a homily delivered by the Abbot. The mass concludes with the singing of the Saint Anselm College Anthem as each graduand exits the church to meet their family and friends outside of the church and on the surrounding grounds for photographs and a reception in the Carr Center.\n\nOn the morning of commencement, Alumni Hall is outfitted with patriotic red white and blue banners and flags. Commencement exercises begin each year at 1:50 pm as members of the senior class gather in the Stoutenburg Gymnasium and process through the campus, crossing by the Cushing Center and Hilary Hall and arriving at Alumni Hall for the commencement ceremony. The graduating class processes onto the quad to the designated seating area directly in front of Alumni Hall as a hired brass ensemble plays the Pomp and Circumstance March. If the weather is inclement, commencement takes place in the Thomas F. Sullivan Arena. The academic processional of the College's Mace, color guard, graduands, members of the monastic community, and the faculty can take over twenty minutes. The national anthem is performed by a student or students selected. The performer is usually a member of the Saint Anselm College Choir. Next, a student selected by the administration delivers the coveted student address that he/she submitted for consideration. This is followed by the College President's address. The faculty award of the year from the Saint Anselm College Chapter of the American Association of University Professors is presented to a deserving faculty member. The student award for service and citizenship is presented to a community service-minded senior in recognition for an outstanding community project. This award is not given every year, only when there is consensus among administration that a particular student is deserving. Honorary doctorates are then conferred among selected honorary degree recipients. After the keynote address by one of the honorary degree recipients, the graduates are awarded their degrees of Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science. After the benediction, graduates flip their graduation tassel to the opposite side of their cap and process out to the recessional song as the Abbey bells resound throughout campus. Finally, family and friends meet with the new graduates to take photographs.\n\nThe academic costume worn by graduates consists of a gown, hood, and cap. Graduates have short pointed sleeves and a three-foot hood lined with the college's blue and white colors. Honor cords or sashes are not allowed to be worn during the ceremony; this rule has come under fire in recent years. Dress of the faculty differs from the graduates as the colors of their caps and gowns are dependent on the professors' alma mater. The Saint Anselm College Mace was hand carved from black walnut, and designed and executed by the Trappist monks of St. Joseph's Abbey. One of its striking features is the cross surmounting the mace, which is patterned after the cross of Saint Anselm Abbey Church; another is the seal of the college, mounted on the round head of the mace. Encircling the shield is the legend \"Sigillum Collegii Sancti Anselmi – 1889\", meaning \"Seal of Saint Anselm College\". The diploma measures 16\" × 19\" and is written in Latin.\n\nSaint Anselm College is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. It holds membership in the Association of American Colleges and Universities, the American Council on Education, the National Catholic Educational Association, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, and the New Hampshire College & University Council. Saint Anselm is a member of the Association of Benedictine Colleges and Universities, as Father Jonathan DeFelice was a co-founder of this organization in 1993. Saint Anselm is on the approved list of the American Chemical Society and of the New Hampshire State Board of Education for teacher training. The baccalaureate program in nursing is fully accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education and fully approved by the New Hampshire Board of Nursing. The Department of Nursing is a member of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, the Council of Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs of the National League for Nursing and the Nightingale Society. The Continuing Nursing Education program is accredited as a provider of continuing nursing education by the American Nurses Credentialing Center's Commission on Accreditation.\n\nMarc Ambinder, political editor of \"The Atlantic\", described the role Saint Anselm plays in national politics by saying, \"no one runs for president without speaking at St. A's New Hampshire Institute of Politics.\" U.S. News & World Report also ranked the college as the single, most popular location in New Hampshire for presidential candidates to visit. For over the past forty years, the New Hampshire Institute of Politics (NHIOP) has played host to hundreds of presidential aspirants that have delivered policy speeches at Saint Anselm College. It was founded on the basis that \"educated and engaged citizens are vital for a healthy democracy.\" The NHIOP houses the Politics department, as well as providing classroom space for use by all departments. The institute is credited with raising the national profile of the college by incorporating the college in the New Hampshire primary, the first primary of the United States presidential election.\n\nThe Meelia Center is one of the many outlets available for students to volunteer in the Greater Manchester community. Since 1989, the Meelia Center has allowed Saint Anselm College students to mobilize their talents and energies to assist 14 community partnerships and more than 30 other community service agencies throughout New Hampshire. Annually, some 850 students, faculty, and staff volunteer more than 16,000 community service hours. The Princeton Review has described the Meelia Center as \"the nerve center of Saint Anselm's bustling service community\", adding that \"the center, according to the school, 'employs nearly sixty student service leaders, who in turn recruit, place, and support over 200 volunteers and 210 service learners each semester who perform weekly service in over thirty community agencies. An additional 350 volunteers serve in occasional one-day service events. In 2010, the Meelia Center alone accounted for the coordination of 20,000 service hours by Saint Anselm students. New students are introduced to the service commitment through the New Student Day of Service. As part of freshman orientation, students are sent in teams of thirty to partnership sites and other community non-profit agencies. Upperclassmen work throughout the summer to organize these orientation events that involve anywhere from fifteen to twenty sites around New Hampshire.\n\nService learning is one of the fastest growing community service outlets at the college; students enjoy being able to accomplish community service while receiving credits in the classroom. Students are able to utilize the theoretical knowledge they have learned in the classroom in real-world situations, enhancing both the lives of the people they serve while making practical connections with the academic material. Eleven academic departments and more than twenty courses at Saint Anselm offer service-learning opportunities.\n\nSaint Anselm College competes at the NCAA Division II level in 20 men's and women's varsity sports. The college offers baseball, basketball, cross country, football, golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, skiing, soccer, tennis, field hockey, volleyball and softball programs open to all students. Saint Anselm's sports teams are known as the Hawks; their colors are blue and white. The Hawks participate as a member of the Northeast 10 and ECAC conferences in most sports. In women's ice hockey, the Hawks compete as a de facto NCAA Division I program in the New England Women's Hockey Alliance.\n\nSaint Anselm offers over 100 student organizations on campus, including arts & culture organizations, performance groups, sports groups, political organizations, religious organizations, and social action groups. The Student Activities Office encourages and is available for students wishing to develop an organization not yet established at Saint Anselm. Clubs on campus include The Knights of Columbus, Alpha Phi Omega, Abbey Players, Campus Activities Board, Classics Society, The History Society, Democrats, Republicans, Green Team, Italian Club, Dance Club, Muslim Student Association, Jazz Band, Organization for Life, Mock Trial, Psychology Club, and Yearbook Club. One example of college organizations playing an active role in the local community is the Saint Anselm College Knights of Columbus, Council 4785 in Manchester, New Hampshire who were awarded the 2009–2010 National Community Activity Award for creating a comprehensive recycling program at the New Hampshire State Prison for Women. The Campus Activities Board (CAB), a student-run organization, runs several committees that oversee campus-wide activities and student services. In 2008, CAB organized singer Howie Day, in 2009, the band Third Eye Blind performed at the college. Jason Derulo and Matt Nathanson performed there in 2010. More recent acts have included Marc E. Bassy and Jesse McCartney.\n\n\"The Saint Anselm Crier,\" founded in the early 1960s as \"The Anselmian Crier\" is the student newspaper of Saint Anselm College. It is published twice monthly when school is in session. The \"Crier\" won the 2008–2009 First Place Scholastic Newspaper Award from the American Scholastic Press Association. In 2009, \"The Saint Anselm Crier\" adopted new terminology designating the publication as the \"independent\" student newspaper instead of the \"official\" student newspaper of Saint Anselm College. This was done to separate student opinion from official college news released by Saint Anselm's public relations department.\n\n\"The Hilltop\", founded in 2009, was an independent student newsletter. It was published bi-weekly, and sought to provide substance over entertainment and integrity over controversy, as some students had supported this publication over the \"Crier\". claiming the latter's quality had deteriorated. In the Fall of 2010, \"The Hilltop\" merged with \"The Saint Anselm Crier\" after an agreement was made at the urging of the \"Crier's\" advisor, Fr. Jerome Day, OSB, who claimed that the college was not large enough for two student newspapers. \"The Hilltop's\" staff agreed to become part of the \"Crier\" staff and \"The Saint Anselm Crier\" promised to refocus on its quality, including a page called \"The Hilltop\" devoted to substantial issues.\n\n\"The Saint Anselm Whiner\", founded in February 2010, was an underground joke newspaper independently published by a group of anonymous students. It was published bi-weekly. \"The Whiner\" parodies \"The Crier\" and \"The Hilltop\" and lampoons various Saint Anselm College issues. The motto of the \"Saint Anselm Whiner\" was \"Unreliability You Can Count On.\"\n\n\"The Quatrain\", published annually by a small group of students with the help of the English Department and the printing office, is a collection of students' poetry, short stories, and artwork (photographic and otherwise) that is collected via submissions over the course of the academic year and is freely distributed to the student population near the end of the second semester.\n\n\"The Shank\", published each semester, is the History Department's journal consisting exclusively of students' work. The journal is open to all students regardless of their major, as long as the paper submitted was written in a history class.\n\n\"Lucubrations\" is the cultural magazine for the Saint Anselm Community. It publishes all forms of creative content including art, music, photography, literature, poetry, philosophy, commentary, and video from students, faculty, staff, and alumni of the college. It was founded in 2009 by student Dana Nolan (Class of 2011). It is published online. Submissions are published on an ongoing basis and also collected into digest issues two times a semester, for four issues per academic year. The word \"lucubrations\" is based on the Latin word \"lucubrare\" and means study by candlelight, nocturnal study or meditation, and the writings or thoughts that result.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979631", "title": "Daily comic strip", "text": "Daily comic strip\n\nA daily strip is a newspaper comic strip format, appearing on weekdays, Monday through Saturday, as contrasted with a Sunday strip, which typically only appears on Sundays.\n\nBud Fisher's \"Mutt and Jeff\" is commonly regarded as the first daily comic strip, launched November 15, 1907 (under its initial title, \"A. Mutt\") on the sports pages of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". The featured character had previously appeared in sports cartoons by Fisher but was unnamed. Fisher had approached his editor, John P. Young, about doing a regular strip as early as 1905 but was turned down. According to Fisher, Young told him, \"It would take up too much room, and readers are used to reading down the page, and not horizontally.\" Other cartoonists followed the trend set by Fisher, as noted by comic strip historian R. C. Harvey:\n\nIn the early 1900s, William Randolph Hearst's weekday morning and afternoon papers around the country featured scattered black-and-white comic strips, and on January 31, 1912, Hearst introduced the nation's first full daily comics page in his \"Evening Journal\".\n\nThe two conventional formats for daily newspaper comics are strips and single gag panels. The strips are usually displayed horizontally, wider than they are tall. Strips are usually, but not always, are broken up into several smaller panels with continuity from panel to panel. Single panels are square, circular or taller than they are wide. One of the leading single gag panels for decades, \"Grin and Bear It\", was created in 1932 by George Lichty and initially syndicated by United Feature Syndicate.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, daily newspaper strips were usually presented in black and white and Sunday strips in color, but a few newspapers have published daily strips in color, and some newspapers, such as \"Grit\", have published Sunday strips in black and white. On the web, daily newspaper strips are usually in color, and conversely, some webcomics, such as \"Joyce and Walky\", have been created in black and white.\n\nTraditionally, balloons and captions were hand-lettered with all upper case letters. However, there are exceptions such as a few strips which have typeset dialog such as \"Barnaby\". Upper and lower case lettering is used in \"Gasoline Alley\".\n\nA distinction is made between continuity strips which have continuous storylines and gag-a-days in which the same characters appear in different humorous situations with no ongoing plot. In some cases, a gag-a-day strip might depict totally different characters each day. Writer-artist Jim Scancarelli attempts an overlap by inserting daily gags into his \"Gasoline Alley\" continuity storylines.\n\nNewspapers can display strips on separate pages randomly or thematically, such as placing a sports strip on the sports page. Initially, a newspaper page included only a single daily strip, usually either at the top or the bottom of the page. By the 1920s, many newspapers gathered the strips together on a single page, along with news articles, columns, puzzles and/or other illustrated features. In many newspapers, the width of the strips made possible an arrangement of the strips into two stacks displayed from the top to the bottom of the page.\n\nSome newspapers would alter a horizontal strip to fit their page layout by placing the first two panels of a strip atop panels three and four. This then had a shape roughly similar to a gag panel and could be grouped with the gag panels.\n\nThe title of a strip was sometimes typeset and pasted into the first panel, enabling the strips to be closely stacked. This had the advantage of making space for additional strips but often resulted in a crowded, unattractive page design. More often during the 1930s and 1940s, the title was typeset (in all upper case letters) and positioned to the right in the white space area above that strip, with the byline on the right. An episode subtitle (in upper and lower case) was centered between the title and the byline. In later years, as continuity strips gave way to humor strips, the subtitles vanished. In a nod toward the classic daily strips of yesteryear, the cartoonist Bill Griffith continues the tradition by always centering a hand-lettered episode subtitle above each of his \"Zippy\" strips. In rare cases, some newspapers assembled pages of stacked strips minus titles, leaving more than a few confused readers.\n\nEarly daily strips were large, often running the entire width of the newspaper, and were sometimes three or more inches in height. In the 1920s, an eight-column newspaper usually ran a daily strip over six columns. Over decades, the size of daily strips became smaller and smaller, until by the year 2000, four standard daily strips could fit in an area once occupied by a single daily strip. Larger sizes have returned with today's digital distribution by DailyINK and other services.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the original art for a daily strip could be drawn as large as 25 inches wide by six inches high. As strips have become smaller, the number of panels have been reduced. In some cases today, the daily strip and Sunday strip dimensions are almost the same. For instance, a daily strip in \"The Arizona Republic\" measures 4 3/4\" wide by 1 1/2\" deep, while the three-tiered \"Hägar the Horrible\" Sunday strip in the same paper is 5\" wide by 3 3/8\" deep.\n\nThe popularity and accessibility of strips meant they were often clipped and saved or posted on bulletin boards or refrigerators. Authors John Updike and Ray Bradbury have written about their childhood collections of clipped strips. Many readers related to J. R. Williams' homespun humor and clipped his long-run daily panel, \"Out Our Way\". As noted by Coulton Waugh in his 1947 book, \"The Comics\", anecdotal evidence indicated that more of Williams' daily cartoons were clipped and saved than any other newspaper comic strip.\n\nStrips had an ancillary form of distribution when they were clipped and mailed, as noted by the \"Baltimore Sun\"'s Linda White: \"I followed the adventures of \"Winnie Winkle\", \"Moon Mullins\" and \"Dondi\", and waited each fall to see how Lucy would manage to trick Charlie Brown into trying to kick that football. (After I left for college, my father would clip out that strip each year and send it to me just to make sure I didn’t miss it.)\"\n\nCollections of such clipped daily strips can now be found in various archives, including Steve Cottle's online I Love Comix Archive. Comics historian Bill Blackbeard had tens of thousands of daily strips clipped and organized chronologically. Blackbeard's San Francisco Academy of Comic Art Collection, consisting of 2.5 million clippings, tearsheets and comic sections, spanning the years 1894 to 1996, has provided source material for books and articles by Blackbeard and other researchers. During the 1990s, this collection was acquired by the Billy Ireland Cartoon Library & Museum, providing that Ohio State museum with the world's largest collection of daily newspaper comic strip tear sheets and clippings. In 1998, six 18-wheelers transported the Blackbeard collection from California to Ohio.\n\nA \"Fortune\" poll in 1937 ranked the ten leading strips in popularity (with number one as the most popular):\n\n\n\"The Comics Curmudgeon\" is a blog which provides an ongoing humorous and critical commentary of daily comic strips. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979643", "title": "Nikolai Dante", "text": "Nikolai Dante\n\nNikolai Dante was a comic book series published in the weekly British science fiction anthology \"2000 AD\" from March 1997 through July 2012.\n\n\"Nikolai Dante\" was created by writer Robbie Morrison and artist Simon Fraser. The lead character, Dante, first appeared in 1997 in Prog 1035, and he made his final appearance in 2012 in Prog 1791. Fraser was the primary artist for the first three years of the series, with support from artists including Charlie Adlard, Henry Flint, Chris Weston and Andy Clarke. From 2000, the majority of the stories were painted by John Burns, until Fraser returned to the character in October 2006, when the two artists began to alternate on different stories. Morrison is now working on a spin off series set in the same universe.\n\nIn the 27th century after a resurgent Imperial Russia has seized control of Earth and an interstellar domain, Dante, a swashbuckling young thief and ladies' man, discovers he is an illegitimate scion of the Romanov Dynasty, aristocratic rivals to the Tsar. Dante's Romanov genes bond him with a sentient \"Weapons Crest,\" a biological weapon which gives superhuman abilities—in Dante's case, the ability to extend bio-blades from his hands and hack into computer systems. He outrages aristocratic society and enjoys a turbulent relationship with Tsarina Jena. Dmitri, the Romanov patriarch and bitter enemy of the Tsar, tries to mold Dante into an aristocrat and killer worthy of the Romanov name.\n\nDmitri's underhanded political maneuvering prompts his war between the Makarov and Romanov dynasties, despite Jena's and Dante's attempts to prevent it, and the lovers break off their burgeoning romance. The civil war rips the empire apart, and Dante is forced to commit many atrocities. Vladimir triumphs, Dmitri dies by his own hand, and the power of the Romanovs is broken. Dante, now the most wanted man in the empire, returns to thieving, joining his mother, Katarina Dante, and her pirate crew. After spending time in the Pacific, he is forcibly recruited into the Imperial Service.\n\nIn his new role as Sword of the Tsar, Dante works against everything he once held dear, though he secretly abuses his position in order to plot against his employer as he begins to build a secret army. A massacre in the oppressed state of Amerika prompts Dante to try to kill the tsar. Imprisoned and tortured, Dante escapes from jail with the help of Jena, and the two renew their relationship and raise an army of thieves and whores to win a revolutionary war against the tsar. Tsar Vladimir is put on trial for his crimes and Dante proposes to Jena. Their happiness is cut short by the return of Dmitri Romanov.\n\nDmitri embarks on a rampage, murdering several of Dante's close allies, capturing Jena and destroying Dante's weapons crest. He tightens his grip on the empire, planning to marry Jena and execute Vladimir on their wedding day, Dante fights the same war against a different enemy. On the day of Jena's forced wedding to Dmitri, Dante leads his army to a second, final triumph that leaves Dmitri dead and a new era of peace and prosperity set to begin.\n\n\nThe Romanovs are one of the most powerful dynasties in Russia, descended directly from Peter the Great, and rivalling the Makarovs in influence and military power. The main sources of the family's power are its \"Weapons Crests,\" cybernetic symbiots from another dimension, which provide their bearers with incredible powers. The crests were designed to only bond with the DNA of the Romanov family.\n\n\n\nDuring the war, Dante is given command of a regiment raised in his own fiefdom, Rudinshtein. Initially made up of regular soldiers, the regiment is eventually supplemented by troops drawn from penal military units.\n\n\n\n\nBritish computer games company and comic book publisher Rebellion Developments collected the entire saga into a series of trade paperbacks.\n\n\nIn February 2017 a one off new story was published (set during the series early years) in the comic's 40th anniversary special issue:\n\n\nA number of Nikolai Dante novels have been written by David Bishop and published by Black Flame. Each is a new Dante story, set in between events depicted by the comic serials. The first novel, \"The Strangelove Gambit,\" details Dante's misadventures as a tutor in a boarding school for young ladies that hides a deadly secret. In the second, \"Imperial Black,\" Dante is forced to seek out an ancient citadel on the roof of the world. The final Dante novel to date, \"Honour Be Damned,\" is a romp set in future Britain that spoofs \"The 39 Steps\". All of the novels are currently out of print, but E-book editions are available.\n\nSo far they include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979644", "title": "Stanislaus Kostka", "text": "Stanislaus Kostka\n\nStanisław Kostka S.J. (28 October 1550 – 15 August 1568) was a Polish novice of the Society of Jesus. He is venerated in the Catholic Church as Saint Stanislaus Kostka (as distinct from his namesake, the 11th-century Bishop of Kraków Stanislaus the Martyr).\n\nHe was born at Rostkowo, Przasnysz County, Poland, on 28 October 1550, and died at Rome during the night of 14–15 August 1568. He entered the Society of Jesus in Rome on his 17th birthday (28 October 1567), and is said to have foretold his death a few days before it occurred.\n\nHis father was a senator of the Kingdom of Poland and Lord of Zakroczym; his mother was Małgorzata Kryska from Drobni (Margaret de Drobniy Kryska), the sister and niece of the voivodes of Masovia and the aunt of the celebrated Chancellor of Poland, Feliks Kryski (Felix Kryski)(Szczęsny Kryski). He was the second of seven children. His older brother Paweł (Paul) survived to be present at the beatification ceremony of Stanislaus in 1605. At home, the two brothers were taught with firmness, even severity; its results were their piety, modesty, temperance, and submission.\n\nOn 25 July 1564, they arrived at Vienna with their tutor to attend the Jesuit college that had been opened four years before. Stanislaus was soon conspicuous among his classmates during his three years of schooling, not only for his amiability and cheerfulness of expression, but also for his growing religious fervour and piety. His brother Paul said during the process of beatification that \"He devoted himself so completely to spiritual things that he frequently became unconscious, especially in the church of the Jesuit Fathers at Vienna.\" One of the practices of devotion which he joined while at Vienna was the Congregation of St. Barbara and Our Lady, \"of which he, with numbers of the pupils of the Society of Jesus\" also belonged. Stanislaus alleged to a fellow-member of the Society at Rome that Saint Barbara brought two angels to him during the course of a serious illness, in order to give him the Eucharist. His tutor, John Bilinski, witnessed the miracle, and though he himself did not see what Stanislaus claimed to see, he \"was certain that Stanislaus was not at all out of his mind through the violence of his sickness.\"\n\nExasperated by his younger brother's piety, Paul began to mistreat Stanislaus. Stanislaus suffered the unjust treatment with remarkable stoicism and patience, but \"one night after Stanislaus had again suffered the harsh comments and blows of his brother, he turned on Paul with the words: 'Your rough treatment will end in my going away never to return, and you will have to explain my leaving to our father and mother.' Paul's sole reply was to swear violently at him.\"\n\n\"The thought of joining the Society of Jesus had already entered the mind of the saintly young man. It was six months, however, before he ventured to speak of this to the superiors of the Society. At Vienna they hesitated to receive him, fearing the tempest that would probably be raised by his father against the Society, which had just quieted a storm unleashed by other admissions to the Company. Stanislaus quickly grasped the situation and formed the plan of applying to the general of the Society at Rome. The distance was five hundred leagues, which had to be made on foot, without equipment or guide or any other resources but the precarious charity that might be received on the road. The prospective dangers and humiliations of such a journey, however, did not alarm his courage.On the morning of the day on which he was to carry out his project he called his servant to him early and told him to notify his brother Paul and his tutor in the course of the morning that he would not be back that day to dinner. Then he started, exchanging the dress of gentleman for that of a mendicant, which was the only way to escape the curiosity of those he met. By nightfall Paul and the tutor comprehended that Stanislaus had fled, as he had threatened. They were seized with a fierce anger, and as the day was ended the fugitive had gained a day over them. They started to follow him, but were not able to overtake him; either their exhausted horses refused to go further, or a wheel of their carriage would break, or, as the tutor frankly declared, they had mistaken the route, having left the city by a different road from the one which Stanislaus had taken. It is noticeable that in his testimony Paul gives no explanation of his ill-luck.Stanislaus stayed for a month at Dillingen, where the provincial of that time, Saint Peter Canisius, put the young aspirant's vocation to the test by employing him in the boarding-school. He arrived 25 October 1567 in Rome. As he was greatly exhausted by the journey, the general of the order, Saint Francis Borgia, would not permit him to enter the novitiate of Saint Andrew until several days later. During the ten remaining months of his life, according to the testimony of the master of novices, Father Giulio Fazio, \"he was a model and mirror of religious perfection. Notwithstanding his very delicate constitution he did not spare himself the slightest penance\". He had such a burning fever in his chest that he was often obliged to apply cold compresses.\"\n\nOn the evening of the feast of Saint Lawrence (10 August), Stanislaus felt a mortal weakness, made worse by a high fever, and clearly saw that his last hour had come. He wrote a letter to the Blessed Virgin begging her to call him to the skies there to celebrate with her the glorious anniversary of her Assumption (15 August). His confidence in the Blessed Virgin, which had already brought him many favours, was this time again rewarded; on 15 August, towards 4:00 in the morning, while he prayed to God, to the saints, and to the Virgin Mary, he died. Many in the city proclaimed him a saint and people hastened from all parts to venerate his remains and to obtain, if possible, some relics.\n\nThe Holy See ratified his beatification in 1605; he was canonized in 1726. St. Stanislaus is a popular saint of Poland, and many religious institutions have chosen him as the protector of their novitiates. The representations of him in art are quite varied; he is sometimes depicted receiving Holy Communion from the hands of angels, or receiving the Infant Jesus from the hands of the Virgin, or in the midst of a battle putting to flight the enemies of his country. At times he is depicted near a fountain putting a wet linen cloth on his breast. He is invoked for palpitations of the heart and for dangerous cases of illness (Cahier, \"Caractéristiques des Saints\").\n\nOn 15 August 2018 Pope Francis wrote to the Bishop of Płock in honor of the 450th anniversary of Stanislaus's death. In his message, Pope Francis cites a maxim of Stanislaus's: “'\"Ad maiora natus sum\"' – 'I was born for greater things'\".\n\nThere is a portrait by Scipione Delfine, the oldest of St. Stanislaus in existence. Having probably been painted at Rome within two years of his death, it may be regarded as the best likeness. The face is strikingly Slavic, a fact that is not noticeable in his other portraits.\n\nAdditionally, Pierre Le Gros, the younger completed a marble statue of the saint in 1705.\nSt. Thérèse of Lisieux wrote a “play” or “pious recreation” about Saint Stanislaus Kostka. Her sister Pauline had asked Thérèse to write verses and theatrical entertainment for liturgical and community festivals. \"Like Stanislaus, [Therese] thought she was going to die young having accomplished nothing, 'with empty hands.' From then on, her desire to do good after her death intensified.\"\n\nThe following are some places dedicated to him:\n\nSan Stanislao Kostka, a church in Palermo, Sicily.\n\nSaint Stanislaus College in Bay Saint Louis, Mississippi, a Catholic day and residential school for boys in grades 7 to 12, founded in 1854 and chartered in 1870 as Saint Stanislaus College\n\nThe novitiate of the Central and Southern Province of the Society of Jesus –Saint Stanislaus Kostka at Saint Charles College – located in Grand Coteau, Louisiana. Saint Stanislaus is also a co-patron saint (along with Saint Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Society of Jesus) of Strake Jesuit College Preparatory in Houston, Texas, where a statue of his image was erected in front of the Parsley Center, which houses an auditorium and music facilities. In 2008, St. John's Jesuit High School and Academy of Toledo, Ohio, is one of the schools that uses his name in their house system.\n\nSt. Stanislaus Kostka Church is a parish in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US.\n\nSt Stanislas de Kostka is a parish in Montreal located at 1350 Boulevard Saint-Joseph Est.\n\nSt. Stanislaus Forane Church, Mala situated at Mala, Kerala, is the only parish in India having St. Stanislaus as the patron saint. The forane church was renovated around sixty years ago.\n\nSt. Stanislaus High School in Bandra, Bombay, is a Jesuit founded in 1863.\n\nThe St. Stanislaus Institute in Ljubljana, Slovenia, an educational institution founded in 1901, is named for Stanislaus Kostka. \n\nThe high school campus of the Ateneo de Manila University has a Saint Stanislaus Kostka chapel, noticeably at the center of the compound. Saint Kostka is also the patron saint of the Ateneo de Manila High School. At the Ateneo de Davao University, the grade school chapel, adorned with stained glass depictions of the life of Jesus Christ, was named after him.\n\nSaint Stanislaus Kostka is the patron saint of the attendees of Oblates of Saint Joseph Minor Seminary (a high school-level seminary in San Jose, Batangas, Philippines), as well as Manukan, Zamboanga del Norte Philippines.\n\nOne of the junior campuses of the Jesuit school Xavier College in Melbourne, Australia, is named Kostka Hall; Boston College also has named one of their freshman dorms Kostka Hall. He is also a patron of the minor seminarians of the Oblates of St. Joseph Minor Seminary.\n\nBeaumont College, formerly a public school in Berkshire, was dedicated to Saint Stanislaus. \n\nSaint Stanislaw Kostka is also the patron saint of The Polish Saturday School in Manchester, Lancashire, which was founded in 1949 by the Manchester Polish Ex-Combatants Association and which supports the school to this day. The Polish name of the school is \"Polska Szkoła Przedmiotów Ojczystych im. św. Stanisława Kostki w Manchesterze\".\n\nSaint Stanislaus High and Junior School in Gdynia is an independent private school located in Gdynia, Poland.\n\nA school in Quezon City Philippines has a name of Kostka School of Quezon City which is named after St. Stanislaus Kostka.\n\nAlso, a public school in Guyana is named after him, St. Stanislaus College.\n\nSt. Stanislaus Kostka Church (Chicago) opened in 1867. By 1897, St. Stanislaus Kostka Parish was the largest parish in the United States with 8,000 families, totaling 40,000 people. There were twelve Masses each Sunday: six Masses in the upper church and another six Masses in the lower church. St. Stanislaus Kostka Parish is considered the mother church of the many Polish parishes.\n\nOn November 10, 2011, the Church of Saint Stanislaus Kostka in Winona, Minnesota, was elevated by Pope Benedict XVI to the status of Minor Basilica, making it the first ever Basilica of Saint Stanislaus Kostka.\n\nThe Brooklyn Diocese has two parishes and schools named after St. Stanislaus Kostka – one in Maspeth, Queens, and one in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.\n\nSt. Stanislaus Church in Winchester, New Hampshire, US.\n\nSt Stanislaus' College, in the rural city of Bathurst, New South Wales Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979646", "title": "Jackie Leven", "text": "Jackie Leven\n\nJackie Leven (18 June 1950 – 14 November 2011) was a Scottish songwriter and folk musician. After starting his career as a folk musician in the late 1960s, he first found success with new wave band Doll by Doll. He later recorded as a solo artist, releasing more than twenty albums under his own name or under the pseudonym Sir Vincent Lone.\n\nLeven started his musical career in the late 1960s under the pseudonym \"John St Field\", and recorded one album, \"Control\", in 1971 which was released only in Spain in 1973.\n\nHe formed the band Doll by Doll in 1977. They released four albums between 1979–82. After Doll by Doll disbanded in 1983, Leven began a solo career. He suffered a street assault and near strangulation during the recording of his first solo album in 1984, which left him unable to speak for nearly two years. During this time he became addicted to heroin. He also collaborated with fellow ex-Doll by Doll members Joe Shaw and David Macintosh, plus ex-Sex Pistol Glen Matlock to release the single \"Big Tears\" under the band name Concrete Bulletproof Invisible. The record was a \"Melody Maker\" single of the week in 1988.\n\nLeven eventually cured himself of his addiction with the help of his wife Carol, through a combination of acupuncture and psychic healing. This led him to form The Core Trust organisation, which favours a holistic approach to the treatment of heroin addiction.\n\nIn 1994, Leven's solo career restarted with the release of the mini-album \"Songs from the Argyll Cycle\" and the full-length album \"The Mystery of Love is Greater than the Mystery of Death\", now signed to Cooking Vinyl and recording in the folk rock style. After that he released fifteen albums, including a joint album with crime writer Ian Rankin, \"Jackie Leven Said\", with multi-instrumentalist Michael Cosgrave. In addition to his broader commercial releases, he released a number of limited edition, fanclub-only live albums through the \"Haunted Valley\" fanzine and website.\n\nIn 2006, Leven released the album \"Songs For Lonely Americans\" using the pseudonym \"Sir Vincent Lone\". A second Sir Vincent Lone CD, \"When The Bridegroom Comes (Songs For Women)\", was recorded a year later. Initially sold only at live shows, it proved so successful that it eventually saw commercial release by Cooking Vinyl.\n\nLeven wrote about the \"Sir Vincent\" pseudonym:Some years ago I noticed that I was writing a lot more songs than I was ever going to record and get released, especially in these times where you can only release one studio album every eighteen months. As I am a writer of genius, this began to worry me more and more. So I went to see my Cooking Vinyl boss, Martin Goldschmidt, to ask him if I could make more records. He said no. I said to him 'look, The Beatles once released four albums in one year, and nobody said to them, hey that's too many records in one year'. Martin said 'Jackie, this is not 1967 and you are not The Beatles'. We talked some more and we agreed that I could make records under a different name – that name is Sir Vincent Lone.\n\nLeven's next album, \"Lovers at the Gun Club\" was released in 2008; followed in 2009 by a third Sir Vincent Lone record (\"Troubadour Heart\") plus four instalments of \"The Haunted Year\" under his own name: twofers of eight albums previously released through The Haunted Valley. \"Gothic Road\" was released in 2010, followed in September 2011, two months before his death, by Leven's final studio album, \"Wayside Shrines and the Code of the Travelling Man\", a collaboration with Michael Cosgrave.\n\nLeven died on 14 November 2011, aged 61, of cancer. Leven had been due to perform at the Green Hotel in Kinross for Mundell Music on Friday night.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979659", "title": "SMIF (interface)", "text": "SMIF (interface)\n\nSMIF (Standard Mechanical Interface) is an isolation technology developed in the 1980s by a group known as the \"micronauts\" at Hewlett-Packard in Palo Alto. The system is used in semiconductor wafer fabrication and cleanroom environments. It is a SEMI standard.\n\nThe core development team was led by Ulrich Kaempf as engineering manager, under the direction of Mihir Parikh. The core team that developed the technology was driven by Barclay Tullis, who held most of the patents, with Dave Thrasher, who later joined the Silicon Valley Group, and Thomas Atchison, a member of the technical staff under direction of Barclay Tullis. Mihir later provided the technology to SEMI, and then licensed a copy for himself, and spun out Asyst Technologies to provide the technology commercially.\n\nThe purpose of SMIF pods is to isolate wafers from contamination by providing a miniature environment with controlled airflow, pressure and particle count. SMIF pods can be accessed by automated mechanical interfaces on production equipment. The wafers therefore remain in a carefully controlled environment whether in the SMIF pod or in a tool, without being exposed to the surrounding airflow.\n\nEach SMIF pod contains a wafer cassette in which the wafers are stored horizontally. The bottom surface of the pod is the opening door, and when a SMIF pod is placed on a load port, the bottom door and cassette are lowered into the tool so that the wafers can be removed.\n\nBoth wafers and reticles can be handled by SMIF pods in a semiconductor fabrication environment. Used in lithographic tools, reticles or photomasks contain the image that is exposed on a coated wafer in one processing step of a complete integrated semiconductor manufacturing cycle. Because reticles are linked so directly with wafer processing, they also require steps to protect them from contamination or from being the source of contamination in the litho tool.\n\nSMIF is typically used for wafers no larger than 200mm, the equivalent for 300mm wafers being the FOUP (Front Opening Unified Pod). The greater flexibility of 300mm wafers means that it is not feasible to use SMIF technology and designs for 300mm, hence the reason for the emergence of FOUPs. Several FOUP SEMI standards, including SEMI E47.1-1106, are related to both 300 and 450 mm wafers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979663", "title": "Ring strain", "text": "Ring strain\n\nIn organic chemistry, ring strain is a type of instability that exists when bonds in a molecule form angles that are abnormal. Strain is most commonly discussed for small rings such as cyclopropanes and cyclobutanes, whose internal angles are substantially smaller than the idealized value of approximately 109°. Because of their high strain, the heat of combustion for these small rings is elevated.\n\nRing strain results from a combination of angle strain, conformational strain or Pitzer strain (torsional eclipsing interactions), and transannular strain, also known as van der Waals strain or Prelog strain. The simplest examples of angle strain are small cycloalkanes such as cyclopropane and cyclobutane.\n\nIn alkanes, optimum overlap of atomic orbitals is achieved at 109.5°. The most common cyclic compounds have five or six carbons in their ring. Adolf von Baeyer received a Nobel Prize in 1905 for the discovery of the Baeyer strain theory, which was an explanation of the relative stabilities of cyclic molecules in 1885.\n\nAngle strain occurs when bond angles deviate from the ideal bond angles to achieve maximum bond strength in a specific chemical conformation. Angle strain typically affects cyclic molecules, which lack the flexibility of acyclic molecules.\n\nAngle strain destabilizes a molecule, as manifested in higher reactivity and elevated heat of combustion. Maximum bond strength results from effective overlap of atomic orbitals in a chemical bond. A quantitative measure for angle strain is strain energy. Angle strain and torsional strain combine to create ring strain that affects cyclic molecules.\n\nNormalized energies that allow comparison of ring strains are obtained by measuring per methylene group (CH) of the molar heat of combustion in the cycloalkanes.\n\nThe value 658.6 kJ per mole is obtained from an unstrained long-chain alkane.\nCyclic alkenes are subject to strain resulting from distortion of the sp-hybridized carbon centers. Illustrative is C where the carbon centres are pyramidalized. This distortion enhances the reactivity of this molecule. Angle strain also is the basis of Bredt's rule which dictates that bridgehead carbon centers are not incorporated in alkenes because the resulting alkene would be subject to extreme angle strain.\nIn cycloalkanes, each carbon is bonded nonpolar covalently to two carbons and two hydrogen. The carbons have sp hybrization and should have ideal bond angles of 109.5°. Due to the limitations of cyclic structure, however, the ideal angle is only achieved in a six carbon ring — cyclohexane in chair conformation. For other cycloalkanes, the bond angles deviate from ideal. In cyclopropanes (3 carbons) and cyclobutanes (4 carbons) the C-C bonds are 60° and ~90° respectively.\n\nMolecules with a high amount of ring strain consist of three, four, and some five-membered rings, including: cyclopropanes, cyclopropenes, cyclobutanes, cyclobutenes, [1,1,1]propellanes, [2,2,2]propellanes, epoxides, aziridines, cyclopentenes, and norbornenes. These molecules have bond angles between ring atoms which are more acute than the optimal tetrahedral (109.5°) and trigonal planar (120°) bond angles required by their respective sp and sp bonds. Because of the smaller bond angles, the bonds have higher energy and adopt more p-character to reduce the energy of the bonds. In addition, the ring structures of cyclopropanes/enes and cyclclobutanes/enes offer very little conformational flexibility. Thus, the substituents of ring atoms exist in an eclipsed conformation in cyclopropanes and between gauche and eclipsed in cyclobutanes, contributing to higher ring strain energy in the form of Van der Waals repulsion.\n\nOther cycloalkanes that do not have 3- and 4-membered rings can be strained. These include cyclophanes, Platonic hydrocarbons, pyramidal alkenes, and cyclic alkynes.\n\n\nRing strain can be considerably higher in bicyclic systems. For example, bicyclobutane, CH, is noted for being one of the most strained compounds that is isolatable on a large scale; its strain energy is estimated at 63.9 kcal mol (267 kJ mol).\n\nThe potential energy and unique bonding structure contained in the bonds of molecules with ring strain can be used to drive reactions in organic synthesis. Examples of such reactions are Ring opening metathesis polymerisation, photo-induced ring opening of cyclobutenes, and nucleophilic ring-opening of epoxides and aziridines.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979664", "title": "Couture, Charente", "text": "Couture, Charente\n\nCouture is a commune in the Charente department in southwestern France.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979668", "title": "Alain Pompidou", "text": "Alain Pompidou\n\nAlain Pompidou (born 5 April 1942) is a French scientist and politician. A former professor of histology, embryology and cytogenetics, he was the fourth president of the European Patent Office (EPO) from 1 July 2004 to 30 June 2007. He is the adopted son of Georges Pompidou, former President of France.\n\nPompidou was born in Paris.\n\nHe took doctorates in medicine, biology and science. From 1974 to 2004, he was professor of histology, embryology and cytogenetics in the medical faculty of the University of Paris. Until 2004 he was also director of the laboratory of the Cochin – St Vincent de Paul – La Roche Guyon Hospital in Paris, head of the cytogenetics and pathology department, and chairman of the hospital group's advisory board. He hold tenures at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. \n\nHe is also the author of numerous articles and monographs on science, ethics and society, as well as on biomedical ethics.\n\nPompidou served on the consultative and scientific committee of numerous national, European and international organisations, including the World Health Organization (WHO), UNESCO and the European Commission. \n\nFrom 1990 to 2004, he was a member and founder of the French Academy of Technologies.\n\nBetween 1986 and 1997 he acted as a special adviser to the French prime minister, the minister of research and higher education and the minister of health. \n\nHe is also the author of \"Souviens-toi de l'homme: l'éthique, la vie, la mort\" (Payot, Paris, 1990).\n\nHe was rapporteur of the subcommission on ethics of outer space activities of the World Commission on Ethics (COMEST) of the UNESCO, and he became a member, then vice-chair of COMEST in 2004. From 1999 to 2004, he served as a spokesman on research and space policy on the French Economic and Social Council. In 1999, he authored the joint report of UNESCO and the European Space Agency (ESA) about \"The Ethics of Space Policy\".\n\nAs a member of the European Parliament from 1989 to 1999, he was particularly concerned with the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development, with the preparation of the Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions (\"gene patent directive\"), and with bioethical issues as well as in innovation policy.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1999 he was president of the European Parliament's Scientific and Technological Options Assessment, as well as President of the \"Intergroupe Ciel et Espace Européen\".\n\nIn 2004, he was elected by the Administrative Council of the EPO as a result of a compromise. Although former presidents of the EPO held their post for at least seven years, Alain Pompidou was president for three years. He was succeeded by Alison Brimelow for an equal term. Alain Pompidou was the first Frenchman to hold the post of President of the EPO.\n\nOn 30 June 2004, the day before becoming president of the EPO, he and Albert-Claude Benhamou were granted , filed on 16 March 2001, for a \"Device for in situ analysis and/or treatment consisting of a flexible rod and a micro-system fixed at one end of said flexible rod\".\n\nAs the first president of the EPO with a background that is not specific to intellectual property, his action aimed at making the Organisation more open and at raising awareness about the importance of patent policy, in particular among policy makers.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2004 he was professor in charge of a number of medical services at Saint-Vincent-de-Paul hospital, in Paris, where in 2005 a collection of 351 foetuses and still-born babies was discovered.\n\nThe Parquet de Paris (Paris Public Prosecutor's office) found that no violation of French criminal law had taken place. The relevant ministries decided to put the case to the so-called Disciplinary Commission (the competent jurisdiction regarding lecturers and hospital employees of university hospitals) which has reprimanded Pompidou. Incurring a reprimand is extremely rare.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979672", "title": "J. Peters", "text": "J. Peters\n\nJ. Peters (born Sándor Goldberger; 1894–1990) was the most commonly known pseudonym of a man who last went by the name \"Alexander Stevens\" in 1949. Peters was an ethnic Jewish journalist and political activist who was a leading figure of the Hungarian language section of the Communist Party USA in the 1920s and 1930s. From the early 1930s, Peters was actively involved in the espionage activities of the Soviet Union in the United States, fabricating passports, recruiting agents, and accumulating and passing along confidential and secret information.\n\nIn October 1947, Peters was served with an arrest warrant for alleged violation of the Immigration Act of 1924, which required alien immigrants in America to possess a valid visa. On August 3, 1948, while appearing under subpoena before the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC), Whittaker Chambers identified Peters as a spy. Later that month, Peters appeared under subpoena before HUAC but did not cooperate. He invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer sensitive questions. On May 8, 1949, Peters left for communist Hungary to avoid imminent deportation by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Peters adopted the name \"József Péter\" and remained in Hungary until his death in 1990.\n\nSándor Goldberger (or Alexander Goldberger) was born August 11, 1894 in the town of Csap, Ruthenia, in the northeastern part of the Kingdom of Hungary. There were about 3,000 people in the town at the time of Sándor's birth, including a substantial number of ethnic Jews like the Goldbergers who had fled from official and popular repression in the Russian Empire.\n\nMany of the Jews of throughout the Kingdom of Hungary attempted to assimilate into society by the adoption of local language and customs, speaking Hungarian rather than Yiddish and, in general, attempting to become, in the words of one scholar, \"more Magyar than the Magyars themselves.\" Peters's biographer notes that this seems to have been the case with the Goldberger family, who apparently spoke Hungarian in the home and who gave all three of their sons (Sándor, József, and Imre) ethnic Hungarian names.\n\nLike most other Jewish families in Csap, the Goldberger family was poor, with Sándor's father working as a train brakeman before leaving to join his wife running a restaurant. The family seems to have been secular rather than actively religious members of the Jewish faith, but it remains possible that they held nominal membership in a local synagogue.\n\nIn 1899, Sándor was sent to the large city of Debrecen to live with his grandfather, where educational opportunities were brighter than those of Csap. Sándor attended and graduated from primary school and gymnasium in that city. He apparently developed an affinity for the workers movement at a similarly early age, influenced by his grandfather and an uncle who were active participants in the railroad and machinist unions.\n\nFollowing his graduation from gymnasium in 1912, Sándor decided to become a lawyer, enrolling in the law school at the University of Kolozsvár in Transylvania. He did not attend courses in that city, however, instead studying law on his own in Debrecen and returning only to take examinations. (Whittaker Chambers stated in his memoirs that, \"He had studied law at the university of Debrecen in Hungary.\") To support himself, Sándor worked briefly in an office job before taking a position teaching at the gymnasium in Debrecen.\n\nWith the coming of World War I in the summer of 1914, Sándor was drafted into the Austro-Hungarian Army, receiving training in the infantry. Sándor was selected for officer training and early in 1915, he received a commission as a Lieutenant in the infantry reserve. Sándor was assigned to the Italian Front, where he remained for the duration of the war.\n\nWith the war coming to a close, Sándor returned to his hometown of Csap, where he came into contact with radicalized friends espousing Marxist ideas about the imperialist nature of the war and touting the new social system in the process of being established in the wake of the Russian Revolution. Sándor was won over to the Bolshevik cause and, together with four former prisoners of war who were released from Russian captivity in 1918, became one of the founders of the first local group of the Communist Party of Hungary in Csap.\n\nDuring the brief Hungarian Soviet Republic headed by Béla Kun in 1919, Sándor served briefly on the governing council of Ung County. He managed to escape repression during the so-called White Terror after the collapse of the Hungarian Soviet regime, apparently benefiting from the 1920 Treaty of Trianon, which made Carpathian Ruthenia part of Czechoslovakia.\n\nPeters emigrated to the United States in 1924 and became an organizer for the Communist Party USA, concentrating his efforts in the party's Hungarian language section. Peters was a delegate to the Sixth Congress of the Communist International in Moscow in 1928 and was appointed head of the party's National Minorities Department in 1929.\n\nBy 1929 Peters (using the name \"Joseph Peter,\" with no \"s\" at the end) was living in New York City and the Secretary of the Communist Party's Hungarian Bureau. He attended the CPUSA's 6th National Convention in March 1929 as the official representative of the party's Hungarian Bureau. He was also an alternate member of the governing Central Executive Committee of the party.\n\nAs organizational secretary for the Communist Party in New York state in 1930, Peters was put in charge of building an illegal apparatus, or network, designed to support Soviet foreign policy. CPUSA and Comintern documents at the RGASPI archive in Moscow show that he headed the CPUSA underground apparatus from the early 1930s until Whittaker Chambers's defection in 1938. Peters was sent to Moscow for training with the Comintern in 1931 and was made a senior intern in the Anglo-American Secretariat. Returning to the US in 1932, the Central Committee assigned him to work in the \"secret apparatus\", where he remained until June 1938.\n\nAround 1933 or 1934, Peters took over from Chambers's previous \"rezident\" handler. Chambers ascribed central importance to Peters' role: The Soviet espionage apparatus in Washington also maintained constant contact with the national underground of the American Communist Party in the person of its chief. He was a Hungarian Communist who had been a minor official in the Hungarian Soviet Government of Bela Kun. He was in the United States illegally and was known variously as J . Peters, Alexander Stevens, Isidore Boorstein, Mr. Silver, etc. His real name was Alexander Goldberger and he had studied law at the university of Debrecen in Hungary. In addition, I had myself, during my entire six years in the Soviet underground, been the official secret contact man between a succession of Soviet apparatuses and the Communist Party, U.S.A. Both the open and the underground sections of the party were under orders to carry out, so far as they were able, any instructions I might give them in the name of the Soviet apparatuses.\n\nIn 1935, Peters penned \"The Communist Party: A Manual on Organization\", which includes the following: The Communist Party puts the interest of the working class and the Party above everything. The Party subordinates all forms of Party organization to these interests. From this it follows that one form of organization is suitable for legal existence of the Party, and another for the conditions of underground, illegal existence...\n\nThe secret apparatus, under Peters, carried out surveillance, exposed infiltrators, protected sensitive party records from seizure, and disrupted rival communist and leftist movements such as the Trotskyists. Another of his duties included maintaining contact with the Ware group in Washington D.C., and he took over direct supervision of that group in 1935. The head of the CPUSA, Earl Browder, instructed Peters to co-operate with Soviet intelligence.\n\nAbout 1936, Peters recognized that some members of the Ware group had potential for advancement within the government so a decision was made to separate them from the group. Chambers became the courier between the GRU and the new group. The members separated included Alger Hiss, Henry Collins and Lee Pressman.\n\nPeters was removed as head of the secret apparatus two months after Chambers broke with the espionage ring in 1938 and was replaced by Rudy Baker.\n\nIn 1940, Paul Crouch (later an FBI informant) met with Peters (also Jack Stachel and William Weiner) in Memphis, Tennessee regarding \"underground matters,\" according to his SSIS testimony on October 26, 1951. Of Peters, Crouch said: Peters continued to work on the CPUSA's Central Committee staff on what a 1947 Soviet Communist party personnel report, called \"special assignments.\" An examination of the Comintern's records turned up two 1943 messages from the GRU referring to a GRU officer in Washington as having come across \"a group of workers singled out by the American Comparty CC [Central Committee] for informational work and headed by the CC worker 'Peter.'\" Though usually called \"Peters\" in the United States, in Comintern archives, his name is often rendered as \"Peter.\" \"Informational work\" was GRU parlance for clandestine activity.\n\nOn August 3, 1948, in testimony before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, Chambers publicly stated that Peters was, \"to the best of my knowledge, the head of the whole underground United States Communist Party.\"\n\nOn August 30, Peters, under the name \"Alexander Stevens\" and represented by Carol Weiss King, was subpoenaed to appear before a congressional investigating committee. He refused to answer any questions and left prior to deportation procedures for Hungary.\n\nIn 1948, Louis Budenz wrote that he knew \"J. V. Peters\" as \"Jack Roberts\" in 1936. \n\nIn 1949, Hede Massing testified during Hiss's second trial about meeting Peters and described her involvement in greater detail in her 1951 memoir.\n\nIn 1952, Nathaniel Weyl, another member of the Ware Group, named Peters as head of that spy ring.\n\nIn his 1952 memoir, Chambers refers mostly to \"J. Peters\" but also states that he knew him as \"Steve\" while serving in the underground. \n\nIn 1953, Bella Dodd testified that she knew of Peters' manual and also someone named \"Steve Miller,\" though it took her a long time to put the two together. Asked whether she knew him, she responded Well, that is an interesting question, because I knew the J. Peter manual before; I had read it. It had been given to me to read and study, and I knew a man by the name of Steve Miller, but Steve Miller was an insignificant little fellow who used to help with mimeographing at party headquarters. He was attached to the New York County committee. He was assigned to teach communism to some of the teachers, kind of take individual teachers who were rising int the party movement and give them special instructions. I thought he was just an insignificant little fellow until one day the authorities picked him up and I discovered he was J. Peters. He was engaged in using teachers throughout the United States for maildrop purposes, for revolutionary mail that was going back and forth from the Soviet Union to the United States. They would approach a pretty innocent teacher who came close to the movement and say, \"Would you mind if a letter comes to your address?\" Some mail would come to someone in Columbus or Cleveland or in California or in my section of New York, and the person would have no more relationship to that mail than the man in the moon. Peters is identified as assisting Soviet espionage in deciphered KGB cables and in the KGB documents listed in \"The Haunted Wood\" by Allen Weinstein and Alexander Vassiliev. Many years later, he was located by Weinstein in Hungary and interviewed for Weinstein's book \"’'.\n\nAfter his return to Hungary in 1949, Peters served in official Party capacities without prominence. In the 1980s, he wrote a secret Party memoir for the Hungarian party’s secret files, which become available to the public and formed an important basis of \"Red Conspirator\" by Thomas L. Sakmyster.\n\nPeters died in Budapest in 1990, \"barely noticed in Hungarian newspapers.\"\n\nIn \"Red Conspirator\", Sakmyster concludes that, as far as the Ware Group and related secret groups relate to Peters, they were \"conducted by largely on his own initiative... No Soviet agent ever served directly as his handler.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979676", "title": "Richie Richardson", "text": "Richie Richardson\n\nSir Richard Benjamin Richardson, KCN (born 12 January 1962) is a former West Indies international cricketer and a former captain of the West Indian cricket team.\n\nHe was a flamboyant batsman and superb player of fast bowling. He was famous for his wide-brimmed maroon hat which he wore in preference to a helmet against even the fastest bowlers. Richardson captained the West Indies in 24 Tests between 1991 when he took over from Viv Richards and 1995, winning 11, losing 6, and the rest ending in draws.\n\nRichardson was born in Five Islands Village, Antigua. He began his career with the Leewards Islands in 1982 as an opener.\n\nAfter his second season he was called up by the West Indies to tour India in the 1983–84 season. Richardson joined a successful West Indies Test team captained by Clive Lloyd batting in the middle order. His first tour started inauspiciously when Richardson lost his luggage and was left with few clothes. Veteran fast bowler Andy Roberts felt that Richardson was not getting enough practice as in the nets even bowlers were given a chance to bat ahead of him and by the time Richardson had an opportunity the main bowlers had finished. Roberts went out of his way to bowl at Richardson during the tour to make sure he had some preparation.\n\nOn 24 November 1983, Richardson debuted in the fourth match of the six-Test series, at which point the West Indies had a 2–0 lead, replacing Gus Logie who had bagged a pair in the previous Test. In his first innings Richardson too failed to score a run when was the victim of a poor umpiring decision. He was given out leg before wicket off the bowling oof off-spinner Shivlal Yadav though he had hit the ball. He was more successful in the second innings, making 26 before he was bowled, and the match ended in a draw.\n\nAustralia hosted the World Championship of Cricket in February and March 1985 to commemorate the founding of Victoria. During the group stages the West Indies faced Sri Lanka at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on a pitch with uneven bounce. Though the West Indies won the match, a delivery from Ashantha de Mel reared and hit Richardson in the face; with Larry Gomes, he was one of two West Indian batsmen to retire hurt during the game.\n\nLate in 1991, West Indies captain Viv Richards informed the West Indies Cricket Board of his intention to relinquish the Test captaincy and retire after the 1992 World Cup. Though Richards had publicly picked Desmond Haynes as his successor, the board chose Richardson to take over the captaincy and Richards was dropped from the team. Richardson supported the board dropping his predecessor, which led to ill-feeling towards him in Antigua, the home of both men. The West Indies never lost a series under Richards' leadership, so there was a great deal of pressure on Richardson. Under his captaincy, Curtly Ambrose and Courtney Walsh led the bowling attack and Brian Lara emerged as a world-class batsman. In the 4 years of his captaincy, the West Indies only lost one series – versus Australia in 1995 which was the West Indies' first series defeat since 1980.\n\nRichardson played 86 Test matches until 1995 scoring 5,949 runs and 16 centuries. He was very successful against Australia, hitting 9 centuries against them, and scored his highest score of 194 against India in Guyana in 1989. He also played 224 One Day Internationals including 3 World Cups.\n\nComing into the 1996 World Cup Richardson was under pressure as captain, and the tournament would prove to be his last international cricket. In the group stages the West Indies suffered a shock defeat at the hands of Kenya, prompting the Caribbean media to call for Richardson's resignation. Despite the setback, the team progressed to the semi-final where they lost to Australia; it was his last match for the West Indies.\n\nReflecting on his decision to retire years later, Richardson remarked \"I resigned and retired because I was suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome, I was burnt out and it was a struggle to continue playing cricket. Every day was stressful, everybody wanted a piece of you and I had no time for myself. I was training harder and trying hard on the field but I couldn't do what I wanted to do. I felt like I was selling myself and my fans short. They wanted me to continue, but if I had I would have got ill so it was time to move on.\"\n\nRichardson also played for Yorkshire in the English County Championship in 1993 and 1994. In 2009 he was signed to Thames Ditton Cricket Club in Surrey.\n\nAfter his retirement from international cricket, Richardson became the first high-profile signing by the English all-star club cricket team Lashings World XI, and is the current captain of the team. In 2006 he smashed a double hundred with included four sixes of a hapless Robert Saunders over. Since 2001 he has also played bass guitar in reggae band Big Bad Dread and The Baldhead, alongside Curtly Ambrose and the band has released several albums.\n\nIn January 2011, Richardson was appointed the West Indies' team manager for a period of two years, and was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Nation (KCN) by the Antiguan Barbudan government on 28 February 2014.\n\nRichardson was appointed to the Elite Panel of Match Referees by the International Cricket Council (ICC) on 21 September 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1979678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979678", "title": "Comics page", "text": "Comics page\n\nThe comics page of a daily newspaper is a page largely or entirely devoted to comic strips.\n\nOther features that frequently appear on the comics page are crossword puzzles and horoscopes. Other special pages in newspapers include the sports page and the society page.\n\nSome well known comics in the comics page is Garfield, The very first superman comics, and classics such as peanuts. The comic page was also used occasionally used to spread propaganda such as Korea My Home \n\nMany issues such as sex, narcotics and terrorism cannot or can very rarely be openly discussed in strips, although there are exceptions, usually for satire, as in \"Bloom County\". This led some cartoonists to resort to double entendre or dialogue children do not understand, as in Greg Evans' \"Luann\". Young cartoonists have claimed commonplace words, images and issues should be allowed in the comics. Some of the taboo words and topics are mentioned daily on television and other forms of visual media. Web comics and comics distributed primarily to college newspapers are much freer in this respect.\n\nViolence on the comics page is generally kept to a fantasy level. While black eyes and bandages covering wounds can be shown, the shedding of blood itself is prohibited in North American comic strips. Only the aftermath of spousal abuse is shown; the violent act itself is never shown on the comics pages. Most comics are episodic; with each storyline lasting for 3-5 days before being dropped in favor of a new storyline.\n"}
{"id": "1979688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979688", "title": "Meadows Center for Water and the Environment", "text": "Meadows Center for Water and the Environment\n\nThe Meadows Center for Water and the Environment, formerly Aquarena Springs and later the Aquarena Center, is an educational center in San Marcos, Texas, dedicated to the preservation of the unique archeological and biological resources of Spring Lake. Visitors can take glass-bottomed boat tours of Spring Lake and view live native animals and fish in the Discovery Center. \n\nThe function of the Meadows Center for Water and the Environment is to develop and promote programs and techniques for ensuring sustainable water resources for human needs, ecosystem health, and economic development. At Texas State University-San Marcos, the Meadows Center serves as an integrating mechanism for the university’s multidisciplinary departments that are involved with aquatic resources. Texas State is home to several departments and research centers engaged in critical scholarly work on water management issues. The Meadows Center at Spring Lake Hall houses the Texas Stream Team, a volunteer program that monitors the water quality of freshwater systems through the state.\n\nAquarena Center was established in 1994 when Southwest Texas State University purchased land previously used as an amusement park, including Spring Lake, an artificial freshwater reservoir which contains several of the San Marcos Springs.\n\nThe San Marcos Springs are the headwaters of the San Marcos River. The site contains more than 200 springs with water from the Edwards Aquifer and that discharge an average of of water daily, is one of the oldest continuously inhabited places in North America. Artifacts discovered in digs conducted from 1979 to 1982 date back 12,000 years.\nThe first Europeans to visit the springs were probably Spanish explorers in 1689. The springs were an important stop on the Old San Antonio Road and the Chisholm Trail. In 1847, former Republic of Texas vice president Edward Burleson purchased the land surrounding the headwaters of the river and built a cabin on the hill overlooking the headwaters. Two years later Burleson built a dam just below the springs to power a mill. This dam, which created Spring Lake, still exists today. A.B. Rogers purchased the property in 1926 and his son, Paul, developed a hotel there in 1928 and introduced glass bottom boats to the lake.\n\nSpring Lake has been visited by notable individuals including Robert E. Lee, Jay Gould, and Helen Miller Shepard.\n\nIn the 1950s, construction of a submarine theater and large spillway at one end of the lake to produce a swimming pool led to the opening of Aquarena Springs, an amusement park, at the site in 1951. Other features of the park were the Alpine Swiss Sky Ride (a Von Roll skyride), an Intamin 220 foot Sky Spiral that moved vertically above the lake and rotated 360°, and \"Ralph, the Famous Swimming Pig\" and \"mermaid\" performers that could be viewed from the submarine theater. The park also included a coin-operated arcade in which human visitors would \"compete\" in games like Tic-tac-toe against chickens, whose \"moves\" in the game were determined by pecking lights which appeared only on the chicken's side of the machine. At its peak, Aquarena Springs attracted 250,000 visitors annually.\nThe center added a Wetlands Boardwalk in a shallow area of Spring Lake. The boardwalk, made of recycled plastic lumber, floats on the water and circles a marshy area that showcases the flora and fauna of a wetland ecosystem.\n\nAquarena Center was designated as a \"critical habitat,\" subject to the Endangered Species Act, because the springs are home to the fountain darter, the Texas Blind Salamander, the San Marcos Salamander, the San Marcos gambusia, and Texas Wild Rice. The San Marcos gambusia may be extinct as none have been seen since 1983.\n\nThe main aim of the center is research.\n\nThe MCWE participates in underwater archaeology. It searches for Henry Morgan’s lost fleet while exploring caves in Mexico, Spring Lake, and shipwrecks.\n\nThe center uses unmanned aircraft (Unmanned Autonomous Vehicle) to capture photos and gather information for projects related to fisheries, wildlife, and watershed management and restoration. \n\nThe Meadows Center is dedicated to the sustainable management of the world’s freshwater resources.\n\nThey oversee the Spring Lake Management Plan, which is designed to protect healthy ecosystems, provide research and educational opportunities, and offer access for service activities. As active partners in the Edwards Aquifer Habitat Conservation Plan, they help ensure minimum continuous spring flows of the Comal and San Marcos Springs.\n\nThe Aquarena Springs Amusement Park was the actual location of the resort in the 1978 film \"Piranha\", directed by Joe Dante.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979690", "title": "KTRU-LP", "text": "KTRU-LP\n\nKTRU-LP (stylized as ktru) is the college radio station of Rice University, a private university in south-central Houston, Texas, United States.\n\nKTRU-LP broadcasts a freeform-eclectic music format on 96.1 FM; its programming includes modern classical, reggae, indie rock, screwed and chopped, spoken word and local experimental noise bands. During evening hours, the station broadcasts shows geared to particular musical genres and themes. The station is owned by the university, which maintains an FM transmitter atop Rice Stadium, and is managed by its students.\n\nThe current KTRU-LP license dates to 2015, but Rice's first foray into FM radio began in 1971, and radio at the university has a history dating to 1967.\n\nThe roots of KTRU began in February 1967 in a residential college at Rice, Hanszen College, where several students broadcast music in the Old Section part of the dorm using an unlicensed 2-watt AM station, using the call sign KHCR (Hanszen College radio) and the wiring of a buzzer system. The next fall, the station transformed into an AM carrier current station with wires running through the steam tunnel system connecting the dormitories to a studio located in the basement of the Rice Memorial Center using the call sign KOWL, a nod to the Rice University mascot.\n\nThe station moved to FM after a license was granted by the FCC to the Rice University Board of Governors. Since KOWL was already in use at the time, KTRU was chosen as a substitute. KTRU began operations in 1971 with a transmitter located in Sid Richardson College. Initially broadcasting at 10 watts, the students engineered an increase to 340 watts in April 1974 and 650 watts in October 1980. The broadcast day also increased from the initial evening-only hours to 10 to 12 hours a day on weekdays and most of the weekend. In 1981, KTRU expanded its broadcast hours to 24 hours per day. In 1987, a major expansion of the student center was completed, and KTRU's studios were relocated to the 2nd floor of the Ley Student Center.\n\nIn 1991, KTRU's transmitter was moved to the north of Houston, increased in power to 50,000 watts and was presented with an operating endowment by Mike Stude, the owner of Houston-area radio station KRTS (now KROI) and an heir of the founders of Brown & Root. This move enabled Stude's KRTS to increase from 3,000 watts to 50,000 watts and improve its own coverage without interfering with KTRU's signal on the second adjacent channel. While KTRU gained a significant increase in overall coverage area, the signal was weakened tremendously around the Rice campus, leading to the request and subsequent grant of a low-power translator broadcasting from the top of Rice Stadium on 91.5 MHz in 1999, in order to restore a strong signal around the entirety of the campus.\n\nIn 1997, a university committee released a report recommending expanding coverage of university programs to 12 hours of the broadcast day, the hiring of professional staff, and increasing marketing of the station, in addition to studio expansion and technology upgrades. At the recommendation of the committee, a professional General Manager was hired in 1998 with the Station Manager still staffed by a student volunteer.\n\nIn 2000, university administrators threatened to withhold financing and other resources KTRU received through student fees unless the station increased the broadcast air time devoted specifically to Rice University sports. As a result, KTRU more than doubled the number of sports games it broadcast per week. On November 30, 2000, student volunteers entered the station to host their weekly punk show and found that their slot had been preempted by a sports game without prior notice and they were expected to operate the board during the broadcast. The DJs protested by playing punk rock music concurrently with the game during its last hour. A university administrator called the station manager and demanded that he discipline the DJs. When the station manager refused, the university administration responded by physically locking students out of the station and replacing its programming with a satellite feed from the World Radio Network. The administration cited the station's by-laws which gives the university president ultimate authority over the station. Students protested the shut-down, including a silent protest outside the University Board of Governors meeting. The station shutdown and protests received coverage in the press and students submitted a petition in support of the student-run station with over 700 signatures. The lockout lasted 8 days before the station was returned to student control with joint oversight from the university administration.\n\nOn August 17, 2010, Rice University announced that it had been in negotiations to sell KTRU's broadcast tower, FM frequency and license to the University of Houston System in order for 91.7 to become a full-time classical music and fine arts programming station, relieving KUHF from all music programming and allowing it to become a full-time news station. The new station at 91.7, KUHA (since resold and now KXNG), would be operated as a not-for-profit outlet, with listener support funding the new classical music home. The FCC approved the sale and granted the transfer of license to the University of Houston System on April 15, 2011.\n\nOn February 14, 2011, Pacifica Radio's KPFT (90.1 FM) began broadcasting KTRU's programming on its HD2 channel.\n\nKTRU ceased broadcasting on 91.7 FM at 6 a.m. on April 28, 2011.\n\nIn the aftermath of the sale to the University of Houston, KTRU's programming continued to be broadcast, through an agreement with station owner Pacifica, in a digital-only format as the HD2 subchannel of 90.1 KPFT.\n\nKTRU returned to an over-the-air FM broadcast in Houston when it acquired a construction permit to build a 41-watt low-power FM at 96.1 MHz, licensed as KBLT-LP, and signing on October 2, 2015. Concurrent with the launch of KBLT-LP, Pacifica removed KTRU programming from its HD2 subchannel. The current signal has a coverage radius of from Rice Stadium, covering southwest Houston within the Interstate 610 loop. As a result, the station relies heavily on online streaming to reach listeners outside of its limited broadcast range.\n\nThe KTRU call letters, used by Rice FM radio from 1971 to 2011, had been claimed on May 17, 2011 by a new radio station owned by Grace Public Radio in La Harpe, Kansas (near Iola), after Rice abandoned them in the sale to the University of Houston. Grace Public Radio made it clear there was no desire to share the call sign with the university, for the new low-power facility to use; therefore, Rice accepted a random call sign given to the new facility by the Federal Communications Commission. There was no meaning behind the KBLT-LP call sign this facility initially used to legally broadcast.\n\nIn early 2019, the Kansas station was sold to new ownership who were more receptive in allowing Rice to reclaim use of the KTRU call letters. On August 21, 2019, Rice University acquired the right, through purchase, to once again utilize the KTRU calls as KTRU-LP; the $10,000 cost was fully funded by an anonymous donor. (The full-powered KTRU facility remains in Kansas.)\n\nThe station has promoted and sponsored independent and local music through sponsoring shows at local venues and on its university campus. The station organizes a Rice battle of the bands every year as well as an annual outdoor show featuring local and touring bands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979703", "title": "Municipalities of the canton of Geneva", "text": "Municipalities of the canton of Geneva\n\nThe following are the 45 municipalities of the canton of Geneva, as of 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1979705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979705", "title": "M247 Sergeant York", "text": "M247 Sergeant York\n\nThe M247 Sergeant York DIVAD (Division Air Defense) was a self-propelled anti-aircraft gun (SPAAG), developed by Ford Aerospace in the late 1970s. Based on the M48 Patton tank, it replaced the Patton's turret with a new one that featured twin radar-directed Bofors 40 mm rapid-fire guns. The vehicle was named after Sergeant Alvin York, a famous World War I hero.\n\nThe Sergeant York was intended to fight alongside the M1 Abrams and M2 Bradley in the U.S. Army, in a role similar to the Soviet ZSU-23-4 and German Flakpanzer Gepard. It would replace the M163 Vulcan Air Defense System and MIM-72 Chaparral, \"ad hoc\" systems of limited performance that had been introduced when the more advanced MIM-46 Mauler failed to mature.\n\nDespite the use of many off the shelf technologies that were intended to allow rapid and low-cost development, a series of technical problems and massive cost overruns resulted in the cancellation of the project in 1985.\n\nThe first effective SPAAG in U.S. Army service was the all-manual M19 Multiple Gun Motor Carriage, which consisted of twin 40 mm Bofors guns based on the same chassis as used for the M24 Chaffee. When the M24 and vehicles on the same chassis were retired, the turrets were taken from the M19s, modified and mounted onto the M41 Walker Bulldog light tank chassis to produce the M42 Duster. While capable for the era it was designed in, by the time it reached widespread service in the late 1950s it was clear that it was ineffective against high-speed jet-powered targets. The Duster was completely removed from service by 1963, only to be re-introduced briefly during the Vietnam War when its replacement never arrived.\n\nThe first proposed replacement for the Duster was the Sperry Vigilante, which referred to the six-barreled 37 mm Gatling gun proposed as the basis for a new SPAAG. Although the gun was extremely powerful, at some point in the late 1950s the Army decided that all gun-based systems were out of date.\n\nThe next proposed replacement for the Duster was the ambitious MIM-46 Mauler missile system. Mauler mounted a nine-missile magazine on top of an adapted M113 Armored Personnel Carrier chassis, along with detection and tracking radars. Mauler featured a completely automatic fire control system, with the operators simply selecting targets and pressing \"OK\". It would be able to respond to low-flying high-speed targets at any angle out to a range of about five miles. However, Mauler proved to be beyond the state-of-the-art and ran into intractable problems during development. Realizing it was not going to enter service any time soon, it was downgraded to a technology demonstration program in 1963, and eventually cancelled outright in 1965.\n\nStill lacking an effective anti-aircraft system, the Army started development of two stop-gap systems that were meant to operate in concert as the \"Chaparral-Vulcan Air Defense System\". The M163 VADS combined the M61 Vulcan cannon, the M113 chassis, and an all-optical fire control system with a simple lead-computing gunsight. Suitable for \"snap shots\" against nearby targets, the VADS system was equipped only with a small ranging radar for the gunsight, its firing range being too small to justify a larger tracking radar.\n\nVADS was intended to operate in concert with the MIM-72 Chaparral missile system, which combined the AIM-9 Sidewinder missile with a more heavily modified version of the M113 chassis. The Chaparral's AIM-9D missiles were capable of tail-chase launches only, but offered ranges up to 5 miles. Also using an all-optical firing system, the Chaparral nevertheless required the operator to \"settle\" the missiles on the target for a period of time to allow them to lock on, limiting its ability to deal with quickly moving targets. Both vehicles were optionally supported by the AN/MPQ-49 Forward Area Alerting Radar (FAAR), but this system was towed by the Gama Goat and could not be used near the front lines. The pair of weapons was, at best, a nuisance to the enemy and had limited performance against modern aircraft.\n\nAt one point the Army started to become concerned about developments in sensor technologies that would allow attacks by fixed-wing aircraft at night or in bad weather. They developed a requirement for a weapon system able to operate using FLIR and a laser rangefinder in order to counter these threats. However, the rest of the military establishment disapproved of the idea; even the US Air Force was able to carry out only limited operations in bad weather, and the Soviets had a considerably less capable force in this regard. The idea gained little traction and died.\n\nDuring the late 1960s the combination of the helicopter and anti-tank missiles improved to the point where they became a major threat to armoured operations. The U.S. led the field with their TOW missile on the UH-1 Iroquois, demonstrating this powerful combination in combat in the Vietnam War's 1972 Easter Offensive. The Soviets initially lagged behind the U.S., but the introduction of the 9K114 Shturm missile on the Mil Mi-24 (called the \"Hind\" by NATO) in the 1970s offered the USSR a level of parity.\n\nUnlike fixed-wing aircraft, attack helicopters had the ability to loiter near the front behind cover and pick their targets. They would then \"pop up\", launch a missile, and return to cover as soon as the missile hit its target. Using fast-reacting wire-guided or radio-command missiles meant the total engagement time was kept to a minimum, as there was little or no \"lock-on\" time required; the operator simply fired as soon as they were clear of the terrain, and then adjusted the missile's flight path onto the target while it flew. Against these aircraft, the Vulcan/Chaparral combination was effectively useless.\n\nThe Vulcan could react quickly enough to the fleeting targets, but its 20 mm gun had an effective range of only about 1,200 meters, far shorter than the 3,000 to 5,000 meters range of the 9K114. While the Chaparral had enough range to engage the \"Hind\", its lengthy lock-on period meant the Hind would have hit its target and hidden behind terrain again before the Sidewinder would reach it. Additionally, the older Sidewinder missiles used on the Chaparral homed in on exhaust, and had limited capability against helicopters faced head-on.\n\nThe limited effectiveness of the Vulcan/Chaparral was not the only problem the US Army was facing in the late 1970s. At the time they were also in the process of introducing the new M1 Abrams and M2 Bradley vehicles, which had dramatically improved cross-country performance. The M113-based Vulcan and Chaparral could not keep up with them on the advance, which would leave the new vehicles open to attack in a fast moving front.\n\nFinally, the Soviets were widely introducing the ZSU-23-4 \"Shilka\" SPAAG, which was cause for some concern after it appeared in the Middle East. Israeli pilots attempting to avoid fire from Syrian SA-6 batteries would fly low, directly into the Shilka's envelope. Several aircraft were lost or damaged. The Shilka proved that a modern SPAAG was effective against modern aircraft.\n\nFor all of these reasons, the Army developed the \"Advanced Radar-directed Gun Air Defense System\" (ARGADS) requirement for a new weapon system combining the reaction speed of the Vulcan with the range of the Chaparral, and placing them on a chassis that could keep up with the new tanks in combat. They also worked in the earlier FLIR/laser requirement. The system was later renamed \"Division Air Defense\" (DIVAD).\n\nAt the time, most U.S. military policy was based on the US Air Force quickly gaining air superiority and holding it throughout a conflict. In keeping with this, the Army had previously placed relatively low priority on anti-aircraft weapons. This gave them time to mature through testing and shakedowns. In the case of DIVADs the threat was considered so serious and rapidly developing that the Army decided to skip the traditional development period and try to go straight into production by using a number of \"off-the-shelf\" parts.\n\nColonel Russell Parker testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee in March 1977 that \"We expect this somewhat unorthodox approach to permit a much reduced development time, thus resulting in an earliest fielding date, albeit with higher but acceptable risks... the manufacturer will be required by the fixed price warranty provisions, to correct deficiencies.\" It was claimed that this would cut up to five years from the development cycle, although it would require problems to be found in service and fixed on the operational vehicles.\n\nColonel Parker unveiled the DIVAD plan to 49 industry representatives on 18 May 1977. The DIVAD's requirement demanded that the entrants be based on the M48 Patton tank chassis, provided by the Army, which were held in large quantities in surplus depots. DIVAD called for the gun to acquire a target and start firing within five seconds (later extended to eight) of it becoming visible or coming into its 3,000 m range, and had to have a 50% chance of hitting a target with a 30-round burst. In addition to all-weather capability, it also needed to have optical aiming capabilities, including a FLIR and laser rangefinder.\n\nSeveral companies responded to the DIVADs contest.\n\nSperry Rand entered a system based on their older Vigilante gun, modified to fire the 35 mm round from the Oerlikon KDA series, widely used in NATO in the anti-aircraft role. The gun could be fired at 3,000 rounds per minute for anti-aircraft use, or 180 rounds per minute for use against ground targets, fed from a 1,464-round magazine. The aluminium turret was topped by two radars and an IFF system, all from Sperry.\n\nGeneral Electric entered a version with a small turret mounting their 30 mm GAU-8 Avenger cannon from the A-10 Thunderbolt II. It included a single search/track radar adapted from the earlier FAAR, although they later suggested an improved system.\n\nRaytheon proposed using the turret from the Dutch version of the German Gepard flakpanzer. Most of the turret remained the same as the original Gepard, including the twin 35 mm Oerlikon KDA cannons, but used Hollandse Signaalapparaten radars and an Oerlikon Contraves fire-control computer. Raytheon demonstrated that the turret, although designed for the Leopard 1, could be mounted on the M48 with some adaptation.\n\nGeneral Dynamics' entry also mounted twin Oerlikon KDA cannons, but mounted them side by side in a new aluminum turret, as opposed to either side of the turret as in the Gepard. They could be fired in either the automatic or semiautomatic mode, and their combined rate of fire was 1,100 rounds per minute from a 600-round magazine. The radar and fire control systems were derived from their Phalanx CIWS system, with the tracking radar mounted on the front of the turret, beside the guns, and the search radar on top. The turret also included independently stabilized optical sights and a laser range finder for manual engagements.\n\nFord Aerospace's entry was based around the Bofors 40 mm L/70 cannons, twin-mounted in the center of the turret in a fashion similar to the General Dynamics entry. The relatively large and boxy turret also mounted separate long-range search and short-range tracking radars on top. The radars were mounted on booms to give them a clear view of the sky, and both had the ability to be folded down to reduce the vehicle's height during travel. The tracking radar was a modified version of the Westinghouse AN/APG-66 from the F-16 Fighting Falcon. Like the GD entry, it also mounted a complete optical sighting and ranging system.\n\nSome critics claim that Ford's use of the 40 mm Bofors appears to have been a business decision, not a technical one. While the 35 mm round was already a widely accepted NATO standard and was technically well respected, Ford had a marketing agreement with Bofors. As Gregg Easterbrook later reported:\n\nHowever, the Bofors 40 mm L/70 cannon also had worldwide popularity and had become NATO standard back in the mid 1950s. In addition, FACC had developed a proximity-sensing round for the 40 mm, which increased probability of a kill, and the shell carried either a greater explosive charge or higher deadweight mass than the smaller anti-aircraft platforms. These factors would be important in the primary scenario for which the DIVAD was to be deployed, that being the large-theater land operations vs the Warsaw Pact.\n\nOn 13 January 1978, General Dynamics and Ford were given development contracts for one prototype each, the XM246 and XM247 respectively, to be delivered to Fort Bliss in June 1980. On schedule, both companies delivered their prototypes to the North McGregor Test Facility and head-to-head testing began. The shoot-off was delayed for two months \"because the prototypes which arrived at Fort Bliss test range were too technically immature.\" In the DT/OT II test series they shot down two F-86 Sabre fighters, five UH-1 Huey helicopters and twenty-one smaller drones.\n\nAfter the 29-month Phase One trial, Ford's entry was selected as the winner of the DIVADs contest on 7 May 1981, and given a fixed-price $6.97 billion development and initial production contract for deliveries at various rates. The system was officially named M247 Sergeant York when the contract was awarded. The decision was controversial, as the GD entry had \"outscored\" the Ford design consistently in testing, nineteen \"kills\" to nine by most accounts.\n\nFord's prototype vehicle started demonstrating problems almost immediately. The main concerns had to do with the tracking radar, which demonstrated considerable problems with ground clutter. In testing, it was unable to distinguish between helicopters and trees. When the guns were pointed upward to fire on high-angle targets, the barrels projected into the radar's line of sight and further confused the system. Additionally, the reaction time was far too slow; against hovering helicopters it was 10 to 11 seconds, but against high-speed targets it was from 11 to 19, far too long to take a shot.\n\nThe RAM-D (reliability, availability, maintainability and durability) tests ran from November 1981 to February 1982, demonstrating a wide range of operation concerns. The turret proved to have too slow a traverse to track fast moving targets, and had serious problems operating in cold weather, including numerous hydraulic leaks. The simple electronic counter-countermeasures (ECCM) suite could be defeated by only minor jamming. The used guns taken from U.S. Army stock were in twisted condition due to careless warehousing. Perhaps the most surprising problem was that the 30-year-old M48 chassis with the new 20-ton turret meant the vehicle had trouble keeping pace with the newer M1 and M2, the vehicles it was meant to protect.\n\nIn February 1982 the prototype was demonstrated for a group of US and British officers at Fort Bliss, along with members of Congress and other VIPs. When the computer was activated, it immediately started aiming the guns at the review stands, causing several minor injuries as members of the group jumped for cover. Technicians worked on the problem, and the system was restarted. This time it started shooting towards the target, but fired into the ground 300 m in front of the tank. In spite of several attempts to get it working properly, the vehicle never successfully engaged the sample targets. A Ford manager claimed that the problems were due to the vehicle being washed for the demonstration and fouling the electronics. In a report on the test, Easterbrook jokingly wondered if it ever rained in central Europe.\n\nIn February 1984 the Defense Department sent a \"cure-notice\" censuring Ford Aerospace for numerous \"totally unacceptable\" delays in the program. In March 1984 the Army took delivery, six months late, of the first production model for testing. One of the early models was reported to have locked onto a latrine fan, mistaking its return for a moving target of low-priority. Reporting on the incident in another article on the vehicle's woes, \"Washington Monthly\" reported that \"Michael Duffy, a reporter for the industry publication \"Defense Week\", who broke this aspect of the story, received a conference call in which Ford officials asked him to describe the target as a 'building fan' or 'exhaust fan' instead.\"\n\nNevertheless, the program's manager within the Army was cautiously positive. Major General Maloney said, \"The DIVAD battery-eight systems plus one spare-activated 1 November 1984, at Fort Bliss to prepare for tests, has been demonstrating 90% reliability for full systems capability. The systems have been able to operate in a degraded manner a further 2% of the time and have had an 8% inoperable rate.\" He later stated that the \"gun still had problems with software and electronic countermeasures, but my sensing was that it was certainly no worse than many weapon systems at this period in their gestation\".\n\nIn spite of the bad press and development problems, the Army continued to press for the system's deployment as they had no other system in the pipeline to replace it. To add to the problems, another generation of Soviet helicopter and missile designs was pushing their envelope out to 6,000 m, rendering DIVADs ineffective at long range. In response, the Army announced it would consider adding the Stinger missile to the DIVAD system, leading to even more cries about its ineffectiveness.\n\nAs Washington became increasingly fed up with the DIVAD's problems, Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger ordered a $54 million series of battlefield-condition tests. Congress authorized production money to keep the program alive through a test-fix-test cycle but with a caveat; the funds would be released only if Weinberger certified that the gun \"meets or exceeds the performance specifications of its contract.\" The tests were monitored by the Pentagon's new Director, Operational Test and Evaluation Office (DOT&E), mandated by Congress in 1983 to serve as an independent watchdog. The tests were carried out late in 1984.\n\nThe results were abysmal. Unable to hit drones moving even in a straight line, the tests were later relaxed to hovering ones. The radar proved unable to lock even to this target, as the return was too small. The testers then started adding radar reflectors to the drone to address this \"problem\", eventually having to add four. Easterbrook, still covering the ongoing debacle, described this as being similar to demonstrating the abilities of a bloodhound by having it find a man standing alone in the middle of an empty parking lot, covered with steaks. The system now tracked the drone, and after firing a lengthy burst of shells the drone was knocked off target. As it flew out of control, the range safety officer had it destroyed by remote control. This was interpreted by the press as an attempt to \"fake\" the results, describing it as \"sophomoric deceits\". From that point on, every test success was written off as faked.\n\nThe OT&E concluded that the gun could perform the mission as originally specified, but the tests also showed that the system had considerable reliability problems, many as the result of trying to adapt a radar system developed for aircraft to the ground role. Initial production tests run from December 1984 to May 1985 turned up a continued variety of problems, failing 22 of 163 contract requirements, and 22 serious failures in operational readiness. Contrary to the Army's earlier reports, OT&E Director Jack Krings said the tests showed, \"the SGT YORK was not operationally effective in adequately protecting friendly forces during simulated combat, even though its inherent capabilities provided improvement over the current [General Electric] Vulcan gun system. The SGT YORK was not operationally suitable because of its low availability during the tests.\" They measured the availability of the system at 33%, as opposed to the required 90%.\n\nOn 27 August 1985, Weinberger killed the project after about 50 vehicles had been produced. He said, \"the tests demonstrated that while there are marginal improvements that can be made in the York gun, they are not worth the additional cost-so we will not invest any more funds in the system.\" Noting that cancelling the project did not imply a lack of need, he started the process of studying a missile-based system to fill the same niche. This led to the Oerlikon Canada ADATS system, which suffered problems of its own and entered service only in the Canadian Army. The niche was eventually filled by the M6 Linebacker, an adaptation of the M2 with Stinger missiles. Although far less capable than the ADATS missile, the Linebacker is able to keep up with mobile heavy forces. The Linebacker has been retired from active service, while the M1097 Avenger HMMWV-based Stinger-equipped systems have been downsized.\n\nMost of the production M247 vehicles ended up as targets on air force bombing ranges. However, one is on display at the Sgt. Alvin C. York State Historic Park in Pall Mall, TN where its namesake hailed from, one is in the Wahner E. Brooks Historical Exhibit at the U.S. Army Yuma Proving Grounds, AZ, another is located at the AAF Museum in Danville, VA, one at the Fort Snelling Military Museum in Minneapolis, MN (now closed), and one located at the Arkansas National Guard Museum at Camp Robinson, North Little Rock, Arkansas.\n\nThe M247 Sergeant York was referenced in the movie \"Pentagon Wars\", where it, along with other Army projects, such as the Paveway Laser Guided Bomb, is berated for its lack of success in testing, despite the long and expensive efforts put forth.\n\n\nNon-NATO:\n\n"}
{"id": "1979707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979707", "title": "Eranos", "text": "Eranos\n\nEranos is an intellectual discussion group dedicated to humanistic and religious studies, as well as to the natural sciences which has met annually in Moscia (Lago Maggiore), the Collegio Papio and on the Monte Verità in Ascona Switzerland since 1933.\n\nIt has also been the name for a circle of scholars at Heidelberg (Germany) in the early 20th century. Among others, Max Weber and Ernst Troeltsch were members of the \"Heidelberg Eranos\".\n\nThe name is derived from the Ancient Greek word ἔρανος meaning \"a banquet to which the guests bring contributions of food, a no-host dinner.\" The circle at Moscia was founded by Olga Froebe-Kapteyn in 1933, and these conferences have been held annually on the grounds of her estate (on the shores of Lago Maggiore near Ascona in Switzerland) ever since. For over seventy years this event has served as a point of contact for thinkers from disparate fields of knowledge ranging from depth psychology and comparative religion to history, literary criticism and folklore, and provides a setting and a congenial group within which to discuss all things spiritual. Each conference takes place over eight days, during which time all participants eat, sleep and live together, thereby promoting a camaraderie which fosters an atmosphere of free and open discussion. Each year a new theme is addressed, and each participant scholar delivers a two-hour lecture on a topic of his choice relating to the theme — his/her contribution to the ‘banquet’ of ideas — thereby attempting to draw these multifarious thinkers into productive intellectual discourse.\n\nFroebe-Kapteyn established this group at the suggestion of the eminent German religious historian, Rudolf Otto. Froebe-Kapteyn was the Dutch foundress of the literary salon \"Table Ronde\" (\"Round Table\"), which is indicative of the Eranos’ ‘spiritualist’ bent. Indeed, Eranos was from its very outset interested in these issues and its first theme, ‘Yoga and Meditation in East and West’, was a truly pioneering subject in the early 1930s. Past themes include Ancient Sun Cults and the Symbolism of Light in the Gnosis and in Early Christianity (1943), Man and Peace (1958), Creation and Organization (1966) and The Truth of Dreams (1995). Participants over the years have included Heinrich Zimmer (Indian religious art), Karl Kerényi (Greek mythology), Mircea Eliade (history of religions), Carl Gustav Jung and Erich Neumann (analytical psychology), Alfons Rosenberg (symbolism), Gilles Quispel (gnostic studies), Gershom Scholem (Jewish mysticism), Henry Corbin (Islamic religion), Gilbert Durand (symbolic anthropology), Adolf Portmann (biology), Herbert Read (art history), Max Knoll (physics), and Joseph Campbell (comparative mythology). The Eranos conferences have resulted in the publication of a number of books. Anyone may attend the lectures upon payment of a small fee.\n\nSee also: \"Selected Bibliography\", http://www.eranos.org/content/html/start_english.html\n\n"}
{"id": "1979721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979721", "title": "Gallows Corner", "text": "Gallows Corner\n\nGallows Corner is a major road junction in Romford in Greater London, England. It was the site of the gallows of the Liberty of Havering, hence the name.\n\nDuring the 18th century, Gallows Corner was a lonely country crossroads and a favourite spot for waylaying coaches. It was close to the site for the gallows, thought to have been located north of what is now Eastern Avenue (East), on a grassy stretch below Masefield Crescent. The place of execution was then the gallows at Gallows Corner. There are several entries in the Romford Registers of burials of felons who were executed there in the 16th and 17th centuries. Ravensbourne School, for children with special needs, stands on the site of the gaol where the condemned were held.\n\nThe current junction is a large roundabout with five exits and a flyover. The exits are:\n\n\nThe flyover links Eastern Avenue (East) with the Southend Arterial Road. According to the \"Romford Recorder\" it was erected in 1970 By Terry and co, ; it takes the form of a system of prefabricated units (called the Braithwaite FliWay) that was cheaper and quicker to build than a conventional underpass or cast \"in-situ\" flyover. It is notorious for being angular, with sudden changes of slope rather than a smooth arch. The flyover was closed for several months in 2008 for remedial work carried out to the road deck, with several sections replaced. It was found upon final inspection that the bridge parapets had suffered severe corrosion. The bridge was fitted with emergency barriers which meant that traffic was restricted to one lane in the London-bound (westbound) direction only. It has since re-opened for two-way traffic.\n\nThe junction has an above-average number of collisions. Transport for London has put forward proposals to make the junction safer by changing the roundabout layout, adding new white lines and guidance markings, and extending the reduced speed limits on the approaches to the junction. Works were expected to start during spring 2018.\n\nThe junction is referred to in the film \"Layer Cake\".\n"}
{"id": "1979724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979724", "title": "Coast Guard Base Kodiak", "text": "Coast Guard Base Kodiak\n\nCoast Guard Base Kodiak is a major shore installation of the United States Coast Guard, located in Kodiak, Alaska. The largest tenant unit on the base is Air Station Kodiak. It is also the home port for several cutters. Historic elements that it includes are the Kodiak Naval Operating Base, Fort Greely, and Fort Abercrombie.\n\nThe station is the subject of the series \"Coast Guard Alaska\" on The Weather Channel and is prominently featured in the 2006 film \"The Guardian\" and is frequently referenced in the Discovery Channel series \"Deadliest Catch\".\n\nThe base began as the United States Navy's Naval Air Station Kodiak on 15 June 1941. Artillery emplacements survive on Buskin Hill, Artillery Hill, and at Fort Abercrombie (now a state park), but little remains of Fort Greely's barracks.\n\nOn 17 April 1947 the Coast Guard Air Station was commissioned as an Air Detachment at the navy base with one PBY Catalina aircraft, seven pilots, and thirty crewmen. On 25 April 1972 the order establishing Coast Guard Base Kodiak and CG RADSTA Kodiak was issued by the Commandant of the CG. CG Air Station Kodiak was already operating with three HC-130H airplanes and two HH-52A helicopters. Today, CG Air Station Kodiak operates five HC-130J aircraft, five MH-60T Jayhawk helicopters, and five HH-65C Dolphin helicopters.\n\nKodiak Naval Operating Base, Fort Greely, and Fort Abercrombie were together listed on the National Register of Historic Places and also declared to be a National Historic Landmark in 1985 for the role the facilities played in World War II.\n\nOn April 12, 2012, two Coast Guard members were found fatally shot at their work stations in one of the communications buildings on-base. After an investigation conducted by the FBI, Coast Guard Investigative Service, and Alaska State Troopers, the prime suspect (James Michael \"Jim\" Wells) was arrested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979727", "title": "Coast Guard Air Station Kodiak", "text": "Coast Guard Air Station Kodiak\n\nCoast Guard Air Station Kodiak is an Air Station of the United States Coast Guard located in Kodiak, Alaska. The largest in the service's Pacific Area, with a crew of 85 officers and 517 enlisted personnel. The largest Coast Guard Base based on acreage being 23,000 acres. It is a tenant command of Base Support Unit Kodiak, and shares its airfield with Kodiak Airport. The station operates MH-60 Jayhawk and MH-65 Dolphin helicopters, and the HC-130 Hercules fixed-wing aircraft.\n\nThe United States Navy started construction of a naval air station at Kodiak in September 1939, and the station was commissioned on 15 June 1941. Home to PBY patrol squadrons early in World War II, Kodiak supported the Aleutian Islands Campaign of 1943, also operating scouting and air transport squadrons. In October 1950, NAS Kodiak was redesignated as Naval Station Kodiak, and in 1972 the site was turned over to the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nCoast Guard Air Station Kodiak was originally commissioned as an Air Detachment in April 1947, with seven pilots and 30 enlisted men operating a single PBY Catalina. This was the Coast Guard's first aircraft permanently stationed in Alaska.\n\nThe station's primary mission is aerial search and rescue in a area of responsibility covering the Gulf of Alaska, Bristol Bay, the Bering Sea, and Alaska's Pacific coast. It is also responsible for patrolling offshore fisheries, deploying HH-65 helicopters aboard High Endurance Cutters operating off Alaska, and providing logistical support to various Coast Guard units in the area. The latter mission includes transporting aids to navigation personnel who maintain remote shore beacons that are only accessible by air.\n\nCGAS Kodiak is one of the main locations of the 2006 action-adventure drama film \"The Guardian\", starring Kevin Costner, Ashton Kutcher, and Melissa Sagemiller. The setting for the film is the United States Coast Guard and their Aviation Survival Technician (AST) program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979735", "title": "West Ham United F.C. Under-23s and Academy", "text": "West Ham United F.C. Under-23s and Academy\n\nThe Academy of West Ham United F.C. is recognised as one of the most successful in modern football, hence its nickname the \"Academy of Football\".\n\nThe introduction of the FA's new Academy system in 1998 has placed even more emphasis on the developing of young homegrown players and today the youth system at West Ham is more important than it has ever been. With the influx of many foreign players in the Premier League during modern times, West Ham United has been regarded as one of the few remaining clubs in top flight to continue producing and playing homegrown English players.\n\nThe Under-23 team is the most senior of West Ham's youth squads. The Under-23 team is effectively the club's second-string side, but is limited to three outfield players and one goalkeeper over the age of 23 per game following the introduction of new regulations from the 2012–13 season. They play in Premier League 2 and also compete in the Checkatrade Trophy.\n\n 'The Academy of Football' , or just 'The Academy', is a nickname of West Ham United. The title pays homage to the success of the club in coaching talented young players. The title, originally attributed to the club by the press, has since been officially adopted by the club and is displayed in several prominent places around the stadium such as being printed beside the club crest on the artificial surface surrounding the pitch at Upton Park.\n\nThe original tribute intended to reference the entire culture of the club, in much the same way as the Liverpool \"Boot Room\". It was not solely reserved for the education of young players, but also for the development of a modern approach to football from the roots up, as inspired by the success of the Hungarian national team featuring Ferenc Puskás that had humiliated England 6–3, and the great Real Madrid side of the late 1950s that dominated the European Cup.\n\nThe 'Academy of Football' term was first used in the early years of Ron Greenwood's reign as West Ham manager (1961–1974). Greenwood had inherited a young team of players from Ted Fenton and the club was noted for its reliance on home grown talent with Bobby Moore, Martin Peters, Geoff Hurst, John Lyall, Ronnie Boyce, John Sissons, Alan Sealey and Harry Redknapp all in the first team or periphery. Further foundations had been laid with stalwart Ken Brown at the back, Malcolm Musgrove on the left wing (who was to leave in the second season), and the addition of John \"Budgie\" Byrne up front.\n\nThe true heritage of this side, however, owed its pedigree to the practices put in place by the previous manager.\n\nFenton was praised as a forward thinking manager. He pushed for the establishment of \"The Academy\" that brought through a series of young players to augment a side that could not be improved with the limited finances available. Two of the signings he did manage to make were those of John Dick and Malcolm Allison. Other players of the day included John Bond, Dave Sexton, Jimmy Andrews and Frank O'Farrell (later swapped for Eddie Lewis) and Tommy Moroney all part of an original 'Cafe Cassettari' club started by Fenton as a result of the restrictive budget.\n\nCafe Cassettari sat opposite the Boleyn Ground, and Fenton organised a deal that saw meals and a warm welcome for the players of the club at a price the club could manage. It became a place for routine discussion of the team, and ideas and wisdom freely passed back and forth. The tradition of mentorship lasted long into the 1960s even after Fenton had moved on and saw future managers John Lyall and Harry Redknapp pass through.\n\nFenton introduced continental ideas to the team, revamping training methods and taking inspiration from higher ranked teams, and even inspiring some. Fenton had been impressed greatly by the all conquering Hungarians of the 1950s led by Ferenc Puskás and the Casseteri program and development of the academy were at the core. Ernie Gregory said (of the 1950s diet) \"We'd usually eaten fish or chicken and toast before then, but Dr. Thomas advised us all to eat steak and rice two hours before kick-off. All the other clubs copied us after that\". However, not all the changes were strictly down to Fenton, Musgrove attributed much of the training regime to Allison, going so far as to state that once the players were at the club (signed by Fenton) they were pretty much Allisons property. As well as being a student of the game himself, Fenton encouraged all players to take coaching badges and it's notable that many of his former players went on to coaching and managing roles after they retired. The Academy also involved, beyond the routine training and development of the youth and squad, actual tactical discussions between the players.\n\nAt this time, three players who had come through the West Ham youth development system were seeing some success in the England squad; they were Bobby Moore who debuted in 1962, Geoff Hurst and Martin Peters.\n\nIn 1966, these players played a part in England's victory in the World Cup.\n\nMoore was the most well-known of the three. He captained the England squad and was later named by Pelé as the \"greatest\" of all the defenders he had played against.\n\nIn the World Cup final against West Germany in which England won 4–2, Hurst scored the only hat-trick ever scored at a World Cup final match, and Peters scored the other goal. This gave rise to the West Ham supporters' partly tongue-in-cheek terrace chant:\n\n\"I remember Wembley,\"\n\"When West Ham beat West Germany.\"\n\"Peters one and Geoffrey three,\"\n\"And Bobby got his OBE!\"\n\nA bronze statue of these three players (and Everton defender Ray Wilson) holding the Jules Rimet Trophy aloft was erected in 2003 at the junction of Barking Road and Green Street close to Upton Park.\n\nDuring the next thirty years West Ham's youth academy produced many professional players. Notable Academy \"graduates\" during this time include Frank Lampard Sr. and (later Sir) Trevor Brooking, who both featured in the club's 1975 FA Cup win with a team composed solely of English players; no club since has repeated this accomplishment.\n\nSince 1973 the Academy has been managed by Tony Carr, himself a \"graduate\" but whose career was cut short by injury.\n\nPaul Ince played his first game for West Ham in 1986, and went on to win more trophies than any other Academy \"graduate\", albeit with Manchester United.\n\nIn 1996, the reputation of the Academy began a fresh revival with the arrival of Rio Ferdinand and Frank Lampard Jnr. That year, the West Ham youth team reached the FA Youth Cup Final, losing to a Liverpool side inspired by Michael Owen. However, both Ferdinand and Lampard would see success in subsequent years.\n\nIn 1999, the West Ham youth team won the FA Youth Cup, beating Coventry City 9–0 on aggregate. The team featured Joe Cole and Michael Carrick. Ferdinand and Carrick played against Lampard and Cole when Manchester United met Chelsea at the 2008 UEFA Champions League Final.\n\nRecent Academy \"graduates\" include Glen Johnson, Billy Mehmet, Freddy Eastwood, Anton Ferdinand (younger brother of Rio), Elliott Ward, Mark Noble, Jack Collison and James Tomkins.\n\nThe Academy is an important part of the club's identity and a regular source of players for the first team. When the club was relegated from the FA Premier League in 2003 the sale of young Academy stars arguably saved the club from financial disaster. It has been argued that if West Ham had kept all of their Academy \"graduates\" since Rio Ferdinand, they would currently be among the very top English teams.\n\nWith their promotion via the Championship Play-Offs in 2005 West Ham have returned to England's top league. Three Academy \"graduates\" had been key players in this achievement; Anton Ferdinand, Elliott Ward, and Mark Noble. In the 2007–08 season, manager Alan Curbishley handed three graduates, Jack Collison, James Tomkins and Freddie Sears, their debuts.\n\nGianfranco Zola, who previously worked with the Italy U-21's, stated his desire to continue the club's tradition of using homegrown talent. Noble, Tomkins and Collison all went on to play an important part as West Ham beat relegation to finish 9th in the 2008–09 season. Under him, Zavon Hines and Junior Stanislas have impressed after the August 2009 League Cup match against Millwall where they both scored in a 3–1 win.\n\nA case may be made that West Ham has been a 'selling club' in recent years, that is, a club that provides quality players to other clubs for profit but does not have the prestige or financial means to keep those players for the benefit of their own team. This reputation probably began with the sale of Rio Ferdinand to Leeds United in 2000. Since then, West Ham have sold six Academy \"graduates\" for transfer fees totalling over £50 million (including £18 million for Ferdinand, who was later sold on to Manchester United for £30 million). This amount has traditionally been much greater than the club's own spending on players (most of which was financed by the above income), and many of the players found success with financially stronger clubs such as Chelsea and Manchester United who are two of the English clubs capable of competing on a different level to most other teams.\n\nThough not a club, the England national team has included various academy apprentices or graduates in recent years, including Rio Ferdinand, Michael Carrick, Frank Lampard, Joe Cole, Jermain Defoe and Glen Johnson, as well as John Terry who spent part of his development with the club.\n\n\"\"The crowds at West Ham have never been rewarded by results but they keep turning up because of the good football they see. Other clubs will suffer from the old bugbear that results count more than anything. This has been the ruination of English soccer.\"\" – Ron Greenwood, West Ham manager 1961–1974.\n\n\"\"No way is it all down to me. It's very difficult to say why we've been so successful in youth terms; I suppose it's down to a number of factors but, most importantly, our recruitment area of east London and Essex is really fertile.\"\" – Tony Carr, director of Youth Development at West Ham 1973–2010, quoted in an interview published by \"The Daily Telegraph\" 14 June 2004.\n\n\"\"Why should we sell Rio Ferdinand? Are we a Premier League club or are we just a feeder club for bigger clubs? If we start selling players like Rio, where is the club going to go?\"\" – Harry Redknapp, West Ham manager 1994–2001.\n\n\"\"The biggest single contributor to the current England national squad is not Manchester United, Arsenal, Liverpool or Chelsea, but the West Ham Youth Academy.\"\" – \"ITV Football\" article, 13 September 2004.\n\nThe West Ham United Reserves Team was founded in 1899 as Thames Ironworks Reserves and they changed their name to West Ham Reserves in 1900. They joined London League Division One in the season 1899-00. In 2007–08 they were FA Premier Reserve League Southern Division runners-up on goal difference.\n\nBetween 1948 and 1956 West Ham entered an 'A' team into the Eastern Counties League. In 1952 they also began playing in the Metropolitan League. After leaving the ECL they remained in the Metropolitan League, winning the League Cup in 1957–58 and the Professional Cup in 1959–60, 1966–67 and 1968–69. They left the league when it merged into the Metropolitan London League in 1971, and instead entered a youth team into the South East Counties League, which they won in 1984–85, 1995–96 and 1997–98, before leaving when the FA Academy system was set up in 1998.\n\nThe West Ham United Reserves competed in the Premier Reserve League South until relegation from the Premier League. The side is now classed as a development squad coached by Dmitri Halajko and Steve Potts. Friendly games were usually played at Chadwell Heath and other clubs training grounds.\n\nSince the 2012–13 season, the team have played in the Professional Development League (now branded Premier League 2) for players under the age of 21 and a restricted number of over age players. Most home matches are played at Dagenham & Redbridge's Victoria Road ground, with three fixtures per season played at the London Stadium.\n\nPlayers (excluding scholars) who will qualify as U23s in season 2019–20 and who are outside the first team squad.\n\n\nThe West Ham Under-18s play in the U18 Premier League South. Home games are staged at Little Heath, Hainault Road in Romford, Essex. Tony Carr, a former West Ham player himself, was the youth academy director from 1973 to 2014. They have won the U-19 title twice in 1998–99 and 1999-00, when the Academy League was split into the U-17s and U-21s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese players either trained at the Academy but never played for West Ham first team or trained at multiple clubs in their youth.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979742", "title": "1949 Manitoba general election", "text": "1949 Manitoba general election\n\nThe 1949 Manitoba general election was held on November 10, 1949 to elect Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThis election pitted the province's coalition government, made up of the Liberal-Progressive Party and the Progressive Conservative Party, against a variety of opponents.\n\nThe social democratic Manitoba Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) was the coalition's primary challenger, while the communist Labour Progressive Party and an assortment of independent candidates also challenged the coalition in some constituencies.\n\nLiberal-Progressive and Progressive Conservative candidates ran against each other in some ridings, generally where no anti-coalition candidates had a serious chance of winning.\n\nThe result was a landslide victory for the coalition. Premier Douglas Campbell's Liberal-Progressives remained the dominant party in government, increasing their caucus to thirty-one seats out of fifty-seven—enough to form a majority government even without assistance from other parties. One of these candidates was elected simply as a \"Liberal\", but sat as a full member of the Liberal-Progressive caucus.\n\nThe Progressive Conservative Party, led by Errick Willis, remained the junior partner in government, falling to nine seats from thirteen in the previous election. Five independent \"Conservative\" or \"Progressive Conservative\" candidates were also elected, with all but one opposing the coalition government. These results provoked serious debate in the Progressive Conservative Party about the wisdom of staying with the coalition.\n\nThe CCF under Edwin Hansford fell to seven seats, down from nine in the previous election. Bill Kardash of the LPP retained his seat in north-end Winnipeg. Three pro-coalition independents were also elected, as was Edmond Prefontaine, an independent Liberal opposing the coalition.\n\nThe Social Credit League did not contest the election, having fallen into a state of internal disorganization.\n\nWinnipeg had 10 seats filled through Single Transferable Voting, St. Boniface had two seats filled through STV, and the other districts elected one MLA each through Alternative Voting, where a candidate had to have majority of the votes to be elected. In Iberville and Morris, where no candidates had the majority in the First Count, only the First Count totals are shown - the final vote count and the intermediate counts are not.\n\n\nParty key:\n\n(x) denotes incumbent.\n\nArthur:\n\nAssiniboia:\n\nBirtle:\n\nBrandon City:\n\nCarillon:\n\nCypress:\n\nDauphin:\n\nDeloraine-Glenwood:\n\nDufferin:\n\nEmerson:\n\nEthelbert:\n\nFairford:\n\nFisher:\n\nGilbert Plains:\n\nGimli:\n\nGladstone:\n\nHamiota:\n\nIberville:\n\nKildonan-Transcona:\n\nKillarney:\n\nLakeside:\n\nLansdowne:\n\nLa Verendrye:\n\nManitou-Morden:\n\nMinnedosa:\n\nMorris:\n\nMountain:\n\nNorfolk-Beautiful Plains:\n\nPortage la Prairie:\n\nRhineland:\n\nRoblin:\n\nRockwood:\n\nRupertsland:\n\nRussell:\n\nSt. Andrews:\n\nSt. Clements:\n\nSt. George:\n\nSte. Rose:\n\nSpringfield:\n\nSwan River:\n\nThe Pas:\n\nTurtle Mountain:\n\nVirden:\n\nOn August 15, 1950, Progressive Conservative leader Errick Willis resigned his seat in cabinet. The party formally left the coalition later in the summer, and John McDowell, Hugh Morrison and Dufferin Roblin joined the party caucus.\n\nSome Progressive Conservative MLAs opposed their party's decision, and chose to remain with the coalition side. Charles Greenlay and Wallace Miller chose to remain in cabinet, while James Argue and Joseph Donaldson sat as pro-coalition independents. Argue rejoined the Progressive Conservatives in 1953, while Donaldson resigned his seat. Thomas Seens did not initially support the party's decision to leave the coalition, but sat with the Progressive Conservatives in the legislature.\n\nRonald Robertson and Edmond Prefontaine rejoined the Liberal-Progressives, while independents Rod Clement and Walter Weir also remained on the government side. Harry Shewman appears to have sided with the opposition.\n\nSt. Andrews (dec. James McLenaghen, June 23, 1950), October 24, 1950:\n\nSt. Clements (dec. Nicholas Stryk, 1950), October 24, 1950:\n\nBrandon City (res. Joseph Donaldson, April 18, 1951), January 21, 1952:\n\nLa Verendrye (dec. Sauveur Marcoux, November 16, 1951), January 21, 1952:\n\nWinnipeg South (res. Charles Rhodes Smith, 1952)\n\nSt. Clements (dec. Albert Trapp, January 9, 1953)\n\nCypress (dec. James Christie, January 19, 1953)\n\nVirden (dec. Robert Mooney, January 30, 1953)\n\nSte. Rose (dec. Maurice MacCarthy, June 8, 1953)\n"}
{"id": "1979757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979757", "title": "FF4", "text": "FF4\n\nFF4 may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1979767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979767", "title": "Kyrenia ship", "text": "Kyrenia ship\n\nThe Kyrenia ship is the wreck of a 4th-century BC Greek merchant ship. It was discovered by Greek-Cypriot diving instructor Andreas Cariolou in November 1965 during a storm. Having lost the exact position Cariolou carried out more than 200 dives until he re-discovered the wreck in 1967 with the help of James Husband close to Kyrenia in Cyprus. Michael Katzev, a graduate student at the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, directed a salvage expedition from 1967-69. Preservation of the ship's timbers continued during the winter of 1970. Katzev later was a co-founder of the Institute of Nautical Archaeology. The find was extensively covered in a documentary by the BBC. The ship was considered to be very well preserved with approximately 75% of it in good condition. It found a new home at the Ancient Shipwreck Museum in Kyrenia Castle, where it remains on exhibit.\n\nThe ship sailed in the Mediterranean during the lifetime of Alexander the Great and his successors. She sank in open waters less than a mile from the anchorage of Kyrenia. The evidence points to her being taken by rough seas around the year 300 BC, when she was rather old, though piracy is becoming more likely.\n\nArchaeologists found spear points in the hull. While these could very well be used for the protection of the crew, rubber casts indicate that they were in contact with the lead sheathing covering the ship. This would suggest that the points were stuck inside the hull when it sank - possible evidence of an attack. In typical merchant ships the captain would have a balance, weights, and coinage for measuring and trading goods- all of which were missing. Even more surprising is that over a ton of cargo is absent from the wreckage. This leads researchers to believe that the ship must have been plundered at some point. What opens up this argument further is the presence of a curse tablet in the wreckage. A pirate, for example, would hammer the lead tablet to a part of the boat as it sank in hopes that the dark magic the tablet evoked would conceal the evidence of their crime. These facts, taken together, lead many to believe that piracy played a part in the vessel's sinking.\n\nThe ship was in use by merchants for 15–25 years. Knowing that the ship was old, archaeologists could use the repairs on the Kyrenia to better understand classical carpentry. The hull's age increased the need for the defense against water loss, so any repairs would give very specific evidence to the problems facing ancient ships. A break in the ship's keel was fixed, and the outside of the ship was protected with pitch and lead sheathing. These measures were taken to extend the ship's lifespan. Closer analysis of the rabbets in the hull's frame suggest that the mast step had been moved up to three, and possibly four times. This movement happens to be in close proximity with a well to collect bilge water. Because of this, archaeologists surmise that the movement of the mast step was to make way for a larger bilge pump, capable of dealing with the greater needs of the aging ship. The extreme measures to deal with water infiltration corroborate the frailty of this ship, which very likely contributed to the ship's sinking.\n\nAll these factors could have worked together to cause the sinking. The definitive answer cannot be known completely, but the ship is still important to scholars. The hull's near-complete preservation, along with the extent of its reconstruction, adds to our knowledge concerning ship building in antiquity.\n\nThe shipwreck of Kyrenia (keryneia) was discovered in November 1965 by the Kyrenian Greek Cypriot Diving Instructor and Municipal Councilor Andreas Cariolou while cultivating sponges at a sea depth of 33 metres, approximately a nautical mile NorthEast of the harbour of Kyrenia on the North coast of the Republic of Cyprus, during a stormy day. With the storm at the surface the anchor of his vessel started to drag on the muddy seabed. Cariolou noticed the cloud of the drag and followed the anchor's slow travel when he suddenly noticed the shipwreck. Happily bewildered he had to quickly recover and follow the drag of his anchor as his vessel was dangerously approaching the rocky coast. Understanding the importance of his finding and the danger of illegal excavations, he remained discrete about it informing only the director of the Department of Antiquities Dr. Vasos Karagiorgis and the President of the Republic of Cyprus. In late 1967 the Department of Antiquities of the Republic of Cyprus, invited a number of Underwater Archaeologists to study the possibilities of excavating at such a particularly difficult and costly sea depth. Amongst them was nautical archaeologist Michael Katzev of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology who was working at the time on a survey of the coast of Cyprus for shipwrecks. In that year, Andreas Cariolou took the team headed by Michael Katzev to the site.\n\nA British team of scientists from Oxford University (Dr. Edward Hall, Dr. Jeremy Green), using a \"proton\" magnetometer metal detector and probes, spent a month surveying the site to find metal parts and the approximate position of the entire ship and her cargo over an area measuring approximately 20 metres by 5 metres. During the summer diving periods of 1968 and 1969 the expedition consisting of more than 50 underwater archaeologists, students and technicians employed stereo-photography and other developed techniques to record the position of each object before it was brought to surface. Then the ship's wooden hull which was well preserved in the silt and muddy seabed was \"mapped\", labeled and carefully lifted in a number of pieces to the surface.\n\nThe objects in Kyrenia Castle are the original ones that she carried during her last voyage about 2300 years ago. From them we can learn about the life of those traders. More than 400 wine amphoras, mostly made in Rhodes, constitute the main cargo and they indicate that the ship made an important stop at that island.\n\nTen distinct amphora shapes on board suggest other ports of call, such as Samos in the north. Another part of the cargo of the ship was perfectly preserved almonds, 9000 in number, that were found in jars and also within the ship's hull. The 29 millstones, laden on over the keel in three rows cargo, but at the same time served as ballast. At the stone quarry, probably on the island of Kos, masons carved letters of identification on the sides of these stones. All these bits of evidence suggest that the ship sailed southwards along the coast of Anatolia, calling at Samos, Kos and Rhodes before continuing eastwards to her destruction in Cyprus.\n\nThe sailors fished during the voyage and this is revealed by more than 300 lead net weights found in the bow. Meals were probably prepared ashore, using a large casserole pot and a bronze cauldron. Four wooden spoons, four oil jugs, four salt dishes and four drinking cups recovered in the shipwreck suggest that her crew on her last voyage consisted of four seamen.\n\nThe ship's single sail had probably been taken down before she sank as the stern contained more than 100 lead rigging rings from a large square sail stowed there. The wooden hull, built mostly of pine (pinus brutia), was preserved for a length of almost 14,7 metres originally measured long, by 4,4 metres across. The ship was built by using the \"shell first\" ancient method, rather the opposite of today's method. Contrary to the contemporary wood boat building method where a complete skeleton of frames of the entire vessel must first be constructed, in this case, the planking from the keel and up was joined together using a mortice-and-tenon construction and then the frames were laid in, secured with an ingenious assembly of hollow cylindrical softwood inserts hosting internal copper nails passing through both frames and planks. The ship was intended for long service and underwent four major repairs in her life. In the last repair her owner(s) had a skin of lead sheathing of 1,5 to 2 millimeters thickness applied to her body to hopefully keep the old ship comparatively safe from woodworm and probably help watertightness. Carbon 14 dating of the ship's planks gives a date of 389 BC (plus or minus 44 years). Carbon 14 dating of the almonds points to a date of 288 BC (plus or minus 62 years). Hence the ship was very old the day she sank.\n\nPreservation and conservation of the ship's wood began in 1970 and lasted four years. The Turkish invasion of Cyprus in July 1974 interrupted the work.\n\nIn 1985, the President and founder of the Hellenic Institute for the Preservation of Nautical Tradition (HIPNT) Harry Tzalas in close cooperation with Dr.Michael Katzev and ancient ship re-constructor Richard Steffy with a number of Greek experts on traditional boatbuilding and underwater archaeology, completed a full-size replica of the ship, known as \"Kyrenia II\". The ship was constructed following an exact procedure as the one followed by the ancient boatbuilder of the ancient ship of Kyrenia. This was achieved at the Manolis Psaros boatyard in Piraeus Greece . Kyrenia II is often used as a floating ambassador of Cypriot culture, and has visited many parts of the world. In 1986, it visited New York City; in 1988, Japan; and in 1989, West Germany.\n\nFollowing the 1988 visit to Japan, the Japanese National Television Organization N.H.K under the project management of executive producer Yasuji Hamagami constructed the second full size replica of the ship of Kyrenia. The ship was named \"\n\nKYRENIA-3\" and is normally exhibited at the Nautical museum of Fukuoka or Hakata.\n\nIn 2002, the construction of a third replica of the ship began. The ship was named \"Kyrenia Liberty\". It was built with respect for the original design but with modern techniques. The ship was ready for the 2004 Olympic Games and set sail for Athens, Greece with a symbolic cargo of copper to be used in the Olympic bronze medals. This cargo was symbolic since the name Cyprus is associated with the Latin word for \"copper\".\n\nThe Kyrenia ship features on three of the Cypriot euro coins: the 10, 20, and 50 cents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979771", "title": "Konrad Raiser", "text": "Konrad Raiser\n\nKonrad Raiser (born 25 January 1938) is a former General Secretary of the World Council of Churches (WCC).\n\nBorn in Magdeburg, Germany on 25 January 1938, Raiser spent his childhood in Schwerin, Göttingen and Bad Godesberg. After graduating from high school in Tübingen in 1957, Raiser spent six months working in a steel mill in Dortmund, in a programme organised by his church, the Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD).\n\nHis father, a well-known professor of law, was for some years president of the national synod of the EKD. Raiser began studying theology in Tübingen in 1957, moving on to the theological school in Bethel, and later to the universities of Heidelberg and Zürich. He concluded his academic theological education in Tübingen in February 1963, was ordained in May 1964 and finished pastoral training in 1965.and started working with the World Council of Churches, first in the department for Faith and Order.\n\nHe later became the Deputy General Secretary. Leaving the WCC in 1983, Raiser began to teach theology at Bochum University in Germany until he returned again to Geneva in 1992. In August 1992, the WCC Central Committee elected Raiser as general secretary for a five-year term. He assumed his responsibilities in January 1993, and in September 1996 was re-elected for a second five-year term which ran until the end of 2002. Noting the press of business facing the Council due to probable changes to be recommended by the Special Commission, and other items, the Central Committee, meeting in Potsdam in 2001, extended his term by one year to December 2003.\n\nRaiser holds honorary doctorates from the Budapest Theological Academy (1992) and the University of Geneva (1996). He is the author of four books. His most recent is \"To Be the Church - Challenges and Hopes for a New Millennium\", published by the WCC in 1997. Before that he wrote \"Identität und Sozialität\" published in 1971, \"Ökumene im Übergang\", published in 1989 (of which an English translation, \"Ecumenism in Transition\", was published in 1991), and \"Wir stehen noch am Anfang - Ökumene in einer veränderten Welt\", published in 1994. Since 1970, he has written numerous articles and essays on theological and ecumenical subjects, including four entries in the \"Dictionary of the Ecumenical Movement\" (WCC Publications, 1991), for which he was also a member of the editorial board. As general secretary of the WCC, he was editor of \"The Ecumenical Review\".\n\nIn 1967, he married the daughter of the physicist Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker and niece of the future first president of unified Germany, Baron Richard von Weizsäcker, Dr. Elisabeth von Weizsäcker. The Raisers have four sons: Martin (b. 1967), Ulrich (b. 1970), Simon (b. 1974) and Christoph (b. 1978). Both Baron Richard von Weizsäcker (1964-1970 & 1979-1981) and his niece Dr. Elisabeth Raiser (2001–2003) were Presidents of the Deutscher Evangelischer Kirchentag (German Evangelical Church Congress).\n"}
{"id": "1979772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979772", "title": "Altered Species", "text": "Altered Species\n\nAltered Species, early knowned as Rodentz, is a 2001 horror film directed by Miles Feldman and starring Allen Lee Haff, Leah Rowan, and Guy Veig. The plot is about a scientist who has found a way to regenerate damaged tissue in the body.\n\nA scientist, searching for a way to end cancer, creates a green substance. His assistant, Walter, gets rid of it by pouring it down the sink. Due to pipes in the basement having leaks, the substance falls in a spot where it is exposed to rats. When the scientist leaves, Walter invites friends over for a party. As the party continues, the rats, including a giant one, attack the partygoers.\n\nThe film was released on DVD in 2011 by Artisan Entertainment. It was released as a cropped full screen video. A special feature on the DVD is a commentary. A \"DVD Talk\" review said of the commentary, \"We are treated to long periods of silence punctuated by the occasional muffled laugh. When someone makes a comment, the rest of the people say things like \"yeah\" or \"that's cool\".\n\nA review by Staci Layne Wilson in her book \"Animal Movies Guide\", said that \"this ratty little fright-flick is cheesy at best\". Rob Lineberger, writing for \"DVD Verdict\", said, \"If only the filmmakers had followed their own tagline, \"Hide the cheese…\" The cheese is in full view, and it stinks to boot\". Noel Gross, writing for \"DVD Talk\", said that the film is \"Yawnsville story about a gaggle of cookie-cutter college kiddos who decide to get their party started at an abandoned building where a disgraced professor is trying to cure cancer by juicing lab rats full of glowing green goo a la \"Re-Animator\".\"\n"}
{"id": "1979773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979773", "title": "McEntire Joint National Guard Base", "text": "McEntire Joint National Guard Base\n\nMcEntire Joint National Guard Base or McEntire JNGB is a military airport located in Richland County, South Carolina, United States, 10 miles (16 km) west of the town of Eastover and approximately 15 miles southeast of the city of Columbia. It is owned by the U.S. Air Force affiliated with the South Carolina Air National Guard (SCANG).\n\nThe base is named for the late Brigadier General Barnie B. McEntire, Jr., the first commander of the SCANG and its first general officer. McEntire died on 25 May 1961 when he rode his malfunctioning F-104 Starfighter into the Susquehanna River to avoid crashing in the populated area of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe South Carolina Air National Guard was formed in December 1946. Today 1,250 members train at McEntire JNGS. About 900 of those are traditional Guard men and women. About 300 are full-time federal employees (technicians). About 50 are state employees (some of them are also traditional Guard members). The 169th Fighter Wing is the primary unit of the SCANG.\n\nThe host wing for the installation is the 169th Fighter Wing, which, as an Air National Guard organization, is operationally gained by the Air Combat Command (ACC)\n\n169th Fighter Wing contains:\n\nThe United States Army began construction on an airfield on land north of Congaree to be an outlying base to the Columbia Army Airbase. The original designation of the airfield was Congaree Army Airport, then Fort Jackson Airdrome, and finally Congree Army Airfield. Construction was completed on January 31, 1943 with the completion of three 4,500 ft runways.\n\nCongaree AAF was assigned to Third Air Force III Air Support Command. From January 1943 until May 1944 the airfield hosted various Army dive bombing training units. The 404th Bombardment Group (Dive) arrived at Congaree on 5 July 1943, departing 4 September. The 406th Bombardment Group (Dive) replaced it, arriving on 18 September 1943 and remaining until being deployed to Ninth Air Force in England on 18 March 1944. On 31 March 1944, Congree was removed from the jurisdiction of Columbia AAB, and on 30 April Congaree AAF was transferred to the United States Navy\n\nThe first Marines arrived in May 1944 to a deserted base. During May Marine Aircraft Group 52 (MAG-52) arrived with four F4U Corsair squadrons. The field was officially commissioned as Marine Corps Auxiliary Airfield Congaree on July 10, 1944. The base fell under the command of Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point. In October of that year MAG-52's mission was changed to that of training replacement pilots, was redesignated Marine Aircraft Group 92 and moved to Marine Corps Air Field Walnut Ridge, Arkansas. One of the fields major problems was a lack of bombing and gunnery ranges, which meant regular deployments to Marine Corps Air Station Parris Island for training.\n\nIn September 1945, after World War II, the only remaining Marine units were VMF-523 and Air Warning Squadron 14. By November 1945, all Marine aviation units had moved to MCAS Cherry Point, North Carolina.\n\nThe base was eventually turned over to the South Carolina Air National Guard and renamed McEntire ANG Base in October 1961 by Governor Ernest F. Hollings. It was renamed McEntire Joint National Guard Station in 2005 to reflect the joint presence of Army and Air National Guard units.\n\nThe mission of the 169th Fighter Wing (169 FW) is to maintain wartime readiness and the ability to mobilize and deploy expeditiously to carry out tactical air missions or combat support activities in the event of a war or military emergency. The SCANG operates as part of the Total Force of the U.S. military and is fully integrated with the active duty Air Force as a gained unit of the Air Combat Command (ACC) to perform its military mission. The South Carolina Air National Guard also has a state mission, to respond to the call of the governor in the event of natural disaster or domestic disturbance.\n\nThe 169 FW flies the F-16 Fighting Falcon, a single-seat multi-purpose fighter with the capability to fly at up to twice the speed of sound. The 169 FW was the first wing in the Air National Guard to fly the F-16. The 169 FW flew the F-16A from 1983-1994.\nIn 1994, the wing transitioned to the F-16C/Block 52, the newest, most advanced F-16 in the Air Force inventory. The 169 FW also flies a single WC-130H Hercules with weather reconnaissance equipment removed. This aircraft provides airlift support to the 169 FW, the SCANG and the SCARNG. Prior to operating the F-16, the 169 FW operated the A-7 Corsair II during the 1970s and early 1980s, the F-102 Delta Dagger in the 1960s and 1970s, and F-104 Starfighter in the 1960s. In the 1950s, a succession of P-51 Mustangs, F-80 Shooting Stars and F-86 Sabre aircraft operated from the then-Congaree ANGB.\n\nAlso located at McEntire is the 245th Air Traffic Control Squadron (245 ATCS). The 245 ATCS has the ability to perform air traffic control at fixed air bases and at remote sites.\n\nThe 59th Aviation Troop Command of the South Carolina Army National Guard (SCARNG) is also located at McEntire JNGB. Assigned Army National Guard aviation units and aircraft include Company A, 1st Battalion, 111th Aviation Regiment (A/1-111 AVN GSAB (Lift)) and Det. 2, F Co/1-171 (Medevac) flying the UH-60M Blackhawk, as well as 1st Battalion, 151st Aviation Regiment (1-151 ARB) flying the AH-64A Apache.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979777", "title": "Gold Beach (disambiguation)", "text": "Gold Beach (disambiguation)\n\nGold Beach was one of the Allied landing points in France during the Battle of Normandy.\n\nGold Beach or Golden Beach may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979781", "title": "Spirit of Memphis Quartet", "text": "Spirit of Memphis Quartet\n\nThe Spirit of Memphis Quartet was one of the great gospel quartets of the 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "1979786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979786", "title": "Bardonnex", "text": "Bardonnex\n\nBardonnex is a municipality in the canton of Geneva in Switzerland.\n\nBardonnex is first mentioned in 1153 as \"Bardonacum\".\n\nBardonnex has an area, , of . Of this area, or 73.6% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 3.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 23.6% is settled (buildings or roads).\n\nOf the built up area, industrial buildings made up 1.6% of the total area while housing and buildings made up 9.6% and transportation infrastructure made up 7.4%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 3.8% of the area while parks, green belts and sports fields made up 1.2%. Out of the forested land, 0.8% of the total land area is heavily forested and 2.6% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 54.8% is used for growing crops and 4.6% is pastures, while 14.2% is used for orchards or vine crops.\n\nThe municipality is located in the south of the Canton, on the Swiss-French border. It consists of the village of Bardonnex and the hamlets of Charrot, Croix-de-Rozon (Border Crossing), Compesières, Landecy, La Mure and Cugny. In 1851 the community of Compesières was divided by the municipalities of Bardonnex and Plan-les-Ouates.\nThe municipality of Bardonnex consists of the sub-sections or villages of Ravières, Compesières, Surpierre, La Croix-de-Rozon, Landecy, Charrot and Bardonnex - village.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Gules a Maltese Cross Argent.\" This comes from the Order of St John which had a commandery here starting in the 13th century.\n\nBardonnex has a population () of . , 21.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 5.8%. It has changed at a rate of -1.1% due to migration and at a rate of 6.1% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (1,788 or 85.4%), with Portuguese being second most common (76 or 3.6%) and English being third (63 or 3.0%). There is 1 person who speaks Romansh.\n\n, the gender distribution of the population was 49.7% male and 50.3% female. The population was made up of 816 Swiss men (37.0% of the population) and 281 (12.7%) non-Swiss men. There were 857 Swiss women (38.8%) and 252 (11.4%) non-Swiss women. Of the population in the municipality 477 or about 22.8% were born in Bardonnex and lived there in 2000. There were 650 or 31.0% who were born in the same canton, while 281 or 13.4% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 611 or 29.2% were born outside of Switzerland.\n\nIn there were 24 live births to Swiss citizens and 4 births to non-Swiss citizens, and in same time span there were 12 deaths of Swiss citizens and 3 non-Swiss citizen deaths. Ignoring immigration and emigration, the population of Swiss citizens increased by 12 while the foreign population increased by 1. There were 5 Swiss men and 10 Swiss women who emigrated from Switzerland. At the same time, there were 19 non-Swiss men and 6 non-Swiss women who immigrated from another country to Switzerland. The total Swiss population change in 2008 (from all sources, including moves across municipal borders) was an increase of 17 and the non-Swiss population increased by 18 people. This represents a population growth rate of 1.6%. The age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 26% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 64.9% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 9.2%.\n\n, there were 887 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 1,024 married individuals, 61 widows or widowers and 122 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 803 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.5 persons per household. There were 210 households that consist of only one person and 48 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 835 households that answered this question, 25.1% were households made up of just one person and there were 4 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 203 married couples without children, 305 married couples with children There were 69 single parents with a child or children. There were 12 households that were made up of unrelated people and 32 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\n\nThe \"Compesières\" Commandry and the museum of the Order of Malta and the Domaine Micheli in Landecy are listed as Swiss heritage site of national significance. The village of Landecy and the \"Compesières\" site are part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the CVP which received 23.48% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SVP (18.26%), the Green Party (16.03%) and the SP (11.17%). In the federal election, a total of 740 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 56.8%.\n\nIn the 2009 Grand Conseil election, there were a total of 1,320 registered voters of which 689 (52.2%) voted. The most popular party in the municipality for this election was the PDC with 18.8% of the ballots. In the canton-wide election they received the fifth highest proportion of votes. The second most popular party was the MCG (with 18.6%), they were third in the canton-wide election, while the third most popular party was the Les Verts (with 13.5%), they were second in the canton-wide election.\n\nFor the 2009 Conseil d'Etat election, there were a total of 1,318 registered voters of which 772 (58.6%) voted.\n\nIn 2011, all the municipalities held local elections, and in Bardonnex there were 17 spots open on the municipal council. There were a total of 1,548 registered voters of which 865 (55.9%) voted. Out of the 865 votes, there were 11 blank votes, 1 null or unreadable votes and 91 votes with a name that was not on the list.\n\n, Bardonnex had an unemployment rate of 4.7%. , there were 88 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 18 businesses involved in this sector. 139 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 20 businesses in this sector. 204 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 50 businesses in this sector. There were 1,122 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 45.0% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 292 workers who commuted into the municipality and 929 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 3.2 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 15.1% of the workforce coming into Bardonnex are coming from outside Switzerland, while 0.2% of the locals commute out of Switzerland for work. Of the working population, 16.5% used public transportation to get to work, and 63.6% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 937 or 44.7% were Roman Catholic, while 335 or 16.0% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 10 members of an Orthodox church (or about 0.48% of the population), and there were 46 individuals (or about 2.20% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 5 individuals (or about 0.24% of the population) who were Jewish, and 26 (or about 1.24% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 2 individuals who were Buddhist and 4 individuals who belonged to another church. 561 (or about 26.79% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 168 individuals (or about 8.02% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Bardonnex about 643 or (30.7%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 435 or (20.8%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 435 who completed tertiary schooling, 41.4% were Swiss men, 38.2% were Swiss women, 13.1% were non-Swiss men and 7.4% were non-Swiss women.\n\nDuring the 2009-2010 school year there were a total of 443 students in the Bardonnex school system. The education system in the Canton of Geneva allows young children to attend two years of non-obligatory Kindergarten. During that school year, there were 34 children who were in a pre-kindergarten class. The canton's school system provides two years of non-mandatory kindergarten and requires students to attend six years of primary school, with some of the children attending smaller, specialized classes. In Bardonnex there were 66 students in kindergarten or primary school and 4 students were in the special, smaller classes. The secondary school program consists of three lower, obligatory years of schooling, followed by three to five years of optional, advanced schools. There were 66 lower secondary students who attended school in Bardonnex. There were 119 upper secondary students from the municipality along with 11 students who were in a professional, non-university track program. An additional 58 students attended a private school.\n\n, there were 13 students in Bardonnex who came from another municipality, while 206 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n"}
{"id": "1979799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979799", "title": "Shitao", "text": "Shitao\n\nShitao or Shi Tao (; 1642–1707), born into the Ming dynasty imperial clan as Zhu Ruoji (朱若極), was a Chinese landscape painter in the early Qing Dynasty (1644–1911).\n\nBorn in Quanzhou County in Guangxi province, Shitao was a member of the royal house descended from the elder brother of Zhu Yuanzhang. He narrowly avoided catastrophe in 1644 when the Ming Dynasty fell to invading Manchus and civil rebellion. Having escaped by chance from the fate to which his lineage would have assigned him, He assumed the name Yuanji Shitao no later than 1651 when he became a Buddhist monk.\n\nHe moved from Wuchang, where he began his religious instruction, to Anhui in the 1660s. Throughout the 1680s he lived in Nanjing and Yangzhou, and in 1690 he moved to Beijing to find patronage for his promotion within the monastic system. Frustrated by his failure to find a patron, Shitao converted to Daoism in 1693 and returned to Yangzhou where he remained until his death in 1707. In his late years, he is said to have greeted Kangxi Emperor visiting Yangzhou. Geyuan Garden grows Chinese bamboo variations that Shitao himself loved.\n\nShitao used over two dozen courtesy names during his life. Both like and unlike Bada Shanren, his feelings for his family history can be deeply felt from these.\n\nAmong the most commonly used names were Shitao (Stone Wave - 石涛), Daoji (道濟; Tao-chi), Kugua Heshang (Bitter Gourd Monk -苦瓜和尚), Yuan Ji (Origin of Salvation - 原濟), Xia Zunzhe (Honorable Blind One - 瞎尊者, blind to worldly desires), Dadizi (The Cleansed One - 大滌子).\n\nAs a buddhist convert, he was also known with the monastic name Yuan Ji (原濟)\n\nDa Dizi was taken when Shitao renounced his Buddhism and turned to Daoism. It was also the name he used for his home in Yangzhou (Da Di Hall - 大滌堂).\n\nShitao is one of the most famous individualist painters of the early Qing years. The art he created was revolutionary in its transgressions of the rigidly codified techniques and styles that dictated what was considered beautiful. Imitation was valued over innovation, and although Shitao was clearly influenced by his predecessors (namely Ni Zan and Li Yong), his art breaks with theirs in several new and fascinating ways.\n\nHis formal innovations in depiction include drawing attention to the act of painting itself through his use of washes and bold, impressionistic brushstrokes, as well as an interest in subjective perspective and the use of negative or white space to suggest distance. Shi Tao's stylistic innovations are difficult to place in the context of the period. In a colophon dated 1686, Shitao wrote: \"In painting, there are the Southern and the Northern schools, and in calligraphy, the methods of the Two Wangs (Wang Xizhi and his son Wang Xianzhi). Zhang Rong (443–497) once remarked, 'I regret not that I do not share the Two Wangs' methods, but that the Two Wangs did not share my methods.' If someone asks whether I [Shitao] follow the Southern or the Northern School, or whether either school follows me, I hold my belly laughing and reply, 'I always use my own method!'\"\n\nShitao wrote several theoretical works, including \"Sayings on Painting from Monk Bitter Gourd (Kugua Heshang)\". He repeatedly stressed the use of the \"single brushstroke\" orr the \"primordial line\" as the root of all his painting. He uses this idea in the thin sinuous lines of his painting. The large blank areas in his work also serve to distinguish his unique style. Other important writings include the essay \"Huayu Lu\" (Round of Discussions on Painting) where he repeats and clarifies these ideas, and also compared poetry to painting. He aimed to use paint to transmit the message of Zen Buddhism without the use of words. \n\nThe poetry and calligraphy that accompany his landscapes are just as beautiful, irreverent, and vivid as the paintings they complement. His paintings exemplify the internal contradictions and tensions of the literati or scholar-amateur artist, and they have been interpreted as an invective against art-historical canonization.\n\n\"10,000 Ugly Inkblots\" is a perfect example of Shitao's subversive and ironic aesthetic principles. This uniquely apperceptive work challenges accepted standards of beauty. As the carefully painted landscape degenerates into Pollock-esque splatters, the viewer is forced to recognize that the painting is not transparent (immediate, in the most literal sense meaning without media) in the way it initially purports to be. Solely because they are labeled \"ugly,\" the ink dots begin to take on a sort of abstract beauty.\n\n\"Reminiscences of Qinhuai\" is another of Shitao's unique paintings. Like many of the paintings from the late Ming Dynasty and early Manchurian sovereignty it deals with man's place in nature. Upon a first viewing, however, the craggy peak in this painting seems somewhat distorted. What makes this painting so unique is that it appears to depict the mountain bowing. A monk stands placidly on a boat that floats along the Qin-Huai river, staring up in admiration at the genuflecting stone giant. The economy of respect that circulates between man and nature is explored here in a sophisticated style reminiscent of surrealism or magical realism, and bordering on the absurd. Shitao himself had visited the river and the surrounding region in the 1680s, but it is unknown whether the album that contains this painting depicts specific places. Re-presentation itself is the only way the feeling of mutual respect that Shitao depicts in this painting could be communicated; the subject of a personified mountain simply defies anything simpler. Shitao also painted other \"reminiscences\" in this style, including \"Reminiscences of Nanjing\" that reinforced his legacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979807", "title": "Catherine of Taranto, Countess of Copertino", "text": "Catherine of Taranto, Countess of Copertino\n\nCatherine of Taranto (sometimes Caterina d'Enghien del Balzo Orsini) was the daughter of Mary of Enghien and Raimondo del Balzo Orsini di Nola and sister of Giovanni Antonio del Balzo Orsini.\n\nShe married the knight Tristan de Clermont (1380 – ), a member of the French family of Clermont-Lodève, who became Count of Copertino as part of her dowry.\n\nShe and Tristan had two daughters: \n"}
{"id": "1979808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979808", "title": "Tekken: The Motion Picture", "text": "Tekken: The Motion Picture\n\nThe film's story is loosely based on the first game, where Kazuya is the main character and Heihachi is the Head of the Mishima Zaibatsu, and \"Tekken 2\", which features Jun and Lei's investigation of the Zaibatsu's illegal activities, although it also incorporates some elements from \"Tekken 3\".\n\nAs a child, Jun Kazama watches as Kazuya Mishima is thrown off a cliff by his ruthless father, Heihachi, who deems him as weak and kind-hearted. She attempts to locate him, but fails and Kazuya is presumed dead. Kazuya, however, only barely survives and swears revenge, selling his soul to the Devil in exchange for his own survival.\n\nSixteen years later, Jun works as an Interpol agent and is assigned with a partner, Lei Wulong, to investigate the Mishima Zaibatsu for alleged inhumane experiments on animals by infiltrating the upcoming King of Iron Fist Tournament. Kazuya also plans to enter, hoping for a chance at revenge. Heihachi's adopted son, Lee Chaolan, attempts numerous times to have Kazuya killed in advance by Nina and Anna Williams, as Heihachi plans to bequeath the Mishima Zaibatsu to Kazuya should Kazuya defeat him at the tournament. Neither are able to succeed. Jun and Lei board a boat heading for Mishima Island, where the tournament will take place, and Jun recognises Kazuya when he slips aboard. She confronts him in the gym about his past and attempts to persuade him to stand down, but Kazuya refuses, especially after Nina and Anna attack again and only barely fail to kill Kazuya.\n\nOn the day of the tournament, Lei infiltrates the island's underground facility along with another competitor, Jack, who seeks out Dr. Bosconovitch in order to cure his terminally-ill young companion, Jane. As they fight their way through numerous androids, Jack's arm is gashed and Lei discovers he is also an android. They finally locate Bosconovitch, who treats Jane and confesses the Mishima Zaibatsu's illegal activities to Lei. Meanwhile, Jun attempts to reach out to Kazuya, and arrives in time to stop him from murdering Michelle Chang, a fellow competitor also seeking revenge against Heihachi for burning her village and causing her parents' deaths. Lee unleashes a pack of genetically-enhanced dinosaurs into the field to kill Kazuya. One devours Anna while Nina escapes. Kazuya taps into his inner power and kills all but one of them before reaching the tower where Heihachi awaits him. After fighting his way past Lee, Kazuya confronts Heihachi and the two fight. In response, Lee activates the island's self-destruction sequence, intending to kill himself and take his family with him.\n\nAfter taking a vicious beating, Kazuya succumbs to his power and viciously pummels Heihachi. Though it seems as if he will kill his father, Jun manages to reach into Kazuya's heart and enable him to expel the Devil, reverting him to his original self; Heihachi sucker-punches Jun and Kazuya and the three of them fall from the cliff. As the island begins to crumble, Lei, Jack, Jane, and Bosconovitch flee the facility; Jack sacrifices himself to hold the door open long enough for his friends to escape. The remaining competitors escape from the burning forest as Kazuya emerges with the unconscious Jun. They escape the island while Heihachi flees in a jet as the island explodes.\n\nSometime later, Jun is accosted by Jin, her young son with Kazuya; Kazuya's whereabouts are left unrevealed. Though Jun senses something is wrong, she dismisses Jin's concern and they walk home together.\n\nAs \"Tekken 3\" had only recently been released to arcades at the time of the film's release, several characters of that game appeared in the opening scene but do not appear in the actual film, such as Jin Kazama (adult), Ling Xiaoyu, Hwoarang, Eddy Gordo and Forest Law. Jin appears in the movie's epilogue, but as a child. Wang Jinrei and Kunimitsu also appear in the opening sequence.\n\nThe first OVA was released in Japan on January 21, 1998, with the second part being release on February 21.\n\nAn English adaptation by ADV Films edited both episodes into a single film, featuring a new soundtrack with alternative rock, punk rock and sludge metal music consisting of \"The Meaning of Life\" by The Offspring, \"Save Yourself\" by Stabbing Westward, \"Clean My Wounds\" by Corrosion of Conformity, \"Straight to Hell\" by The Urge, and \"Bonecrusher\" by Soulhat.\n\n\"Tekken: The Motion Picture\" was met with mixed reviews, and seen by many as an unsuccessful attempt to replicate the previous success of \"\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" called it \"a punch-drunk, derivative Saturday-morning cartoon\" that \"saps every atom of magic from its source.\" Anime News Network gave the anime a C+, calling it \"oddly mediocre in a genre filled with utter crap.\" Video game magazine \"Hyper\" gave it a score of 4/10, opining: \"The action bears no resemblance to the games, and the animation is total garbage. The plot is also disturbingly similar to \"Enter the Dragon\". This is one for all anime connoisseurs to avoid.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1979813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979813", "title": "V.M. Live Presents...Avail", "text": "V.M. Live Presents...Avail\n\nV.M. Live Presents...Avail is a live album by Avail. It was recorded at the Fireside Bowl in Chicago, on 29 June 1997, less than two weeks after the recording of \"Live at the Bottom of the Hill in San Francisco\". The album was released by Liberation Records in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979816", "title": "Bellevue, Switzerland", "text": "Bellevue, Switzerland\n\nBellevue is a municipality of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nThe village of Colovrex is first mentioned in 1257 as \"Colovray\". In 1855, the municipality of Bellevue separated from the municipality of Collex-Bossy Bellevue was mostly inhabited by urban, Protestant citizens of Geneva, while the farming municipality of Collex-Bossy was mostly Catholic.\n\nBellevue has an area, , of . Of this area, or 40.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 15.9% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 43.2% is settled (buildings or roads) and or 1.4% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, industrial buildings made up 1.1% of the total area while housing and buildings made up 18.6% and transportation infrastructure made up 16.8%. Power and water infrastructure as well as other special developed areas made up 4.4% of the area while parks, green belts and sports fields made up 2.3%. Out of the forested land, 12.0% of the total land area is heavily forested and 3.9% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 23.0% is used for growing crops and 15.4% is pastures, while 2.1% is used for orchards or vine crops.\nIt is situated along the northern shores of Lake Geneva and has grown substantially within the past two decades due to the housing shortage in Geneva proper. Mainly families have moved to Bellevue. A local state school and short distances to several international schools and the airport have made it the location of choice for a high share of expatriates.\n\nIt consists of the village of Bellevue and the hamlets of Vengeron, Les Tuileries, Valavran and Colovrex. \nThe municipality of Bellevue consists of the sub-sections or villages of Le Gobé, Bellevue - Grands-Bois, Les Grands-Champs, Bellevue - Rives-du-Lac and L'Ermitage.\n\nBellevue has a population () of . , 39.8% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 75.9%. It has changed at a rate of 60.3% due to migration and at a rate of 16.2% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (1,210 or 67.2%), with English being second most common (263 or 14.6%) and German being third (93 or 5.2%). There is 1 person who speaks Romansh.\n\n, the gender distribution of the population was 49.1% male and 50.9% female. The population was made up of 923 Swiss men (28.8% of the population) and 651 (20.3%) non-Swiss men. There were 1,010 Swiss women (31.5%) and 620 (19.4%) non-Swiss women. Of the population in the municipality 223 or about 12.4% were born in Bellevue and lived there in 2000. There were 406 or 22.5% who were born in the same canton, while 257 or 14.3% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 661 or 36.7% were born outside of Switzerland.\n\nIn there were 33 live births to Swiss citizens and 10 births to non-Swiss citizens, and in same time span there were 8 deaths of Swiss citizens and 3 non-Swiss citizen deaths. Ignoring immigration and emigration, the population of Swiss citizens increased by 25 while the foreign population increased by 7. There were 10 Swiss men and 3 Swiss women who emigrated from Switzerland. At the same time, there were 28 non-Swiss men and 24 non-Swiss women who immigrated from another country to Switzerland. The total Swiss population change in 2008 (from all sources, including moves across municipal borders) was an increase of 117 and the non-Swiss population increased by 68 people. This represents a population growth rate of 6.2%. The age distribution of the population () is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 28.8% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 63.5% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 7.7%.\n\n, there were 786 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 892 married individuals, 42 widows or widowers and 81 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 561 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.8 persons per household. There were 129 households that consist of only one person and 61 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 597 households that answered this question, 21.6% were households made up of just one person and there were 4 adults who lived with their parents. Of the rest of the households, there are 133 married couples without children, 254 married couples with children There were 39 single parents with a child or children. There were 2 households that were made up of unrelated people and 36 households that were made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 23.08% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the LPS Party (17.01%), the SP (16.63%) and the Green Party (14.78%). In the federal election, a total of 595 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 46.6%.\n\nIn the 2009 Grand Conseil election, there were a total of 1,388 registered voters of which 542 (39.0%) voted. The most popular party in the municipality for this election was the Libéral with 24.7% of the ballots. In the canton-wide election they received the highest proportion of votes. The second most popular party was the Les Verts (with 13.7%), they were also second in the canton-wide election, while the third most popular party was the Les Socialistes (with 11.9%), they were fourth in the canton-wide election.\n\nFor the 2009 Conseil d'Etat election, there were a total of 1,387 registered voters of which 636 (45.9%) voted.\n\nIn 2011, all the municipalities held local elections, and in Bellevue there were 19 spots open on the municipal council. There were a total of 1,791 registered voters of which 760 (42.4%) voted. Out of the 760 votes, there were 7 blank votes, 15 null or unreadable votes and 79 votes with a name that was not on the list.\n\nBellevue is home to the recently (2006) opened headquarters of luxury brand conglomerate Richemont and Webster University Geneva (since 1983).\n\n, Bellevue had an unemployment rate of 8.6%. , there were 8 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 5 businesses involved in this sector. 128 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 18 businesses in this sector. 1,062 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 74 businesses in this sector. There were 908 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 45.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 527 workers who commuted into the municipality and 748 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 1.4 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. About 13.3% of the workforce coming into Bellevue are coming from outside Switzerland, while 0.0% of the locals commute out of Switzerland for work. Of the working population, 15.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 68.1% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 552 or 30.6% were Roman Catholic, while 348 or 19.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 30 members of an Orthodox church (or about 1.67% of the population), and there were 40 individuals (or about 2.22% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 16 individuals (or about 0.89% of the population) who were Jewish, and 50 (or about 2.78% of the population) who were Islamic. There were 3 individuals who were Buddhist, 5 individuals who were Hindu and 2 individuals who belonged to another church. 411 (or about 22.82% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 344 individuals (or about 19.10% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Bellevue about 414 or (23.0%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 480 or (26.7%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 480 who completed tertiary schooling, 32.5% were Swiss men, 25.2% were Swiss women, 23.1% were non-Swiss men and 19.2% were non-Swiss women.\n\nDuring the 2009-2010 school year there were a total of 711 students in the Bellevue school system. The education system in the Canton of Geneva allows young children to attend two years of non-obligatory Kindergarten. During that school year, there were 71 children who were in a pre-kindergarten class. The canton's school system provides two years of non-mandatory kindergarten and requires students to attend six years of primary school, with some of the children attending smaller, specialized classes. In Bellevue there were 105 students in kindergarten or primary school and 9 students were in the special, smaller classes. The secondary school program consists of three lower, obligatory years of schooling, followed by three to five years of optional, advanced schools. There were 105 lower secondary students who attended school in Bellevue. There were 130 upper secondary students from the municipality along with 12 students who were in a professional, non-university track program. An additional 86 students attended a private school.\n\n, there were 205 students in Bellevue who came from another municipality, while 303 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979826", "title": "Highwayman (The Highwaymen album)", "text": "Highwayman (The Highwaymen album)\n\nHighwayman is the first studio album released by country supergroup The Highwaymen, comprising Kris Kristofferson, Johnny Cash, Waylon Jennings and Willie Nelson. \"Highwayman\", released through Columbia Records in 1985, was the group's first and most successful album.\n\nAll four musicians had long been admirers of each other’s work. Cash, who got his start at Sun Records in the mid-fifties, shared an apartment with Jennings between marriages in the late sixties, a time when both Jennings and Nelson were growing weary of Nashville’s stale recording practices. When Kristofferson emerged as a new voice for progressive country songwriting around this time, all three covered his songs, with Cash’s version of \"Sunday Morning Coming Down\" becoming a smash, and heralded the younger musician as a unique talent. Jennings, Nelson, and Kristofferson would go on to enjoy immense success as part of the Outlaw movement in the seventies, with Waylon and Willie recording several albums and embarking on lucrative tours. By the mid-eighties, Nelson remained the most relevant on the charts while the careers of the other three had lulled somewhat. As Nelson biographer Joe Nick Patoski puts it, \"The strength-in-numbers collaboration aimed to bolster the careers of four giants old enough to be regarded as legends but who were no longer considered suitable for contemporary country radio.\" In his 1996 memoir \"Waylon\", Jennings recalled:\n\nIn contrast to his close relationship with Jennings and Kristofferson, Cash barely knew Nelson, but within days, the foursome were in a Nashville studio with Moman (who had produced Nelson's two previous albums) trying out some material. Kristofferson later marvelled, \"I always looked up to all of them and felt like I was kind of a kid who had climbed up on Mount Rushmore and stuck his face out there.\"\n\n\"Highwayman\", consisting of ten tracks, was released as a follow-up to the successful single of the same name and the title track of the album itself. \"Highwayman\", a Jimmy Webb cover, hit the top of the country charts and was followed up by the Top 20 hit \"Desperados Waiting for a Train\", whose original version was released by Guy Clark. The album was entirely produced by Chips Moman. Marty Stuart also played guitar and mandolin on the sessions. From the first playback there was magic in their collective voices, and, with Moman's encouragement, the group, which they called The Highwaymen, assembled some other songs that spoke to the nostalgic appeal of these four veteran talents coming together. Nelson later admitted, \"You wouldn't think our four uneven voices would blend. But they did. They fit together like a jigsaw puzzle.\" The version of \"Big River\" on this album is significant because it includes a Jennings-sung verse that Cash omitted from the original recording. The album is also notable for the song \"The Twentieth Century Is Almost Over,\" written by Steve Goodman, who had died of leukaemia the year before, and John Prine, who Kristofferson in particular had been a fan and supporter of for years. \n\nThe group wasn't named \"The Highwaymen\" from the beginning. On their first two albums, they are credited as \"Nelson, Jennings, Cash, Kristofferson\". The official name which came to be widely recognized began to be used only in later years, and their last collaborative effort, \"The Road Goes on Forever\", was already credited to \"The Highwaymen\".\n\nRating it 4 out of 5 stars, William Ruhlmann of Allmusic wrote that \"the rest of the record...lives up to the leadoff hit.\" Kristofferson biographer Stephen Miller writes, \"At times \"Highwayman\" sounded over-produced, not least because of the occasional presence of synthesizers, and while it had a definite country feel, at times it leant towards an AOR style.\"\n\nFrom \"Highwayman\" liner notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979834", "title": "Ecaterina Teodoroiu", "text": "Ecaterina Teodoroiu\n\nEcaterina Teodoroiu (; born Cătălina Toderoiu; January 15, 1894 - September 3, 1917) was a Romanian woman who fought and died in World War I, and is regarded as a heroine of Romania.\n\nA Scouts' member, she had initially worked as a nurse but she subsequently decided to become a front-line soldier, being deeply impressed by the patriotism of the wounded and the death of her brother Nicolae, Sergeant in the Romanian Army. It was an unusual decision for a woman of that epoch, so she was sent to the front rather reluctantly. However, with the support of the Romanian royal family, soon she proved her worthiness as a symbol and as a soldier.\n\nShe is favourably compared to Queen Maria of Romania.\n\nShe was born in the village of Vădeni (nowadays part of Târgu Jiu), in the historical region of Oltenia, in the family of Elena and Vasile Toderoiu, both farmers. Cătălina had five brothers (Nicolae, Eftimie, Andrei, Ion, Vasile) and two sisters (Elisabeta and Sabina). After studying for 4 years in Vădeni and Târgu Jiu (at the Romanian-German Primary School) and graduating from the Girls' School in Bucharest, she was to become a teacher when the Romanian Kingdom entered World War I on the Allied side, in 1916.\n\nWorking as a nurse, on Ecaterina joined the civilians and the reserve soldiers fighting to repulse the attack of a Bavarian company of the 9th German Army at the bridge over the Jiu River, in front of Târgu-Jiu. Impressed by her bravery, the Royal Family invited Ecaterina to Bucharest on .\n\nOn , she went to the frontline to see her brother Nicolae, Sergeant in the , who was shortly killed afterwards, on , by a shell during fighting near Porceni (today Gornăcel, Schela, Gorj).\n\nWishing to avenge her brother's death, Ecaterina requested Colonel Obogeanu to be allowed to join the 18 Infantry Regiment as a volunteer. She would soon prove her military skills by using a ruse in order to avoid that her company, surrounded by the enemy, be taken prisoner: after announcing in German the decision of the regiment to surrender, Teodoroiu started shooting, killing several Germans and allowing most of the company to escape.\n\nNevertheless, she was later captured during fighting on the Rășina-Tunși-Peșteana heights on the night of , but managed to escape with light wounds by killing with a concealed revolver the German soldier who was guarding her. The Germans shot the escaping Romanians through the darkness and wounded Teodoroiu in her right leg. However, she brushed this aside and returned to the company that same evening. Teodoroiu killed at least two Germans during her escape.\n\nOn , Ecaterina was involved in the skirmishes close to Bărbătești and Țânțăreni. Soon later, the Germans reached the town of Filiași on . Fighting near Filiași on that same day, she was wounded in both legs by a mortar shell, evacuated to Craiova, then to Bucharest and later hospitalized at the \"King Ferdinand\" Military Hospital in Iași.\n\nTeodoroiu recovered from her wounds within months, being discharged from hospital on . On that year, she was decorated with the Military Virtue Medal (2nd Class) for her courage, as well as the Military Virtue Medal (1st Class) one week later. Previously having met Second Lieutenant Gheorghe Mănoiu (the brother of a former school colleague) in hospital, she requested to be allowed to join his as a voluntary nurse.\n\nFor her bravery, she was awarded the \"Scout Virtue\" Medal and the Military Virtue Medal, 2nd Class, on March 10, 1917. On March 17, 1917, she was awarded the Military Virtue Medal, 1st Class, made honorary Second Lieutenant (\"Sublocotenent\") by King Ferdinand and given the command of a 25-man platoon in the 7th Company (43/59 Infantry Regiment, 11th Division), commanded by Second Lieutenant Gheorghe Mănoiu. Thus, she became the first female Romanian Army officer.\n\nStarting with , the regiment was quartered in Codăești, Vaslui County. On , the 43/59 Regiment, part of the reserve of the 1st Army led by General Eremia Grigorescu, prepared to join the upcoming offensive. On the regiment left Vaslui for Tecuci, crossed the Siret and camped in the Malta Seacă forest, close to the frontline.\n\nOn , the commander of the 11th Division, General Ernest Broșteanu, kindly asked her to stay at the mobile hospital behind the front, but Second Lieutenant Teodoroiu strongly refused him, requesting to be allowed to join her platoon in the upcoming battle.\n\nOn , the 43/59 Regiment dug in on the Secului Hill, in the Muncelu-Varnița area.\nOn , the Romanian lines were attacked in force by the German 40th Reserve Regiment of the 115th Infantry Division. While leading her platoon in a counterattack, she was hit by machine gun fire in the chest (according to some accounts), or in the head (according to other accounts). According to the General Order No. 1 issued the next day by Colonel Constantin Pomponiu, the commanding officer of the 43/59 Regiment, her last words before dying were: \"Forward, men, don't give up, I'm still with you!\" \n\nAfter the war, Ecaterina Teodoroiu was elevated to the status of a heroine of the Romanian people. Henri Berthelot even named her the \"Joan of Arc of Romania\" for her outstanding bravery, patriotism and self-sacrifice.\n\nInitially buried close to the front, in Fitioneşti, her remains were interred in June 1921 in a crypt in the city center of Târgu Jiu. Her grave is honored by a monument erected in 1936 by Milița Petrașcu.\n\nIn 1921, the Regiment 43/59 Infantry became the honorary name \"Ecaterina Teodoroiu\". In 1937, by Royal Decree, the Girls' High School in Târgu-Jiu was given her name (currently the National College \"Ecaterina Teodoroiu\"). In 1938, her native home became a memorial house.\n\nSeveral monuments were erected in her honor:\n\nThe following films were made about her:\n\nHer wartime record was also a subject of Sergiu Nicolaescu's 1999 film \"\", starring as Ecaterina Teodoroiu.\n\nKathryn J. Atwood dedicated a chapter to Ecaterina Teodoriu in her work \"Women Heroes of World War I: 16 Remarkable Resisters, Soldiers, Spies, and Medics\".\n\nOn 31 July 2019, the National Bank of Romania announced that in 2020 it would issue the 20 lei banknote, which will feature Ecaterina Teodoroiu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979836", "title": "Welsh Dragon", "text": "Welsh Dragon\n\nThe Welsh Dragon (, meaning \"the red dragon\", ) is a heraldic symbol that appears on the national flag of Wales. The oldest recorded use of the dragon to symbolise Wales is in the \"Historia Brittonum\", written around AD 829, but it is popularly supposed to have been the battle standard of King Arthur and other ancient Celtic leaders. Its association with these leaders, along with other evidence from archaeology, literature, and documentary history, led many to suppose that it evolved from an earlier Romano-British national symbol. During the reigns of the Tudor monarchs, the red dragon was used as a supporter in the English Crown's coat of arms. The red dragon is often seen as symbolising all things Welsh, and is used by many public and private institutions. These include the Welsh Government, Visit Wales, and numerous local authorities including Blaenau Gwent, Cardiff, Carmarthenshire, Rhondda Cynon Taf, Swansea, and sports bodies, including the Sport Wales National Centre, the Football Association of Wales, Wrexham A.F.C., Newport Gwent Dragons, and London Welsh RFC, while the \"dragon's tongue\" (\"Tafod y Ddraig\") is the symbol of the Welsh Language Society. The Welsh Dragon is also one of The Queen's Beasts.\n\nIn the Mabinogion story \"Lludd and Llefelys\", the red dragon fights with an invading White Dragon. His pained shrieks cause women to miscarry, animals to perish and plants to become barren. Lludd, king of Britain, goes to his wise brother Llefelys in France. Llefelys tells him to dig a pit in the centre of Britain, fill it with mead, and cover it with cloth. Lludd does this, and the dragons drink the mead and fall asleep. Lludd imprisons them, still wrapped in their cloth, in Dinas Emrys in Snowdonia ().\n\nThe tale is taken up in the \"Historia Brittonum\". The dragons remain at Dinas Emrys for centuries until King Vortigern tries to build a castle there. Every night the castle walls and foundations are demolished by unseen forces. Vortigern consults his advisers, who tell him to find a boy with no natural father, and sacrifice him. Vortigern finds such a boy (who is later, in some tellings, to become Merlin) who is supposed to be the wisest wizard ever to live. On hearing that he is to be put to death to end the demolition of the walls, the boy is dismissive of the advice, and tells the king about the two dragons. Vortigern excavates the hill, freeing the dragons. They continue their fight and the red dragon finally defeats the white dragon. The boy tells Vortigern that the white dragon symbolises the Saxons and that the red dragon symbolises the people of Vortigern. If Vortigern is accepted to have lived in the 5th century, then these people are the British whom the Saxons failed to subdue and who became the Welsh.\n\nThe same story is repeated in Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"History of the Kings of Britain\", where the red dragon is also a prophecy of the coming of King Arthur. Note that Arthur's father was named Uther Pendragon ('Pendragon': 'Pen' (Head) and 'Dragon', being translated by Geoffrey as \"dragon's head\").\n\n's banner was known as or 'The Golden Dragon'. It was famously raised over during the Battle of Tuthill in 1401 against the English. The flag has ancient origins; chose to fly the standard of a golden dragon on a white background, the traditional standard that, supposedly, Uther Pendragon had flown when the first Celtic Britons had fought the Saxons to a standstill almost 1,000 years before, which had been passed down to his son king Arthur.\n\nHenry Tudor flew the red dragon of Cadwaladr ap Cadwallon as his banner, overlaid on a green and white field representing the Tudor House, when he marched through Wales on his way to Bosworth Field. After the battle the flag was carried in state to St Paul's Cathedral to be blessed.\n\nIn 1953, the red dragon badge of Henry VII was given an augmentation of honour. The augmented badge is blazoned: \"Within a circular riband Argent fimbriated Or bearing the motto\" [\"the red dragon inspires action\"]\", in letters Vert, and ensigned with a representation of the Crown proper, an escutcheon per fesse Argent and Vert and thereon the Red Dragon passant\". Winston Churchill, the then prime minister, despised the badge's design, as is revealed in the following Cabinet minute from 1953:\n\nIn 1956, this badge was added to the arms of the Welsh capital city Cardiff by placing it on collars around the necks of the two supporters of the shield. The badge was the basis of a flag of Wales in which it was placed on a background divided horizontally with the top half white and bottom half green. In 1959, Government use of this flag was dropped in favour of the current flag at the urging of the Gorsedd of Bards.\n\nThe badge is currently used by the Wales Office and is printed on Statutory Instruments made by the National Assembly for Wales. The badge was previously used in the corporate logo of the Assembly until the \"dynamic dragon\" logo was adopted.\n\nThere is a further badge for Wales, belonging to the Princes of Wales since 1901, of the red dragon on a mount but with a label of three points Argent about the shoulder to difference it from the monarch's badge. The badge became a part of the Coat of arms of the Prince of Wales by Royal Warrant. (A similar label of three points is used in his arms, crest and supporters for the same reason.)\n\nThis Royal badge was supplanted by a new official Royal badge in 2008, which eliminated the red dragon altogether.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1979838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979838", "title": "Tudor (name)", "text": "Tudor (name)\n\nThe surname Tudor, within the United Kingdom, originates from the Welsh forename \"Tudur\", Old Welsh \"Tutir\", the Welsh equivalent of Gaulish \"Toutorix\" and Germanic \"Theodoric\", which was conflated with \"Tewdwr\", \"Tewdr\", the Welsh equivalent of \"Theodore\". \"Tudor\" is also a common given name in Romanian, also equivalent to \"Theodore\". \"Tudor\" can also be a surname in Romanian.\n\nThe English royal dynasty, the House of Tudor (descended from the Welsh Tudors of Penmynydd), including prominent members:\n\nTudor, as a surname, may also refer to:\n\nAs a given name:\n\n"}
{"id": "1979844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979844", "title": "Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway", "text": "Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway\n\nThe Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway is a linked series of park areas in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States, that takes a roughly circular path through the city. The Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board developed the system over many years. The corridors include roads for automobile traffic plus separate paths for pedestrians and bicycles, and extend slightly into neighboring cities. About of roadway and paths are in the system, and much of it was built in the 1930s as part of Civilian Conservation Corps projects.\n\nThere are seven districts along the byway:\n\nThe Grand Rounds trail system features approximately of off-street path for bicycles and pedestrians that make a continuous loop around Minneapolis.\n\n\nThe area was designated as a Minnesota State Scenic Byway in 1997 and a National Scenic Byway in 1998. The Grand Rounds are considered to be the most significant example of an urban byway, as most such areas run through rural regions. Portions are also part of the Great River Road along the Mississippi River.\n\nThe city purchased all the land immediately adjoining its lakes during its formative period, turning them into public parks rather than allowing them to be privately developed. Because of this, Minneapolis' lakes are accessible by the general public.\n\nHeavy vehicles such as semi-trailer trucks and buses are largely banned from the byway, and the speed limit is 25 miles per hour throughout. Thanks to the low speed limit, motorcycle riders enjoy riding through the parkway system. Much of the asphalt paving along the road has a reddish tone so that drivers can more easily determine where to go upon reaching intersections. \n\n\n"}
