{"id": "2042987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042987", "title": "Lingnan culture", "text": "Lingnan culture\n\nLingnan culture, or Cantonese culture, refers to the regional Chinese culture of the Southern Chinese/Lingnan twin provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi, the names of which mean \"eastern expanse\" and \"western expanse\" respectively.\n\nStrictly speaking, the term \"Lingnan culture\" has two definitions:\n\n\nThis article uses the second definition of \"Lingnan culture\" - as the synonym of \"Cantonese culture\".\n\nWith the migration of the Cantonese people to nearby Hong Kong and Macau, as well as in many overseas communities, Lingnan/Cantonese culture has become an influential cultural force in the international community, and forms the basis of the cultures of Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nIn 200 BCE, Gwongdung and Gwongsai (Cantonese for \"Guangdong\" and \"Guangxi\"), alongside the land now known as Northern Vietnam, was controlled by the kingdom of Nanyue (), inhabited primarily by the non-Chinese Yue people. The kingdom was later conquered by the Han Empire and came under Han Chinese control at around year 100 BCE. However, large-scale sinicization didn't occur until the 6th to 7th century CE, at which point the region was held by the Tang Empire. Later, between the 10th and 13th century, there was a large influx of Han Chinese migrants from the north, which was at that time invaded by the Mongols and a few other non-Han ethnic groups. This resulted in large-scale intermixing of the Han Chinese and Nanyue people during that period - reflected in the fact that modern Cantonese people are, genetically, the hybrid descendants of the ancient Han Chinese and Nanyue. Modern Lingnan culture also contains both Nanyue and Han Chinese elements: the modern Cantonese language, for instance, closely resembles Middle Chinese (the prestige language of the Tang Empire), but has retained some features of the long-extinct Nanyue language.\n\nThe sinicization of the Lingnan region was largely complete by the time of late Southern Song Dynasty (12th to 13th centuries). From the 15th to 18th century, Lingnan (especially the area around Guangzhou) served as one of the main ports for the Ming Empire. Cantonese people were exposed to Western European cultures and incorporated European elements into their own cultural artifacts. It was by that time that the Lingnan culture largely attained its current form.\n\nWith Guangzhou being major a port for both the Qing Dynasty and the People's Republic of China, Cantonese people have often dominated Han Chinese immigration to the Western world, resulting in Cantonese historically being the lingua franca in most Western Chinatowns. They also helped establish the Chinese term for Chinatown: \"Tongyan gaai\" (), pronounced as \"Tang ren jie\" in Mandarin. This term literally means \"Street of the Tang people\". This is said to reflect the fact that the sinicization of Lingnan was most prominent during the Tang Dynasty, which resulted in the Cantonese people having an especially strong affinity to that dynasty.\n\nOn the other hand, since the early 20th century, Hong Kong (pronounced as \"Heung Gong\" in Cantonese), then under British colonial control, developed quickly in every aspect. The city's high level of development drew the envy of many people in the Lingnan region. Many of them have been watching the TV dramas and movies produced by Hong Kong, resulting in the city having significant cultural influence in the region. For instance, many Cantonese from mainland China write using Traditional Chinese characters, like the Hong Kongers do. Hong Kong, for its part, has experienced many cultural and economic exchanges with other East Asian nations. This, in turn, made Hong Kong absorb the cultures of Japan, Korea, and to some extent, Taiwan. For instance, Hong Kong Cantonese has many usages and vocabularies borrowed from Japanese.\n\nLingnan culture is considered to be a commercial, oceanic culture that embodies the history of the region: Its foundation consists of a mix of Nanyue and Han Chinese (especially Tang dynasty's and Song dynasty's) influences, having preserved a considerable amount of Tang-Song cultural heritages not preserved in other branches of modern Han Chinese cultures. Lingnan later became the Ming Empire's main contact point with Western Europeans via commerce, and thus came to include European ideas in its arts and philosophy.\n\nTraditionally, the Lingnan region's sole dominant language is Cantonese (), the standard form and prestige dialect of the Yue subgroup () of the broader Chinese language family. The vast majority of Lingnan's traditional operas, folk songs, and poetry are all expressed in Cantonese. This language can trace its roots all the way back to the ancient Nanyue people: Their language did not belong to the Chinese language family though. However, with the large influx of Han Chinese migrants between the 10th to 13th centuries during the Tang-Song era, the language slowly sinicized and evolved into modern standard Cantonese.\n\nCantonese has retained certain features of the Nanyue language. For instance, unlike most other Chinese languages, Cantonese often put an adjective behind the noun it is describing. In Cantonese, the word for \"hen\" () is made up of two words: \"雞\", meaning \"chicken\", and \"乸\", meaning \"female (in a non-human sense)\", thus resulting in a compound word. Nonetheless, among all extant Chinese languages, Cantonese overall, is the one that is \"closest\" to Middle Chinese (the prestige language of the Tang era). This is reflected by the fact that most Tang poems will rhyme better if recited in Cantonese.\n\nIn terms of its writing system, Cantonese, traditionally preferred not to write their own language verbatim and instead relied on classical Chinese in most forms of writing. Starting from the 21st century, however, a complete Cantonese writing system has been developed in Hong Kong and Macau that utilizes both, Chinese characters and native characters, and become popularized.\n\nLingnan architecture () is the characteristic architectural style of the Lingnan region, mostly associated with Cantonese people. It differs significantly from those found in other Han Chinese regions because of factors such as climates and availability of materials, both of which affected by the geographical features of Lingnan. Overall, classical Lingnan architecture tends to (1) use pale colors such as green and white, (2) avoid circular or cylindrical structures, (3) have many open structures like balconies, (4) be decorated with large numbers of relief carvings and sculptures, and (5) be built using materials resistant to moulds and moisture. The last point is obviously related to the hot and humid subtropical climate of Lingnan.\n\nThe Chan Clan Temple in Guangzhou is a representative example of classical Lingnan architecture. The temple was built in the late 19th century and served as an academy for Chan families in 72 counties of the Guangdong province. It comprises all sorts of folk architectural and decorative arts and is famous for its \"three carvings\" (stone, wood and brick carvings), \"three sculptures\" (ceramic sculpture, clay sculpture, and colorful sculpture), and \"one cast\" (cast iron). As a result, it is called the best of all the clan buildings in the neighborhood.\n\nTong lau () is a style of architecture prevalent in Lingnan region (as well as in some other areas by the South China Sea) starting from the 19th century. Combining Southern Chinese architectural styles with Western European ones, it is particularly prevalent in regions with more exposure to Western European cultures, such as Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Macau. Tong laus in Lingnan show influence from the classical Lingnan style.\nLingnan garden (), or Cantonese garden, is the style of garden design native to the Lingnan region. Geographically, Lingnan has very different climate from China's heartland (i.e., Zhongyuan), resulting in the development of a different style in garden-designing. The most frequently cited traits of Lingnan gardens are: (1) they tend to surround their plants and flowers with buildings for provided protection, due to the frequent rainstorms in the region; (2) Lingnan gardens usually use regionally native plant species, such as red cotton flowers, lotuses, orchids and lychee trees; and (3) due to Lingnan being far away from the center of political power (i.e., Zhongyuan), gardens in the region have historically been less stressed by royal standards, resulting in a style that leans more towards the common people, e.g., Lingnan gardens are decorated with a large amount of folk arts, ranging from sculptures to porcelains, and also tend to use smaller and simpler buildings.\n\nThe Nanyue people were already making a lot of pottery and sculptures back at the time of their kingdom. After sinicization, the techniques of the people in the region only became even more polished and refined. Nowadays, Cantonese are accomplished craftspeople, known for creating and exporting many fine craft products, including various types of sculptures, embroidery, porcelain, paper cutting, kites, furniture, among many others. They have also produced several schools of fine arts. In some, visual art styles invented primarily by the Cantonese include the following:\n\nCanton ivory woodcarving () is another well-known product from Lingnan. With a history of 2000 years, it traditionally uses ivory as raw material to make sculptures, with the Canton-style renowned for being particularly delicate and detailed without being brittle. The Cantonese people have also successfully produced the legendary craft product - Ivory ball.\n\nAfter the 1980s, however, international ivory trade has been banned. This results in the Cantonese people now trying to find substitute materials - materials that look and feel like but are actually not ivory - in their attempt to pass on this ancient art.\n\nCanton jade carving () is the Cantonese style of jade carving. It has a history of more than two thousand years – with archaeologists unearthing jade carvings from the remains of the kingdom of Nanyue. After sinicization, the people of Lingnan learned jade carving from Tang Empire's jade wares, and invented the technique of “lau sik” () – retaining the colors of the original materials, resulting in jade carvings that are very colourful yet natural. Nowadays, Canton jade carvings are frequently used in Cantonese jewelry and decorations.\n\nCantonese embroidery (Jyutping: Jyut sau; Traditional Chinese: ) is the Cantonese style of embroidery, with considerable popularity in Lingnan and its own subculture. It could trace its root to at least the 9th century, where the Tang Empire had documented that the people in the area were making embroidery. Cantonese embroidery attained its current form at around the 15th century and has its own set of techniques. Visually, it is known for being colorful and containing multiple images without feeling chaotic. Due to Gwongdung's historical role in trade between the Chinese empire and the outside world, Cantonese embroidery had been sold to many Western European people and become a popular type of items in European aristocrats' collections of oriental crafts.\n\nTeochew woodcarving (Jyutping: Ciu zau muk diu; Traditional Chinese: 潮州木雕) is a distinctive style of woodcarving that originated from the city of Teochew, which is geographically a part of Lingnan but inhabited primarily by the Teochew people, who belong to the non-Cantonese Min branch of Han Chinese. Despite this, this style of woodcarving is heavily incorporated into various forms of Cantonese crafts. It began in the 11th century and became popularized in the late 16th century. Many Teochew woodcarving products are plated with gold, commonly seen being decorations for Buddhist temples or ancestral halls.\n\nLingnan penjing (Jyutping: Ling naam pun ging; Traditional Chinese: 嶺南盆景) is the style of penjing of the people of Lingnan. Despite being recognized only in the early 20th century, it can trace its roots to at least 15th century. This style is noted for its emphasis on the match between \"the natural\" and \"the artificial\" parts of the penjing. For instance, artists of Lingnan penjing tend to spend much time choosing a pot that matches those plants. They also tend to trim their plants in such a way that the new growth from the trimmed parts will shadow the trails of trimming, resulting in the penjing looking very natural.\n\nLingnan style of calligraphy (Jyutping: Ling naam syu fung; Traditional Chinese: 嶺南書風) is the style of calligraphy unique to Lingnan. It is typically described by Han Chinese critics as \"bold\" and \"romantic\". Archaeological evidence suggests that the people of Lingnan had been writing and producing calligraphy works since the collapse of the kingdom of Nanyue. However, due to the hot and humid climate of Lingnan, papers tend to decay very quickly, resulting in few such works having been preserved. It was not until the 15th century, where Chan Bak-sa (Jyutping: Can baak saa; Traditional Chinese: 陳白沙), became the first renowned Cantonese calligrapher that the Lingnan region got a recognized style of calligraphy. Since then, Cantonese artists have produced several notable works of calligraphy, such as:\n\nIn the 21st century, the Cantonese people have begun to study the Lingnan style of calligraphy in greater depth.\n\nCanton porcelain (Jyutping: Gwong coi; Traditional Chinese: 廣彩, literally \"Cantonese colours\"), also called Cantonese porcelain, is the Cantonese style of porcelain. It involves painting various colors on white porcelains and cementing the colors on the porcelain products afterward through the use of low heat (less than 800 degree Celsius, which is low by porcelain standard). This style is renowned for its bright colors and detailed drawings. It originated in the 16th century. At that time, the Cantonese people in Guangzhou imported white porcelains from Jingdezhen (a city well known for making white porcelains), worked on them to produce colorful porcelains, and exported their products to Western Europe. Later, this art spread to the entire Lingnan region. Hong Kong, for instance, started making Canton porcelain starting from the 1930s and exported many of their products to the entire world, though nowadays, few Hongkongese work on this style of porcelain outside hobbyists, due to the fact that the city has shifted its focus to service and finance industries.\n\nCantonese furniture (Jyutping: Gwong sik gaa si; Traditional Chinese: 廣式傢俬) is the Cantonese style of furniture. It can be dated at least back to the 17th century. This style generally uses the native timbers in the Lingnan region, while borrowing elements from traditional furniture styles of the Tang Empire and the Song Empire and artistic styles imported from Western Europe. It is characterized by (1) its tendency to make each furniture item by working on one larger piece of wood, resulting in Cantonese furniture not showing traces of being assembled; (2) taking elements from Baroque and Rococo style, especially in its use of curves; (3) using techniques from other Lingnan crafts, such as Teochew woodcarving; and (4) heavy use of shells and marbles as decorations. Nowadays, Cantonese furniture is being exported to many other Han Chinese communities and to foreign countries.\n\nLingnan school of painting (Jyutping: Ling naam waa paai; Traditional Chinese: 嶺南畫派), also called Cantonese school of painting, is a distinctive style of painting invented primarily by Cantonese artists. It originated in the 19th century, founded by Gou Gim-fu (a Cantonese) and several of his associates. This style combined the ink wash painting shared by all Han Chinese and watercolor painting, also with the influence from impressionism. It emphasizes leaving blank spaces and the use of bright colors, in stark contrast to less colorful ink wash painting. For example, \"The Flames of the Eastern Battlefield\" used watercolor to paint bright red colors in the background. This, alongside the blank spaces in the painting, gives potential alternative interpretations of the blank spaces, which could look like either smoke or clouds.\n\nSekwan ware and Cochin ware are types of pottery with Cantonese origins. The former is still being produced by Cantonese, while the latter is more associated with Taiwan these days.\n\nCantonese people are involved in several types of operas and performing arts, including Tea-picking opera and Han opera, with Cantonese opera being the most prominent one. They also have many types of traditional music. All of these are primarily sung and expressed using the Cantonese language.\n\nThe Cantonese language has a very rich collection of folk songs, many of which can be traced back to the ancient Nanyue people before sinicization of the region. These folk songs are widely sung and broadcast in the Lingnan region even to this day. Broadly speaking, they can be divided into several categories:\n\nThe lyrics of Nam Hoi Chiu (Jyutping: Naam hoi ciu; Traditional Chinese: 南海潮, literally \"Tides of the Southern Seas\"), one of the best-known Cantonese folk songs, regarded as \"the unofficial provincial song of Gwongdung\", in Jyutping and Traditional Chinese characters respectively:\n\nEnglish translation:\n\nCantonese opera (Jyutping: Daai hei; Traditional Chinese: 大戲, literally \"great drama\") is the style of opera associated with the Cantonese language and has been listed as one of intangible cultural heritage of the world. Originated in the late 13th century, Cantonese opera is a stage art that combines acrobatics, singing, martial arts, and acting. While sharing features with other Chinese-language opera styles, it does have several particular traits, including:\n\nCantonese opera also uses a different set of musical instruments. Some of these are used also in other oriental opera styles, such as Guzheng (Jyutping: Gu zaang; Traditional Chinese: 古箏). Due to influence from Western opera, Cantonese opera has also started adopting European instruments starting from the 19th century, such as violin. Cantonese opera is also noted for its use of makeup and headdresses on the actors' parts. Makeups in Cantonese opera are primarily white, and could vary in colors depending on the personalities of the characters, e.g., totally white makeups are often used to represent a villain. Headdresses are also used to represent the characters.\n\nGonggu (Jyutping: Gong gu; Traditional Chinese: 講古, literally \"to talk about the past\") is a popular folk art in Lingnan. It involves artists telling stories from Chinese classics or Cantonese folklore using the Cantonese language - while borrowing techniques from Cantonese opera in order to be very rhythmic at that. This art form originated in the 16th century, when Cantonese imported it from Jiangsu and several Cantonese artists learnt from the then famous Wuyue storytellers. Since that time, Cantonese Gonggu has seen steady development, with storytellers performing in their own stalls or Cantonese teahouses. Starting from the 20th century, the area around Gwongzau has even started erecting \"storytelling stages\" (Jyutping: Syut syu toi; Traditional Chinese: 說書台, literally \"stages where one talks about books\") in certain parks and inviting artists to do Gonggu on radio shows.\n\nPartly as a result of this, Cantonese people have accumulated a considerable amount of folktales.\n\nGuangdong music (Jyutping: Gwong dung jam ok; Traditional Chinese: 廣東音樂) is a style of traditional Chinese instrumental music from Gwongzau and nearby areas, though nowadays it is found also in much of China. Guangdong music compositions are primarily based on tunes derived from Cantonese opera and Cantonese folk songs, especially before the 1920s. Stylistically, it is said to be marked by being loud, lively, and upbeat. Some pieces have seen influences from Western music (jazz in particular): they use syncopation and triple time, and incorporate instruments such as saxophone and violin.\n\nThe set of musical instruments used in Cantonese opera styles and music has much overlapping with those used by other Han Chinese groups. There are, however, instruments distinctly Cantonese, with the \"gaohu\" (\"gou wu\") being the most representative. Aside from this, \"qinqin\" (\"cheon kum\") and \"erxian\" (\"yi yun\") are other musical instruments associated with Cantonese music.\n\nCanto-pop, also called HK-pop (Jyutping: Jyut jyu lau hang kuk; Traditional Chinese: 粵語流行曲), is a genre of Cantonese music made primarily in Hong Kong. It is a pop subgenre, with influences from jazz, rock and roll, R&B, electronic music, dance music and others. It is almost invariably sung in Cantonese, boasting an international fanbase across Gwongdung, Gwongsai, Southeast Asia and (to a lesser extent) Korea and Japan.\n\nHong Kong cinema (Jyutping: Gong caan pin; Traditional Chinese: 港產片) is the cinema of Hong Kong. For a long time, it had been one of the largest movie industries in the world and still has influence to this day. Being produced by Hong Kong, these movies have been primarily expressed using Cantonese, although films from certain period were in Mandarin due to geopolitical reasons. Their genres may vary, although comedy and martial arts movies are particularly prominent. This style of cinema has a cult following in the West.\n\nThe Cantonese language, with its 1000-year-long history, has a rich heritage of poetry and literature. The people of the Lingnan region have been composing poems since the 7th century. Zeung Gau-ling (Jyutping: Zoeng gau ling; Traditional Chinese: 張九齡), one of the most prolific poets of the Tang Empire, was born and raised in what is now Siugwan, Guangdong. He was said to be very intelligent since he was a child, and later became the empire's minister. 12 of his poems were listed as the 300 best poems from the Tang Empire. Since then, the Lingnan region has produced a steady stream of poets of varying levels of prominence. They were even given a label called Lingnan school of poetry (Jyutping: Ling naam si paai; Traditional Chinese: 嶺南詩派), renowned for preserving pronunciations from the Middle Chinese language and composing poems with imagery unique to Lingnan.\n\nLike much of East Asia, most of Lingnan's medieval literature was composed in classical Chinese (grammatically), rather than the people's spoken language. However, poets in the region have started composing poems using grammatically vernacular Cantonese since the 19th century, with the work of Cantonese poet Liu Yan-tou (Jyutping: Liu jan tou; Traditional Chinese: 廖恩燾) being the most prominent. Many of his works require Cantonese characters (characters specifically invented to write Cantonese) to write down.\n\nThis particular style of poetry has accumulated a large number of works. Starting from the early 21st century, Cantonese people have started compiling works of past Cantonese poets in a literature called \"All Cantonese Poems\" (Jyutping: Cyun jyut si; Traditional Chinese: 全粵詩), which has spanned 30 volumes and yet to be finished.\n\nLike the rest of East Asia, Lingnan traditionally used classical Chinese for writing, rather than the peoples' spoken languages. Despite the attempt to create vernacular forms of writing in the late 19th century, the Greater China area still tend to use standard written Chinese, a writing system based on Mandarin, not Cantonese (i.e., the native language of the Lingnan region), in writing. Even in cosmopolitan Hong Kong, the vast majority of the people's works of literature have been written in standard written Chinese. However, starting from the 21st century, Hong Kong, as a cultural center in the region, has developed a complete writing system for Cantonese. Some writers in the city now advocate composing literature in written Cantonese.\n\nThe Lingnan region has a special geographical environment different from those of other Han Chinese regions. With its subtropical temperature and high humidity, it has a tendency to have good harvests whether in farming or fishing. As a result, cuisine in Lingnan could use many different food materials. The book \"New Comments on Gwongdung\" (廣東新語), written by Wat Dai-gwan, said: 天下所有食貨，粵東幾盡有之，粵東所有之食貨，天下未必盡也。(Classical Chinese: Every ingredient that the world has, Gwongdung has it; Every ingredient that Gwongdung has, the rest of the world may not have it). Today, the cuisine of the Lingnan region has fully developed into a distinct school of cuisine on its own.\n\nCantonese cuisine (Jyutping: Jyut coi; Traditional Chinese: 粵菜) is the cuisine corresponding to Cantonese culture. Gwongzau, the cultural capital of the region, has long been a trading hub. This resulted in many imported ingredients are used in Cantonese cuisine. Besides pork, beef, and chicken, Cantonese cuisine uses nearly every edible meat, including offal, chicken feet, duck's tongue, snakes, and snails. However, lamb and goat are rare. There is also heavy use of seafood, due to proximity to the sea. This style of cuisine uses many cooking methods, with steaming and stir-frying being the most popular, largely due to relative convenience.\n\nTraditionally, Cantonese cooks prefer their dishes to have well-balanced flavor and not be greasy. Spices are used in modest amounts at best to preserve the flavors of the primary ingredients, which in turn are expected to be at the peak of their freshness and quality. Cantonese cooking tends not to use fresh herbs, contrary to Sichuan, European, Thai and Vietnamese cuisines, with garlic chives and coriander leaves being the notable exceptions. Lastly, due to the hot and humid weather of Lingnan and the traditional beliefs that soups can \"remove hotness\" (Jyutping: Cing jit hei; Traditional Chinese: 清熱氣), Cantonese cuisine tends to have liberal use of soups.\n\nLou fo tong (Jyutping: Lou fo tong; Traditional Chinese: 老火湯, literally \"old fire soup\") is a cuisine among common people in Lingnan. It refers to a set of clear broth made by simmering meat and other ingredients over low heat for several hours. These ingredients may include meats, vegetables, seafood, fruits, and medicinal herbs. It originated in the late 17th to early 18th century. At that time, Guangdong had difficulty extracting coals, which resulted in Cantonese people having to rely on firewood for fuels. This caused them to avoid using large fire (which cooking techniques such as stir-frying require) and instead use low heat to simmer their foods - resulting in lou fo tong. Nowadays, lou fo tong has been a fully developed style of soups and become an integral part of Cantonese cuisine.\nYum cha (Jyutping: Jam caa; Traditional Chinese: 飲茶, literally \"to drink tea\") is a subculture within Cantonese food culture. While it can be found in some other Han Chinese groups, it is far more prevalent among Cantonese people, and also overseas Chinese, historically most of whom have been of Cantonese ancestry. It has a specific set of terminologies among Cantonese. For instance, \"to invite someone to go yum cha\" is basically a way of expressing friendship. Traditionally, Cantonese could go yum cha whether in the morning, afternoon, or evening. Morning tea is typically dominated by the elderly, although many younger people often accompany their grandparents for morning tea as a way of showing respect and affection. Cantonese teahouses also have a set of food specifically designed for morning tea. Afternoon tea is similar in most aspects, except it is more common for entire families to go yum cha at this hour. Evening tea tends to attract large gatherings - and the foods ordered in such hours also tend to be more sophisticated.\n\nRegardless of hours, yum cha starts with the diners ordering a specific set of teas they would like to drink. After that, the waiters would bring the teas, which the diners will be drinking while enjoying the foods and engaging in all sorts of social interactions. Even after they have finished the foods, the diners still tend to stay for half an hour or so chatting.\n\nDim sum (Jyutping: Dim sam; Traditional Chinese: 點心, literally \"to touch the heart\") is a characteristic of Cantonese cuisine, usually but not only eaten during yum cha. They are a set of small bite-sized portions of food served in small steam baskets or on small plates. In Cantonese teahouses, carts with dim sum will be moving around the restaurant for the diners to order from without having to leave their seats. In Cantonese traditions, the diners will often order dim sum at will while chatting and enjoying the endless serving of teas.\n\nIn major cities in Lingnan, such as Gwongzau and Hong Kong, culinary schools usually offer courses specifically to train the preparation of dim sum.\n\nLeung cha (Jyutping: Leong caa; Traditional Chinese: 涼茶, literally \"cool tea\") is a kind of infusion made from traditional medicinal herbs. In traditional chinese medicine, leung cha is considered to have a cooling effect on the body. Herbal tea was a unique drink in Lingnan. It is said that herbal tea has appeared before the Qing Dynasty. Lingnan is located in subtropical zone in which climate characterized by hot and humid summers and mild winter. During summertime, local people are heaty due to their living habits. People living in subtropical environment are easy to suffer from skin diseases, gastroenteritis. Drinking herbal tea gradually became widespread, the unique customs of the Eastern. In major cities such as Gwongzau and Hong Kong, \"cool tea shops\" specialized in selling herb teas are common sights. Due to the efforts of the governments of Gwongdung, Hong Kong, and Macau, since 2006 methods to make leung cha have been considered an intangible cultural heritage practice for China.\n\nTong sui (Jyutping: Tong seoi; Traditional Chinese: 糖水, literally \"sugar water\") is a characteristic dessert of Cantonese cuisine. It is a set of sweet, warm soups or custards served as dessert at the end of a meal in Cantonese traditions. It is also common for Cantonese people to leave home to get some tong sui with a group of friends or family late in the evening, an activity they call \"siu yeh\" (Jyutping: Siu je; Traditional Chinese: 消夜, literally to \"kill the night\"). Choices of types of tong sui vary depending on the season: hot black sesame soup, for instance, tends to be favored in winter.\n\nLingnan is also known for producing some notable liquors, mostly of the rice wine variety. The brewery culture of Lingnan can be traced all the way back to the kingdom of Nanyue, who apparently possessed containers of liquors. In the late 11th century, Sou Sik (Jyutping: Sou sik; Traditional Chinese: 蘇軾), one of the prominent poets and then minister of the Song Empire, got demoted and reassigned to Lingnan. Also well known for his love for cuisine, Sou Sik wrote a book on brewery not long after his reassignment to Lingnan, called \"Sou Sik's Words on Liquors\" (Jyutping: Dung bo zau ging; Traditional Chinese: 東坡酒經), which became Lingnan's first book on brewery.\n\nNowadays, rice wines produced in Lingnan are sold across China and other Asian countries, with Yuk Bing Siu (Jyutping: Juk bing siu; Traditional Chinese: 玉冰燒, literally \"Jade, ice, and burn\"), one of the \"Ten Great Liquors of Gwongdung\", being particularly renowned.\n\n\"The Four Great Fruits of Lingnan\" (Jyutping: Ling naam sei daai ming gwo; Traditional Chinese: 嶺南四大名果) are four fruits locally produced in Lingnan and frequently used in Cantonese cuisine and desserts. They are lychee, banana, pineapple and papaya.\n\nCantonese people also have their own schools of kung fu. Originally disorganized, the fighting techniques of Cantonese people were grouped into different schools between 18th to 19th century. At that time, due to ineptitude of the Qing Empire's government, pirates and bandits were rampant in the empire's fringe regions such as Lingnan. This resulted in Cantonese starting to want to protect themselves, and thus the proliferation of martial arts learning. It was when the Cantonese people organized their fighting techniques into schools, forming the martial arts schools seen among Cantonese today. Martial arts folk heroes from that period, such as Wong Fei-hung, are now popular topics of Cantonese films.\n\nOverall, Cantonese martial arts are known for emphasis on striking in various different ways using punches while remaining a steady lower body posture. They often shout battle cries (for the purpose of unnerving the opponents), rarely jump, kick or do any elaborated large movements - a very pragmatic style focused on striking. Kung fu schools invented and primarily practiced by Cantonese people include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nLingnan also has her own schools of Confucianism. Since the 12th century, there has been a steady stream of Cantonese Neo-Confucian thinkers, resulting in several schools of thoughts.\n\nLingnan scholarly school (Jyutping: Ling naam hok paai; Traditional Chinese: 嶺南學派) is the most prominent of schools of Neo-Confucian thoughts in Lingnan. It was started by a group of Cantonese Confucian scholars in the 15th century, led by Chan Bak-sa. Chan's writings have now been compiled in a document titled \"Chan Bak-sa's Collection\" (Jyutping: Can hin zoeng zaap; Traditional Chinese: 陳獻章集). In this series of writings, Chan expressed his opinions of Confucius's thoughts and reinterpreted them through the lens of Mahayana Buddhism and Taoism. His style of thoughts has a strong theme of humanism and individualism. It also appeared to have been influenced by Western style of thoughts in its belief in more rational ways of thinking than older Confucian thoughts.\n\nCantonese people also have a distinct set of traditional celebrations. Many of these celebrations are shared by other Han Chinese groups and even other East Asians. The Ghost Festival, for instance, is observed by Japanese and many Southeast Asians as well. However, Cantonese often have their own unique customs. For instance, New Year flower fairs are seen only among Cantonese and certain overseas Chinese communities of Cantonese ancestry. The Lingnan region also has certain celebrations unique to her.\n\n\n\n\n\nTraditionally, the Lingnan region is dominated by two religions - Mahayana Buddhism and Taoism.\n\nCompared to worshiping Confucius, Cantonese are traditionally more inclined towards worshiping Buddha or Bodhisattva. In particular, they are inclined towards the Mahayana branch of Buddhism, which is shared by most Han Chinese groups. Mahayana Buddhist temples are a common sight in Lingnan, and Buddhist celebrations such as Buddha's Birthday and the Birthday of Guanyin are, traditionally, large events in the region.\n\nThe Wan-mun sect of Mahayana Buddhism originated in Lingnan and once spread across much of China during the Northern Song Dynasty (10th to 12th century).\n\nAll Han Chinese groups traditionally adhere to some forms of Taoism, and Cantonese is no exception. Cantonese has a distinct set of Taoist deities. Cantonese people are, traditionally, worshipers of Wong Tai Sin, a Taoist god of healing. They are also strongly inclined to worship sea deities such as Hung Shing and Mazu - reflecting the Cantonese tradition of doing trades overseas.\n\nIt has been noted that Cantonese culture is traditionally marked by a \"culture of distance from Confucius\" (Jyutping: Jyun jyu man faa; Traditional Chinese: 遠儒文化, literally \"culture of distance from Confucius\"), which may be related to Lingnan historically being a fringe region of the Chinese Empire and influence from Tang dynasty (who placed greater emphasis on Buddhism than Confucianism): While Confucian philosophy still has its influence on Cantonese culture, Confucius Temples are much harder to find in Lingnan than Buddhist or Taoist ones.\n\nCantonese people have a long tradition of doing commerce with the outside world, including with Western Europeans starting from the 15th century, which resulted in Christianity (mostly the Roman Catholic and Protestant variants) gaining foothold in the region. Earlier than that, Cantonese also did trade with Arabs and Persians, thus the presence of Islam in Lingnan.\n\nCantonese merchants (Jyutping: Jyut soeng; Traditional Chinese: 粵商) are merchants of Cantonese origins. In the past two thousand years, Lingnan (especially the area around Gwongzau) has spent much of the time being the Chinese Empire's main port, resulting in a strong commercial tradition, formation of renowned Cantonese trade organizations such as the Canton Factories, and even Cantonese developing their own business culture: Cantonese merchants are known for being pragmatic, preference for actual profits over fame, and avoidance of political matters and display of wealth. Nowadays, Cantonese people still inherit this commercial culture. Major Lingnan cities such as Gwongzau, Futsan, Shenzhen, and Hong Kong are regional (if not international) commercial centers. Hong Kong, for instance, scored 748 in 2016's Global Financial Centres Index, ranking fourth in the world and just below London and New York city.\n\nRed cotton flower (Jyutping: Muk min faa; Traditional Chinese: 木棉花, literally \"wood cotton flower\") is a species of flower common in Lingnan, and considered to symbolize Cantonese culture. It was said that in 200 BCE, Ziu To (Jyutping: Ziu to; Traditional Chinese: 趙陀), the king of the Nanyue kingdom, once gave a red cotton tree to the Han Empire to express respect - meaning that at that time, the people of Lingnan already used red cotton flowers to represent their homeland. Nowadays, red cotton flower frequently appears in the poems and songs composed by Cantonese people. The folk song Nam Hoi Chiu, for instance, mentioned \"紅綿\" (Traditional Chinese for \"red cotton flower\") to represent Cantonese people and culture. Red cotton flower is currently the official symbol of Gwongzau, the cultural center of Lingnan, and also of Gwongdung and Gwongsai as a whole.\nThe lotus is the symbol of Macau. It appears on the flag of Macau after the 1999 handover.\nThe Hong Kong orchid is arguably the symbol of Hong Kong. It was discovered in 1880, and identified as a new species in 1908. It became Hong Kong's official symbol in 1965 and appears on the flag of Hong Kong after the 1997 handover. Since Hong Kong produced a large number of films, pop songs and soap operas to promote Cantonese culture, Hong Kong, and by extension the Hong Kong orchid, is widely held to be the symbol of modern Cantonese culture. Nam Hoi Chiu, for instance, also mentioned \"紫荊\" (Traditional Chinese for \"Hong Kong orchid\") to symbolize Cantonese people.\n\nThe Golden Bauhinia Square has a giant statue of the Hong Kong orchid and is one of the major landmarks of Hong Kong.\nSampan is a type of flat-bottom boat frequently seen in the shores of South China Sea, used by Cantonese, Hoklo, and many other Southeast Asian ethnic groups. They are usually three to four meters in length and have small shelters on broad. This makes it possible for fishermen to live on their own sampans. In the major Cantonese cities of Gwongzau, Hong Kong and Macau, it is a common sight to see crowds of sampans docked at their harbours. Thus, the image of sampan-filled harbour is strongly associated with Lingnan. Sampans also regularly show up in films and music videos made by Cantonese.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2042994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042994", "title": "Fay Hyland Botanical Plantation", "text": "Fay Hyland Botanical Plantation\n\nThe Fay Hyland Botanical Plantation (also known as the Fay Hyland Arboretum), 10 acres (40,000 m²), is an arboretum and botanical garden located along the Stillwater River on the University of Maine campus in Orono, Maine, United States. It is open to the public daily.\n\nThe Arboretum was established in 1934, named in honor of Fay Hyland, and contains living examples of woody plants from Maine and throughout the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2042996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042996", "title": "Time-Triggered Protocol", "text": "Time-Triggered Protocol\n\nThe Time-Triggered Protocol (TTP) is an open computer network protocol for control systems. \nIt was designed as a time-triggered fieldbus for vehicles and industrial applications. and standardized in 2011 as SAE AS6003 (TTP Communication Protocol). TTP controllers (AS8202) have accumulated over 500 Millions of flight hours in commercial DAL A aviation application, in power generation, environmental and flight controls. TTP is used in FADEC and modular aerospace controls, and flight computers. In addition, TTP devices have accumulated over 1 Billion of operational hours in SIL4 railway signalling applications. \n\nTTP was originally designed at the Vienna University of Technology in the early 1980s. In 1998 TTTech Computertechnik AG took over the development of TTP, providing software and hardware products. TTP communication controller chips and IP are available from sources including austriamicrosystems, ON Semiconductor and ALTERA.\n\nTTP is a dual-channel 4 - 25 Mbit/s time-triggered field bus. It can operate using one or both channels with maximum data rate of 2x 25 Mbit/s. With replicated data on both channels, redundant communication is supported.\n\nAs a fault-tolerant time-triggered protocol, TTP provides autonomous fault-tolerant message transport at known times and with minimal jitter by employing a TDMA (Time-Division Multiple Access) strategy on replicated communication channels. TTP offers fault-tolerant clock synchronization that establishes the global time base without relying on a central time server.\n\nTTP provides a membership service to inform every correct node about the consistency of data transmission. This mechanism can be viewed as a distributed acknowledgment service that informs the application promptly if an error in the communication system has occurred. If state consistency is lost, the application is notified immediately.\n\nAdditionally, TTP includes the service of clique avoidance to detect faults outside the fault hypothesis, which cannot be tolerated at the protocol level.\n\nTTP is often used in mission critical data communication applications where deterministic operation is a requirement. These operations include aircraft engine management and other aerospace applications. In these applications the TTP networks are often operated as separate networks with separate AS8202NF hardware interface devices and separate, but coordinated, configurations.\n\nThe TTP protocol offers the unique feature of having all nodes on a network know, at the same time, when any other node fails to communicate or sends unreliable data. The status of each node is updated to all nodes several times each second.\n\nData communication in TTP is organized in TDMA rounds. A TDMA round is divided into slots. Each node has one sending slot, and must send frames in every round. The frame size allocated to a node can vary from 2 to 240 bytes in length, each frame usually carrying several messages. The cluster cycle is a recurring sequence of TDMA rounds; in different rounds different messages can be transmitted in the frames, but in each cluster cycle the complete set of state messages is repeated. The data is protected by a 24-bit CRC (Cyclic Redundancy Check). The schedule is stored in the MEDL (Message Descriptor List) within the communication controller.\n\nThere is one (1) slot for each node in a TTP network. A node always transmits data (parameters) during its slot, even if the node has no data to send. However a node will only transmit the parameters that it is configured to send for the specific ROUND that the slot is in. A node may transmit parameters 1,2,3 in its SLOT during ROUND x and parameters 4,5,6 in its SLOT during ROUND y.\n\nThe slot for a node is determined when the TTP network is designed using PC based utilities TTP Plan and TTP Build. The definition that causes the AS8202NF to transmit specific data or parameters for a given SLOT and ROUND is contained in the MEDL.\n\nThe TTP Round holds a slot for each node in the TTP network. The number of ROUNDS in CLUSTER CYCLE is defined using PC based utilities TTP Plan and TTP Build. This information is also contained in the MEDL.\n\nRounds exist because a node is not required to transmit all of its parameters during its slot. To distribute bandwidth between nodes, each node transmits selected parameters in different ROUNDS.\n\nA Cluster Cycle is defined as having a number of Rounds. All nodes have transmitted all of their parameters at the end of a Cluster Cycle. The Cluster Cycle is defined as starting with the first bit of the first slot of the first round.\n\nThe number of slots is defined by the number of nodes in the TTP network. However, the number of Rounds is determined by the network designer using the TTP Plan and TTP Build utilities.\n\nClock synchronization provides all nodes with an equivalent time concept. Each node measures the difference between the a priori known expected and the observed arrival time of a correct message to learn about the difference between the sender’s clock and the receiver’s clock. A fault-tolerant average algorithm needs this information to periodically calculate a correction term for the local clock so that the clock is kept in synchrony with all other clocks of the cluster.\n\nTime-Triggered Protocol attempts to transmit data consistently to all correct nodes of the distributed system and, in case of a failure, the communication system attempts to decide which node is faulty. These properties are achieved by the membership protocol and an acknowledgment mechanism.\n\nEach node connected to a TTP network is required to have configuration data sets resident, prior to the startup of the TTP network. The minimum number of data sets for each node is two (2). See hardware section and AS8202NF (below). Each node needs to know the configuration of every other node on the TTP network. For this reason, active nodes are not allowed to join an existing network without the update of configuration data sets of all nodes on the network.\n\nTypical Configuration Data Sets for each node:\n\nData sets TASM and MEDL are created by utilities TTP Plan and TTP Build provided by TTTech. The third data set is often created by the customer and is platform and application specific.\n\nInterface to a TTP network requires the use of the AS8202NF device. This device operates between the computer platform and the TTP network. The AS8202NF is required to be loaded with a TASM (TTP Assembler) and MEDL (Message Descriptor List) configuration data sets prior to operation.\n\nThe AS8202NF will communicate on one (1) or two (2) TTP networks.\n\nIt is not possible to design and implement a TTP network by simply buying the AS8202NF device. Each design requires license and configuration tools from TTTech or 3rd party.\n\nTTP has been integrated into a number of commercial applications.\n\nThe electronic interlocking system “LockTrac 6131 ELEKTRA” was designed within a cooperation of Thales Rail Signalling Solutions division and TTTech.\n\nLockTrac 6131 ELEKTRA is an electronic interlocking system that provides the highest levels of safety and availability. The system is approved according to CENELEC standards with safety integrity level 4 (SIL4) and offers basic interlocking functions, local and remote control, automatic train operation, integrated block functionality and an integrated diagnosis system. LockTrac 6131 has two software channels with diverse software, to ensure the high safety requirements. Before getting transmitted externally, the data are checked in the safety channel. A diagnosis device saves all relevant information to allow efficient maintenance in case of failure.\n\nThe system has been used for FADEC (Full Authority Digital Engine Control) systems.\nThe Modular Aerospace Control (MAC)-based FADEC for The Aermacchi M346 is scalable, adaptable and fault-tolerant. The key technology enabler in this new FADEC is the use of TTP for inter-module communication. TTP removes the complex interdependencies among modules, simplifying initial application development as well in-service changes and upgrades. It allows all modules in a system to see all data all of the time, thus ensuring seamless fault accommodation without complex channel change logic.\n\nTTP-based Modular Aerospace Control (MAC), which is a part of the F110 full authority digital engine control (FADEC) system of General Electric, is integrated on the Lockheed Martin F-16 fighter aircraft. TTP, which is used as a backplane bus, supports high levels of engine safety, operational availability and reduced life cycle cost. A significant advantage is that all information on the bus is available to both FADEC channels simultaneously.\n\nFor the Airbus A380 TTTech developed the internal communication system for the cabin pressure control system, working together with Nord-Micro, a subsidiary of Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation.\n\nIn cooperation with Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation, TTTech developed a TTP-based data communication platform for the electric and environmental control system of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. The TTP-designed communication platform prevents an overload in the bus system, even if several important events occur simultaneously. Additionally, TTP-based systems weigh less than conventional systems due to a lower connecter count and less wiring. Furthermore, the whole system is more flexible and has a greater modularity than conventional communication systems.\n\nThe two Red Team robotic vehicles competing in the 2005 DARPA Grand Challenge were implemented with \"drive-by-wire\" technology, in which on-board computers controlled steering, braking and other movements. Three TTP-based TTC 200 units controlled the parking brake and throttle and transmission functions, and one TTP-By-Wire Box controlled the service brake of the H1 Hummer H1ghlander. Drive-by-wire modifications controlled the acceleration, braking and shifting of the Sandstorm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043002", "title": "Roy Gardner", "text": "Roy Gardner\n\nRoy Gardner may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043010", "title": "List of Microsoft operating systems", "text": "List of Microsoft operating systems\n\nThe following is a list of Microsoft written and published operating systems. For the codenames that Microsoft gave their operating systems, see Microsoft codenames. For another list of versions of Microsoft Windows, see, List of Microsoft Windows versions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043011", "title": "S&amp;DJR 7F 2-8-0", "text": "S&amp;DJR 7F 2-8-0\n\nThe Somerset and Dorset Joint Railway (S&DJR) 7F 2-8-0 is a class of steam locomotive designed for hauling heavy coal and goods trains. Eleven were built in two batches in 1914 and 1925, and were used until withdrawal between 1959 and 1964. Two are preserved.\n\nThe Midland Railway, joint owners of the S&DJR with the London and South Western Railway (L&SWR), were in charge of locomotive policy on the line. The S&DJR was heavily graded and required power over and above what was available from the Midland's small engines. M. H. Ryan, S&DJR locomotive superintendent argued for a type specific to the line.\n\nTwo plans for 0-8-0s were suggested in 1907 but would have been too heavy. Clearly a special exception to the small engine policy, James Clayton the draughtsman at Derby was given a free hand to design the engine, and produced something unlike any other Derby-designed locomotive of the time.\n\nThe design used the G9AS boiler from the Midland Compounds, with a Belpaire firebox and Walschaerts valve gear. A leading pony truck was added, to distribute the weight, making it a 2-8-0. The cylinders were mounted high on the frame, and sloped, to avoid fouling platforms. Because of the gradients that the loco would face, Clayton provided two steam brake cylinders on the engine and a further one on the tender. In service, the cast iron brake blocks originally fitted wore very quickly, and Ferodo blocks were substituted. The Derby standard axle boxes were fitted, so the engines were still subject to the hot boxes that were a fact of life on the Midland. As the locomotives were initially too large for some of the turntables, it was envisaged that they would spend half their time travelling in reverse. Consequently, they were fitted with tablet exchanging apparatus on both sides of the locomotive. In addition, the first six were equipped with cab tenders, but these were later removed circa 1920. The 1914-built locomotives were right-hand drive, while the 1925-built were left-hand drive. In all cases the vacuum brake ejector was located on the driver's side of the smokebox.\n\nSix were built in 1914 and numbered 80–85 by the S&DJR. In 1925 an additional 5 were ordered from Robert Stephenson and Company in Darlington and built with the larger G9BS boilers, becoming numbers 86–90. Two locomotives, 9679 (ex-89) and 9680 (ex-90) received the smaller G9AS boiler in 1930, while the remaining three retained the larger boiler until it was replaced in the 1950s – 53808 in 1953; 53807 in 1954; and 53806 in 1955. These locomotives gained a packing piece between the smaller boiler and original smokebox saddle. The exception was 53807, the smokebox saddle being rotten and replaced with a one-piece unit like the 1914-built locomotives. This locomotive was therefore unique, as only left-hand drive locomotive with a one piece smokebox saddle.\n\nOn 20 November 1929, locomotive No. 89 (later 53809) was taking a freight train north towards Bath. Travelling through Combe Down Tunnel at slow speed (due to the weight of the train, and the intended stop at Midford) the locomotive crew were overcome by smoke, resulting in the train running away down the hill and crashing in the goods yard outside Bath Green Park. The driver, Henry Jennings, and two shunters in the yard, were all killed in the accident.\n\nThe success of the class on the Mendip hills prompted the Midland Railway to experiment with their use on the East Midlands coal trains, but they were less satisfactory in this role. The route did not utilise their design for climbing hills, and there were issues of fuel efficiency, with considerable amounts of high quality coal consumed.\n\nThe S&DJR locos were taken into London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) stock in 1930, and renumbered 9670–9680. They were renumbered as 13800–13810 in 1932. On nationalisation in 1948 British Railways (BR) added 40000 to their numbers making them 53800–53810.\n\nWithdrawals of the 1914-built locomotives occurred between 1959 and 1962 and the five 1925-built engines were all withdrawn between 1963 and 1964.\n\nTwo of the 1925-built locomotives have survived, these being No. 88 (9678/13808/53808) and No. 89 (9679/13809/53809). \n\nNo.88/53808 is owned by the Somerset & Dorset Railway Trust (SDRT), based on the West Somerset Railway. Purchased for preservation in 1969, it returned to service following restoration in August 1987 in BR Black (with the Early Crest), and ran up to Spring 1996 when it was withdrawn for overhaul, during which time it only made one visit away from the WSR, to the Severn Valley Railway in September 1995. After overhaul it returned to service in December 2005 in S&DJR blue livery, which it never carried in service. Again based at the WSR it made three return visits to the SVR in March 2007, March 2008 and September 2014, as well as first time visits to the Mid-Hants Railway in September 2010, and the Great Central Railway in October 2011, before being withdrawn for overhaul in October 2014. This second overhaul was completed in February 2016, with the engine being repainted back into BR black (with the Late Crest) and the number 53808.\n\nNo.89/53809 is owned by John Moorhouse and operated by the 13809 Preservation Society Ltd. Following restoration at Swanwick in 1980 in LMS livery as 13809, it worked through the 1980s and early 1990s, reverting to its BR Number 53809 in 1987 (with the Early Crest), before being withdrawn for overhaul in 1994. During this time, it visited the SVR in 1987, and the East Lancashire Railway in 1993 alongside working at Butterley, and even worked on the mainline for a period. The locomotive emerged in January 2006 in BR Black Livery as No. 53809 (with the Late Crest), entering service in early February at the Midland Railway - Butterley. Shortly after this overhaul was finished, the loco made a poignant return to the site of Bath Green Park Station (now a car park for Sainsbury's) in March 2006, to celebrate 40 years since the S&D closed, after which it was reunited with No. 88 at the WSR. The locomotive then ran for 5 years before it was withdrawn from service early in 2011, requiring boiler repairs. During the five years it ran, it made first time visits to the Nene Valley Railway and the Bluebell Railway in 2008, as well as several stays at the North Yorkshire Moors Railway during 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010. The engine's second overhaul was completed in February 2016, keeping its previous BR livery with the Post 1956 Crest. As in 2006, the engine's first call of duty was at the WSR alongside No. 88 again, this time marking 50 years since the S&D closed, and then remained there. In January 2018 it departed to the North Norfolk Railway on a long term operational contract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043013", "title": "The Shipment (film)", "text": "The Shipment (film)\n\nThe Shipment is a 2001 film about a mob enforcer who is hired to recover a shipment of Viagra gone awry. Directed by Alex Wright, it stars Matthew Modine, Elizabeth Berkley, Nicholas Turturro, and Robert Loggia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043015", "title": "International Rugby League", "text": "International Rugby League\n\nThe International Rugby League (IRL) is the global governing body for the sport of rugby league football. Previously known as the \"Rugby League Imperial Board\", the \" International Rugby League Board\" and latterly the \"Rugby League International Federation\", the IRL is responsible for the \"Laws of the Game\", the development, organisation and governance of rugby leagues internationally, and for the sport's major international tournaments; most notably the Rugby League World Cup.\n\nThere are two regional associations affiliated to the IRL; the Rugby League European Federation (RLEF) and the Asia-Pacific Rugby League Confederation (APRLC).\n\nRugby league, which had started in England in 1895 and spread to Wales in 1907 and Australia and New Zealand in 1908, was introduced into France in 1934 after their rugby union side was banned from the International Rugby Board for both breaching amateur regulations and for constant foul play on the field.\n\nThe Imperial Rugby League Board was formed in 1927. The Rugby Football League's authority in the sport was supported by having a majority of the representatives on the Board. The RFL had three representatives while Australia and New Zealand each had one. According to Collins (2000), the imbalanced voting rights were a result of the RFL being the representative for the \"mother country\" and the other members being keen to demonstrate their loyalty to the Crown.\n\nIn 1935 the French Rugby League proposed the constitution of an international board for rugby league, but the Australians were not favourable, and the idea was abandoned for a while.\n\nThe Board was formed on 25 January 1948 in Bordeaux, France at the impetus of the French, led by Paul Barrière. The Fédération Française de Rugby à XIII, New Zealand Rugby League and Britain's Rugby Football League met during the 1947–48 Kiwi tour of Europe and these three governing bodies agreed to form the International Rugby League Board (IRLB). At the meeting, it was decided that initially the RFL would oversee the sport's rules while the IRLB developed. The Australian Rugby League joined the IRLB some months later.\n\nOver the next few years the IRLB held meetings with the outcomes forming the Rugby League World Cup which made its début in 1954.\n\nIn the view of Harry Edgar, from the Board's establishment \"until his death in 1986, Bill Fallowfield was a dominant figure in its activities. Always a keen student of the rules of the game, [Fallowfield], like Australia's Tom Bellew in more recent times, strove to establish uniformity in the rules between all nations\".\n\nFormer RFL Chief Executive David Oxley, an attendee of International Board meetings for close to 20 years, confirmed that proceedings were not dominated by the Australians: \"Despite their dominance of the game on the field, the Aussies did not get everything their own way on the old Board because frequently the New Zealanders were at loggerheads with them. The Kiwis would vote against the Aussies, and France would vote with Great Britain, leaving Papua New Guinea as Australia's only guaranteed supporter.\"\n\nOxley reveals, \"a lot of the really positive things were initiated by the British - certainly on rule changes, and the move to actually expand the role of the Board.\" Oxley states: \"it was a British idea to introduce the levy on all Test match receipts to go into an international development fund. It was only 2 percent, but it did apply to television broadcast fees as well as gate receipts, so it built up into sizeable amounts, and it was that fund that paid for all we did in Russia, South Africa and the fine work done by Bob Abbott in the South Pacific, plus a significant part of the Student World Cup.\"\n\nOxley says that Kevin Humphries may have dominated for the Australians for a time but that was due to his personality. At that time the Board's role was mostly restricted to discussion of rule changes. Oxley states that it was the British who \"established the procedure that the Board should meet on a more regular basis - at least once a year - and should look at ways of helping the expansion of the game.\"\n\nAfter 1948, when only four sanctioned international teams being overseen by the IRLB and competing in annual competition, the IRLB grew to see twelve full member nations join the federation along with around thirty member nations and countless affiliates.\n\nIn 1954, the Rugby League World Cup, the first for either code of rugby, was formed at the instigation of the French.\n\nIn 1966, the International Board introduced a rule ending unlimited tackles and instead allowing the team in possession three play-the-balls followed by forming a scrum on the fourth tackle. This was increased to six tackles in 1972 and in 1983 the scrum was replaced by a handover.\n\nThe Australians had always been strong in supporting expansion of the game including places such as \"South Africa, America and Canada\". The Australians even took a lead role in aiding the game in France, in what might be considered the British sphere of influence, the ARL funded Tas Baitieri in a Development Officer position and they also provided coaching and player assistance and continued to have the Kangaroos tour France despite the costs.\n\nAfter the Australian Rugby League introduced the World Sevens in 1988, the International Board took a much more active part in worldwide developments. Harry Edgar states: \"Much of the successful participation in the 1995 World Cup came as a direct result of the ARL's World Sevens tournament\"; \"the game in Fiji was launched solely because of [the] World Sevens.\"\n\nSome nations were introduced to international rugby league through the British Amateur Rugby League Association (BARLA). The RFL would often feel embarrassment at meetings when they \"could claim to have done so little\" while BARLA was praised by other attendees.\n\nMaurice Lindsay has been credited with ensuring the 10-team 1995 World Cup was accompanied by an Emerging Nations tournament of seven teams, supporting international growth.\n\nThe 1995 World Cup was the \"swansong of the original Board\". With the Super League war started, the Board held what would be their last meeting immediately before that tournament, it ended \"acrimoniously\" as every member nation except Australia \"stated their intention to withdraw their membership\" and to establish the Super League International Board (SLIB) to govern Super League worldwide. The agreements that the former IRLB members signed with Super League had the effect of \"usurping\" the international board's control and diminishing the influence of its director-general, the Australian Rugby League's chairman, Ken Arthurson. The agreements removed international playing opposition for the Australian Rugby League's representative sides.\n\nThe SLIB gave its Pacific island members full voting rights in a display of its democratic values towards the game, although some were sceptical that the representatives of the powerful richer nations would allow themselves to be overruled. The Pacific island nations were only associate members of the IRLB with only the full members Australia, Great Britain, France, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea having a vote.\n\nIn 1998, the Super League International Board was disestablished and replaced by a new organisation, the Rugby League International Federation, as the \"Super League war\" ended in Australia and international rugby league reunited. The replacement saw worldwide governance of rugby league handed back to the sport's national governing bodies.\n\nThe meeting in Sydney at which it was agreed to form the RLIF was held at the request of the Australian and New Zealand Rugby Leagues. Britain was represented by the Rugby Football League, rather than Super League (Europe), the company formed by its leading clubs.\n\nJohn McDonald, chair of the Australian Rugby League, became chair of the RLIF. Maurice Lindsay, the chairman of the Super League International Board (SLIB), was bypassed after he had suggested that the SLIB, with him leading it, should carry on the governance of the international game. Lindsay's candidature was weak due to his role in the Super League war. The cessation of Super League operations in Australasia and the notice that had been given of the SLIB's intention to cease funding the sport in the Pacific islands, meant the SLIB could be left with only Britain left as a member. The French were happy to cut ties with SLIB and join the new Federation as, allegedly, \"they never saw a penny of the £1 million they believed they had been promised to sign up with Super League\".\n\nIn 1998, there was regret that rugby league had been so badly damaged, Harry Edgar, a rugby league writer, warned, \"there can be no place for politics or individuals seeking personal glorification\" as the \"international game picks up the pieces after three years of bitter fall-out\".\n\nThe RLIF's scheduling of competitions made shortly after its formation, specifically the timing of world cups, was criticised by Graham Clay, editor of Open Rugby magazine for opting for a four-yearly cycle beginning in 2002 that would mean rugby league facing strong competition from other major sporting events for corporate sponsorship. During the build-up to the 2008 World Cup, which had been timed to coincide with Australia's \"Centenary of Rugby League\" celebrations, it was stated and confirmed afterwards that the following tournament in the United Kingdom would be held in 2013 to avoid the 2012 Summer Olympics in London and that subsequent World Cups would be contested on a four-year cycle.\n\nThe absence of a formal schedule of international competition has been criticised as leaving the sport \"weak in international development, and in finances to help the game survive and grow outside the UK and Australia\". Some moves have been made to correct this though, with the RFL's Richard Lewis proposing a ten-year international plan in 2007.\n\nIn 2009 the member nations agreed that the RLIF should negotiate over sponsorship, licensing and broadcast rights for international rugby league rather than the member nations.\n\nAs of 2009, the RLIF imposed a levy of 10% on net gate receipts at all international matches, providing the International Federation with revenues. The RLIF makes grants to member nations to help foster the game but the effectiveness of these has been questioned.\n\nThe Pacific Rim nations of Papua New Guinea, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji and the Cook Islands united to form the Pacific Islands Rugby League Federation (PIRLF) in December 2009.\n\nHowever, PIRLF was not formally recognised by the RLIF, as consideration was being given to modernising the RLIF constitution and membership structure. The Wales Rugby League were granted full membership of the RLIF in 2010 at a meeting in Melbourne, Australia.\n\nAt a special general meeting held in Auckland, New Zealand, in November 2010, a new constitution was approved that gave New Zealand, Australia and England permanent seats on the RLIF board, with provision made for an additional seat each by May 2011 for the RLEF and a soon-to-be-formed Asia-Pacific Rugby League Confederation (APRLC), once RLEF and APRLC were granted Associate Membership status by the RLIF.\n\nThe APRLC was incorporated in April 2011 with member nations New Zealand, Australia, Papua New Guinea, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji and the Cook Islands.\n\nScotland and Ireland were each granted full membership of the RLIF, and the RLEF and APRLC Associate Membership, at the annual general meeting held in Auckland, New Zealand, in May 2011. A new Chairman, Scott Carter was also elected, becoming the first Kiwi to hold the role. This prompted a walkout by the Rugby Football League's Richard Lewis who believed he should have succeeded Australia's Colin Love.\n\nSerbia and Lebanon were each granted full membership of the RLIF at the annual general meeting held in Manchester, England in May 2012. Ukraine, Russia and Jamaica were granted full membership in 2013.\n\nNigel Wood was elected as Chairman in 2014 following and oversaw reforms, including the appointment of the first full-time CEO, former England and Wales Cricket Board CEO David Collier. In February 2018, John Grant was appointed as the new Chairman of the RLIF\n\nOn 14 October 2019, the RLIF board voted to officially change its name to International Rugby League with the change taking effect the next day.\n\n- Governs teams in Asia, Oceania and the Pacific.\n- Governs teams in Europe, Africa, Middle East and North America.\n\n\nThe laws of rugby league have been the responsibility of the RLIF since its formation in 1998. Before that the Rugby Football League and IRLB, after its inception in 1948, were the bodies that maintained the Laws.\n\nThe International Federation in conjunction with the nations governing bodies (mainly the Australian Rugby League, Fédération Française de Rugby à XIII, New Zealand Rugby League and the Rugby Football League) often meet on a semi-regular basis of up to four times per year to make changes or decide new rules; although all test playing nations have a say in the altering of the rules and laws of rugby league.\n\nThe RLIF reiterated in 2008 that a player may represent a country if it is the country of their parents or any of their grandparents' birth or if that country has been the player's \"principal country of residence\" for three years up until the date of the player's selection. A player may also be selected for country that they have represented in international rugby league in any age level before the 1998 introduction of the RLIF's constitution, or a country which the player has represented in a senior international competition in any other sport.\n\nIn 2009, international qualification regulations were modified in response to dissatisfaction about players representing different nations too easily. Players who have represented one country in World Cup qualifiers would now \"not be permitted\" to play for a different one in the World Cup tournament. The rule change did not apply to players who had played for a country in a Test series or non-World Cup related tournament. Applications must still be made to the RLIF for those changes still permitted.\n\nThe game in Europe is only partially overseen by the Rugby League International Federation with the Rugby League European Federation also having a large say in the running and expansion of the game throughout Europe.\n\nThe RLIF oversees the international game of rugby league, including the Rugby League World Cup, first held in 1954 in France and the first competition to be officially known as the \"Rugby World Cup\". Since then the World Cup has been held a total of 14 times, with the most recent Cup being held in England and Wales during 2013 which was eventually won by Australia. The next event is due to be held in 2017. The RLIF has also sanctioned and overseen the Women's Rugby League World Cup since its inception in 2000. The tournament is now held in conjunction with the men's tournament every time that it is held every four years.\n\nThe RLIF also runs the Four Nations series between the Big Three powers, England, Australia and New Zealand and a fourth nation from either Europe or the South Pacific depending on where the competition is being played as the hosts are alternate between England and Oceana. The current winners are New Zealand after they hosted the tournament with Australia in 2014. The next series will be hosted by England in 2016.\n\n\nThe RLIF plan to introduce a Continental Cup for 2019 that is played every four years to replace the Four Nations.\n\nThe RLIF makes several international awards annually, beginning in 2004, including \"International Newcomer of the Year\", \"Developing Nations Player of the Year\", \"International Coach of the Year\", \"International Back of the Year\", \"International Forward of the Year\" and \"International Referee of the Year\".\n\nThe RLIF publishes and maintains the World Rankings of the men's national rugby league teams. The concept was first launched in January 2007 following in the footsteps of the European Rankings published by the Rugby League European Federation.\n\nThe RLIF World Rankings are calculated based on an average of points accumulated by each Nation over a three-year cycle. Under the structure, matches deemed of higher importance such as World Cup games, Tri-Nations and other major tournament finals draw more points than mid-season Tests and other ‘Internationals’. For each match that a nation participates they are given a base level of points. This base level is affected upon the type of match and the status of the opponent.\n\nBonus points are given for teams that reach certain milestones deemed of significant international importance including reaching a tournament final or qualifying for an event such as a World Cup.\n\nFrom the total number of points that a nation will receive these points are then averaged to help give a more accurate view of the performance of a nation over the three-year cycle.\n\nNations which have played less than a certain number of matches deemed acceptable over a three-year cycle will be penalised under the current point structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043022", "title": "Swazzle", "text": "Swazzle\n\nA swazzle (swozzle, schwazzle or swatchel) is a device made of two strips of metal bound around a cotton tape reed. The device is used to produce the distinctive harsh, rasping voice of Punch in a Punch and Judy show, and is held in the mouth by the \"professor\" (performer).\n\nThe design of the swazzle was once a secret guarded by the professors and only taught to those with a genuine respect for and interest in learning the performance of Punch and Judy puppetry. The device can now be bought from joke and magic shops although those made according to the traditional design are smaller and are generally considered superior.\n\nThe swazzle must be soaked in liquor, beer, water, or saliva before use. The swazzle is positioned between the tongue and the roof of the mouth so that exhaled air passes between the two metal strips, causing the reed to vibrate. Deft movements of the tongue allow the professor to move the swazzle in and out of position, allowing him to switch between voices. \n\nBecause the swazzle is small, positioned in the back of the mouth and must be repeatedly moved during a performance, there is a risk that it may be swallowed while in use. In order to minimise the risk of swallowing, some professors attach a length of cotton thread to their swazzle so that it can be pulled back if it slips into the throat. In series 3, episode 11 of the British panel show 'QI', presenter Stephen Fry said that a Punch and Judy performer must accidentally swallow a swazzle at least twice before being considered a 'professor'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043026", "title": "List of Microsoft software", "text": "List of Microsoft software\n\nMicrosoft is a large developer of personal computer software. It is best known for its Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office family of productivity software plus services, and the Visual Studio IDE. The company also publishes books (through Microsoft Press) and video games (through Xbox Game Studios), and produces its own line of hardware. The following is a list of the notable Microsoft software applications.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043030", "title": "Bank of West Africa (BAO)", "text": "Bank of West Africa (BAO)\n\nBanque d'Afrique Occidentale (also \"B.A.O.\" or \"BAO\" or \"Banque de l'AOF\"): (French for Bank of West Africa) was a bank French colonial authorities established in 1901 in Dakar, Sénégal, as the central bank of the colonies of French West Africa.\n\nBAO was originally created by the expansion of the Banque du Sénégal (itself created by the French on 21 December 1853). BAO later expanded to include French Equatorial Africa to administer the common currency of French West Africa. Although it was a private investment bank, the French government authorized it to print currency, and its board always included colonial officials. It received special concessions and financial stabilisation from the government, and in essence became an arm of the French colonial administration. Between 1941 and 1958, the Institut d'Emission de l'Afrique Occidentale Francaise et du Togo was spun off from BAO to administer the Franc des colonies françaises d'Afrique (FCFA) (25 December 1945).\n\nHistorians like Henri Brunschwig have pointed to the importance of the BOA in the assimilation of French West Africa into the French economic system. Its founding in 1901 came after the extension of limited taxation of subjects, forced labor laws, and voting in the colonial possessions (notably the communes of Dakar and Saint-Louis, Senegal). The creation of and government support for the BOA was part of an attempt to inject investment into the French colonies. In 1880, almost all French economic interests in the area were in the form of family-run trading houses based in French port cities like Bordeaux and Marseilles. The creation of the BOA coincided with the consolidation of these trading houses into joint stock companies, the ending of formal government concessions to these houses, and the rise of a \"de facto\" monopoly of their successors. Émile Maurel (CEO of Maurel et Prom) and Henri Nouvion (managing director of Banque du Sénégal) were respectively the first president and managing director of the newly created BOA. By the 1920s, business in the AOF was dominated by just three private joint stock companies: the Compagnie Française de l'Afrique Occidentale, the Nouvelle Société Commerciale africaine, and the Société Commerciale de l'Ouest Africain (lagging slightly were the growing plantation and mining interests of the Unilever company). The BAO's board largely overlapped with the boards of these trading companies. When the initial privileges granted to the BOA expired in 1929, the French government granted it a further forty-year concession, with the only stipulation being that the government reserved the right to nominate the BOA's chair, and four members of its board.\n\nWhile the Banque de France in Paris remained essentially a bank for banks, the BAO was a bank of issue \"and\" a commercial, deposit, and broking bank. In 1904 it was given the right to acquire shares in commercial companies, as long as investment did not exceed a quarter of its reserves.\n\nIn consolidating banking institutions in semi-public hands, France hoped to foster greater inward capital investment into the AOF and created an opening for private banking interests to operate on the ground in the colonies. Most notably, the interwar years saw the founding of the Banque Nationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie (BNCI), which would merge in 1966 with the Comptoir National d'Escompte de Paris (CNEP) to form Banque Nationale de Paris, and in 1924, the Banque Comerciale de 1'Afrique (BCA).\n\nIn 1924, BAO expended to French Equatorial Africa buy opening branch in Brazzaville. It followed this by opening branches in Port Gentil (1928), Libreville (1930), Pointe Noire (1936), Bangui (1946), and Fort Lamy (1950).\n\nThe strategy of using BAO to foster inward investment was something of a failure though. Capital extraction, not capital investment was the source of French wealth in West Africa. Taxes and import/export duties coming from the African colonies to the Metropole accounted for most of the capital movement in the AOF. Tremendous legal concessions were made to the BOA, and while it dominated the banking sector, its capital remained minuscule in comparison to companies engaged in capital extraction from the AOF. The BOA held capital of 6 million francs before 1914, and that rose to 50 million in 1931, but declined thereafter. In 1940 all banks in the AOF had a total investment of just over 1.5 million francs. But forestry alone had an inward investment of almost 3.4 million francs that year.\n\nThe economic crisis of the early 1930s saw the collapse of the major private banks in the AOF, and the French authorised the BAO to save the BNCI by becoming its largest shareholder. At this point, the BOA regained its status as the sole investment bank in French West Africa.\n\nBanking institutions, public and private, enabled colonial businesses to pull more of the West African economy into a moneyed economy and expand the replacement of traditional agriculture with large scale cash crops for export. This was most evident in the tremendous growth of groundnut plantations.\n\nOffices of the BAO were built in major towns throughout French West Africa, and their imposing edifices became symbols of French colonial power.\n\nFollowing independence, the BAO was rechartered as the central bank for the francophone countries of West Africa. On 22 November 1962, the bank was renamed the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and the CFA Franc was renamed the Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique Centrale (The CFA franc).\n\nIts last French President and Director General, Georges Gautier and Claude Panouillot, stepped down in 1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043031", "title": "The Shape Shifters", "text": "The Shape Shifters\n\nThe Shape Shifters are an underground hip hop collective based in Los Angeles, California. It consists of Akuma, Awol One, Circus, Die Young, Existereo, LA Jae, Life Rexall, Perk One, and Radioinactive.\n\nThe group prevented The Shapeshifters, another act from the United Kingdom, from using the name in the United States. That resulted in the latter changing its name to Shape:UK, but for the United States only.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043056", "title": "Ecopsychology", "text": "Ecopsychology\n\nEcopsychology is a therapeutic technique and ideology that tries to treat people psychologically by bringing them spiritually closer to nature. Ecopsychology is outside conventional psychology. A central premise is that while the mind is shaped by the modern world, its underlying structure was created in a natural non-human environment. It seeks to expand and remedy the emotional connection between humans and nature, and promote sustainability.\n\nTheodore Roszak is credited with coining the term \"ecopsychology\" in his 1992 book \"The Voice of the Earth\", although a group of psychologists and environmentalists, including Mary Gomes and Allen Kanner, were independently using the term to at the same time. Roszak, Gomes and Kanner later expanded the idea in the 1995 anthology \"Ecopsychology\". Two other books were especially formative, Paul Shepard's 1982 volume, \"Nature and Madness,\" which explored the effect that our diminishing engagement with nature had upon psychological development, and David Abram's 1996 \"The Spell of the Sensuous: Perception and Language in a More-than-Human World\". The latter was one of the first books to bring phenomenology fully to bear on ecological issues, looking closely at the cosmo-vision (or the traditional ecological knowledge systems) of diverse indigenous, oral cultures, and analyzing the curious effect that the advent of formal writing systems, like the phonetic alphabet, has had upon the human experience of the more-than-human natural world. Roszack mentions the biophilia hypothesis of biologist E.O. Wilson; that humans have an instinct to emotionally connect with nature.\n\nRoszak states that an individual's connection to nature can improve their interpersonal relationships and emotional wellbeing. An integral part of this practice is to treat patients outdoors. According to ecopsychology humans are meant to take walks in parks. It considers the psyche of non-humans to be relevant. It examines why people continue environmentally damaging behaviour, and motivates them to adopt sustainability.\n\nEcopsychology tries to develop beneficial emotional bonds with nature. It claims a bad connection with the environment is partially behind psychological problems. The belief is that if a person is disconnected from nature, this negatively impacts aspects of an individual's life. Ecopsychology rejects the scientific method and the existence of genes, because that implies evolutionary theory, which is seen as ideologically undesired. Science is dismissed as insufficient in describing nature in terms of wildness, spirituality and emotion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043060", "title": "Iptingen", "text": "Iptingen\n\nIptingen is a small village in southwestern Germany, some 25 km to the northwest of Stuttgart. Today, Iptingen is a part of the community of Wiernsheim, together with Pinache and Serres.\nIptingen was the birthplace of Johann Georg Rapp, the founder of the Harmony Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043062", "title": "Egyptian hip hop", "text": "Egyptian hip hop\n\nEgyptian hip hop is a form of hip hop music in Egypt which draws inspiration from both regional and global events.\n\nEgyptian hip hop is distinct from other hip-hop genres around the world, as it tends to use traditional instruments such as the Oud and the Egyptian flute to add a Middle Eastern to music. The Islamic religion has also had an effect on hip hop in Egypt. The Qur'an is a book consisting of laws and rules Muslims must follow. Since Egypt is a predominantly Islamic society and the government follows certain Islamic laws, the society expects a limit on certain things such as showing off one's wealth, the objectification of women. The Quran forbids looking at women as sex objects. The following verse is about maintaining men and women chastity through both clothing and conduct, \"Tell the believing men that they shall subdue their eyes (and not stare at the women), and to maintain their chastity. This is purer for them. God is fully Cognizant of everything they do. And tell the believing women to subdue their eyes, and maintain their chastity. They shall not reveal any parts of their bodies, except that which is necessary\"(24:30-31). There are also many Christian Coptics in Egypt and they too have very close morals and values as the Islamic faith, especially in the villages such as Upper Egypt where patriarchal gender relations are also an issue.\nAn Islamic verse states, \"God advocates justice, charity, and regarding the relatives. And he forbids evil vice, and transgression. He enlightens you, that you may take heed.\" This verse tells Muslims that good and evil are not equals and to always perform good actions towards others. Muslims can interpret this \"evil\" as the objectification of women, showing off the \"bling\", doing inappropriate things, or anything else involved with consumerism and capitalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043064", "title": "Yalgoo, Western Australia", "text": "Yalgoo, Western Australia\n\nYalgoo is a town in the Murchison region, north-north-east of Perth and east-north-east of Mullewa. Yalgoo is in the local government area of the Shire of Yalgoo.\n\nBefore it was settled as a town the Yalgoo area was used as grazing land for European settlers including the Morrissey and Broad families. Flocks of sheep were herded onto the rich pastures during the wet growing season and driven back to coastal properties for shearing before summer. Over time the graziers saw the value in the Yalgoo land and began to establish the first sheep stations.\n\nGold was discovered in the area in the early 1890s, and by 1895 there were 120 men working the diggings and buildings being erected. The goldfield warden asked for a townsite to be surveyed and gazetted, and following survey the townsite of Yalgu was gazetted in January 1896.\n\nIt was once the location of an important railway station (opened in 1896) on the Northern Railway. Yalgoo's importance declined in the years after World War II after the forging of an all-weather road between Wubin and Paynes Find, across Lake Moore.\n\nIn early 1898 the population of the town was 650, 500 males and 150 females.\nIn 1921-22 the priest-architect and parish priest of Yalgoo (as well as of Mullewa), Mgr John Hawes, designed and built the Dominican convent school and chapel of St Hyacinth: Yalgoo children attended the school until it was closed for lack of pupils in 1950. The timber framed school building was dismantled and removed. The derelict chapel was restored and re-opened in 1981.\n\nErection of a state battery commenced in July 1931 and was completed in October of the same year.\n\nYalgoo is an Aboriginal name first recorded for Yalgoo Peak by the surveyor John Forrest in 1876. The name is said to mean \"blood\" or \"place of blood\", derived from the word \"Yalguru\". An alternative view is that it is derived from the Yalguru bush which abounds in the area, and has blood red sap.\n\nThe spelling Yalgu was used because of spelling rules for Aboriginal names adopted by the Lands & Surveys Department (the letter \"u\" best representing the \"oo\" sound). Within a month the Department of Lands and Surveys had decided reluctantly to use the original Yalgoo spelling, and this spelling has been used ever since. Some doubt about the spelling being officially changed resulted in an amendment from Yalgu to Yalgoo being gazetted in 1938.\n\nYalgoo has a hot desert climate (\"BWk\" in the Köppen climate classification) with hot summers and mild winters.\n\nThe name Yalgoo is also used as a name for a on the planet Mars, without specifically commemorating the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043078", "title": "Jack of Spades", "text": "Jack of Spades\n\nThe jack of spades (also called the \"knave of spades\") is a playing card in the standard 52-card deck.\n\nJack of Spades may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043081", "title": "King of Spades", "text": "King of Spades\n\nThe king of spades is a playing card in the standard 52-card deck.\n\nKing of Spades may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043106", "title": "Ace of Diamonds", "text": "Ace of Diamonds\n\nThe ace of diamonds is a playing card in the standard 52-card deck.\n\nAce of Diamonds may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043118", "title": "Jack of Diamonds (artists)", "text": "Jack of Diamonds (artists)\n\nJack of Diamonds (, Romanized: Bubnovyi Valet), also called Knave Of Diamonds, was a group of avant-garde artists originating from an exhibition held in Moscow from 1910. The group remained active until December 1917.\n\nThe \"Knave of Diamonds\" was an exhibition that opened in Moscow in December 1910, featuring French cubist paintings by Henri Le Fauconnier, André Lhote, Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger. Curated by Alexandre Mercereau, the exhibition included works of four Russian artists expelled from the Moscow School of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture due to their \"leftist tendencies\". A stated objective of the exhibition was \"to offer young Russian artists who find it extremely difficult to get accepted for exhibitions under the existing indolence and cliquishness of our artistic spheres, the chance to get onto the main road.\"\n\nSubsequently, the title was adopted by a newly formed artistic society in Moscow. Soon thereafter, this group became the largest and one of the most significant exhibition societies of the early Russian avant-garde.\n\nThe name itself was coined by Mikhail Larionov for the exhibition of 1910 because he liked the sound of it. A contemporary account included, \"Organizers regard the title Knave of Diamonds as a symbol of young enthusiasm and passion, 'for the knave implies youth and the suit of diamonds represents seething blood.'\"\n\nPainters whose works were displayed in the first Jack of Diamonds exhibition, in addition to the French Cubists, were Mikhail Larionov, Natalia Goncharova, Kazimir Malevich (and later, Léopold Survage).\n\nIn 1912, the more radical members of the group, including Larionov, split to form the Donkey's Tail.\n\nThe group included Robert Falk, Aristarkh Lentulov, Ilya Mashkov, Alexander V. Kuprin, Adolf Milman, Alexander Osmerkin, Wladimir Burliuk, Pyotr Konchalovsky, Lyubov Popova, and Moisey Feigin. Their works demonstrate the artists’ interest in the developing of the new styles (Russian Primitivism, Russian Cezanneism, Moscow School of Neo-Primitivism, among others) that emerged around their first exhibition as a result of their integrating folk art of the provinces in the artworks. Other new styles and genres, such as performance and body-art, emerged from this unlikely blending of fine European art, Russian folk art, and urban folk of the masses in Russia. The artistic significance of the individual members of The Knave of Diamonds aside, their activities conditioned a qualitative shift in Russian art of the 1910s. Among the most important changes was the democratization of the art society in Russia.\n\n\nThe \"Jack of Diamonds\" defined \"the Russian pre-revolutionary culture\", a favorite culture of the Moscow intelligentsia in the 1970s.\n\nLater Mikhail Larionov and his followers disagreed with the group's ethos and formed the more radical Donkey's Tail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043120", "title": "Germfree Adolescents", "text": "Germfree Adolescents\n\nGermfree Adolescents is the debut album of English punk rock band X-Ray Spex. It contained the UK hit singles \"The Day the World Turned Dayglo\" (No. 23 in April 1978), \"Identity\" (No. 24 in July 1978) and \"Germ Free Adolescents\" which reached No. 18 in November 1978.\n\n\"Germfree Adolescents\" received wide acclaim upon its release. In his February 1979 \"Consumer Guide\" in the \"Village Voice\", critic Robert Christgau bemoaned the fact that \"Germfree Adolescents\" had not been released in the US and praised Poly Styrene's \"cheerfully moralistic nursery rhymes\", strong melodies and the \"irresistible color\" of the band's \"dubiously tuned one-sax horn section\". He also named the album one of the few import-only records from the 1970s he loved yet omitted from \"\" (1981), later deeming it \"one of British punk's strongest\". \"Trouser Press\" called it \"a masterpiece!\" \"The Rough Guide to Rock\" calls it a \"storming album\", and it was ranked at No. 9 among the top \"Albums of the Year\" for 1978 by \"NME\".\n\nIn 1994, \"The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music\" named \"Germfree Adolescents\" the eighth best punk album of all time. Seven years later, in May 2001, \"Spin\" magazine ranked the album number 5 in its \"50 Most Essential Punk Records\". In March 2003, \"Mojo\" magazine ranked the LP number 19 in its 'Top 50 Punk Albums'. The album is listed as one of the 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die.\n\n\nAll tracks written by Poly Styrene.\n\nSide A\n\nSide B\n\nBonus tracks\n\nThe 1991 Caroline release features four additional tracks and a rearranged song order.\n\nThe 2005 CD reissue includes the original song order and the following bonus tracks not on the original release.\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2043123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043123", "title": "Fonse Faour", "text": "Fonse Faour\n\nAlphonsus (Fonse) Faour (born November 16, 1951 in Corner Brook, Newfoundland) is a former Canadian politician.\nFaour represented the electoral district of Humber—St. George's—St. Barbe, which he won in a 1978 by-election following the resignation of Jack Marshall. In the general election the following year, Faour retained the renamed seat of Humber—Port au Port—St. Barbe. However, in the 1980 election, Faour was defeated by Brian Tobin.\n\nAfter the election, he became leader of the Newfoundland and Labrador New Democratic Party from 1980 to 1981.\n\nIn 2003, Faour was appointed to the trial division of the Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nThere is an Alphonsus Faour fonds at Library and Archives Canada. Archival reference number is R3766. \n"}
{"id": "2043124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043124", "title": "King of Diamonds", "text": "King of Diamonds\n\nThe king of diamonds is a playing card in the standard 52-card deck.\n\nKing of Diamonds may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043126", "title": "Ace of Clubs", "text": "Ace of Clubs\n\nThe ace of clubs is a playing card in the standard 52-card deck.\n\nAce of Clubs may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043130", "title": "Moving Malcolm", "text": "Moving Malcolm\n\nMoving Malcolm is a Canadian comedy-drama film, directed by Benjamin Ratner and released in 2003.\n\nThe film stars Ratner as Gene Maxwell, a man who is forced to piece his life back together after being dumped at the altar by his fiancé Liz (Elizabeth Berkley), but is asked after the wedding to help her move her father Malcolm (John Neville) to a new apartment in a seniors home. The cast also includes Jay Brazeau and Babz Chula as Gene's parents George and Gisha and Rebecca Harker as his autistic sister Jolea, as well as Linda Sorenson, Nicholas Lea and Tom Scholte in supporting roles.\n\nRatner acknowledged that the film was partially autobiographical; although Ratner was never personally jilted by a fiancé, he based Gene Maxwell's family on his own.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2003 Montreal World Film Festival, where it received an honorable mention from the Best First Feature award jury.\n\nHarker won the Vancouver Film Critics Circle award for Best Supporting Actress in a Canadian Film, and was nominated for Best Supporting Actress at the 2004 Leo Awards.\n"}
{"id": "2043134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043134", "title": "Fran Healy (musician)", "text": "Fran Healy (musician)\n\nFrancis \"Fran\" Healy (born 23 July 1973) is a British musician. He is the lead singer and lyricist of the band Travis, having written nearly all of the songs on their first six studio albums, with the 7th and 8th being more of a co-written work. He is based in Berlin. Healy released his debut solo album titled \"Wreckorder\" in October 2010, which featured Paul McCartney on bass.\n\nAlthough born in Stafford, England, Healy grew up in Glasgow, Scotland – his parents' hometown. His mother had moved back to Scotland after divorcing her husband. Healy has said that both his mother and his grandmother were major influences on him as a child. Healy attended Holyrood Secondary School in Glasgow.\n\nAs a young child at primary school, he was awarded a book of Robert Burns poems and a certificate \"For Outstanding Singing Abilities\" after singing the old Scottish song \"Westering Home\" while dressed in a kilt. However, Healy showed no further interest in singing until his teens. His obsession with songwriting began to take shape when he got his first guitar in 1986 at the age of 13, having seen Roy Orbison perform his hit Pretty Woman on \"The Last Resort with Jonathan Ross\". First songs played on the guitar were old rock'n'roll numbers like \"Johnny B. Goode\" and \"Three Steps to Heaven\" by Eddie Cochran. His first complete song was written about the headmaster of his school, Peter Mullen, entitled \"Mr. Mullen Blues\", with a sample lyric: \"\"...and there was Pete Mullen, with his pie and beans. It was then I smelled it, it filled the room. Then some wee bugger lit a match and the whole place went Ka-BOOM...Where's your tie boy? Pick up that can. Get in line girl, do you understand...Cause his name is big Pete Mullen...And he's a man\"\". He performed it at the school talent show but failed to move the judges. He then played in several school bands.\n\nIn 1991, Neil Primrose, the drummer of Glasgow band Glass Onion, asked Healy if he would like to audition for the band; their previous singer, Catherine Maxwell, had just left the band. Healy joined the band on the same day he enrolled at the Glasgow School of Art. This band soon changed their name to Travis, named after the main character in the Wim Wenders movie \"Paris, Texas\".\n\nTravis' first single, \"All I Want to Do Is Rock\", was written by Healy while on a visit to Millport on Great Cumbrae, a small island in the Firth of Clyde. Going there with the sole intention of composing the best song he had ever written, Healy surprised even himself when the track was born. In spite of Healy's success as a songwriter since, he is without formal musical training. As the band has risen to prominence, Healy has continued to be Travis' main songwriter, as well as the band's main spokesman and most recognisable member.\n\nTravis has twice been awarded British album of the year at the annual BRIT Awards, and is credited as having paved the way for British bands such as Coldplay and Keane. Travis have released eight studio albums, beginning with \"Good Feeling\" in 1997.\n\nAlthough Healy predominantly plays guitar, he has also been known to write and perform with piano.\n\nIn 2010 Healy released the solo album \"Wreckorder\", which featured Paul McCartney on bass and Neko Case.\n\nHe appeared on the BBC's last night of the proms celebrations in Scotland on 10 September 2011 in the Caird Hall in Dundee.\n\nHe co-wrote the song \"Here With Me\" from The Killers' 2012 album \"Battle Born\".\n\nIn interviews, Healy has talked of being influenced by songwriters such as Joni Mitchell, Paul McCartney and Graham Nash (of The Hollies and Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young fame). Healy has since played with both McCartney and Nash.\n\nHealy's songwriting has been praised by Paul McCartney, Elton John and Noel Gallagher. In 2005, Coldplay frontman Chris Martin called himself \"a poor man's Fran Healy\".\n\nHealy is a part of the movement Make Poverty History and has, alongside his band, played at the Live 8 concerts in both London and Edinburgh. He participated in Band Aid 20's re-recording of Do They Know It's Christmas?, with Healy and friend Nigel Godrich also playing roles in its organization.\n\nHe has so far made two trips to Sudan with the Save the Children Organization, for which he has just launched the biggest ever global campaign to help the ten million children who die unnecessarily each year to survive.\n\nHealy has also taken part in and been a speaker at several anti-war demonstrations against the Iraq War.\n\nSince 1996, Healy has been in a relationship with German photographer and former make-up artist Nora Kryst. Their first child, a son named Clay Kryst, was born in March 2006. After living in London for twelve years, the family moved to Berlin in February 2008 but still own a flat in London. Healy also has an apartment in SoHo, New York City.\n\nDuring the late 1990s and early 2000s, Healy made the haircut \"Hoxton fin\" famous.\n\nIn January 2008, it was announced that Healy would curate a new talent compilation for Paul McCartney's Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts.\n\nIn 2010 as a way to thank Paul McCartney for playing on his album, Healy and Nora Kryst both became vegetarian and agreed to raise their son that way as well; McCartney is a long time advocate of vegetarianism.\n\nHealy is a keen runner, having been a member of the Glasgow athletics club Bellahouston Harriers in his youth, and took part in the Berlin Relay Marathon in 2012.\n\nAt the 2005 general election, Healy was reported to be a supporter of the Liberal Democrats. In a 2013 interview, speaking of an earlier interview in which he appeared to criticise Alex Salmond, he said \"I certainly came across as pro-Labour but the truth is I'm not pro-anyone.\"\n\n\nStudio albums\n\nFeatured singles\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043146", "title": "Turbo (Polish band)", "text": "Turbo (Polish band)\n\nTurbo is a Polish heavy metal band. It was started in January 1980, in Poznań, by Henryk Tomczak (formerly in Stress and Heam, both pioneering Polish hard rock groups). Turbo has been described as one of the most important bands in Polish heavy metal. Turbo's most famous album is \"Kawaleria Szatana\" (\"Satan's Cavalry\"), considered an opus of Polish heavy metal. The band is best known for the tracks \"Dorosłe Dzieci\", \"Jaki był ten dzień\", \"Żołnierz fortuny\" and \"Wszystko będzie ok\".\n\nThe first line-up was Wojciech Hoffmann (guitar), Wojciech Anioła (drums) and Wojciech Sowula (vocals). Soon a single was released, the tracks being \"W środku tej ciszy\" (\"Deep in the Silence\") and \"Byłem z tobą tyle lat\" (\"So many years with you\"). The band's style then was very much like 1970s or early 1980s hard rock. In November 1980, the singer left and was replaced by Piotr Krystek. New tracks were recorded and frequently played on the radio. Soon more line-up changes came, the original founder and bass guitarist left. 16-year-old Piotr Przybylski took his place. Andrzej Łysów joined as second guitarist and the singer was changed once again. Since then Turbo's vocals have been by Grzegorz Kupczyk, one of the most famous Polish heavy metal singers, sometimes compared to Bruce Dickinson.\n\nIn 1983, the first LP was released, entitled \"Dorosłe dzieci\" (\"Grown-up Children\"). Its music is a blend of traditional hard rock and NWOBHM. The title track has become a hit and the most recognizable Turbo song. With the LP recorded, the group played extensively, including at Rockowisko in Łódź and the famous Jarocin festival. Despite the success, the line-up continued to change: successive drummers were Marek Olszak, Ryszard Oleksy and Przemysław Pahl. Finally, the drummer's place was taken by Alan Sors. Piotr Przybylski (bass guitar) left and was replaced Bogusz Rutkiewicz.\n\nApart from problems with the line-up, the band had other difficulties to address. The record company insisted on softening the band's sound and recording more 'catchy' tracks. Wojciech Hoffman later called that \"a time of mistakes and distortion\". In 1985, a compromise, softened LP, \"Smak ciszy\" (\"The Taste of Silence\"), was recorded. Despite the sound being relatively soft, the riffing resembles Iron Maiden and the vocals give the music more heaviness. The charting songs were \"Smak Ciszy\" and \"Jaki był ten dzień\" (\"How That Day Was\").\n\nA year later, Turbo recorded an LP that became one of the best Polish heavy metal albums of all time – \"Kawaleria Szatana\" (\"Satan's Cavalry\"). Heavy riffing, Iron Maiden-like soloing and lyrics dealing with typically 'heavy' themes such as death, war and pain, completely changed the band's image. The LP was very successful and is still considered to be the group's greatest effort. After the release Turbo collaborated with Metal Mind Records, which enabled then to play at the Metalmania festival.\n\nIn 1987, the band recorded another LP, \"Ostatni wojownik\" (\"Last Warrior\". An English-language version was released in Europe a year later). It was the first album for the new drummer, Tomasz Goehs. The band's style hardened even more, influenced by early Metallica, as did the lyrics, even darker than before. In 1988, the first live recording, \"Alive!\", was released, containing material recorded at gigs on 12 December 1986 and 3 March 1987.\n\nWith 1989 came several changes in the line-up – Bogusz Rutkiewicz quit, Andrzej Łysów took bass instead of guitar, and as the new guitarist came from Acid Drinkers Robert \"Litza\" Friedrich. Influenced by Anthrax, Flotsam and Jetsam and Wolf Spider the musicians recorded \"Epidemie\" (later English edition, \"Epidemic\"), a highly technical thrash album.\n\nIn 1990 a break-up occurred, when Grzegorz Kupczyk and Andrzej Łysów quit the band. Tomasz Olszewski joined on bass, and the new singer was Robert \"Litza\" Friedrich. This line-up went on, creating \"Dead End\" which resembles somewhat of death metal vocals, but the songs' structures are still thrash. The break-up and lack of concerts would cause the band's inactivity. A compilation of 1980–1990 songs was released, containing tracks unreleased before.\n\nWojciech Hoffman tried to form a new line-up in 1992, releasing \"One Way\" (tapes only), but the effort turned out to be a commercial loss and Turbo finally ceased.\n\nThe following years, several compilation albums were released – in 1992 \"Titanic\", with unreleased songs from the 'softened times', and a year later \"Dorosłe Dzieci i inne ballady\" (\"Grown-up Children and other ballads\") – a collection of all Turbo ballads.\n\nIn 1995 Turbo played at a gig in Poznań, the line-up being Wojciech Hoffmann, Grzegorz Kupczyk, Bogusz Rutkiewicz together with Marcin Białożyk – guitar and Szymon Ziomkowski – drums. The applause caused the group to reform, and 1 January 1996 Turbo regrouped. In 1997 another compilation was released, this time entitled \"Intro: 1982–1996\", composed of most popular songs. In 1999 Metal Mind Records released a Turbo discography on CD. The band played at Thrash'em All and Metalmania festivals.\n\nIn 2000, a remastered version of \"Titanic\" was released, called \"Remix '92\". On 20 January 2000, Turbo played at a gig celebrating Grzegorz Kupczyk's 25 years on stage. The gig was released as a CD, \"20012000\".\n\nIn 2001, after a ten-year break, another LP was released. \"Awatar\" (\"The Avatar\") was an experimental, new-sound album, influenced by modern hard rock. The experiments were disapproved of by the heavy metal diehards, who rated the album very low. The line-up formed was Hoffmann, Kupczyk i Rutkiewicz and Mariusz Bobkowski (drums).\n\nIn 2004, Turbo returned with Wojciech Hoffmann, Grzegorz Kupczyk, Bogusz Rutkiewicz and Tomek Krzyżaniak (drums) and Dominik Jokiel (guitar). The \"Tożsamość\" (\"Identity\") LP was released, a return to pure heavy metal. The diehard public considered it to be an excellent come back, while others claimed the group was repetitive. In 2005, a limited edition of \"Tożsamość\" together with \"Akustycznie\" (a record of the acoustic performance XII 2003) was released. The band went to Metalmania and released the gig as a live DVD.\n\nBecause of unresolved problems with the record company, and a bad music market situation, the band ceased once again. Wojciech Hoffman began a solo career, Grzegorz Kupczyk worked with his band , and Bogusz Rutkiewicz joined Gotham.\n\nIn March and April 2007, the group took part in the \"Metal Marathon Tour 3\" with Chainsaw, Turbo's first tour since 2001.\n\nIn 2009, Metal Mind Productions released remastered versions of all Turbo albums, including \"One Way\". Also in 2009, Turbo released a new album (\"Strażnik Światła\") with a new member, Tomasz Struszczyk, on vocals. On this album, the band returned to the classic heavy metal music style.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043149", "title": "Burzum (album)", "text": "Burzum (album)\n\nBurzum is the debut studio album by the Norwegian black metal solo project of the same name. It was released in March 1992, through Euronymous's label Deathlike Silence Productions. Six of the songs were later re-recorded in 2010 and released on the album \"From the Depths of Darkness\", as Varg Vikernes was dissatisfied with some of the original vocals and production.\n\nThe album was later re-released as \"Burzum / Aske\", which also included the \"Aske\" EP as a packed-in bonus. Only the \"Aske\" version of \"A Lost Forgotten Sad Spirit\" was included on this edition.\n\nAll music and lyrics by Varg Vikernes except \"Ea, Lord of the Deeps\", words taken from the \"Necronomicon\".\n\nNote: Later pressings rename Track 3 as \"Spell of Destruction\" as Vikernes claims the word \"Black\" was added to the title by Euronymous without his knowledge. Later editions also rename Track 2 to \"Ea, Lord of the Depths\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043170", "title": "Robert Hecker", "text": "Robert Hecker\n\nRobert Hecker (born March 7, 1965), is a guitarist, singer, with the bands Redd Kross and It's OK!.\n\nHecker was born in Hermosa Beach, California. He played lead guitar and sang with Redd Kross from 1984 to 1991, and again from 2006 to the present, in addition to occasional on-stage reunions throughout the 1990s. He has also played guitar and sang with the band It's OK! since 1992. As of 2013, he no longer actively tours with Redd Kross, but continues to perform live with It's OK!.\n\nHecker has now began teaching middle school science, in Hermosa Valley School.\n\nWith Redd Kross during the \"Teen Babes from Monsanto\" era, 1984–1985, Hecker's main guitar was a 1979 Gibson The \"SG\", played through any number of different amplifiers (Peavey, Acoustic Control Corporation, Sunn, HiWatt, Traynor, Randall).\n\nIn the mid-to-late 1980s, he played a pair of Carvin guitars: first, a red DC125, which would be enshrined at the Hard Rock Cafe in 1987; and after, a green DC200, 'Cal', which had the lower horn removed.\n\nBy 1986, and throughout the \"Neurotica\" era, he was playing through a Marshall JCM 800 driving a Carvin 4x12 cabinet. In 1988, he switched to a Mesa/Boogie Quad preamp running through a Mesa/Boogie 295 Simul-Class power amp driving a pair of Mesa/Boogie 4x12 cabinets. He would use this set up throughout the \"Third Eye\" era.\n\nSince 1990, Hecker's main live guitar has been a custom built Ibanez, 'Ike', built by Mace Baily at the Ibanez Custom Shop in North Hollywood. It is an S body outfitted with a 24 fret Wizard neck, with the lower horn removed to facilitate full access to the 24th fret. This guitar was painted orange in 2006.\n\nDuring the It's OK! \"Dream\" and Redd Kross \"Researching the Blues\" eras, his amplifier rig consisted of a Mesa/Boogie Triaxis preamp run through a Mesa/Boogie 20/20 power amp driving a pair of Mesa/Boogie 1x12 EV Thiel cabinets, and a Marshall JMP1 preamp sounding out through a pair of Marshall 1912 1x12 Celestion cabinets. For tours he would often just rent a pair of Marshall JCM 900s driving two Marshall 4x12 cabinets.\n\nHecker is now an official ZT Amplifiers artist; he plays through a stereo rig consisting of two ZT Lunchbox amps running through two ZT Lunchbox cabs.\n\n\nIn 1983, Robert Hecker ran the 110 meter high hurdles in 14.56 seconds, a Mira Costa High School (Manhattan Beach) school record for 23 years, until Drew Johnston (whom Hecker taught to hurdle) clocked 14.39 seconds at CIF prelims in 2006. Hecker ran the 60 meter hurdles in 8.1 seconds as a member of the El Camino College track team, and was the Exemplary Physical Education Major of the Year at California State University, Dominguez Hills. He was runner-up in the 110 meter high hurdles at the USA Track & Field Masters Western Regionals in 2004. In addition to his career in music, he teaches science, physical education, health, and music, and coaches track & field (the \"Daily Breeze\" called him the 'hurdles guru coach') in the South Bay area of Los Angeles.\n\nOnce retiring from red kross and hurdling, Robert hunkered down and now teaches sixth grade science and Hermosa Valley School in his hometown, Hermosa Beach. Along with teaching Science, he also is the leader of the cross country team! He makes all of his students happy and excited to learn for many many years, even hosting outdoor science schools to Malibu. HE now has a wife and two kids and is doing well for himself. He lives a happy and inspiring life and makes the world a better place.\n"}
{"id": "2043180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043180", "title": "Duncan Norvelle", "text": "Duncan Norvelle\n\nDuncan Norvelle (born 2 April 1958, Hoton, Loughborough, Leicestershire, England) is an English comedian in the variety tradition, who appeared on television from the early 1980s. He is probably most famous for his catch phrase \"Chase me!\", leading to his often being referred to as Duncan \"Chase me\" Norvelle. His act was based on appearing to be a stereotypical camp homosexual, whereas Norvelle is heterosexual. He has three children.\n\nIn 1984 or early 1985 (sources vary), he hosted an unscreened pilot dating show called \"It's a Hoot\" for London Weekend Television: the series was eventually re-titled \"Blind Date\" and hosted by Cilla Black. 2008 saw him go out on tour as part of the Ricky Tomlinson Laughter Show. Norvelle spent the 2009 pantomime season playing Buttons in \"Cinderella\" in Doncaster, South Yorkshire.\n\nIn December 2011, he appeared on \"\" with Sean Hughes, Gina Yashere and Paul Tonkinson.\n\nNorvelle was hospitalised during the first week in April 2012 after suffering a stroke, leaving him paralysed down the left side of his body. After nine weeks in hospital, he cancelled his summer season with comedy duo Cannon and Ball, to be replaced by Stu Francis.\n\nSince August 2015 Norvelle has been back performing all over the country, choosing the Embassy Theatre, Skegness as his first performance after over three years off stage.\n"}
{"id": "2043182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043182", "title": "DesktopX", "text": "DesktopX\n\nDesktopX was a shareware desktop enhancement program that allowed users to build their own custom desktops. Amongst its features was a complete widget engine for Windows as well as a desktop object system. User creations could be exported as .desktop files or as widgets. The program was distributed with Object Desktop as well as stand-alone.\n\nDesktopX was released by Alberto Riccio in 1999 as VDE (Verona Desktop Enhancer), and bought in 2000 by Stardock. Mini-applications created with it were called \"object packs\" but later rebranded as \"widgets\" to standardize the term.\n\nMost users used DesktopX to build alternative desktop environments. The mini-application creation ability was there from the start but did not gain widespread use until the release of \"DesktopX 2\" in 2003. Current versions run on Windows 2000 and above.\n\nDesktopX is no longer for sale by its author and is not actively supported.\n\nDesktopX supports the creation of three different types of widgets:\n\nObjects may be controlled by scripts written in either VBScript or JScript, although they are not always required.\n\nMany common actions are provided for as in-built object functions, such as:\n\nSimilarly, animation, sound and variation depending on the object's state (for example, mouseover or clicking) can be modified without scripting.\n\nDesktopX plugins also avoid the need for scripting common tasks, by offering extra functionality such as media player displays and controls (currently available for iTunes, Winamp, CoolPlayer, an internal version of Windows Media Player and Stardock's own \"ObjectMedia\") and access to Windows Management Instrumentation.\n\nAs users often wish to have a uniform desktop style, a common practice is to create several widgets as a coherent \"theme\". A few popular artists sell themes in the WinCustomize store.\n\nAs of 2010 there are three main standalone divisions of DesktopX:\n\nDesktopX Standard may also be obtained as part of an Object Desktop subscription. Corporations may purchase DesktopX Enterprise, allowing the creation of secure desktops.\n\nIn 2003, Stardock released DesktopX 2 Pro, which allowed developers to export their creations as stand-alone programs called \"gadgets\". This feature was enhanced with DesktopX 3 and the price on DesktopX Pro lowered to make it more mainstream.\n\nAn (incomplete) list of releases:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043233", "title": "Point Blank (video game series)", "text": "Point Blank (video game series)\n\nPoint Blank, known as , or in Japan, is a series of light gun shooter games developed by Namco for the arcade, PlayStation and Nintendo DS; the trilogy was first released in arcade in 1994 and was later ported onto the PlayStation. Point Blank DS was released in 2006 for the Nintendo DS featuring 40 challenges from the original series - and the original \"Point Blank\" was the seventh lightgun game released by Namco, after \"Shoot Away\", both \"Golly! Ghost!\" and \"Steel Gunner\" (1990–91) and \"Lucky & Wild\" (1992), the last one requiring the first player to drive as well as operate the lightgun.\n\nPlayers use two attached light guns (in the case of the DS, a pen or in the case of the iOS version, touching the screen) to hit targets onscreen; missions require speed, quick judgment or pinpoint accuracy. The game consists of non-violent shooting contests where players are tasked with challenges such as shooting player-colored bulls-eyes, cardboard criminals, and other inanimate objects, not shooting bombs and cardboard cutouts of civilians (much like in Namco's first light-gun game, \"Steel Gunners\"), and protecting characters Dr. Don and Dr. Dan, among other miscellaneous challenges, similar to games like \"Police Trainer\", and \"\" - and players choose the desired difficulty level (Practice, Beginner, Advanced, and Very Hard in the first game, or Training, Beginner, Advanced, and Insane in the second game onwards) which will determine how many stages must be finished to complete the game, as well as their overall difficulty. Players are shown four missions in each grouping, and may attempt them in any order; they usually have only three lives for the entire game, but this may depend on the cabinet settings. Most stages have unlimited bullets, but some have a limited amount of ammo. Players lose lives if they fail to fullfil the stage quota, or shoot Do Not Shoot targets, such as Bombs, Civilians or the opponent's colour targets.\n\nThere are six different types of stages in the game: Accuracy, where both players must shoot the designated areas with the highest points, Intelligence, where they must count to sixteen (by shooting the numbers), Memory, where they must match two cards by shooting two matching cards, Simulation, where they are required to shoot the cardboard robbers but not civilians (in the Japanese theme of this type, they must shoot cardboard ninjas, but not geishas), Visual Acuity, where they are required to shoot the target which matches what is displayed, and Speed, where they are required to shoot targets of their designated colors (depending players play from left or right); in the arcade version, both light guns must also be calibrated before the crosshairs on the screen shall move.\n\nUpon completing all stages, players will have their performance ranked. Point Blank 1 & 2's ranking is based on how many points have been accumulated, lives remaining, and how many continues have been used, and will advise the player to advance up to a higher difficulty, try out head to head with a friend, return to a lower difficulty, or to practice more. Point Blank 3 and DS ranks numerous aspects of a player's performance such as concentration, accuracy, judgement etc., and then presents them with an overall letter grade.\n\n\n\"Point Blank\" was originally developed as an arcade game in 1994, but a console version was made for the PlayStation in 1997; this version included an \"arrange\" mode which added an alternate version of Arcade mode, as well as adding many new gameplay modes alongside an RPG mode. It also supports the GunCon controller. The game was re-created in 1999 as \"Point Blank 2\", adding more mini-stages and replacing \"Very Hard\" difficulty with \"Insane\" - and the game was once again re-worked in 2001 as \"Point Blank 3\", being only released for the arcades in Japan and for the PlayStation worldwide, and featured cameos from other Namco properties, such as Rick Taylor from \"Splatterhouse\", Klonoa, Mappy, and Pooka and Fygar from Dig Dug.\n\nAt the 2006 Game Developers Conference, in San Jose, CA, a Nintendo DS port of the game was announced; the console's stylus and touch screen is used in place of the light gun. The finished game was released in North America on June 13, 2006, two days after the North American release of the Nintendo DS Lite.\n\nAccording to \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", \"Point Blank\" was a \"cult favorite\" in U.S. arcades. In 1997 it listed \"Point Blank\" as the 7th best arcade game of all time. \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" referred to characters Dr. Dan and Dr. Don as \"an underrated dynamic duo\" in September 2004.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the PlayStation version of the game, rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Overall, \"Point Blank\" is in no way perfect for a single player, but people looking for a two-player gun game will not be disappointed.\"\n\nThe PlayStation version was the third best-selling video game in Japan for the week ending August 10, 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043244", "title": "Nigella sativa", "text": "Nigella sativa\n\nNigella sativa (black caraway, also known as black cumin, nigella, kalojeera, kalonji or kalanji) is an annual flowering plant in the family Ranunculaceae, native to a large region of the eastern Mediterranean, northern Africa, the Indian Subcontinent, and West Asia.\n\n\"N. sativa\" grows to tall, with finely divided, linear (but not thread-like) leaves. The flowers are delicate, and usually colored pale blue and white, with five to ten petals. The fruit is a large and inflated capsule composed of three to seven united follicles, each containing numerous seeds which are used as spice, sometimes as a replacement for black cumin (\"Bunium bulbocastanum\").\n\nThe genus name \"Nigella\" is a diminutive of the Latin (black), referring to the seed color. The specific epithet, \"\"sativa\"\", refers to \"cultivation\".\n\nIn English, \"N. sativa\" and its seed are variously called black caraway, black seed, black cumin, fennel flower, nigella, nutmeg flower, Roman coriander, and \"kalanji\".\n\nBlackseed and black caraway may also refer to \"Bunium persicum\".\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration classifies \"Nigella sativa\" L. (black cumin, black caraway) as Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) for use as a spice, natural seasoning, or flavoring. The seeds of \"N. sativa\" are used as a spice in Indian and Middle Eastern cuisines, and also in Polish cuisine. The black seeds taste like a combination of onions, black pepper, and oregano. They have a pungent, bitter taste and smell. In Palestine, the seeds are ground to make bitter qizha paste.\n\nThe dry-roasted seeds flavor curries, vegetables, and pulses. They can be used as a seasoning in recipes with pod fruit, vegetables, salads, and poultry. In some cultures, the black seeds are used to flavor bread products, and are used as part of the spice mixture \"panch phoron\" (meaning a mixture of five spices) and alone in many recipes in Bengali cuisine and most recognizably in \"naan\". \"Nigella \"is also used in Armenian string cheese, a braided string cheese called \"majdouleh\" or \"majdouli\" in the Middle East.\n\nArchaeological evidence about the earliest cultivation of \"N. sativa\" dates to millennia, with \"N. sativa\" seeds found in several sites from ancient Egypt, including Tutankhamun's tomb. Seeds were found in a Hittite flask in Turkey from the second millennium BCE.\n\n\"N. sativa\" may have been used as a condiment of the Old World to flavor food. The Persian physician Avicenna in his \"Canon of Medicine\" described \"N. sativa\" as a treatment for dyspnea. \"N. sativa\" was used in the Middle East as a traditional medicine.\n\nOils are 32% to 40% of the total composition of \"N. sativa\" seeds. \"N. sativa\" oil contains linoleic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, and \"trans\"-anethole, and other minor constituents, such as nigellicine, nigellidine, nigellimine, and nigellimine N-oxide. Aromatics include thymoquinone, dihydrothymoquinone, \"p\"-cymene, carvacrol, α-thujene, thymol, α-pinene, β-pinene and \"trans\"-anethole. Protein and various alkaloids are present in the seeds.\n\nOne meta-analysis of clinical trials found weak evidence that \"N. sativa\" has a short-term benefit on lowering systolic and diastolic blood pressure, with limited evidence that various extracts of black seed can reduce triglycerides and LDL and total cholesterol, while raising HDL cholesterol. Despite considerable use of \"N. sativa\" in traditional medicine practices in Africa and Asia, there is insufficient, high-quality clinical evidence to indicate that consuming the seeds or oil provides any benefit to human health.\n"}
{"id": "2043253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043253", "title": "Family BASIC", "text": "Family BASIC\n\nThe first edition of the \"Family BASIC\" application cartridge is bundled with a computer style keyboard and instructional textbook, and requires a cassette tape recorder to save user-generated BASIC programs. Programs can be saved using any cassette tape drive, such as the Famicom Data Recorder. \"Family BASIC\" was not designed to be compatible with floppy disk storage on the Famicom Disk System and the Disk System's RAM adapter requires the use of the Famicom's cartridge slot, which prevents using the slot for the \"Family BASIC\" cartridge.\n\n\"Family BASIC\" includes a dialect of the BASIC programming language enhanced for game development. Its Microsoft BASIC-derived command set is extended with support for sprites, animation, backgrounds, musical sequences, and gamepads. Several visual components seen in Nintendo games, such as backgrounds and characters from \"Mario\" and \"Donkey Kong\" series games , are made available as \"Family BASIC\" development componentry, or appear in premade \"Family BASIC\" games.\n\n\"Family BASIC\" was released in Japan by Nintendo for the Family Computer on June 21, 1984 in Japan. It was part of a collaboration between Nintendo, Sharp Corporation and Hudson Soft, and was created to attract computer users over to their new system. Koji Kondo wrote a section in the instruction manual for programming Japanese popular music in the game, being his second project for Nintendo. Prior to this, Kondo had become interested in producing music through computers by programming sound effects in BASIC on his home computer. Two revisions of \"Family BASIC\" were produced — the first, \"v.2.1\", was released shortly after production of the game begun, and the second, \"v.3.0\", was released in early 1985. v.3.0 featured expanded memory and several minigames built-in to the programming cartridge, indicated by a red cartridge shell.\n\n\"Family BASIC\" was commercially successful, selling over 400,000 units by the end of the 1980s.\n\nIn a 2011 retrospective review, \"Retro Gamer\" thought it was a \"some-what useless\" peripheral for the Famicom due to its high price point and lack of compatibility with the Famicom Disk System, although they found it to be an interesting collection piece for its rarity and overall concept.\n\nSatoshi Tajiri, creator of \"Pokémon\", had initially used \"Family BASIC\" as a gateway to build his understanding of the internal operation of the Famicom. This inspired him to create his own handmade Famicom game development hardware, and make Game Freak's debut game \"Quinty\", later released as \"Mendel Palace\" (1990).\n\n"}
{"id": "2043273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043273", "title": "The Old Huntsman", "text": "The Old Huntsman\n\nThe Old Huntsman is a 1917 collection of poems by Siegfried Sassoon and the name of the first poem in the collection.\n"}
{"id": "2043283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043283", "title": "Cadence rampa", "text": "Cadence rampa\n\nCadence rampa (Creole: \"kadans ranpa\") or simply \"kadans\", is a dance music and modern méringue popularized in the Caribbean by the virtuoso Haitian sax player Webert Sicot in the early 1960s. Cadence rampa was one of the sources of cadence-lypso.\n\nCadence rampa literally means \"rampart rhythm\".\n\nWebert Sicot left Nemours Jean-Baptiste compas band and called his music cadence to differentiate it from compas especially when he took it abroad, and so the rivalry between Sicot and Nemours created these names. Raymond had created a new rhythm \"cadence rampa\" to counter compas, but it was only in a spirit of competition. The rhythm of cadence rampa was identical to compas except for the addition of the second drum that sounded on every fourth beat.\n\nThe Sicot brothers, Maestro Webert Sicot and composer Raymond Sicot are well regarded in the Caribbean for their rigorous harmonic skills, introduced the meringue-cadence to the Caribbean, specifically the French Antilles of Martinique & Guadeloupe around 1962 where it spread to Dominica. From the 60s to the 70s, Dominica, Guadeloupe and Martinique were replete with cadence bands. A few of them were Selecta, La Perfecta, Les Aiglons, Grammacks, Exile One, Les Vikings de Guadeloupe, Abel Zenon et son combo, etc.\n\nCadence music is characterized by a constant up tempo rhythm, hence the name cadence. Its percussive aspect come from the drum (in particular, the steady one-beat bass drum), an accentuated use of cymbals and, to a lesser extent, the high hat plus a distinct beat of the cowbell, tok, to-tok, tok-tok-tok, and a conga drum beating a dash of méringue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043284", "title": "Geodetic control network", "text": "Geodetic control network\n\nA geodetic control network (also geodetic network, reference network, control point network, or control network) is a network, often of triangles, which are measured precisely by techniques of terrestrial surveying or by satellite geodesy.\n\nA geodetic control network consists of stable, identifiable points with published datum values derived from observations that tie the points together.\n\nClassically, a control is divided into horizontal (X-Y) and vertical (Z) controls (components of the control), however with the advent of satellite navigation systems, GPS in particular, this division is becoming obsolete.\n\nMany organizations contribute information to the geodetic control network.\n\nThe higher-order (high precision, usually millimeter-to-decimeter on a scale of continents) control points are normally defined in both space and time using global or space techniques, and are used for \"lower-order\" points to be tied into. The lower-order control points are normally used for engineering, construction and navigation. The scientific discipline that deals with the establishing of coordinates of points in a high-order control network is called geodesy, and the technical discipline that does the same for points in a low-order control network is called surveying.\n\nAfter a cartographer registers key points in a digital map to the real world coordinates of those points on the ground, the map is then said to be \"in control\". Having a base map and other data in geodetic control means that they will overlay correctly.\n\nWhen map layers are not in control, it requires extra work to adjust them to line up, which introduces additional error.\nThose real world coordinates are generally in some particular map projection, unit, and geodetic datum.\n\nIn \"classical geodesy\" (up to the sixties) control networks were established by triangulation using measurements of angles and of some spare distances. The precise orientation to the geographic north is achieved through methods of geodetic astronomy. The principal instruments used are theodolites and tacheometers, which nowadays are equipped with infrared distance measuring, data bases, communication systems and partly by satellite links.\n\nElectronic distance measurement (EDM) was introduced around 1960, when the prototype instruments became small enough to be used in the field. Instead of using only sparse and much less accurate distance measurements some control networks was established or updated by using trilateration more accurate distance measurements than was previously possible and no angle measurements.\n\nEDM increased network accuracies up to 1:1 million (1 cm per 10 km; today at least 10 times better), and made surveying less costly.\n\nThe geodetic use of satellites began around the same time. By using bright satellites like Echo I, Echo II and Pageos, global networks were determined, which later provided support for the theory of plate tectonics.\n\nAnother important improvement was the introduction of radio and electronic satellites like Geos A and B (1965–70), of the Transit system (Doppler effect) 1967-1990 — which was the predecessor of GPS - and of laser techniques like Lageos (USA) or Starlette (F). Despite the use of spacecraft, small networks for cadastral and technical projects are mainly measured terrestrially, but in many cases incorporated in national and global networks by satellite geodesy.\n\nNowadays, several hundred geodetic satellites are in orbit, supplemented by a large number of remote sensing satellites and navigation systems like GPS and Glonass, which will be followed by the European Galileo satellites in 2020.\n\nWhile these developments have made satellite-based geodetic network surveying more flexible and cost effective than its terrestrial equivalent, the continued existence of fixed point networks is still needed for administrative and legal purposes on local and regional scales. Global geodetic networks cannot be defined to be fixed, since geodynamics are continuously changing the position of all continents by 2 to 20 cm per year. Therefore, modern global networks like ETRS89 or ITRF show not only coordinates of their \"fixed points\", but also their annual velocities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043293", "title": "The Boy Who Kicked Pigs", "text": "The Boy Who Kicked Pigs\n\nThe Boy Who Kicked Pigs is a short novel by actor Tom Baker. The novel is subtitled, \"A grotesque masterpiece\", and is illustrated with line drawings by David Roberts.\n\nThe novel begins by announcing that today will be the day that a young boy, Robert Caligari, dies. Robert is an extremely odd boy who cannot stop himself from kicking pigs. This begins as a private act of revenge against his sister, Nerys, who is always putting money in her own tin piggy bank. Robert is angry at Nerys constantly rattling the pig in front of him, and so takes great pleasure in kicking the pig across the room whenever he is alone.\n\nRobert's obsession with kicking pigs gets worse, and one day, he kicks his sister's piggy bank out of the window, causing chaos for his neighbours and a local police officer. The last straw for Robert's mother is when he kicks a rather large woman's bagged pork chops, which she had just bought at the local butcher's shop.\n\nAfter a local man finally gets revenge on Robert by throwing him over a church wall, Robert realises that he hates people. While Robert's neighbours soon come to the conclusion that he is a nice young boy, he is plotting revenge. After poisoning his sister's food, he decides to trick an old blind man into crossing a road of busy traffic. Unfortunately for the old man this proves fatal, yet nobody suspects Robert's involvement.\n\nRobert engineers another, far worse, road accident in the next step of his evil plan. However, in the process of doing so, he finds himself trapped in his secret hideaway, where he is about to face a truly terrible fate.\n\nThe book has been adapted for stage by theatre company Kill the Beast, and was performed at The Lowry, Greater Manchester, 21–23 June 2012 and at Jacksons Lane, London.\n"}
{"id": "2043294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043294", "title": "It's OK! (band)", "text": "It's OK! (band)\n\nIt's OK! is a musical group formed by Redd Kross members Robert Hecker (guitar, vocals) and Victor Indrizzo (drums), along with bassist Abby Travis and the late Greg White on vocals. This initial line up of the band released the self-titled debut album \"It's OK!\".\n\nThe line up of Robert Hecker (guitar, vocals), Dave Naz (drums), Ellen Rooney (vocals, factotum), and Matt Smith (bass, vocals) recorded the second It's OK! album, \"Dream\".\n\nThe current line-up of the band consists of Robert Hecker (guitar, vocals), Ellen Rooney (vocals, factotum), Dennis McGarry (bass, vocals), and Joey Mancaruso (drums, vocals). It's OK! were signed by Exene Cervenka of X to Moonlight Graham Records.; however, It's OK!'s third album, \"Cubed\", was released on Econoclast Recordings.\n\nIt's OK! toured California, Oregon, and Washington with Frightwig in June, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043296", "title": "United Nations Convention against Corruption", "text": "United Nations Convention against Corruption\n\nThe United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) is the only legally binding international anti-corruption multilateral treaty.  \n\nNegotiated by member states of the United Nations (UN) it has been adopted by the UN General Assembly in October 2003 and entered into force in December 2005.\n\nThey recognise the importance of both preventive and punitive measures, addresses the cross-border nature of corruption with provisions on international cooperation and on the return of the proceeds of corruption.\n\nStates Parties - countries that have ratified the Convention - are expected to cooperate in criminal matters and consider assisting each other in investigations of and proceedings in civil and administrative matters relating to corruption. The Convention further calls for the participation of civil society and non-governmental organisations in accountability processes and underlines the importance of citizens’ access to information.\n\nThe UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in Vienna serves as Secretariat for the UNCAC.\n\nUNCAC's goal is to reduce various types of corruption that can occur across country borders, such as trading in influence and abuse of power, as well as corruption in the private sector, such as embezzlement and money laundering. Another goal of the UNCAC is to strengthen international law enforcement and judicial cooperation between countries by providing effective legal mechanisms for international asset recovery.\n\nUNCAC was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 31 October 2003 by Resolution 58/4. It was opened for signature in Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico, from 9–11 December 2003 and thereafter at UN headquarters in New York City. It was signed by 140 countries. As of May 2020, there are 187 parties, which includes 181 UN member states, the Cook Islands, Niue, the Holy See, the State of Palestine, and the European Union.\n\nAs of May 2020, the 11 UN member states that have not ratified the convention are (asterisk indicates that the state has signed the convention):\n\nUNCAC covers five main areas: preventive measures, criminalization and law enforcement, international cooperation, asset recovery, and technical assistance and information exchange. It includes both mandatory and non-mandatory provisions.\n\nThe opening Articles of UNCAC include a statement of purpose (Article1), which covers both the promotion of integrity and accountability within each country and the support of international cooperation and technical assistance between States Parties.!\nThey also include definitions of critical terms used in the instrument. Some of these are similar to those used in other instruments, and in particular the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC), but those defining \"public official\", \"foreign public official\", and \" official of a public international organization\" are new and are important for determining the scope of application of UNCAC in these areas. UNCAC does not provide a definition of corruption.\nIn accordance with Article 2 of the UN Charter, Article 4 of UNCAC provides for the protection of national sovereignty of the States Parties.,\n\nUNCAC recognizes the importance of the prevention in both the public and private sectors. Chapter II includes preventive policies, such as the establishment of anti-corruption bodies and enhanced transparency in the financing of election campaigns and political parties. Anti-corruption bodies should implement anti-corruption policies, disseminate knowledge and must be independent, adequately resourced and have properly trained staff.\n\nCountries that sign the convention must assure safeguards their public services are subject to safeguards that promote efficiency, transparency and recruitment based on merit. Once recruited, public servants should be bound by codes of conduct, requirements for financial and other disclosures, and appropriate disciplinary measures. Transparency and accountability in the management of public finances must also be promoted, and specific requirements are established for the prevention of corruption in the particularly critical areas of the public sector, such as the judiciary and public procurement. Preventing corruption also requires an effort from all members of society at large. For these reasons, UNCAC calls on countries to promote actively the involvement of civil society, and to raise public awareness of corruption and what can be done about it. The requirements made for the public sector also apply to the private sector – it too is expected to adopt transparent procedures and codes of conduct.\n\nChapter III calls for parties to establish or maintain a series of specific criminal offences including not only long-established crimes such as bribery and embezzlement, but also conducts not previously criminalized in many states, such as trading in influence and other abuses of official functions. The broad range of ways in which corruption has manifested itself in different countries and the novelty of some of the offences pose serious legislative and constitutional challenges, a fact reflected in the decision of the Ad Hoc Committee to make some of the provisions either optional (\"…shall consider adopting…\") or subject to domestic constitutional or other fundamental requirements (\"…subject to its constitution and the fundamental principles of its legal system…\"). Specific acts that parties must criminalize include\n\n\nOther mandatory crimes include obstruction of justice, and the concealment, conversion or transfer of criminal proceeds (money laundering). Sanctions extend to those who participate in and may extend to those who attempt to commit corruption offences. UNCAC thus goes beyond previous instruments of this kind that request parties to criminalize only basic forms of corruption. Parties are encouraged – but not required – to criminalize, \"inter alia\", passive bribery of foreign and international public officials, trading in influence, abuse of function, illicit enrichment, private sector bribery and embezzlement, and the concealment of illicit assets.\n\nFurthermore, parties are required to simplify rules pertaining to evidence of corrupt behavior by, inter alia, ensuring that obstacles that may arise from the application of bank secrecy laws are overcome. This is especially important, as corrupt acts are frequently very difficult to prove in court. Particularly important is also the introduction of the liability of legal persons. In the area of law enforcement, UNCAC calls for better cooperation between national and international bodies and with civil society. There is a provision for the protection of witnesses, victims, expert witnesses and whistle blowers to ensure that law enforcement is truly effective.\n\nRussia ratified the convention in 2006, but failed to include article 20, which criminalizes \"illicit enrichment.\" In March 2013, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation submitted a petition with 115,000 signatures to the State Duma in favour of doing so. In 2015, however, no such law was yet in effect in Russia.\n\nUnder Chapter IV of UNCAC, States Parties are obliged to assist one another in every aspect of the fight against corruption, including prevention, investigation, and the prosecution of offenders. Cooperation takes the form of extradition, mutual legal assistance, transfer of sentences persons and criminal proceedings, and law enforcement cooperation. Cooperation in civil and administrative matters is also encouraged. Based on Chapter IV, UNCAC itself can be used as a basis for extradition, mutual legal assistance and law enforcement with respect to corruption-related offences. \"Dual criminality\", which is a requirement that the relevant offence shall be criminalized in both the requesting and requested country, is considered fulfilled irrespective of whether the same terminology or category of offense is used in both jurisdictions. In case of a request for assistance involving non-coercive measures, States Parties are required to provide assistance even when dual criminality is absent subject only to the basic concepts of their legal systems. Chapter IV also contains other innovative provisions designed to facilitate international cooperation. For example, States Parties that use UNCAC as a basis for extradition shall not consider corruption-related offences as political ones; assistance can also be provided in relation to offences for which legal persons can be held responsible; and bank secrecy cannot be cited as a ground to refuse a request for assistance. In order to ensure speedy and efficient cooperation, each State Party is required to designate a central authority responsible for receiving MLA requests. Overall, Chapter IV provides a broad and flexible platform for international cooperation. However, its provisions do not exhaust all international cooperation issues covered by UNCAC, thus the purposes of UNCAC and provisions of other chapters also need to be taken into consideration.\n\nThe agreement on asset recovery is considered a major breakthrough and many observers claim that it is one of the reasons why so many developing countries have signed UNCAC. Asset recovery is indeed a very important issue for many developing countries where high-level corruption has plundered the national wealth. Reaching an agreement on this Chapter involved intensive negotiations, as the legitimate interests of countries wishing to recover illicit assets had to be reconciled with the legal and procedural safeguards of the countries from which assistance will be sought. Generally, in the course of the negotiations, countries seeking to recover assets sought to establish presumptions that would make clear their ownership of the assets and give priority for return over other means of disposal. Countries from which the return was likely to be sought, on the other hand, had concerns about the language that might have compromised basic human rights and procedural protections associated with criminal liability and the freezing, seizure, forfeiture and return of such assets.\n\nChapter V of UNCAC establishes asset recovery as a \"fundamental principle\" of the Convention. The provisions on asset recovery lay a framework, in both civil and criminal law, for tracing, freezing, forfeiting and returning funds obtained through corrupt activities. The requesting state will in most cases receive the recovered funds as long as it can prove ownership. In some cases, the funds may be returned directly to individual victims.\n\nIf no other arrangement is in place, States Parties may use the Convention itself as a legal basis. Article 54(1)(a) of UNCAC provides that: \"Each State Party (shall)... take such measures as may be necessary to permit its competent authorities to give effect to an order of confiscation issued by a court of another state party\" Indeed, Article 54(2)(a) of UNCAC also provides for the provisional freezing or seizing of property where there are sufficient grounds for taking such actions in advance of a formal request being received.\n\nRecognizing that recovering assets once transferred and concealed is an exceedingly costly, complex and an all-too-often unsuccessful process, this Chapter also incorporates elements intended to prevent illicit transfers and generate records that can be used where illicit transfers eventually have to be traced, frozen, seized and confiscated (Article 52). The identification of experts who can assist developing countries in this process is also included as a form of technical assistance (Article 60(5)).\n\nChapter VI of UNCAC is dedicated to technical assistance, meaning support offered to developing and transition countries in the implementation of UNCAC. The provisions cover training, material and human resources, research, and information sharing. UNCAC also calls for cooperation through international and regional organizations (many of which already have established anti-corruption programmes), research efforts, and the contribution of financial resources both directly to developing countries and countries with economies in transition, and to the UNODC.\n\nChapter VII deals with international implementation through the CoSP and the UN Secretariat.\n\nThe final provisions are similar to those found in other UN treaties. Key provisions ensure that UNCAC requirements are to be interpreted as minimum standards, which States Parties are free to exceed with measures \"more strict or severe\" than those set out in specific provisions; and the two Articles governing signature, ratification and the coming into force of the Convention.\n\nPursuant to article 63 of UNCAC, a Conference of the States Parties (CoSP) to UNCAC was established to improve the capacity of and cooperation between States Parties to achieve the objectives set forth in UNCAC, and to promote and review its implementation. UNODC acts as the secretariat to the CoSP.\n\nAt its different sessions, besides regularly calling States Parties and signatories to adapt their laws and regulations to bring them into conformity with the provisions of UNCAC\n\nThe CoSP has established a number of subsidiary bodies to further the implementation of specific aspects of UNCAC. The Implementation Review Group, which focuses on the implementation review mechanism and technical assistance, the Working Group on Asset Recovery, the Working Group on Prevention, as well as expert group meetings on international cooperation meet regularly in the intersessional period.\n\nThe first session of the CoSP took place on 10–14 December 2006 at the Dead Sea, Jordan. In its resolution 1/1, States Parties agreed that it was necessary to establish an appropriate and effective mechanism to assist in the review of the implementation of UNCAC. An inter-governmental working group was established to start working on the design of such a mechanism. Two other working groups were set up to promote coordination of activities related to technical assistance and asset recovery, respectively.\n\nThe second CoSP was held in Bali, Indonesia, from 28 January to 1 February 2008. As to the mechanism for the review of implementation, the States Parties decided to take into account a balanced geographical approach, to avoid any adversarial or punitive elements, to establish clear guidelines for every aspect of the mechanism and to promote universal adherence to UNCAC and the constructive collaboration in preventive measures, asset recovery, international cooperation and other areas. The CoSP also requested donors and receiving countries to strengthen coordination and enhance technical assistance for the implementation of UNCAC, and dealt with the issue of bribery of officials of public international organizations.\n\nThe third session of the CoSP took place in Doha, Qatar, from 9 to 13 November 2009. The CoSP adopted the landmark Resolution 3/1 on the review of the implementation of UNCAC, containing the terms of reference of the Implementation Review Mechanism(IRM). In view of the establishment of the IRM, and considering that the identification of needs and the delivery of technical assistance to facilitate the successful and consistent implementation of UNCAC are at the core of the mechanism, the CoSP decided to abolish the Working Group on Technical Assistance and to fold its mandate into the work of the Implementation Review Group. At its third session, for the first time, the CoSP also adopted a resolution on preventive measures, in which it established the Open-Ended Intergovernmental Working Group on Prevention to further explore good practices in this field. The CoSP was preceded and accompanied by numerous side events, such as the last Global Forum for Fighting Corruption and Safeguarding Integrity (in cooperation with businesses) and a Youth Forum.\n\nThe fourth session of the CoSP took place in Marrakech, Morocco, from 24 to 28 October 2011. The Conference considered the progress made in the IRM and recognized the importance of addressing technical assistance needs in the Review Mechanism. It also reiterated its support for the Working Groups on Asset Recovery and Prevention and established Open-Ended Intergovernmental Expert Group Meetings on International Cooperation to advise and assist the CoSP with respect to extradition and mutual legal assistance. In addition to its main agenda, the CoSP hosted 19 side events, bringing together governments and different parts of society, such as the private sector, parliamentarians, anti-corruption authorities and civil society organizations.\n\nOther sessions of the CoSP took place in Panama in 2013, the Russian Federation in 2015 and Austria in 2017. In 2019 the Conference of the State Parties to the UN Convention against corruption was held in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIn accordance with Article 63(7) of UNCAC, \"the Conference shall establish, if it deems necessary, any appropriate mechanism or body to assist in the effective implementation of the Convention\". At its first session, the CoSP established an open-ended intergovernmental expert group to make recommendations to the Conference on the appropriate mechanism. A voluntary \"Pilot Review Programme\", which was limited in scope, was initiated to offer adequate opportunity to test possible methods to review the implementation of UNCAC, with the overall objective to evaluate efficiency and effectiveness of the tested mechanism(s) and to provide to the CoSP information on lessons learnt and experience acquired, thus enabling the CoSP to make informed decisions on the establishment of an appropriate mechanism for reviewing the implementation of UNCAC.\n\nThe CoSP at its third session, held in Doha in November 2009, adopted Resolution 3/1 on the review of the implementation of the Convention, containing the terms of reference of an Implementation Review Mechanism (IRM). It established a review mechanism aimed at assisting countries to meet the objectives of UNCAC through a peer review process. The IRM is intended to further enhance the potential of the UNCAC, by providing the means for countries to assess their level of implementation through the use of a comprehensive self-assessment checklist, the identification of potential gaps and the development of action plans to strengthen the implementation of UNCAC domestically. UNODC serves as the secretariat to the review mechanism.\n\nThe Terms of Reference contain procedures and processes for the peer review of the States Parties implementation of the UNCAC, including the formation of an oversight body called the Implementation Review Group (IRG).\n\nIn July 2010 the IRG met for the first time in Vienna and adopted the guidelines for governmental experts and the UNCAC secretariat – the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) – in the conduct of a country review. The mechanism consists of a multi-stage peer review which involves the review of each State Party by two peers – one from the same UN region and one from another one. To cover all States Parties, the review process is divided into two five-year cycles where countries are randomly selected to be reviewed in each year of the cycle. The first cycle started in 2010 and covers Chapter III and IV of the Convention. The second cycle was launched in November 2015 and is currently underway, covering Chapters II and V, reviewing corruption prevention measures and asset recovery. While the second cycle is scheduled to end in 2021, the process is facing substantial delays, more than three years into the second cycle, only 20 of the 184 countries had completed the review process by May 2019.\n\nIt has yet to be decided if and how the review mechanism will continue after the end of the five years foreseen for the second cycle, but if the first cycle is a guide, then the reviews will continue beyond the five years.\n\nA country review process follows these phases:\n\n\nThe UNCAC Coalition, established in 2006, is a global network of over 350 civil society organisations (CSOs) in over 100 countries, committed to promoting the ratification, implementation and monitoring of the UNCAC. The Coalition engages in joint action around common positions on the UNCAC, facilitates the exchange of information among members, and supports national civil society efforts to promote the UNCAC. Coalition members share views via the Coalition website and a mailing list and \"ad hoc\" working groups. The Coalition supports civil society organisations to engage in and contribute to the UNCAC review process, including through technical support.\n\nThe Coalition, directly and through its members, advocates for greater transparency and space for civil society participation in all UNCAC fora – the Conference of States Parties, the meetings of the Implementation Review Group, working groups and the review process on the national level. Furthermore, the Coalition seeks to advance discussions on key issues covered by the Convention, including:\n\n\nIt aims to mobilize broad civil society support for UNCAC and to facilitate strong civil society action at national, regional and international levels in support of UNCAC. The Coalition is open to all organizations and individuals committed to these goals. The breadth of UNCAC means that its framework is relevant for a wide range of CSOs, including groups working in the areas of human rights, labour rights, governance, economic development, environment and private sector accountability.\n\nRatification of UNCAC, while essential, is only the first step. Fully implementing its provisions presents significant challenges for the international community as well as individual States parties, particularly in relation to the innovative areas of UNCAC. For this reason, countries have often needed policy guidance and technical assistance to ensure the effective implementation of UNCAC. The results of the first years of IRM have shown that many developing countries have identified technical assistance needs. The provision of technical assistance, as foreseen in UNCAC, is crucial to ensure the full and effective incorporation of the provisions of UNCAC into domestic legal systems and, above all, into the reality of daily life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043300", "title": "National Gold Bank Note", "text": "National Gold Bank Note\n\nNational Gold Bank Notes, issued by nine national gold banks in California in the 1870s and 1880s, were National Bank Notes redeemable in gold. Printed on a yellow-tinted paper, six National Gold Bank Note denominations circulated: $5, $10, $20, $50, $100, and $500. A $1,000 note was designed and printed, but never issued. During the issuing period of national gold banks (1871–83), the U.S. Treasury issued 200,558 notes totaling $3,465,240. Today, National Gold Bank Notes are very rare in the higher denominations (and unknown on some issuing banks) with condition generally falling in the good to fine range. Approximately 630 national gold bank notes are known to exist, and roughly 20 grade above \"very fine\".\n\nThe National Gold Bank Notes were authorized under the provisions of the Currency Act of July 12, 1870. The series was a result of the California Gold Rush where gold coins were preferred in commerce. Ten national gold banks were charted, nine of them in California and one in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nThe Kiddler Bank was the only bank to have $1,000 notes among others prepared however, no notes circulated from the bank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043323", "title": "Middleton Grange Shopping Centre", "text": "Middleton Grange Shopping Centre\n\nMiddleton Grange is a shopping centre in Hartlepool, England. It was built in 1969 and it was opened by Princess Anne on 27 May 1970. The site of the shopping centre was originally terraced streets that were demolished in the late 1960s.\n\nThe original architecture of the building is the 1960s brutalist style. It was originally an outdoor shopping centre but it was converted to an indoor shopping centre in 1992. It was built and owned by Hartlepool Borough Council until it was privatised in the 1990s. In 2011 it was announced that the bosses at Middleton Grange are planning a rebrand, a facelift and a major push to bring in more business with a £2 million investment which see the 1960s mosaic tile effect outside the shopping centre replaced and modernised, the sea blue colour scheme inside will be replaced with a battleship grey colour scheme, the signs will be replaced with new signs and BHS announced they will be opening a new two floor department store with a cafe in the old Woolworths store in September 2011. There are a lot of empty units due to stores closing down in the 2007 recession as there is only an 80% occupancy rate of Middleton Grange, with the new BHS store opening this will increase the occupancy rate to 86%. The majority of the empty units are located in the East Mall, Upper West Mall and Market Walk areas. The longest serving retail outlet since the opening is Boots, following the closure of Woolworths in 2009 and the pending closure of Marks & Spencer in 2015. The four anchor tenants are Marks & Spencer (until 2015), BHS, Wilko and Primark, There was fifth anchor tenant, The Co-operative Home Store and it closed in October 2011 leaving the large unit empty, the Eugene's Cafe at the bottom of the unit stayed open but closed in September 2012. That particular unit and the Primark unit were previously a supermarket housing Fine Fare, then Gateway and finally Asda until they closed and moved to new premises on Hartlepool Marina in 1996. In 2012 Brighthouse, Home Bargains, JD Sports and Sports Direct moved to larger units and Carphone Warehouse and Gamestation closed. In 2014 Marks & Spencer announced they will be closing their store in Middleton Grange to open a Simply Food store in Anchor Retail Park at Hartlepool Marina. BHS closed their store in the centre when the company went into administration in 2016, all BHS branches throughout the UK were subsequently closed down. \n\nMiddleton Grange was originally built to replace the old town centre located around Lynn Street. Most of the shops and the market closed and moved to the shopping centre when it was completed. Most of Lynn Street was demolished in 1975 for construction of a new housing estate which some of Lynn Street still remains and is now called Lynn Street North.\n\nAs of January 2014, stores include 99p Stores, Marks & Spencer, Primark, Sports Direct, Iceland, Boots, Argos, Poundland.\n"}
{"id": "2043324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043324", "title": "Sydney Secondary College", "text": "Sydney Secondary College\n\nSydney Secondary College is a multi-campus urban government-funded, co-educational, dual modality, partially academically selective and comprehensive secondary day school, located in the Inner-West region of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nEstablished in 2002, the College's three campuses are located in the Sydney suburbs of , and and cater for approximately 2,000 students from Year 7 to Year 12.\n\nThe three campuses that make up Sydney Secondary College are:\n\n\nStudents who enrol at either of the Balmain or Leichhardt Campuses usually continue to senior secondary school at the Blackwattle Bay Campus.\n\nThe college was formed in 2002, after a plan for revitalisation of public education in the inner-city was introduced. The three pre-existing independent high schools were linked to form Sydney Secondary College. Facilities across the three campuses were renovated.\n\nStarting from 2005, Leichhardt and Balmain became junior campuses (years 7-10), with an emphasis on middle schooling. Blackwattle Bay, formerly Glebe High School, became the specialist senior campus (11-12), being able to offer one of the widest curriculum choices in Sydney.\n\nLeichhardt, while formerly the smallest school in NSW (in terms of area) has now expanded with a sporting oval, at the cost of A$6 million.\n\nSport is compulsory for students in year 7-11 and on Tuesday afternoons. The junior Campuses have a strong sporting tradition and a friendly rivalry. If a student in year 7-10 decides not to participate in a grade sport, they can choose recreational sport, which consists of a mix of all sports. Various all-college events are held throughout the year, including the Swimming, Cross Country and Athletics Carnivals, and Gala Days. Blackwattle is on the waterfront, which allows students the opportunity to undertake rowing, dragonboat racing and kayaking as extracurricular activities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043331", "title": "Metropolitan Water District of Southern California", "text": "Metropolitan Water District of Southern California\n\nThe Metropolitan Water District of Southern California is a regional wholesaler and the largest supplier of treated water in the United States. The name is usually shortened to \"Met,\" \"Metropolitan,\" or \"MWD.\" It is a cooperative of fourteen cities, eleven municipal water districts, and one county water authority, that provides water to 19 million people in a service area. It was created by an act of the California Legislature in 1928, primarily to build and operate the Colorado River Aqueduct. Metropolitan became the first (and largest) contractor to the State Water Project in 1960.\n\nMetropolitan owns and operates an extensive range of capital facilities including the Colorado River Aqueduct which runs from an intake at Lake Havasu on the California-Arizona border to its endpoint at the Lake Mathews reservoir in Riverside County. It also imports water supplies from northern California via the California Aqueduct as a contractor to the State Water Project. In 1960, Metropolitan became the first (and largest) contractor to the State Water Project. Metropolitan's extensive water system includes three major reservoirs, six smaller reservoirs, of large-scale pipes, about 400 connections to member agencies, 16 hydroelectric facilities and five water treatment plants.\n\nIt serves parts of Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, Riverside, San Bernardino and Ventura counties. The district covers the coastal and most heavily populated portions of Southern California; however large portions of San Diego, San Bernardino and Riverside counties are located outside of its service area.\n\nThe Metropolitan headquarters is in downtown Los Angeles, adjacent to historic Union Station.\n\nThe Metropolitan story dates back to the early 20th century, as Southern California cities were faced with a growing population and shrinking local groundwater supplies. The Metropolitan Water District of Southern California was established in 1928 under an act of the California Legislature to build and operate the that would bring water to southern coastal areas. Southland residents voted for a major bond in the depths of the Great Depression to fund the construction effort through the desert to deliver essential water supplies and generate badly needed jobs.\n\nThe post-World War II boom and 1950s dry spells prompted a huge expansion of the Metropolitan service area as new cities began seeking additional reliable water supplies.\n\nIn 1960, Metropolitan, along with 30 other public agencies, signed a long-term contract that made possible the construction of the State Water Project, including reservoirs, pumping plants and the , which currently serves urban and agricultural agencies from the San Francisco Bay to Southern California. As the largest of the now 29 agencies, Metropolitan contracts with the state Department of Water Resources, which owns and operates the State Water Project, for slightly less than half of all supplies delivered to Metropolitan.\n\nMetropolitan is governed by a board of 38 directors whose powers and functions are specified in the 1927 authorization act. This board was in charge of issuing bonds and financing their repayment by selling water to member agencies. In the early years, revenue from water sales was too low, so Metropolitan also collected taxes that ranged from 0.25 to 0.50 percent of assessed value. Ninety percent of the cost of the aqueduct has been paid for by the taxpayers. In 1929 the district was set up with an area of and served a population of around 1,600,000 in 13 cities.\n\nDuring the aqueduct's first five years of service from 1941 to 1946 it delivered an average of about of water, using less than 2% of its capacity. Only one pump at each lift, operating from one to six months out of the year, was needed to meet all the demands made on the system. At this time, due to availability of ground water, less than 10% of the Colorado River Aqueduct's capacity was used, only of water.\n\nThe San Diego County Water Authority joined Metropolitan as its first wholesale member agency in 1946. SDCWA was formed in 1944 to facilitate joining Metropolitan, received its first deliveries in 1947 and was buying half of Metropolitan's water by 1949. The SDCWA annexation broke two traditions at Metropolitan: Member agencies had previously been cities (SDCWA was a water wholesaler) in the south coast basin (SDCWA was south of the basin). The next \"break\" came in 1950, when Pomona MWD (now Three Valleys MWD) joined Metropolitan. Since Pomona was a largely agricultural member agency at the time, Metropolitan was no longer selling water only for \"domestic use\". (The territory served by the Pomona district urbanized rapidly, with agriculture having disappeared almost entirely by 1970.)\n\nIn 1952, Metropolitan began a 200 million dollar program to bring the Colorado River Aqueduct to its full capacity of annually. The Colorado River Aqueduct added six pumps to the original three at each of its five pumping stations. CRA pumping expanded from about of water in 1950 to about by 1960. On August 9, 1962, the Metropolitan set an all-time delivery record of 1,316,000,000 gallons of water in just a 24-hour period.\n\nMetropolitan's additional supplies and easier rules of entry facilitated an expansion through annexation of large areas of low populations: The eight MWDs that joined from 1946 to 1955 added 200 percent to Metropolitan's service area but only 75 percent to Metropolitan's population served. By 1965, Metropolitan had 13 cities and 13 municipal water districts as members. It covered more than in the counties of Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange, San Diego, Riverside, and San Bernardino—and served some 10,000,000 people.\n\nAs of 2008 Metropolitan has 14 cities and 12 municipal water districts (San Fernando joined in 1973; MWDOC and Coastal MWD merged in 2001) and provides water to nearly 10,000,000 people.\n\nThe State Water Project moves water from the western Sierra Nevada through the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta before delivering supplies—via the California Aqueduct to Southern California. Once in the south coastal plain, deliveries are split between the SWP's West Branch, storing water in Castaic Lake for delivery to the west side of the Los Angeles metropolitan area, and the East Branch, which delivers water to the Inland Empire and the south and east parts of the Los Angeles Basin.\n\nThe Colorado River Aqueduct begins at Lake Havasu, just north of Parker Dam, and travels west to Lake Mathews in southwest Riverside County. Water is first pumped uphill through a series of five pumping plants approaching Chiriaco Summit, then flows downhill towards Los Angeles.\n\nMetropolitan contracts for about 2 MAF/Y (million acre feet per year) from the State Water Project (SWP) and 1.35 MAF/Y from the Colorado River Aqueduct (CRA), but actual delivery amounts depend on a conditions including hydrology, infrastructure and regulatory conditions . Between 1984 and 2004 the actual deliveries were 0.7 MAF/Y from the SWP and 1.2 MAF/Y from the CRA. The SWP allotment is rarely met, if at all, due to restrictions on the amount of water that can be pumped from the Delta. A minimum freshwater flow has to pass through the Delta in order to prevent salinity intrusion from San Francisco Bay, and the removal of freshwater from the Delta has also threatened multiple species, such as native chinook salmon.\n\nThe Inland Feeder project added a direct tunnel and pipeline connection from Silverwood Lake to Diamond Valley Lake and was completed in 2010.\n\nThe Metropolitan Water District of Southern California reservoirs store fresh water for use in Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, Riverside, San Bernardino, and San Diego counties. These reservoirs were built specifically to preserve water during times of drought, and are in place for emergencies uses such as earthquake, floods or other events.\n\nMetropolitan maintains three major water reservoirs. One is Lake Mathews located in southwest Riverside, California, with a capacity of of water. Another is Lake Skinner located south of Hemet in Riverside County, its capacity is of water. Diamond Valley Lake is their third and newest reservoir, with a capacity of of water. This capacity is over twice as large as that of Castaic Lake, the next largest reservoir in Southern California maintained by the state Department of Water Resources.\n\nMetropolitan partly funded the Brock Reservoir project with $28.6 million. In return for their contribution, California can each use of water starting in 2016.\n\nMetropolitan operates five treatment plants:\n\nThey collectively filter water for more than 19 million Southern Californians. Metropolitan employs over 2,100 people to maintain and do research at these facilities, including scientists specializing in chemistry, microbiology, and limnology (the study of lakes and rivers).\n\nMetropolitan's water treatment plants each use a conventional 5-step treatment process as follows:\n\n\nFollowing the conventional treatment process, chlorine and ammonia are added to the water to form chloramines and maintain a disinfectant residual in the distribution system. Sodium hydroxide is added as a corrosion control measure to adjust the pH level and protect pipes and plumbing fixtures. Also, fluoride is added to help prevent dental caries in children as recommended by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nEvery year trained scientists and technicians perform more than 320,000 analytical tests on more than 50,000 samples. Metropolitan Water District has various EPA Environmental Protection Agency approved methods used to for the detection of bacteria, viruses, protozoan parasites, chemical contaminants and toxins.\n\nIn 2019 the Metropolitan Water District played a crucial role in the development of the Colorado River Drought Contingency Plan (DCP). The Drought Contingency Plan aims to implement legislation to reduce the risk of declining levels in the Colorado River reservoirs, particularly by incentivizing agencies to store additional water in Lake Powell and Lake Mead . In 2018, the Imperial Water District elected to not execute the DCP and the Metropolitan Water District agreed to provide the full portion of water storage contributions to Lake Mead . By the end of 2020, MWD will have nearly stored 1 million acre-feet in Lake Mead and contributing to 12 feet of Lake Mead's elevation .\n\nIn partnership with the Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County and the Metropolitan Water District, The Regional Recycled Water Program will introduce purified and treated wastewater that will replenish groundwater basins across Los Angeles and Orange Counties that aims to potentially accommodate direct potable reuse demands in the near future . The program includes 60 miles of new pipelines to convey the treated water across four regional groundwater basins, an industrial facility, and two MWD treatment plants.\n\nThe program calls for a water treatment facility that would be the one of the largest in the nation, producing 150 million gallons per day or 168 thousand acre-feet per year of purified water . However, before the full-scale facility is developed, a 0.5 million gallon per day demonstration facility, The Advanced Purification Center, in Carson will take its place and vigorously test, treat, and operate to ensure the highest quality standards of wastewater treatment are met prior to the development of the new facility . The construction and application of a membrane bioreactors in the demonstration facility cost nearly $17 million dollars and the total cost of building the full-scale program will be $3.4 billion, resulting in an annual operation cost of $129 million, and water cost of $1,830 per acre-foot. The full scale treatment facility would serve 500,000 homes daily and deliver a purified source of water to the four regional groundwater basins: Central, West Coast, Main San Gabriel, and Orange County .  \n\nMetropolitan list of member agencies:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043334", "title": "James Clayton (engineer)", "text": "James Clayton (engineer)\n\nJames Clayton MBE (17 November 1872 – 12 October 1946) was an English mechanical engineer who worked extensively on railway locomotives.\n\nClayton was born in Stockport, Cheshire and attended the Technical School in Manchester and thereafter served an apprenticeship at Beyer Peacock, becoming a draughtsman in their drawing office. After six years in that post he took a position with the South Eastern and Chatham Railway (SECR). In 1904, he left for a year's work with the Motor Manufacturing Company, an automobile manufacturer in Coventry, as their chief draughtsman and assistant works manager.\n\nFollowing this, he was hired by Cecil Paget, Chief Superintendent of the Midland Railway, to work on his high pressure multi-cylinder locomotive. During his time with the Midland, he spent two years in charge of the casualty and investigation section, and was appointed Assistant Chief Locomotive Draughtsman in 1907.\n\nIn 1914, he rejoined the SECR and was soon Chief Locomotive Draughtsman. From 1919, he was Chief Mechanical Engineer Richard Maunsell's personal assistant, and later his deputy. When Maunsell became the Southern Railway's CME in the 1923 Grouping, Clayton continued as his deputy.\n\nHe was also very active in the Institution of Locomotive Engineers, serving as a member of its Council and later a Vice President.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043342", "title": "List of bishops and archbishops of Warsaw", "text": "List of bishops and archbishops of Warsaw\n\nThe following is a list of the bishops and archbishops of Warsaw. On 30 June 1818, the see was elevated to the rank of an archdiocese.\n\nBishops of Warsaw:\n\nArchbishops of Warsaw:\n\nAuxiliary bishops\n\n"}
{"id": "2043353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043353", "title": "Dan Gillerman", "text": "Dan Gillerman\n\nDan Gillerman (, born 1944 in Tel Aviv) was Israel's 13th Permanent Representative to the United Nations. He was appointed in July 2002 and assumed his post on January 1, 2003, serving through 2008.\n\nGillerman was educated at Whittinghame College, a Jewish boarding school in Brighton, England, and studied politics, economics and law at Tel Aviv University and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.\n\nGillerman served as the CEO of several Israeli companies, Chairman of the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce, member of the board of the First International Bank of Israel and Director of Bank Leumi and the Bank of Israel. He also served on the Prime Minister's National Economic and Social Council, the President's Committee of the Coordinating Council of Israel's Economic Organizations, as Chairman of the Israel-British Business Council, and as member of the executive board of the International Chamber of Commerce of the World Business Organization.\n\nGillerman has played a prominent role in helping steer Israel towards economic liberalization and a free market economy. He is actively engaged in the economic aspects of the peace process and has engaged Palestinian and other Arab leaders in an attempt to further economic cooperation within the region.\n\nOn June 14, 2005, he was elected to the position of Vice-President of the 60th UN General Assembly. The last Israeli to hold this position was UN envoy Abba Eban in 1952. Israel's candidacy was put forward by the United Nations Western Europe and Others Group (WEOG). In this position, Gillerman played a central role during the initial negotiation stages of the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict.\n\nOn April 24, 2008, Gillerman referred to former US President Jimmy Carter as a bigot for his meeting in Syria with Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043354", "title": "Cogliostro", "text": "Cogliostro\n\nCogliostro (; also Cog) is a fictional character in Todd McFarlane's \"Spawn\" comic series. Cogliostro was created in 1993 by author Neil Gaiman and artist Todd McFarlane and introduced in \"Spawn\" issue #9. He was originally a supporting character in the spawn series but later becomes an antagonist in the series.\n\nCogliostro first appears as a homeless man, but he seems to know more about Spawn's situation than Spawn himself. Cog informs Spawn that his powers draw on a limited energy source, and that using it up will condemn him to eternal torment in Hell. He is the angel on Spawn's right shoulder, opposite to the Violator, who exhorts Spawn to revel in death and destruction not just in the name of Hell, but also for its own sake.\n\nEventually, Cogliostro reveals that he is also a former Hellspawn, having forsaken Malebolgia long ago, and refuses to use his remaining powers, as he has one \"tick\" of necroplasmic power left, and any use of his Hell-granted powers will end his Earthly existence. Still, that single bit of power has extended his lifespan to centuries, and he does not want the newest Spawn to fall to the darkness that created both of them.\n\nAfter an absence in the \"Spawn\" comics after #100, Cogliostro returned to Spawn and is revealed that he is dying and that he is terrified of Hell's status ever since Spawn abandoned the throne after defeating Malebolgia. After this, Spawn reveals to Cog his plan to turn Earth into a new paradise, a Utopia.\n\nSpawn and Cog then travel to the deserts of Tunisia for permission from the Greenworld to transform Earth into Spawn's ideal world until he is attacked by the third Redeemer as an act of vengeance. After the battle, Spawn is abducted by a pair of giant scorpions as they drag him to Hell, where he is being awaited by demons.\n\nStill in Tunisia, Cog is visited by Mammon, who gives him a mysterious box which Cog seems to recognize. Cog commits suicide in order to help Spawn down in Hell.\n\nRedeemer, now aware of what he did wrong, travels to Hell to help Spawn battle the demons whose ideas were to battle for the throne of Hell. After a frustrating battle against Violator, Spawn summons all the past Hellspawn before him to help him with the other demons and takes back the throne of Hell.\n\nCog then runs to Spawn with the mysterious box given to him and tells Spawn that this is what he needs to help him turn Earth into a paradise. Spawn opens the box which turns Hell into an Eden-like world and sees his widow, Wanda, and runs to her, only to be caught in a trap laid by Cog.\n\nIt is revealed that Cogliostro was born as Cain, the first murderer, and since the beginning he wanted to rule Hell rather than serve it. It was now clear that the only reason Cogliostro helped Spawn was to enable him to gain the throne of Hell, making him the new ruler.\n\nAfter this act of betrayal, Cog decided to give Spawn \"what he always wanted\" and sent him to Earth back as Al Simmons without the Hellspawn symbiote attached to him. Cain has not been seen since but has been briefly mentioned, such as his plans of building a tower in Hell to pierce Heaven.\n\nThe Redeemer tells Nyx while in Hell that the demons say that Cog has locked himself away in the Black Tower and given control over the 8th Sphere to the greater demons. It is later revealed that he was hard at work building the tower higher and higher so that it can reach Heaven. Once the tower penetrates into the realm of Heaven, the forces of Hell will be free to invade Heaven's gates directly. However later issues dropped this, as instead Cogliostro acts as a mentor and ally towards Jim Downing and seems to have become allies with Simmons again, which retcons having reneged his betrayal until 297 that his betrayal is still canon but has given up on the throne. He would later murder Nyx.\n\nCogliostro, Medieval Spawn, and Angela (Heaven's bounty hunter) are co-owned by Neil Gaiman and Todd McFarlane.\n\nIn 1993 McFarlane contracted Neil Gaiman (as well as other recognized authors like Frank Miller and Dave Sim) to write one issue of his Spawn series. While doing so, Gaiman introduced the characters Cogliostro, Angela, and Medieval Spawn. All three characters were based on characters created by Todd McFarlane and were co-created with Todd McFarlane who designed them. These all continued to be featured in the series after Gaiman's involvement and had many tie-ins with McFarlane's toy company. Cogliostro had a prominent role in the live-action movie in 1997. \n\nMcFarlane had initially agreed that Gaiman retained co-creator rights on the characters but later claimed that Gaiman's work had been work-for-hire and that McFarlane owned all of Gaiman's creations entirely, pointing to the legal indicia in \"Spawn\" #9 and the lack of legal contract stating otherwise. McFarlane had also refused to pay Gaiman for the volumes of Gaiman's work he republished and kept in print. In 2002, Gaiman filed suit and won a sizeable judgment against McFarlane and Image Comics and the rights due any creator. All 3 characters are currently co-owned 50/50 by both men.\n\nAngela was later sold to Marvel Comics whereas Coglistro and Medieval Spawn are still used in the Spawn comics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043357", "title": "Anatomy of Britain", "text": "Anatomy of Britain\n\nAnatomy of Britain was a book written by Anthony Sampson and published by Hodder & Stoughton in 1962. The book is an examination of the ruling classes of the United Kingdom, looking at the holders of political, bureaucratic, and financial power. He completely rewrote the book over four decades, thus enabling changes in power structures to be considered over time. Sampson died in 2004, shortly after \"Who Runs This Place?\" was published. The published versions were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043375", "title": "1986 NBA draft", "text": "1986 NBA draft\n\nThe 1986 NBA draft was held on June 17, 1986.\n\nThis draft holds the record for the most players (out of prospects chosen) who later debuted in the NBA, with 66.\n\nThere were various drug-related problems that plagued players in the 1986 NBA draft. Most notable was the death of highly touted Len Bias. Bias died less than two days after being selected second overall by the defending champion Boston Celtics. His death was ruled an overdose that resulted from the abuse of the drug cocaine. Other problems involving drugs hampered the careers of Chris Washburn, Roy Tarpley, and William Bedford.\n\nWhile a number of first-round selections were unable to make an impact in the league, this draft did feature a number of talented second-round selections. Dennis Rodman, who became one of the leading defenders and rebounders in NBA history, was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in August 2011. Mark Price, Kevin Duckworth, and Jeff Hornacek also went on to have successful careers, and each made the NBA All-Star Game. Three others – Johnny Newman, Nate McMillan, and David Wingate – had long, productive careers as role players.\n\nThis draft contained two exceptional international players, both of whom had shortened careers for unusual reasons. Third-round selection Dražen Petrović was coming off an All-Star caliber fourth season when he was killed in an automobile accident in 1993. He has since been elected to both the Naismith Hall of Fame and the FIBA Hall of Fame. The other, Arvydas Sabonis, was not permitted to play in the United States because of the dangerous political climate in the Soviet Union. He won two Olympic medals before his arrival in the NBA—a gold in 1988 with the USSR, and a bronze in 1992 with Lithuania. After the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, Sabonis had a very successful career in Europe before finally joining the Portland Trail Blazers in 1995. Sabonis had lost much of his mobility by the time he joined the team because of a string of knee and Achilles tendon injuries. He finished second in both the Sixth Man Award and Rookie of the Year voting; after the 1995–96 season, he won a second Olympic bronze medal with Lithuania. He played seven seasons with Portland before returning to his homeland of Lithuania where he finished his career. Sabonis entered the FIBA Hall in 2010 and the Naismith Hall in 2011.\n\nThis draft is also known for the number of players who made important contributions to the sport of basketball outside of the court. For example, Nate McMillan had a highly successful run with the Seattle SuperSonics as a player and then as head coach, and then spent seven seasons as head coach of the Portland Trail Blazers. Scott Skiles was the former coach of the Milwaukee Bucks and also the first coach to lead the Chicago Bulls to the playoffs in the post-Jordan era. Larry Krystkowiak, a former Bucks head coach, was hired in April 2011 as the new head coach at the University of Utah. John Salley won four championship rings with three different NBA teams (Detroit Pistons, Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers) before becoming one of the hosts of \"The Best Damn Sports Show Period\" on Fox Sports Network. Mark Price served as an assistant coach at Georgia Tech, a shooting consultant with Memphis (one season) and Atlanta (two seasons), a shooting coach for Golden State (one season), and in December 2011 was named Player Development Coach for the Orlando Magic. Jeff Hornacek would also be a full-time assistant head coach for the Utah Jazz for two seasons before accepting a job as the head coach for the Phoenix Suns in the 2013–14 NBA season. In 2016, Jeff Hornacek became the head coach for the New York Knicks, and coached them until 2018. Pete Myers, selected in the sixth round as the 120th overall pick, was an assistant coach for the Chicago Bulls from 2001 to 2010 and Golden State Warriors since 2011. Jim Les, the 70th overall pick, was an assistant coach for the WNBA's Sacramento Monarchs from 1999 to 2001 then was head coach at Bradley University from 2002 to 2011 and UC Davis since 2011.\n\nJay Bilas, who was selected in the fifth round as the 108th overall pick but never played in the NBA, is an ESPN college basketball analyst.\n\nThese players selected after the second round have played at least one game in the NBA.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> compensation for draft choices traded away by Ted Stepien\n\nThese players who declared or were automatically eligible for the 1986 draft were not selected but played in the NBA.\n"}
{"id": "2043380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043380", "title": "Belshina", "text": "Belshina\n\nBelshina is a tyre manufacturer in Belarus. The name is an abbreviation for \"Belaruskaya shina\", or \"Belarusian Tyre\".\n\nThe Belarusian tyre works is located in the Belarusian industrial city Babruysk. Belshina produces over 180 tyre sizes for cars, trucks, mining trucks, road construction machinery, electrical vehicles, tractors and agricultural machinery. Over 90 per cent of tyres are radial. All types of products (pneumatic tyres) are protected by patents by two parameters: design and appearance. Belshina cooperate with partners from 36 countries.\n\nBelshina is a main sponsor of football team Belshina Bobruisk which plays in Belarusian Premier League.\n\nThe construction of the Belarusian Tyre Works \"Belshina\" in Bobruisk was sanctioned by Decree of the Council of Ministers of the USSR #299 dated March 25, 1963 \"\"On steps aimed at better utilization of workforce of the Belarusian Soviet Socialist Republic\"\" and by resolution No. 90-p dated June 11, 1965 by Supreme Soviet, which approved the design task for construction of the Works.\n\nThe construction itself was started in September 1965. In 1968 the mechanical services unit was put into service (which later became a mechanical plant), where the equipment for the future production areas was assembled and manufactured, new techniques of tyre building were developed, practical training of the workers was conducted.\n\nOn December 31, 1971 the research facility of the mechanical services unit produced the first Belarusian tyre for BelAZ mining truck of 27-ton lifting capacity.\n\nOn December 31, 1972 the farm tyre plant was put into service. Truck and car tyre plant began to roll out tyres on September 30, 1976. On January 31, 1985 a fourth plant joined Belshina family, it was the earthmover tyre plant. In May 1992 the State Committee on Industry of the Republic of Belarus issued a decree transforming the Belshina Production Amalgamation into Belarus Tyre Works Belshina. On September 26, 2002 the Executive Committee of Mogilev Province adopted resolution No.18-13 on registering an open joint stock company Belshina (Certificate of Registration No.700016217 of 2003-09-27).\n\nOn April 13, 2011 Belshina Radial for bus and truck got Standard Nasional Indonesia (SNI) - Indonesia National Standard which Indonesia is not produce the items, although Indonesia export more than 80 percent of the production of lighter tyres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043412", "title": "Shapeshifter (band)", "text": "Shapeshifter (band)\n\nShapeshifter (sometimes referred to as New Zealand Shapeshifter) are a live drum and bass act from New Zealand. They are known for their live shows and blend of heavy soul with drum and bass. They have made appearances at Glastonbury, The Big Chill, Big Day Out, Parklife plus sold-out performances across Europe, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nShapeshifter formed in 1999 after the four founding members met at jazz school. They had a range of musical backgrounds ranging from dub, jazz, and hip-hop, to metal, funk and electronica. As a result, they decided to bring these influences together to create live drum & bass. After playing locally, they released an early EP entitled \"D.N.A.\"\n\nIn 2001, Shapeshifter released their debut LP entitled \"Realtime\". The album included a collaboration with vocalist Ladi6 on the track \"Move With Me\" as well as Kaps (Fabel) and Tiki (Salmonella Dub) on production. \"Realtime\" was awarded the 'Best Electronic Release' title at the 2002 bNet NZ Music Awards, and was also nominated at the RIANZ NZ Music Awards for 'Best Electronic Album'.\n\nIn 2002, Shapeshifter relocated to Melbourne. They toured extensively, performing at events such as the 4ZZZ Market Day Festival in Brisbane, the Bellingen Global Carnival, and sold-out shows in Sydney, Melbourne and Byron Bay.\n\nIn late-2003, vocalist Paora Apera (aka P Digsss) joined Shapeshifter's live line-up. The new line-up was road tested on Salmonella Dub's \"One Drop East\" album release tour of Australia in August/September. Shapeshifter played 12 shows in various cities to an overwhelming crowd response. Other highlights included their first tour of Europe at locations including London, Edinburgh and Rotterdam.\n\nIn 2004, Shapeshifter then released their second album \"Riddim Wise\". This was their step towards a more atmospheric style of drum and bass. Recorded at the group's own home studio in Melbourne, the album features collaborations with Aotearoa vocalists Dallas Tamaira aka Joe Dukie (Fat Freddy's Drop), Karoline Tamati aka Lady 6 (Verse 2/Sheelahroc) and Paora Apera aka P Digsss. The album was praised as a steady progression from 'Realtime', with an emphasis on funky dancefloor grooves, whilst maintaining strong musical elements. The album became the #1 Independent NZ album release and also the #1 NZ National Dance Album in New Zealand history.\n\nThe band's third album \"Soulstice\" was released in August 2006, with lead single \"Bring Change\" receiving extensive video and radio play. The album takes influences from soul, reggae, funk, rock, and drum 'n' bass. Soulstice obtained Gold sales status in New Zealand in three weeks and has since achieved Platinum sales. September 2006 saw Shapeshifter tour throughout New Zealand, performing with leading orchestras and selling out their shows weeks in advance. In 2007, Shapeshifter released a live album entitled \"Shapeshifter Live\" which was recorded on 29 September 2006 at the Christchurch Town Hall – the final show of their orchestra tour and in the band's hometown. This 6-track album contained a previously unreleased song called \"Good Looking\" and appeared alongside other popular Shapeshifter tracks such as \"Tapestry\", \"Bring Change\" and \"One\".\n\nIn 2008, Shapeshifter embarked on their fourth European tour playing sold-out dates in Paris, Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Scotland and England. The tour also promoted their single \"One\", released in May 2008, and off the back of the tour and single, the decision was made to release Soulstice' in the UK and Europe. This was released on 17 November on Mums The Word Records with a special re-designed package that includes new artwork and exclusive remixes from D-Bridge (Exit Records), and The Nextmen. Shapeshifter also toured Australia at the end of 2008 and during their summer tour of New Zealand, they played new unreleased tracks including \"Dutch Sorrow\", \"Right Here, Right Now\", \"Day One\", \"Twin Galaxies\", \"Warning\" and \"System\" some of which appeared on their next album entitled, The System Is A Vampire, released 12 November 2009. Shapeshifter also released a remix EP in late 2008 featuring two alternative versions of their song \"Bring Change\" by themselves and fellow New Zealand drum and bass artists, The Upbeats. A remix of their song \"Long White Cloud\" was also included, remixed by Nu:Tone. Shapeshifter also released a remix of their hit tune, Electric Dream which was remixed by New Zealand drum and bass act, State of Mind.\n\nShapeshifter also have their own recording label called Truetone Recordings. Their first album, \"Realtime\", and early EPs were released under Kog Transmissions.\n\nNovember 2009 saw the release of the band's fourth studio album entitled The System Is A Vampire with lead single \"Dutchies\". The album was shortlisted for the inaugural Taite Music Prize in 2010. In September 2009 during a tour of Australia, drummer Redford Grenell left the band. He was replaced by drummer and producer Johnny Hooves. P. Digsss stated that Mr. Grenell had told the band that he had \"come to the end of his road\" with Shapeshifter. In 2013, Johnny Hooves left the band and was replaced by Wellington drummer Darren Mathiassen.\n\nThe band embarked on a summer tour throughout New Zealand in December 2009/January 2010. They played at Coromandel Gold in front of 10,000 people to welcome in the new year. They repeated this concert in the summer of 2011.\n\nIn July 2010, Shapeshifter were signed by UK Drum and Bass label Hospital Records, who released Shapeshifter's platinum-selling album The System is a Vampire globally. They also released a new collection of remixes in October 2010 entitled 'The System is a Remix'. It features a range of Shapeshifter remixed tunes from Logistics, Camo & Krooked, Netsky, State of Mind and The Upbeats.\n\nThe band is known in the UK and Europe as \"New Zealand Shapeshifter\" in order to differentiate themselves from popular house act \"The Shapeshifters\".\n\nIn 2013, Shapeshifter released their 5th studio album titled \"Delta\" which includes lead singles Monarch, Diamond Trade and Gravity. It was recorded in Berlin, Germany and Wellington, New Zealand and was released on 31 May followed by a NZ wide tour. The album has been mixed by NZ drum and bass producers The Upbeats.\n\nIn 2014, founding member of 15 years Devin Abrams left the band and was replaced by Dan McGruer.\n\nIn July 2016, Shapeshifter released a new single, \"Stars\", from their new album to rave reviews \"T\"he title track of the album is also the first song on the album and instantly draws the listener in with its etheric, carnival type atmosphere. It is a summer anthem song and over my travels this summer it is definitely a song I have heard multiple times from cars with their windows down and occupants singing along having the time of their life\"\".\n\nIn 2018, NZ Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern gifted Shapeshifter's The System Is A Vampire CD and a Stars vinyl to Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, during their royal tour of the South Pacific.\n\nVocalist P.Digsss is part of The Sunshine Soundsystem, who play around New Zealand with a hip-hop, funk, dancehall, reggae and jungle flavour. They regularly play the Kaikoura Roots Festival, Rippon Festival, Destination and have supported acts such as The Nextmen, Aphrodite and London Elektricity.\n\nNick Robinson DJs under the name \"Nicky Research\" and Sam Trevethick DJs under the name \"Sambora\".\n\nP-Digsss, Sambora and Nicky Research perform together as \"The Peacekeepers\".\n\nShapeshifter also has a close working relationship with ex-Salmonella Dub front man Tiki Taane. Upon the release of Taane's debut solo album, \"Past, Present, Future\", in 2008, Members of Shapeshifter were asked to tour with Taane in his live band \"The Dub Soldiers\" to help promote the new album. Tiki Taane is also Shapeshifter's sound technician during their live shows.\nIn 2014, Shapeshifter collaborated with another New Zealand drum and bass group known as The Upbeats to produce an EP album, combining two entirely different styles of DnB.\n\n\nThe group have appeared on many compilations and soundtracks since 2001 in New Zealand. The following is a list of these albums that have featured tracks by Shapeshifter.\n\n\nShapeshifter have enjoyed many awards and nominations at the publicly voted bNet NZ Music Awards, held annually And also the Vodafone New Zealand Music awards (Tui Awards)\n\n\nIn 2005, Shapeshifter's video for Long White Cloud, Directed by Ash Bolland won Best Electronic Release at the Juice TV Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043422", "title": "Amaury Sport Organisation", "text": "Amaury Sport Organisation\n\nThe Amaury Sport Organisation (ASO) is part of the French media group, EPA (Éditions Philippe Amaury). It organises sporting events including the Tour de France, Vuelta a España and Paris–Nice professional cycle road races, and the Dakar Rally. In 2008 it organised the Central Europe Rally, a rally raid endurance race in Romania and Hungary.\n\nThe Tour de France was instituted by the newspaper \"L'Auto\" in 1903. The paper was closed after World War II because of its links with the occupying Germans and a new paper, \"L'Équipe\", took over. \"L'Équipe\" (now part of EPA) organised the Tour until the race was taken over by its parent company, ASO.\n\nASO organises the Paris Marathon, cycling events in Africa (Tour du Faso) and the Middle East (Tour of Qatar), golf (the Open de France, Lacoste Ladies Open de France and Grand Prix Schweppes) and sailing (Tour de France à la voile). ASO also organises cyclosportives events for amateur cyclists, including the L'Étape du Tour and La Etapa de la Vuelta.\n\nThe president of ASO is Jean-Etienne Amaury, son of EPA founder Philippe Amaury. \n\n ASO organises the following professional cycling events:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043446", "title": "John S. Duncan", "text": "John S. Duncan\n\nJohn S. Duncan is a British neurologist specialising in epilepsy. He is Professor of Clinical Neurology at University College London Institute of Neurology and Clinical Director of the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery at Queen Square, London.\n\nJohn Duncan qualified from University of Oxford medical school, where he also obtained his medical doctorate.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London in 1994, and Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) in 2005. He received the LifeTime Achievement Award for Research of the American Epilepsy Society in 2004.\n\nNotable positions:\n\n\nJohn Duncan has published extensively on various aspects of neurology and epilepsy but particularly on the structural and functional imaging of the brain. He is a frequent speaker at international conferences, and is a member of the editorial board of several specialist journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043453", "title": "Leo Sachs", "text": "Leo Sachs\n\nLeo Sachs (Hebrew: ליאו זקס; ‎ 14 October 1924 – 12 December 2013) was a German-born Israeli molecular biologist and cancer researcher. Born in Leipzig, he emigrated to the United Kingdom in 1933, and to Israel in 1952. There he joined the Weizmann Institute of Science.\n\nLeo Sachs moved to Britain with his family in 1933 following Hitler's rise to power. In 1952 he received a BSc from the University of Wales in Bangor. His original dream was to help establish a kibbutz in Palestine, and he even spent two years as a farm laborer, milking cows. But the doors to Palestine were virtually closed by the British, so Sachs began studying agricultural botany at the University of Wales, became fascinated along the way by genetics and development, and ended up completing a PhD in genetics in 1951 at Cambridge University.\n\nUpon moving to Israel, he began to contribute to the fledgling country in the way he knew best – as a geneticist at the Weizmann Institute. Because there were no animal studies yet at the Institute, Sachs started working on a theory that human amniotic fluid, which bathes the baby in the womb, contains fetal cells that provide information about the fetus. His research proved him right, showing that these cells can be used to determine the baby's gender and other important genetic properties. Sachs's research formed the basis for amniocentesis, the widely used prenatal diagnosis of human diseases.\n\nEventually, Sachs secured his own laboratory and a supply of mice and began working on a question that would anchor his research throughout: What controls normal development and what happens when development goes wrong? Why does the machinery in cancer cells run amok, causing abnormal proliferation? Focusing on blood stem cells, a small group of bone marrow cells that produce some 200 billion new blood cells every day, Sachs ended up, in 1963, designing the first cell culture system able to grow, clone, and induce the development of different types of normal blood cells. Using this process, he subsequently discovered and identified a family of proteins that plays a key role in controlling normal blood cell development. Later named colony stimulating factors (CSF) and interleukins, one of these CSF proteins is now used worldwide in a variety of clinical procedures, including boosting the production of infection-fighting white blood cells in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy or radiation, and improving the success of bone marrow and peripheral blood cell transplants.\n\nSachs also demonstrated, for the first time, that malignancy can be reversed. He showed that the proteins he had identified, along with some other compounds, set leukemic cells back on the right track – inducing them to differentiate into normal-behaving mature cells. This approach, using retinoic acid combined with chemotherapy, is now standard procedure in treating human promyelocytic leukemia, and it has greatly increased survival rates.\n\nAt the Weizmann Institute, he established a section on genetics and virology and for 27 years, from 1962 to 1989, served as Head of the Institute's Genetics Department. In addition, between 1974 and 1979 he served as Dean of Weizmann's Biology Faculty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043455", "title": "Chad Muska", "text": "Chad Muska\n\nChad Muska (born May 20, 1977) is an American professional skateboarder and entrepreneur. In November 2012, Skin Phillips, editor-in-chief of \"Transworld Skateboarding\", described Muska as \"one of the most marketable pros skateboarding has ever seen.\"\n\nMuska first became interested in skateboarding as a young person following a relocation to Phoenix, Arizona, where his father was residing at the time. Muska explained in a 2012 interview:\nI was riding my BMX bike a lot and then there were some neighborhood kids that would, kinda, skate and I would check them out; and I used to come home from school every day and just stare at 'em, you know? And I would walk by and just watch them skate. They told me this story ... I guess I'd be, like, \"Hey, let me try your board\", and I would grab their board and would just try and boardslide the curb and go all crazy on it ... Something happened, my bike got stolen, and I got a board off one of the kids, and, from that moment on, it was just, like, full blown ...\n\nWhile in Arizona, Muska first met and spent time skateboarding with professional skateboarder Erik Ellington prior to both of their careers. Muska eventually moved to Mission Beach in San Diego, California, US with very little money, a sketch book, and a portable cassette player to further pursue skateboarding and art.\n\nMaple was Muska's first-ever skateboard deck company and he appeared in the 1994 video \"Rites of Passage\". At the time, Muska was homeless and living on the beach, with no conception of what the future held for him.\n\nAfter parting ways with Maple, Muska joined Toy Machine, which was prestigious among skateboarders at the time. Muska became a leading member of the Toy Machine team, facilitating Elissa Steamer's sponsorship, and was a team member alongside Ed Templeton, Mike Maldonado, Jamie Thomas, and Brian Anderson. According to skateboarding journalist Adam Salo, in 2009: \"In '95-'96, Toy Machine was one of the most respected and emulated teams in skateboarding.\"\n\nMuska filmed for the \"Welcome to Hell\" video, a 1996 project primarily driven by Thomas, and he was expected to receive the highly regarded last part of the video. However, his part was only shown at the premiere and was omitted from the public video release due to an altercation with both Templeton and Thomas—a skull was placed over his face in the video case artwork.\n\nFollowing the issues at Toy Machine, Muska joined the then-fledgling Shorty's brand. Muska was chosen to develop the Shorty's skateboard deck division and the company thrived as a result. He is popularly known for his part in the 1998 skateboarding video \"Fulfill The Dream\", and he appeared in a total of four videos for the company.\n\nMuska was sponsored by the éS skate shoe company (manufactured and distributed by the Sole Technology, Inc. company) in the late 1990s. When the \"éS Muska\" signature model was released in 1998, it was a popular product in the footwear market, as Muska was an especially popular figure in skateboarding culture during the late 1990s (the shoe was designed with a hidden \"stash pocket\" in the tongue of the shoe for particularly valuable items).This when photographer Christian Lepanto found by surprise that the speed with which Muska executed tricks at the 500th of a second. The speed of a hummingbird in flight. No other skater exceeded half of that speed ...ever! Muska explained in 2013 that he was heavily involved with every aspect of the shoe's design, which was the way he continued for his subsequent skate shoe designs, regardless of the brand.\n\nFollowing his time with éS, Muska joined the C1RCA footwear team in 1999 as the first pro skater for C1RCA and released numerous signature shoe models with the brand. Models such as the \"CM901\" and \"CM902\" were promoted in magazine advertisements, and Muska also continued with the hidden \"stash pocket\" design feature that he utilized at éS. Thomas was also with the brand at this time, but the previous issues at Toy Machine had been resolved by this time. Muska parted ways with Circa in 2005.\n\nMuska then left Shorty's in early 2006, and selected Element Skateboards as his next skateboard deck sponsor in December. Following his move to Element, Muska stated \"I am very excited about joining the Element family! I look forward to this new chapter in my skateboarding career... And you can bet on it that we are going to make some big things happen.\" The company officially welcomed Muska with an advertisement in 2007 that featured a photograph of Muska performing a frontside flip on a street-based transitional structure—the byline for the promotion read \"Welcome To The Family\".\n\nAfter he left C1RCA, Muska subsequently founded the Supra footwear company in 2006 with Angel Cabada from One Distribution (owner of the KR3W apparel brand). The Supra footwear brand has been endorsed by Muska since the company's inception, and Muska's first Supra signature model—the \"Skytop\"—was one of the first team rider models that was released. The first Muska Supra advertisement appeared in 2006, while the inaugural official Skytop promotion appeared in 2007. Muska has designed the signature shoe models, the Skytop, \"Skytop II\" (2009), and \"Skytop III\"; a low-cut version was also released. All of the Skytop designs were created in collaboration with footwear designer Josh Brubaker and were initially perceived as outlandish by Muska's peers in the industry.\n\nIn addition to introducing a new version of the Berrics indoor skateboard facility in early 2013, Muska appeared on numerous occasions as a referee for the sixth installment of the Battle at the Berrics contest series, run by The Berrics website.\n\nMuska partnered with the New Image Arts gallery to open his first-ever solo art exhibition, titled \"Transitions,\" in June 2013. Muska explained:\n... I set up this space. It was sort of a concept space for me and just a trial thing to bring a lot of people together from skaters to photographers, to artists and designers, directors, architects – I mean all these different people in one space and I wanted to encourage creativity. There was a big 20ft wall with supplies and it was a non-stop changing graffiti wall. So anybody that came I encouraged them to paint, interact with each other, have a good time and then my work was being created there and displayed there as well and people came and saw that and asked me to do the show, and that’s how it happened.\n\nThe press release for the show explained the title's origins: \"The title of Chad’s first show ... is a word that not only stems from the curved surfaces skateboarders ride on in pools, parks, and ramps, but it’s also a reference to the skateboard lifestyle which is defined by movement from place to place, and from one state of mind to the next.\"\n\nSupra expanded into Mexico in 2014, and Muska opened the brand's store in Mexico City in November/December. He designed a custom sculpture to reflect city’s history—titled \"El Sol, La Luna, Y Más Allá,\" the sculpture was installed as a permanent fixture in the store.\n\nAs of December 2014, Muska's sponsors are Ghetto Child Wheels, Element Skateboards, Brooklyn Projects and Supra Footwear.\n\nMuska was identified as the 12th most influential skateboarder of all time by \"Transworld SKATEboarding\" magazine in December 2011. In response to the matter of his influence on skateboarding, Muska stated in response:\nI’d like to think that I’ve brought something to the table. I caused a little bit of a stir at times in the industry when I think it needed it. People can talk shit about me or they love me—I don’t know what they think about me—but at least I feel I added something to the industry and I had so much fun doing it.\n\nProfessional skateboarder Tom Penny (identified as twenty-first on \"Transworld SKATEboarding\"'s list) named Muska as one of the five skateboarders who have influenced skateboarding the most.\n\nAfter his inclusion in the \"30 Most Influential Skaters of All Time\" list released by \"Transworld SKATEboarding\" magazine in 2011, Muska explained that his first influences were sponsored skateboarders in his local area.\n\nIn addition to the influence that Muska has had on Penny, Muska revealed Penny's influence on his own skateboarding in 2012:\nI think what was cool is that he was pushing skateboarding in a direction that I wasn't ... and I was pushing towards bigger handrails, bigger \"hubbas\", and, kind of, unconventional skate spots. And so I think, the two of us, kind of got psyched off each other, you know? next thing I know, he was hitting, grinding bigger handrails; I started frontside flipping over handrails, you know, like? ... And just as people, I think, like, he remains-I don't have to see the guy for ten years and we'll still be best friends ... You meet people over the years that you connect with and are inspired by, you know? And I think me and Tom were definitely a major part of coming together and helping progress skateboarding at the time ...\n\nMuska has also identified Jamie Thomas as a major influence and described him as an individual who is readily able to identify others who are willing to work at their skateboarding diligently. Muska explained, \"I'd just watch what he was doing ... he's talking and they're listening to him, you know? So I think Jamie really opened my eyes more that you could do more than just skate and get more involved with these companies, you know?\"\n\nThe top five skateboarding influences, as identified by Muska in 2012, are Christian Hosoi, Natas Kaupas, Mark Gonzales, Pat Duffy, and Nyjah Huston—during the same interview, Muska admitted that \"there are so many\" and also named Kris Markovic and Jeremy Wray. In response to the matter of who is the all-time, \"number one\" influential skateboarder in history, Muska named Gonzales, further explaining:\n... just still to this day. Like, I mean, just because, for me, skateboarding was never about just progression; it was about, like, the individual, and the person, and what they brought to, to skateboarding. Not many skaters could have a career as long as he has and still maintain that idea, you know? Like, still, he is skateboarding; that is, everything, is Mark—it's freedom; it's not caring about anything; it's about going on your board and enjoying yourself; pushing yourself physically, mentally, and having as much fun as you can possibly have. That's what skateboarding is and that's what Mark is.\n\nMuska has named a variety of influences in regard to his shoe design work, such as Louis Vuitton and the Nike \"Jordan\" range, further explaining that he has attempted to merge the aesthetics of the fashion and sneaker cultures. In an interview to promote the third Skytop model, Muska elaborated on his future direction:\nPersonally design-wise, I’m definitely all over the place and I’m thinking of so many new and exciting designs, but it’s hard for me to find places to sell a lot of the stuff, because it will be too crazy for what the shops want, especially on the skateboarding side ... I mean, the same thing happened with the Skytop I and eventually all the shops that thought it was horrible and said they would never wear it couldn’t deny the fact that people wanted this product ... I think it’s time for the world to define a new style and a new chapter and go ahead.\n\nIn 1997, Muska founded the skateboard wheel brand Ghetto Child. Started as a friendship between Chad Muska, Tom Penny and Sean Sheffey, Ghetto Child went on to sponsor some of today's most relevant skateboarders. In 2004, Ghetto Child went on a hiatus, ceasing distribution. In 2016, Bryan Herman and Braydon Szafranski collaborated with Muska to relaunch the brand. \n\nIn 2008, Muska opened the store \"Factory413\" in Los Angeles, California, US with business partner Cabada; The retail outlet is described on the store's website as \"a hub for avant-garde Los Angeles brands and a creative outlet for both founders.\"\n\nMuska has released signature products using the \"Factory413\" name, such as sunglasses in 2010 and shoe collaboration with Supra in late 2012.\n\nMuska is a playable character in the \"Tony Hawk's\" video game series, from Tony Hawk's Pro Skater to Tony Hawk's Underground 2.\n\nMuska's music has been released under the alias \"Muskabeatz\" and he has produced music for old-school hip hop artists, such as Afrika Bambaataa, Biz Markie, Guru, Melle Mel, Ice-T, Jeru the Damaja, and KRS-One, as well as Wu-Tang Clan members Raekwon and U-God. For his debut release, Muska had planned to produce a drum 'n' bass record, but he decided during the recording process that the album should have an \"old-school feel\" to it—the self-titled Muskabeatz record was released on February 13, 2003 on Muska's own 1212 Records.\n\nFollowing his move to Mission Beach as an adolescent, Muska was mostly homeless and spent a significant period of time sleeping on the beach; in 2012, Muska explained: \"I had nothing and those were, I can still say, by far, the happiest days of my life. Happiest beyond, craziest times,test, gnarliest adventures, everything, you know?\" As of 2012, Muska resided in Hollywood, California, US.\n\nMuska filmed a \"Footnotes\" segment for the Berrics website, in which he revealed his love of footwear, including his personal collection of footwear and models that he has designed. During the interview for the segment, Muska clarified, \"I'm not, like, that 'sneaker collector guy' where, like, I buy one of each just to, like, save 'em and have 'em; when I like sneakers I like to get 'em and use them more, and wear 'em.\"\n\nOn July 14, 2011, Muska was arrested for \"felony vandalism\" on Hollywood Boulevard in Los Angeles, California. \n\n\nThe 1996 Toy Machine video \"Welcome To Hell\" features a bonus part from Muska that was edited to a song by Nappy Roots called \"Right Now\".\n"}
{"id": "2043459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043459", "title": "2005 Ulster Unionist Party leadership election", "text": "2005 Ulster Unionist Party leadership election\n\nThe 2005 Ulster Unionist Party leadership election began on 7 May 2005 when David Trimble resigned as leader of the Ulster Unionist Party following his party's poor performance in the 2005 general election when it lost all but one of its seats, including Trimble's own. Following his resignation, the UUP's Executive Committee charged Sir Reg Empey, Lady Hermon and Lord Rogan with the interim leadership of the Party.\n\nThis was the first occasion when the UUP leadership was contested under the Party's new constitution. Therefore, this was the first occasion where the candidates were not proposed and seconded from the floor of the meeting, but in writing one week prior to the meeting.\n\nTrimble's successor was elected by delegates to the Ulster Unionist Council who met on 24 June 2005. After two rounds of voting the election was won by Sir Reg Empey.\n\nNominations for the leadership closed on 17 June.\n\n\nThe following prominent Ulster Unionist Party politicians were speculated upon by media organisations but declined to run:\n\n\nSome in the party called for a figure from outside the party to become the next leader; however those named declined. They included:\n\n\nCollins was named by Lord Kilclooney as his preferred candidate on his announcement that he would not run. McCartney announced that he would seek to rejoin the party he left in the 1980s with a view to becoming leader should a majority or significant number of delegates spoil their ballots. Less than 5 delegates spoilt their ballots in the event.\n\n\nAt the meeting delegates to the Ulster Unionist Council voted in a succession of ballots until one candidate had an absolute majority.\n\nIn the first round, No candidate achieved a majority and David McNarry, as the lowest placed candidate, was eliminated.\n\nWithin the second round, Sir Reg Empey was elected.\n"}
{"id": "2043467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043467", "title": "Heat recovery steam generator", "text": "Heat recovery steam generator\n\nA heat recovery steam generator (\"HRSG\") is an energy recovery heat exchanger that recovers heat from a hot gas stream, such as a combustion turbine or other waste gas stream. It produces steam that can be used in a process (cogeneration) or used to drive a steam turbine (combined cycle).\n\nHRSGs consist of four major components: the economizer, evaporator, superheater and water preheater . The different components are put together to meet the operating requirements of the unit. See the attached illustration of a Modular HRSG General Arrangement.\n\nModular HRSGs can be categorized by a number of ways such as direction of exhaust gases flow or number of pressure levels. Based on the flow of exhaust gases, HRSGs are categorized into vertical and horizontal types. In horizontal type HRSGs, exhaust gas flows horizontally over vertical tubes whereas in vertical type HRSGs, exhaust gas flow vertically over horizontal tubes. Based on pressure levels, HRSGs can be categorized into single pressure and multi pressure. Single pressure HRSGs have only one steam drum and steam is generated at single pressure level whereas multi pressure HRSGs employ two (double pressure) or three (triple pressure) steam drums. As such triple pressure HRSGs consist of three sections: an LP (low pressure) section, a reheat/IP (intermediate pressure) section, and an HP (high pressure) section. Each section has a steam drum and an evaporator section where water is converted to steam. This steam then passes through superheaters to raise the temperature beyond the saturation point.\n\nThe steam and water pressure parts of an HRSG are subjected to a wide range of degradation mechanisms, for example creep, thermal fatigue, creep-fatigue, mechanical fatigue, Flow Accelerated Corrosion (FAC), corrosion and corrosion fatigue, amongst others.\n\nPackaged HRSGs are designed to be shipped as a fully assembled unit from the factory. They can be used in waste heat or turbine (usually under 20 MW) applications. The packaged HRSG can have a water-cooled furnace, which allows for higher supplemental firing and better overall efficiency.\n\nSome HRSGs include supplemental, or duct firing. These additional burners provide additional energy to the HRSG, which produces more steam and hence increases the output of the steam turbine. Generally, duct firing provides electrical output at lower capital cost. It is therefore often utilized for peaking operations.\n\nHRSGs can also have diverter valves to regulate the inlet flow into the HRSG. This allows the gas turbine to continue to operate when there is no steam demand or if the HRSG needs to be taken offline.\n\nEmissions controls may also be located in the HRSG. Some may contain a Selective Catalytic Reduction system to reduce nitrogen oxides (a large contributor to the formation of smog and acid rain) and/or a catalyst to remove carbon monoxide. The inclusion of an SCR dramatically affects the layout of the HRSG. NOx catalyst performs best in temperatures between 650 °F (340 °C) and 750 °F (400 °C). This usually means that the evaporator section of the HRSG will have to be split and the SCR placed in between the two sections. Some low temperature NOx catalysts have recently come to market that allows for the SCR to be placed between the Evaporator and Economizer sections (350 °F - 500 °F (175 °C - 260 °C)).\n\nA specialized type of HRSG without boiler drums is the once-through steam generator. In this design, the inlet feedwater follows a continuous path without segmented sections for economizers, evaporators, and superheaters. This provides a high degree of flexibility as the sections are allowed to grow or contract based on the heat load being received from the gas turbine. The absence of drums allows for quick changes in steam production and fewer variables to control, and is ideal for cycling and base load operation. With proper material selection, an OTSG can be run dry, meaning the hot exhaust gases can pass over the tubes with no water flowing inside the tubes. This eliminates the need for a bypass stack and exhaust gas diverter system which is required to operate a combustion turbine with a drum-type HRSG out of service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043476", "title": "Alcantara, Cebu", "text": "Alcantara, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAlcantara is bordered to the north by the town of Ronda, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Argao, and to the south is the town of Moalboal.\n\nAlcantara comprises 9 barangays:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043482", "title": "Automatic radar plotting aid", "text": "Automatic radar plotting aid\n\nA marine radar with automatic radar plotting aid (ARPA) capability can create tracks using radar contacts. The system can calculate the tracked object's course, speed and (CPA), thereby knowing if there is a danger of collision with the other ship or landmass.\n\nDevelopment of ARPA started after 1956, when the Italian liner SS Andrea Doria collided with the MS Stockholm in dense fog and sank off the east coast of the United States. ARPA radars started to emerge in the 1960s, with the development of microelectronics. The first commercially available ARPA was delivered to the cargo liner MV Taimyr in 1969 and was manufactured by Norcontrol, now a part of Kongsberg Maritime. ARPA-enabled radars are now available even for small yachts.\n\nThe availability of low cost microprocessors and the development of advanced computer technology during the 1970s and 1980s have made it possible to apply computer techniques to improve commercial marine radar systems. Radar manufacturers used this technology to create the Automatic Radar Plotting Aids. ARPAs are computer assisted radar data processing systems which generate predictive vectors and other ship\nmovement information.\n\nThe International Maritime Organization (IMO) has set out certain standards amending the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea requirements regarding the carrying of suitable automated radar plotting aids. The primary function of ARPAs can be summarized in the statement found under the IMO Performance Standards. It states a requirement of ARPAs: \"to improve the standard of collision\navoidance at sea: Reduce the workload of observers by enabling them to automatically obtain information so that they can perform as well with multiple targets as they can by manually plotting a single target\". As we can see from this statement the principal advantages of ARPA are a reduction in the workload of bridge personnel and fuller and quicker information on selected targets.\n\nA typical ARPA function gives a presentation of the current situation and uses computer technology to predict future situations. An ARPA assesses the risk of collision, and enables operator to see proposed maneuvers by own ship.\n\nWhile many different models of ARPAs are available on the market, the following functions are usually provided:\n\n\nThe initial development and design of ARPAs were stand-alone units. That is because they were designed to be an addition to the conventional radar unit. All of the ARPA functions were installed on board as a separate unit, but needed to be interfaced with existing equipment to get the basic radar data. The primary benefits were cost and time savings for ships already equipped with radar. This of course was not the ideal situation and eventually it was the integral ARPA that replaced the stand-alone unit.\n\nThe majority of ARPAs manufactured in the 21st century integrate the ARPA features with the radar display. The modern integral ARPA combines the conventional radar data with the computer data processing systems into one unit. The main operational advantage is that both the radar and ARPA data are readily comparable.\n\nFrom the time radar was first introduced to the present day the radar picture has been presented on the screen of a cathode ray tube. Although the cathode ray tube has retained its function over the years, the way in which the picture is presented has changed considerably. From about the mid-1980s the first raster scan displays appeared. The radial-scan Plan position indicator (PPI) was replaced by a raster-scan PPI generated on a television type of display. The integral ARPA and conventional radar units with a raster-scan display will gradually replace\nthe radial-scan radar sets.\n\nThe development of commercial marine radar entered a new phase in the 1980s when raster-scan displays that were compliant with the IMO Performance Standards were introduced.\n\nThe radar picture of a raster-scan synthetic display is produced on a television screen and is made up of a large number of horizontal lines which form a pattern known as a raster. This type of display is much more complex than the radial-scan synthetic display and requires a large amount of memory. There are a number of advantages for the operator of a raster-scan display and concurrently there are some deficiencies too. The most obvious advantage of a raster-scan display is the brightness of the picture. This allows the observer to view the screen in almost all conditions of ambient light. Out of all the benefits offered by a raster-scan radar it is this ability which has assured its success. Another difference between the radial-scan\nand raster-scan displays is that the latter has a rectangular screen. The screen size is specified by the length of the diagonal and the width and height of the screen with an approximate ratio of 4:3. The raster-scan television tubes have a much longer life than a traditional radar cathode ray tube (CRT). Although the tubes are cheaper over their counterpart, the complexity of the signal processing makes it more expensive overall.\n\nThe IMO Performance Standards for radar to provide a plan display with an effective display diameter of 180mm, 250mm, or 340mm depending upon the gross tonnage of the vessel. With the diameter parameters already chosen, the manufacturer has then to decide how to arrange the placement of the digital numerical data and control status indicators. The raster-scan display makes it easier for design engineers in the way auxiliary data can be written.raster from azimuth information digitized.\n\nAt normal your ARPA does everything automatically, but here you find some more information about how to actually plot your ship.\nWhen it is decided (after assessment of the initial plot) that it is necessary for own ship to manoeuvre, it is essential to determine the effect of that manoeuvre prior to its execution and to ensure that it will result in a safe passing distance.\nAfter the manoeuvre has been completed, plotting must be continued to ensure that the manoeuvre is having the desired effect.\n\nBecause of the time taken for a change in speed to have any effect on the apparent motion line, the mariner will frequently select a change in course if it will achieve a satisfactory passing distance.\n\nThis has some distinct advantages: \n\nExample. \nWith own ship steering 000° at a speed of 12 knots, an echo is observed as follows:\n\nAt 0935 it is intended to alter course 60° to starboard\n(We assume this to be instantaneous).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043483", "title": "Oracle Application Server", "text": "Oracle Application Server\n\nThe Oracle Application Server 10g (the \"g\" stands for \"grid\") (short Oracle AS), consists of an integrated, standards-based software platform. It forms part of Oracle Corporation's Fusion Middleware technology stack. The heart of Oracle Application Server consists of Oracle HTTP Server (based on Apache HTTP Server) and OC4J (OracleAS Containers for Java EE) which deploys Java EE-based applications. The version of OC4J offers full compatibility with the Java EE 1.4 specifications.\n\nOracle Application Server became the first platform designed for grid computing as well as with full life-cycle support for service-oriented architecture (SOA).\n\nThe release of Oracle Application Server, 10g R3, does not feature a metadata repository tier, relying instead on metadata repositories provided in previous releases.\n\nFollowing Oracle's acquisition of BEA Systems: “key features [will be] integrated with WebLogic Server with seamless migration”.\n\nOracle Corporation marketed its first application server using the name Oracle Web Server (OWS).\nA subsequent repackaging resulted in the Oracle Application Server (OAS).\nA later product, superseding OAS, became the \"i\"AS (Internet Application Server).\n\nOracle Corporation subdivides some of its products into varying \"editions\" — apparently to facilitate marketing and license-tracking.\n\nAvailable Oracle AS editions include:-\n\n\nOracle Corporation refers to its implementation of the Java EE specification as \"Oracle Containers for J2EE\" and abbreviates the concept as \"OC4J\". OC4J, originally based on the IronFlare Orion Application Server, has developed solely under Oracle's control since Oracle Corporation acquired the source code.\n\nOC4J includes the following servers:\n\nOracle Application Server can utilize an \"Oracle AS Infrastructure Database\" — an Oracle database instance supporting the Oracle AS Metadata Repository and/or Oracle Identity Management.\n\nOPMN - the Oracle Process Management and Notification server - monitors components of the Oracle Application Server.\n\nThe opmnctl command starts, stops and monitors Oracle AS components.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043499", "title": "Built-in test equipment", "text": "Built-in test equipment\n\nBuilt-in test equipment (BITE) primarily refers to passive fault management and diagnosis equipment built into airborne systems to support maintenance processes. Built-in test equipment includes multimeters, oscilloscopes, discharge probes, and frequency generators that are provided as part of the system to enable testing and perform diagnostics.\n\nThe acronym BIT is often used for this same function or, more specifically, in reference to the individual tests.\n\nBIT often includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043502", "title": "Kunbi", "text": "Kunbi\n\nKunbi (alternatively Kanbi) is a generic term applied to castes of traditionally non-elite farmers in Western India. These include the Dhonoje, Ghatole, Hindre, Jadav, Jhare, Khaire, Lewa (Leva Patil), Lonare and Tirole communities of Vidharbha. The communities are largely found in the state of Maharashtra but also exist in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala and Goa. Kunbis are included among the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in Maharashtra.\n\nMost of the Mawalas serving in the armies of the Maratha Empire under Shivaji came from this community. The Shinde and Gaekwad dynasties of the Maratha Empire are originally of Kunbi origin. In the fourteenth century and later, several Kunbis who had taken up employment as military men in the armies of various rulers underwent a process of Sanskritisation and began to identify themselves as Marathas. The boundary between the Marathas and the Kunbi became obscure in the early 20th century due to the effects of colonisation, and the two groups came to form one block, the Maratha-Kunbi.\n\nTensions along caste lines between the Kunbi and the Dalit communities were seen in the Khairlanji killings, and the media have reported sporadic instances of violence against Dalits. Other inter-caste issues include the forgery of caste certificates by politicians, mostly in the grey Kunbi-Maratha caste area, to allow them to run for elections from wards reserved for OBC candidates. In April 2005, the Supreme Court of India ruled that the Marathas are not a sub-caste of Kunbis.\n\nAccording to the Anthropological Survey of India, the term Kunbi is derived from \"kun\" and \"bi\" meaning \"people\" and \"seeds\", respectively. Conjoined, the two terms mean \"those who germinate more seeds from one seed\". Another etymology states that \"Kunbi\" is believed to have come from the Marathi word \"kunbawa\", or Sanskrit \"kur\", meaning \"agricultural tillage\". Yet another etymology states that Kunbi derives from \"kutumba\" (\"family\"), or from the Dravidian \"kul\", \"husbandman\" or \"cultivator\". Thus anyone who took up the occupation of a cultivator could be brought under the generic term Kunbi. G. S. Ghurye has posited that while the term may \"signify the occupation of the group, viz., that of cultivation ... it is not improbable that the name may be of tribal origin.\"\n\nLike other Maharashtrian communities such as Marathas, Malis, Mahars, etc., the marriage of a man to his maternal uncle's daughter is common in the Kunbi community. Maratha and Kunbis intermarried in a hypergamous way i.e. a rich Kunbi's daughter could always marry a poor Maratha. Anthropologist Donald Attwood shows giving an example of the Karekars of Ahmednagar that this trend continues even in recent times indicating that the social order between the two is fluid and flexible.\n\nVery little information was recorded prior to the 19th century regarding the significantly large group of Maharashtrian agricultural castes, known as \"Maratha-Kunbis\". Both individual terms, \"Kunbi\" and \"Maratha\" are equally complex. In the fourteenth century, the term \"Maratha\" (among other meanings) referred to all speakers of the Marathi language. An example of this is the record of the Moroccan traveler Ibn Battuta whose use of the term included multiple castes who spoke Marathi. Several years later, as the Bahamani kings started employing the local population in their military, the term Maratha acquired a martial connotation. Those who were not associated with the term \"Maratha\" and were not untouchables began to identify themselves as Kunbi. According to Stewart Gordon, the so-called Marathas now differentiated themselves from the others such as the cultivators (Kunbi), iron-workers and tailors. At lower status levels, the term \"Kunbi\" was applied to those who tilled the land. It was possible for outsiders to become Kunbi, an example of which was recorded by Enthoven. Enthoven observed that it was common for Kolis (fishermen) to take up agriculture and become Kunbis. In the eighteenth century, under the Peshwas, newer waves of villagers joined the armies of the Maratha Empire. These men began to see themselves as Marathas too, further obscuring the boundary between the Marathas and Kunbi, giving rise to a new category: \"Maratha-Kunbi\". While this view of the term was common among colonial European observers of the eighteenth century, they were ignorant of the caste connotations of the term. The dividing line between the Maratha and Kunbi was obscure, but there was evidence of certain families who called themselves \"Assall Marathas\" or \"true\" Marathas. The Assal Marathas claimed to be Kshatriyas in the Varna hierarchy and claimed lineage from the Rajput clans of north India. The rest, the Kunbi, accepted that they came lower in the Varna hierarchy. Karve says that the Maratha caste precipitated from the Kunbi through the Sanskritisation process, the two were later consolidated due to social reforms as well as political and economic development during British rule in the early 20th century.\n\nThe British installed Chatrapati Pratapsinh Bhonsle, a descendant of Shivaji, noted in his diary in the 1820s–1830s that the Gaekwads (another powerful Maratha dynasty) had Kunbi origins. He notes further \"These days, when the Kunbis and others grow wealthy, they try to pollute our caste. If this goes on, dharma itself will not remain. Each man should stick to his own caste, but in spite of this these men are trying to spread money around in our caste. But make no mistake, all Kshatriyas will look to protect their caste in this matter.\" Later, in September 1965, the \"Marathi Dnyan Prasarak\" newspaper published a piece which addressed the changing meaning of the term \"Maratha\", the social mobility of the day, the origins of the Maratha-Kunbi castes, the eating habits and the living conditions of the people of Maharashtra. The author of the piece claims that only a very small circle of families, like those of Shivaji Bhonsale, can claim the Kshatriya status. He also states that these Kshatriya families have not been able to stop the inroads made by the wealthy and powerful Kunbis, who had bought their way into Kshatriya status through wealth and inter-marriages. Of the most powerful Maratha dynasties, the Shindes (later anglicised to Scindia) were of Kunbi origin. A \"Marathaisation\" of the Kunbis was seen between the censuses of 1901 and 1931, which shows a gradually declining number of Kunbis resulting from more of them identifying themselves as Marathas. Lele notes in 1990 that a subset of the Maratha-Kunbi group of castes became the political elite in the state of Maharashtra in the 1960s and 1970s and have remained so to the present day. The elite Maratha-Kunbis have institutionalised their ideology of agrarian development through their control of the Congress party. The state Government of Maharashtra does not recognise a group called Maratha-Kunbi.\n\nAccording to Irawati Karve, the Marata-Kunbi form over 40% of the population of Western Maharashtra. Later in 1990, Lele records that the Maratha-Kunbi group of castes account for 31% of the population, distributed over the whole of Maharashtra.\n\nIn Maharashtra, the Kunbi communities include the Dhonoje, Ghatole, Hindre, Jadav, Jhare, Khaire, Lewa (Leva Patil), Lonari and the Tirole communities.\nAccording to the Anthropological Survey of India, the Jadav and Tirole self-identify as Kshatriya, the Leva as Vaishya, and the rest as Shudra. The Lonari used to refer to themselves as \"Chhatriya Lonari Kunbi\", but they dropped the \"Chhatriya\" after their inclusion in the classification \"Other Backward Classes.\" The names of subsets of the Kunbi in Berar Province, according to Edward Balfour, were \"Tirale\", \"Maratha\", \"Bawane\", \"Khaire\", \"Khedule\", and \"Dhanoje\". In a strict interpretation of the caste system, the word \"Kunbi\" does not identify a caste but rather a status, like the word \"Rajput\", for example. All Kunbi communities of Maharashtra speak Marathi and use the Devanagri script for written communication. In Gujarat, the Anthropological Survey of India records that Kunbis have benefited economically from government development programmes. While both boys and girls receive formal education, the drop-out rate of girls is higher due to economic reasons. While the diet of Kunbi communities varies between vegetarianism and non-vegetarianism, most (perhaps all) abstain from the consumption of pork and beef.\n\nLike numerous other communities such as the Mahar, Mehra, Bhil, Koli, and the Brahmin groups, the Kunbi perceive themselves as an indigenous community.\n\nThe Kunbi Dhonoje are primarily a community of land-owning agriculturists with deep roots in Maharashtra, although their origin and historical background are unknown. Their home districts are primarily the Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Bhandara and Nagpur districts of the Vidharbha region in Maharashtra. The Anthropological Survey of India records in 2003 that while Hindi is spoken by when communicating with outsiders, the women of the community can only \"understand\" Hindi—they cannot speak it. The Dhonoje observe strict endogamy; most marriages are arranged by family elders. Kunbi Dhonoje males marry between 20 and 25 whereas the females marry between 18 and 22.\n\nDhonojes engage a Brahmin priest for conducting their marriage, birth and death rituals. Cremation of the dead is the norm; burial the exception for those less than 11 years of age. Common places of pilgrimage include Nashik, Pandharpur, Ramtek and Tuljapur. Important Hindu festivals observed include Vaisakhi, Akadi, Yatra, Rakshabandhan, Dussera, Diwali and Holi. All women and most men are vegetarian though some are occasional non-vegetarians.\n\nMost Dhonojes live in extended families. There are, however, an increasing number of nuclear families, resulting from urban migration and a break from traditional occupations. In a multiethnic village, it is not possible to tell Kunbi Dhonoje by their surname alone. Formal education has had a positive impact on the younger generation of the Dhonoje women.\n\nThe community name \"Ghatole\" is derived from \"Ghat\" meaning a hilly range. The community belongs mainly to the western part of the Vidhabha region of Maharashtra. Oral tradition speaks of their arrival from the Sahyadris in Panchimhat. In Vidharbha, they live mostly in the Aurangabad, Nashik, Buldhana, Amravati, Yavatmal, Parbhani and Akola districts. The Ghatole claim to be the same as the economically and numerically superior Tirole or Tilole. Per their oral tradition, those families which interrupted their migration march from the Ghats became the Ghatole whereas those who continued their journey eastwards became the Tirole Kunbi. Despite the oral tradition, the two communities are now two distinct communities due to geographical barriers the strict practice of endogamy. All women and most men are vegetarian though some are occasionally non-vegetarians who keep their utensils separate and cook outside of the family kitchen. Marriages are generally arranged and families are extended rather than nuclear. Locations of pilgrimage are Nasik, Shirdi, Tuljapur and Pandharpur. According to a report in 2009, the Ghatole Kunbi community in the Akola and Washim areas of Vidharbha prefer the Shivsena political party.\n\nThe Kunbi Hindre (or Hendre) are synonymous with the Hindre Patils, as far as their perceived distribution in the Vidharbha region of Maharashtra in the districts of Nanded, Parbhani, Yeotmal and Akola is concerned. There are no further subdivisions of the community. The community is said to have migrated from the Sahyadri ranges to the central Vidharbha region. The community does not have an oral tradition concerning the etymology of the word \"Hindre\" or the history of their migration, so their own origin is unknown to them. While the Hindre were grouped with the Kunbis of the Khandesh region in early ethnographical studies, the origin of the community is not known. Their population has not been accurately recorded in any official records; since the community is only found in certain rural districts, the Anthropological Survey of India estimates their population to be in thousands or in lakhs. While the traditional occupation of the Hindre Kunbis is agriculture, better educational opportunities and urbanisation have resulted in a disruption of their traditional economy, which has caused many Hindre to pursue diversified occupations.\n\nThe main language of the community is Marathi with Devanagri script for written communication. Community members who visit urban areas for business reasons are able to communicate in broken Hindi. The communities' traditional dress is similar to that of other peer communities. All women and the majority of the men are vegetarians. Consumption of tea is common, mainly to overcome fatigue.\n\nHindre are strictly endogamous and their marriages are arranged. Child marriages were practiced in the past but the age of marriage in 2003 was recorded to be between 20–25 for males and 17–22 for females. Cremation of the dead is the norm; stillborn babies and those who died after a few months are buried. Brahmin priests are employed for the Hindu rituals. The main festivals of the Hindre include Vaishakhi, Akhadi, Yatra, Rakshabandhan, Dussera and Holi. Places of pilgrimage include Pandharpur, Tuljapur, Ramtek, Nashik and Saptashringi. The traditional caste council which existed in the 20th century for solving social issues like divorce has been supplanted by the statutory gram panchayat of the state government. Common surnames are Jaitale, Wankhed, Chouhan, Gawande, Mahale, Bhoir, Choudhary and Jadhav; it is not possible to identify a Hindre Kunbi on the basis of surname alone in a multi-ethnic village. Changes in surnames have been recorded, an example of which is the changing of Chouhan to Jaitale.\n\nIt is not known how the Jadhav came to be known by that name or when and how they were brought under the generic term Kunbi. The home districts of the Jadhav Kunbi are Amaravati, Yavatmal and Nagpur. The community is strictly endogamous; consanguinal marriages with maternal cousins are preferred over those with the paternal. However, the number of marriages of such nature are low. Marriages are arranged. The preferred minimum age is 22 for males and 18 for females, though these ages are increasing as of 2003. Cremation of the dead is the norm, burial being the exception for children and for those who have died of snake bites. Brahmins are employed for naming and marriage ceremonies.\nSurnames are varied, their origins unknown. They are generally formed from the place of their dwelling, key events in the family past, or a reference to an animate or inanimate object. Among the rural Jadhavs, the traditional caste council has been replaced by the \"Akhil Bharatiya Jadhav Kunbi Samaj\", a registered regional council located in Nagpur which also engages in social work. The rulings of the statutory gram panchayat are followed at the village level. Jadhav males are non-vegetarian but the women generally do not eat meat.\nThere are no further subdivisions amongst the Jadhavs.\n\nThe name of the Jhade or Jhare Kunbi community (also known as the Jhadpi) comes from \"Jhadi\", meaning \"forest\". The home districts of the Jhade are Nagpur, Bhandara, Akola and Amravati. The Jhade of the Bhadara district are also known as the Bowne, meaning \"52\" in Marathi, due to the high revenue of 5.2 million generated by them for the Mughal administration. In 1916, the Jhade were recorded by Russsell and Hiralal to be members of the Gond people. The same ethnographic records state that the Jhade are the earliest immigrants to the Nagpur area. Contemporaries Jhade and Bowne contest that claim, since the Jhade do not have oral tradition which records a migration. Marriages are arranged; typical ages are between 22 and 25 for men and between 16 and 20 for women. Marriages with maternal cousins are preferred. Cremation of the dead is the norm, the exceptions being those who die before the age of five. The Jhade do not employ the services of a Brahmin priest for death rites. Common Jhade surnames are Katode, Jhanjad, Toukar, Baraskar, Khokle, Shende, Bhoie, Dhenge, Tejare, Bandobhnje, Waghaye, Trichkule, Baraskar, Khawas and Bhuse. The Anthropological Survey of India states in 2003 that the Jhade boys and girls have access to formal education and mostly go on to attain high school education. The Survey also states that the community has access to modern day amenities like electricity, health centres, motorable roads, public transport, post offices, drinking water and fair price shops of the Indian Public Distribution System.\n\nThe Kunbi Khaire derive their name from the local name for catechu, \"Khair\", which the community has traditionally cultivated. The home districts of the community are Chandrapur and Gadchiroli where they are also known as Khedule Kunbi. The community is endogamous and practices arranged marriages; the typical age of marriage for men and women is between 20–25 and 18–22 respectively. Cremation of the dead is the norm, burial is an exception for the economically disadvantaged who cannot afford cremation. Kunbi Khaire men are occasional non-vegetarians whereas the women are vegetarian. Borkte, Kukorkar, Lambade, Tiwade, Thakur, Chatur, Pal, Dhake, Elule, Sangre, Tangre and Timare are a few of the Khaire surnames. Important festivals observed by the community are Dussera, Diwali, Holi and Ganeshchaturthi. Traditional places of pilgrimage are Pandharpur, Nasik, Ramtek and Tuljapur.\n\nThe use of the traditional \"jati panchayats\" have lonce since been discontinued by the Khaire community which now makes use of the \"gram panchayat\", while still consulting community elders for some social disputes. The Anthropological Survey of India states in 2003 that the Khaire boys and girls have access to formal education and mostly go on to attain high school education, sometimes further when conditions are favourable. Drop out rates for girls are higher for social reasons. The Survey also states that the community has access to modern day amenities of electricity, health centres, motorable roads, public transport, post offices, drinking water and fair price shops of the Indian Public Distribution System.\n\nThe Leva or Lewa are synonymous with the Lewa Patil—the suffix \"Patil\" is a feudal title. The community does not have an oral history of their origin or migration, but they generally accept that they migrated from Gujarat to the Vidharba region via Nimar (now part of Madhya Pradesh). The community is associated with two other communities from Gujarat: the Lewa and the Lewa Patidar. The former are a well known community; the latter are sometimes referred to as their parental group, but the Kunbi Leva Patil of Maharashtra have roots which are long established in the Kunbi community of Maharashtra. The community perceives their distribution to be in 72 villages in the Jalgaon and Buldhana districts. The Lewa Patil are numerically, economically and educationally superior in some of the multi-ethnic villages of the Buldhana and Jalgaon district. Nuclear families are replacing the traditional extended family system due to a changing economy and an increasing number of conflicts over property inheritance. Cremation of the dead is the norm, burial the exception for the very young (up to three to four months old). There is no distinctive attire of the Leva community—they follow local fashion trends. On very rare occasions, older Leva men wear a Gujarati style, boat shaped \"topi\" or hat made from black or brown silk. Some of the common Leva surnames are Warade (Deshmukh), Narkhede, Kharche, Supe, Borle, Panchpande and Kolte. Dowry is practiced in the Leva community. The amount is negotiable. The attitude towards formal education is positive though Leva girls drop out of school earlier due to social conditions.\n\nThe Lonari Kunbis are regarded as one of the established cultivating communities in Maharashtra. The Lonari are presently located in the eastern part of the Vidharbha region and in the adjoining districts of Madhya Pradesh. The name of the community comes from Lonar lake in the Mehkar-Chikhli taluka of the Buldhana district, where their original occupation was salt-making. They migrated from the Lonar lake region and eventually arrived in present-day Maharashtra. The oral history of the community contains an elaborate story of their migration. According to tradition, the community migrated to Aurgangabad from their original place of origin in the Lucknow district of Uttar Pradesh, then to Buldana and finally to their current locations in the Amravati and Betul districts of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, respectively. In the two tehsils of Multai and Warud in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashra, respectively, the Lonari Kunbi are also known as Deshmukhs and Kumbhares. The Lonari now rely on the \"gram panchayats\" under the state government as changes in the sociopolitical landscape have diminished the influence of the traditional caste council. Monogamy and adult marriages are the norm, but marriages among identical surnames (referred to as \"hargote\") is not allowed. According to the Lonari Kunbi community, they do not engage in the practice of dowry The Lonari Kunbis follow the joint family system, but restrictions on land-owning for agriculture under the Land Revenue Act and the improved educational status of newer generations has caused nuclear families to form. A large number of community members depend on revenue from agriculture, either by cultivating their own lands or working as agricultural labour. The Lonari Kunbi community has made much progress since the 1950s, but problem of poverty is still prevalent and economic instability is still a concern to community members.\n\nThe Kunbi Tirole are an agricultural community found in the Khandesh region of Maharashtra. The community believe that they are Rajputs who migrated from Rajasthan as a result of a general migration of the tribes of Rajputana. Older ethnographic accounts note that a large scale migration of the community occurred from Rajasthan to Maharashtra in the 18th century under the reign of Raghuji Bhonsle. The community enjoys a high social status among other agricultural communities. One reason for their high social status is the fact that some families were chosen to collect revenue in the days of the Maratha Empire. Two separate etymologies exist for the community name. One states that the community is named after the place of their origin: Therol, in Rajasthan. The other states that the community gets its name from their original occupation of \"Til\", or sesame cultivation. The population of the Tirole is greater than that of all other Kunbi communities. Their home districts are Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati and Yeotmal. Although occasional non-vegetarian men are found in the community, the community is mainly and traditionally vegetarian.\n\nBased on evidence from an old Marathi document, Karve concludes that the Tirole Kunbi differ significantly from the Kubis west of Nagpur, and that they did not formerly claim to be Kshatriyas. G. S Ghurye states that Karve's statement is either esoteric or wrong.\n\nAnother agricultural community, the Kunbi Ghatole, claim that they are the same as the Tirole.\n\nIn Gujarat, Kunbi communities are found in the Dangs, Surat and Valsad districts. In 2003, Singh and Lal described the Kunbi of Gujarat as being non-vegetarian and consumers of alcoholic drinks such as mohua. That particular community believes itself to be of a higher status than some other local groups due to the type of meat which they consume (for example, they believe that the Warlis eat rats, and other groups eat beef). The community practices monogamous endogamy; marriage of cross cousins is acceptable, as is remarriage by widows. Divorce is permitted and the practice of marriage around the age of 10–12 years has been abandoned. The dead are cremated.\n\nBy the 18th century, Gujarati Lewa Kunbis distinguished themselves by two sub-categories: those who continued their traditional occupation as agriculturists, and those who had taken up revenue collection. The former were known as \"Kunbis\" and the latter as \"Patidars\". While these two sub-communities resided in the same villages, they did not inter-dine or inter-marry. There was some confusion in the nomenclature of the community during the second half of the 19th century when colonial officials referred to elites simply as \"Kunbis\". On other occasions the two sub-communities were collectively referred to as the \"Patidars\".\n\nThe Charotar (Anand) region, tilled by the Lewa Kunbis, had been well-known since the 15th century for high productivity levels which produced potentially high-revenue crops like cotton and food grains. The Lewa community of the region were regarded among the most industrious by colonial officials.\n\nThe changes implemented to land tenure policy during the colonial era led to the ascendency of the Kunbis in central Gujarat. The Kunbis and the fishermen Kolis were not too different in their socio-economic position until the end of the 19th century. With the aid of favourable policies, the Kunbis were able to transform themselves into a prosperous caste by the time of the 1931 census, in which they had renamed themselves \"Lewa Patidars\". The etymology of term \"Patidar\", which implied a higher economic status due to land-ownership, comes from one who holds pieces of land called \"patis\".\n\nA population of Kunbi (locally called Kurumbi) is also found in Goa, where they are believed to be descendants of the area's aboriginal inhabitants. They are largely poor agriculturalists, though some of the oldest known landowners in Goa were of this class, and claimed for themselves the Vaishya (merchant) varna. According to the leaders of the \"Uttara Kannada district Kunabi Samaj Seva Sangh\", the population of their community in the region is 75,000.\n\nThe Kunbis, along with the Teli and the Mali, play a major role in the politics of the Vidharbha region of Maharashtra. The three groups compose 50% of the electorate and are known to influence election outcomes. The Kunbis, being landlords, hold the upper-hand in the politics of the region and can decide the outcome of at least 22 seats, since they are dominant in every village of the region. The Kunbis, who are known to have a more tolerant attitude and are more secular than the Telis, prefer the Congress Party. As a result, the Party has held a dominant position in the region for several decades. However, in the last decade or so, Congress has ignored the Kunbis and other parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party; Shiv Sena responded by giving more opportunities to Kunbi candidates in elections.\n\nIn the 2009 elections, resentment by the Kunbis towards the Congress candidate Wamanrao Kasawar was said to benefit Sanjay Derkar, the independent NCP rebel candidate, in a triangular contest which also included Shiv Sena's Vishvas Nandekar. In the 2004 MLA elections in Murbad, the Kunbi vote was said to be the deciding vote in favour of Digambar Vishe, a BJP candidate belonging to the Kunbi community.\n\nAccording to the \"Indian Express\", soon after its inception in May 1999 the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) worked hard to get rid of its \"Kunbi Only\" image. Sharad Pawar found, after breaking away from the Congress, that it was not possible to win elections with just the Kunbi vote. In order to attract the non-Kunbi OBC vote, estimated to form 40% of the electorate, Pawar recruited Chhagan Bhujbal (a Mali), and Pandurang Hajare (a Teli). Even though Pawar recruited other Telis like Pandurang Dhole, the \"Indian Express\" wondered if it would be enough to counter the age-old and keen Kunbi versus Teli rivalry. A closer look at local and regional leaders in the NCP revealed that almost all of them belonged to the Kunbi community. In 2009, the NCP president Sharad Pawar chose Anil Deshmukh over Rajendra Shingane as party candidate from the Vidharbha region because he represented the huge Kunbi-Marathi community there.\n\nAccording to Thomas Blom Hansen, a commentator on religious and political violence in India, the failure of political parties to consolidate OBC votes in Maharashtra, despite calls for \"Kunbi-zation\" of the Maratha caste, was due the fact that Maharashtra had, as early as 1967, identified 183 communities as \"educationally backward classes\". By 1978 there were 199 communities in this category, and the government implemented a policy of reserving 10% of educational seats and government jobs for them.\nThe official data used by the government for the definition of the Maratha-Kunbi castes puts them between 30% and 40%, depending on whether a narrow or an inclusive definition of the caste is used. This causes the percentage of OBCs to vary between 29% and 38% of the population. According to Hansen, it is critically important for the politicians of the state to ensure a narrow definition of OBC and maximise the Maratha representation. The Maratha Mahasangha (All-Maratha Federation), fearing that the Mandal Commission would divide the Maratha-Kunbis into Kunbis and high Marathas, took an anti-Mandal stance and tried to attract marginalised Maratha-Kunbis by propagating martial and chauvinistic myths, which in turn stigmatized Muslims and Dalits. While the organization never received success outside of Mumbai, it showed that political leaders were willing to counter the rising OBC assertiveness.\n\nThere are several communities in Maharashtra that have been trying to pass themselves off as depressed in order to reap the benefits of the reservation. An issue of candidates of the Maratha caste (a non-backward caste) running for elections in wards reserved for OBC candidates got centre-stage attention in the 2007 civic polls after the Maharashtra state government amended the OBC list on 1 June 2004 to retain the Kunbis and include Kunbi-Marathas. In 2010, the independent corporator, Malan Bhintade, who claimed to be Kunbi-Maratha but was later found to be of Maratha caste, lost her membership of the Pune Municipal Corporation after it was established that she had submitted a false caste certificate, claiming to be Kunbi-Maratha in order to run for elections in wards reserved for OBC candidates. Subsequently, all candidates who lost to Kunbi-Maratha candidates registered complaints against their opponents by claiming falsification of certificates. A similar case of forgery was reported in 2003 when the former Shiv Sena corporator, Geeta Gore, was sent to jail for falsely claiming to be a Kunbi-Maratha. Gore won in elections from ward 18 of Andheri (west) by claiming to be a member of the Kunbi-Maratha caste.\n\nIn 2006, four members of a Dalit family were tortured and murdered by members of the Kunbi caste from the Khairlanji village in the Bhandara district. Two female members of the same family were paraded naked in the village and then raped. Eight villagers were sentenced to life imprisonment, with the court declaring the killings motivated by revenge and not racism or casteism. An appeal against the High Court judgement to have the crime declared as casteism is still pending in the Supreme Court of India.\n\n\"The Times of India\" reported in February 2011 that an honour killing of a Dalit man and Kunbi woman was suspected in Murbad of the Thane district.\nIn September of the same year, a 20-year-old Dalit woman alleged that she was raped by a Someshwar Baburao Kuthe of the Kunbi caste in the Sarandi (Bujaruk) village of Lakhandur taluka. The local police registered an offense.\n\nModern research has revealed that the Marathas and Kunbi have the same origin - although the two are treated as two different communities currently on a social level. Most recently, the Kunbi origin of the Maratha has been explained in detail by Professor Richard Eaton from the University of Arizona and Professor Stewart Gordon from the University of Michigan. Marathas (\"Assal\" or true i.e. belonging to 96 clans), who were distinguished from the Kunbi, in the past claimed genealogical connections with Rajputs of Northern India. However, modern researchers demonstrate, giving examples, that these claims are not factual. Modern scholars agree that Marathas and Kunbi are the same. Anthropologist J.V.Ferreira, from the University of Mumbai states: \"The Maratha claim to belong to the ancient 96 Kshatriya families has no foundation in fact and may have been adopted after the Marathas became with Shivaji a power to be reckoned with\". Eaton shows how the Maratha caste was generated from the Kunbis who served the Muslim rulers, prospered, and over time adopted different customs like different dressing styles, employed genealogists, started identifying as Maratha, and caste boundaries solidified between them. In the nineteenth century, economic prosperity rather than marital service to the Muslims replaced the mobility into Maratha identity. Eaton gives an example of the Holkar family that originally belonged to the Dhangar(Shepherd) caste but was given a Maratha or even an \"arch-Maratha\" identity. The other example, given by Professor Susan Bayly of Cambridge University, is of the Bhonsles who originated among the populations of the Deccani tiller-plainsmen who were known by the names Kunbi and Maratha. \nProfessor Dhanmanjiri Sathe from the University of Pune states that \"The line between Marathas and Kunbis is thin and sometimes difficult to ascertain\". Iravati Karve, Anthropologist, University of Pune, showed how the Maratha caste was generated from Kunbis who simply started calling themselves \"Maratha\". She states that Maratha, Kunbi and Mali are the three main farming communities of Maharashtra - the difference being that the marathas and Kunbis were \"dry farmers\" whereas the Mali farmed throughout the year.\nProfessor Cynthia Talbot from the University of Texas quotes a saying in Maharashtra, \"when a Kunbi prospers he becomes Maratha\".\nKunbi origin has been one of the factors on the basis of which the head of Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC), a Judge, M.G.Gaikwad, and some others in 2018, stated that Maratha associations have submitted historical proofs and petitions to be included in the Other Backward Class. The decision for giving reservation in jobs and education for Marathas based on the petitions that Marathas and Kunbis are one and the same caste was upheld by the Mumbai court in 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043511", "title": "Geodetic astronomy", "text": "Geodetic astronomy\n\nGeodetic astronomy or astronomical geodesy (astro-geodesy) is the application of astronomical methods into s and technical projects of geodesy.\n\nThe most important topics are:\n\nImportant measuring techniques are:\n\nThe accuracy of these methods depends on the instrument and its spectral wavelength, the measuring or scanning method, the time amount (versus economy), the atmospheric situation, the stability of the surface resp. the satellite, on mechanical and temperature effects to the instrument, on the experience and skill of the observer, and on the accuracy of the physical-mathematical models.\n\nTherefore, the accuracy reaches from 60\" (navigation, ~1 mile) to 0,001\" and better (a few cm; satellites, VLBI), e.g.:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043517", "title": "Martin Naughton (businessman)", "text": "Martin Naughton (businessman)\n\nMartin Naughton (born 1938/1939), an Irish-British billionaire businessman and engineer. He is the founder of GlenDimplex, a company specializing in electrical appliances\n\nNaughton is an alumnus of De La Salle College Dundalk, where he funds an annual scholarship programme, and is a donor to a number of educational institutions, notably Trinity College Dublin and the University of Notre Dame.\n\nNaughton founded Glen Electric in August 1973 with a small manufacturing facility employing just ten people in Newry, County Down, Northern Ireland. In 1977, Dimplex, the leading brand in the UK electrical heating market was acquired by Glen Electrics forming the Glen Dimplex Group. The company set out acquiring further businesses across the UK, with Morphy Richards, the market leader in small domestic appliances in 1985 followed by Blanella, a manufacturer of electric blankets and Burco Dean Appliances, a manufacturer of products for the catering industry, all in the same year. The 1990s saw the company forge its powers of acquisition and strategic business thinking to acquire further businesses across Europe and beyond. An engineer by profession, Naughton has overseen his company to become the world's largest manufacturer in domestic heating appliances. His company has plants in the Republic of Ireland, the United Kingdom and North America. His business has more than 8000 staff and 22 manufacturing facilities with annual sales of around $1.6 billion. Naughton's stake in the company is worth around £273 million with other investments including an art collection, property in Dublin and shares in the Merrion Hotel Group and the \"Sunday Tribune\" newspaper.\n\nNaughton was involved in negotiating cross-border trade and promotion and support of businesses during the Northern Ireland conflict.\n\nIn 1995, Trinity College Dublin awarded him an honorary doctorate.\n\nIn 2016, Naughton was awarded the French Légion d'Honneur.\n\nIn 2017, Dublin City University awarded him an honorary doctorate.\n\nHe is married, with three children, and lives in County Meath. In 2016, his son Fergal Naughton took over as CEO of GlenDimplex.\n\nIn 2016, Naughton and his wife Carmel were named philanthropists of the year by the Community Foundation for Ireland.\n\nIn May 2018, Business for Peace Foundation gave Naughton a \"Business for Peace Award\" in recognition of his efforts in promoting the private sector’s contribution to peace and environmental sustainability.\n\nIn November 2018, he was named as the \"Outstanding Contribution to Business Award\" winner at the Irish Post Awards 2018.\n"}
{"id": "2043518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043518", "title": "Eldon Square Shopping Centre", "text": "Eldon Square Shopping Centre\n\nEldon Square (stylised as intu Eldon Square) is a shopping centre in Newcastle upon Tyne, England. It opened in 1976 and was built on the site of Old Eldon Square, a famous part of Georgian Newcastle designed by John Dobson in about 1824. This redevelopment, which left only the eastern terrace standing, has been criticised, with one writer calling it \"the greatest single example of architectural vandalism in Britain since the war\".\n\nWhen the centre opened it was the largest city-centre shopping centre in the UK. In 2013 it was rebranded as Intu Eldon Square.\n\nThe shopping centre occupies an area close to the old town wall, which followed the course of Blackett Street. This means the modern shopping centre is built on either side of where the wall once stood. From a map drawn by Charles Hutton in 1770, it appears that the ancient wall would have run parallel with the south side of Blackett street. This is the northernmost wall of the southern portion of the shopping centre.\n\nAs the city would have grown within its town walls, just south of the north wall was the Nunn's Garden. This is around the location of the now demolished Green Market. The Nunn's Garden was bordered by High Friar Chare, a street running almost in-line with 'High Friars way' in the present shopping centre. Wards in this area were named after the towers which guarded the ancient town walls. The wards occupying the south portion of the shopping centre would have been 'Andrew Tower ward' site of Newgate multi-storey car park (now demolished) and Eldon Leisure. 'Fickett Tower ward', is below where Eldon Leisure is located in the present megastructure, and 'Bertram Momboucher Tower ward' is located where the now demolished Eldon food courts and Newgate car park once stood.\n\nNorth of the town walls Charles Hutton's 1770 map shows a bowling green on the site of the present day Marks & Spencer, John Lewis part of the megastructure and Prudhoe Street car park. The area presently occupied by the Northumberland Street entrance to the centre and Fenwicks were in 1770 market vegetable gardens. That would have been south of the bowling green.\n\nIn 1824 John Dobson was commissioned by Richard Grainger to produce designs for Old Eldon Square. The design involved terraces facing a central square: the terraces were faced with finely cut ashlar.\n\nDuring the 1960s the leader of the city council T. Dan Smith, set the groundwork for a new shopping centre. He intended to use the famous Danish architect Arne Jacobsen; however this fell through.\nOld Eldon Square was nonetheless controversially redeveloped in the mid 1970s, with Christopher Booker writing in 1978 that it was \"perhaps the greatest single example of architectural vandalism in Britain since the war. Until ten years ago this most handsome piece of old Newcastle, with its blackened, post-classical frontages survived intact. Today only one side remains, the rest dominated by the astonishingly brutal shopping centre put up by Capital and Counties, turning its brick backside on the world in the most aggressive way, in order to lure Novocastrians into the softly-lit womb of the air-conditioned shopping malls within.\"\n\nThe first phase of Eldon Square Shopping Centre opened on 4 March 1976, with a second phase opening in September, and an official opening ceremony in 1977 carried out by Queen Elizabeth II during her Silver Jubilee. At the time it was the largest indoor shopping centre in the country.\n\nSome of the shopping malls were named after elements of local culture; notably \"Chevy Chase\" was named after the medieval Northumbrian Ballad of Chevy Chase, and \"Douglas Way\" was named after the Scottish Earl of Douglas who takes a prominent role in the ballad. The Fenwick department store established an access from the centre into their store and Bainbridge's, part of the John Lewis Partnership, moved into the centre at the time.\n\nThe opening of the MetroCentre in nearby Gateshead during 1986 provided competition for Eldon Square.\n\nIn 1989 a new shopping centre, Eldon Garden, opened to the north of Eldon Square. Although separately owned and managed, there is an entrance to Eldon Garden's main shopping arcade from Eldon Square.\n\nThe Green Market, which was situated in the southern part of the centre, closed in January 2007 for relocation and the site was demolished later in the year along with a car park as part of redevelopment works. The new Eldon Square bus station opened in March 2007, allowing the existing bus station to be converted into shops.\n\nThe site of the former Green Market was used to make way for Eldon Square South, later known as St Andrew's Way, a new mall with a Debenhams department store as the anchor tenant.\n\nThe centre was rebranded as Intu Eldon Square in April 2013, following the renaming of Capital Shopping Centres Group as Intu Properties. \n\nAround the same time as the rebrand, the centre underwent an extensive refurbishment at a cost of £22 million. The upgrade works included new ceilings and a new entrance at Northumberland Street.\n\nThe Eldon Leisure centre above the malls was refurbished in July 2015.\n\nThe next phase of the redevelopment was the creation of a new dining quarter in the old Sidgate and High Friars malls called Grey's Quarter. Work commenced in summer 2015 with the first restaurant to open being George's Great British Kitchen in October 2016.\n\nAnchor Tenants:\n\nIntu Eldon Square also has main entrances to:\n"}
{"id": "2043523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043523", "title": "Bridei I", "text": "Bridei I\n\nBridei I, also known as Bridei, son of Maelchon, was king of the Picts from 554 to 584. Sources are vague or contradictory regarding him, but it is believed that his court was near Loch Ness and that he may have been a Christian. There were contemporaries claiming the title \"king of the Picts\". He died in the mid-580s, possibly in battle, and was succeeded by Gartnait son of Domelch.\n\nBridei son of Maelchon was king of the Picts until his death around 584–586. Other forms of his name include Brude son of Melcho and, in Irish sources, Bruide son of Maelchú and Bruidhe son of Maelchon. He was first mentioned in the Irish annals from 558–560, where the \"Annals of Ulster\" report \"the migration before Máelchú's son, king Bruide\". An earlier entry, reporting the death of \"Bruide son of Máelchú\" in the \"Annals of Ulster\" for 505 is presumed to be an error. The Ulster annalist does not say who fled, but the later \"Annals of Tigernach\" refers to \"the flight of the Scots before Bruide son of Máelchú\" in 558. This uncertainty has provoked considerable speculation; in one version the \"Annals of Ulster\" is said to associate this with the death of Gabrán mac Domangairt.\n\nBridei is suggested to have been the son of Maelgwn Gwynedd by John Morris in his \"Age of Arthur\", where he is referred to in passing as \"... Bridei, son of Maelgwn, the mighty king of north Wales, ...\". Though the book has been a commercial success, it is disparaged by historians as an unreliable source of \"misleading and misguided\" information.\n\nBridei's death was reported in the 580's, perhaps in battle against Pictish rivals in Circinn, an area thought to correspond with the Mearns. The lists of kings in the \"Pictish Chronicle\" agree that Bridei was followed by Gartnait son of Domelch.\n\nBridei appears in Adomnán's \"Life of Saint Columba\" as a contemporary, and as one of the chief kings in Scotland. Adomnán's account of Bridei is problematic as it does not mention whether Bridei was already a Christian, and if not, whether Columba converted him. The archaeological discoveries at Portmahomack, showing that there was a monastic community there from around 550, provide some support for the idea that Bridei was either already a Christian, at least in name, or was converted by Columba.\n\nBridei was not the only \"king of the Picts\" during his lifetime. The death of Galam — called \"Cennalath, king of the Picts\" — is recorded in 580 in the \"Annals of Ulster,\" four years before Bridei's death. In addition, Adomnán mentions the presence of the \"under-king of Orkney\" at Bridei's court. The \"Annals of Ulster\" report two expeditions to Orkney during Bridei's reign, in 580 and 581.\n\nThe location of the court of Bridei's kingdom is not certain. Adomnán's account states that after leaving the royal court, Columba came to the River Ness and that the court was located atop a steep rock. Accordingly, it is supposed that Bridei's chief residence was at Craig Phadrig, which is to the west of the modern city of Inverness and overlooks the Beauly Firth. Bridei’s kingdom may also have corresponded with what would later become Fortriu.\n\nJuliet Marillier's trilogy \"The Bridei Chronicles\" is written as a combination of history, fiction, and informed guesswork regarding this king's rise to power and rule. Her novels also describe events in the life of Bridei III.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043532", "title": "Greek diaspora", "text": "Greek diaspora\n\nThe Greek diaspora, Hellenic diaspora or Omogenia () refers to the communities of Greek people living outside Greece, Cyprus which are the traditional Greek homelands, Albania, North Macedonia, parts of the Balkans, southern Russia, Ukraine, Asia Minor, the region of Pontus, Eastern Anatolia, Georgia, the South Caucasus, Egypt, southern Italy and Cargèse in Corsica. The term also refers to communities newly established by Greek migration outside these traditional areas during the 20th and 21st centuries.\nThe Greek diaspora is one of the oldest and largest in the world, with an attested presence from Homeric times to the present. Examples of its influence range from the role played by Greek expatriates in the emergence of the Renaissance, through liberation and nationalist movements involved in the fall of the Ottoman Empire, to commercial developments such as the commissioning of the world's first supertankers by shipping magnates Aristotle Onassis and Stavros Niarchos.\n\nIn Archaic Greece, Names of the Greeks trading and colonizing activities of the Greek tribes from the Balkans and Asia Minor propagated Greek culture, religion and language around the Mediterranean and Black Sea basins. Greek city-states were established in Sicily, southern Italy, Magna Graecia,northern Libya, eastern Spain, the south of France, and the Black Sea coast, and the Greeks founded over 400 colonies in these areas. Alexander the Great's conquest of the Achaemenid Empire marked the beginning of the Hellenistic period, which was characterized by a new wave of Greek colonization in Asia and Africa; the Greek ruling classes established their presence in Egypt, southwest Asia, and Northwest India.\n\nMany Greeks migrated to the new Hellenistic cities founded in Alexander's wake, as geographically-dispersed as Uzbekistan and Kuwait. Seleucia, Antioch and Alexandria were among the largest cities in the world during Hellenistic and Roman times. Greeks spread across the Roman Empire, and in the eastern territories the Greek language (rather than Latin) became the lingua franca. The Roman Empire was Christianized in the fourth century AD, and during the late Byzantine period the Greek Orthodox form of Christianity became a hallmark of Greek identity.\n\nIn the seventh century, Emperor Heraclius adopted Medieval Greek as the official language of the Byzantine Empire. Greeks continued to live around the Levant, Mediterranean and Black Sea, maintaining their identity among local populations as traders, officials, and settlers. Soon afterwards, the Arab-Islamic Caliphate seized the Levant, Egypt, North Africa and Sicily from the Byzantine Greeks during the Byzantine–Arab Wars. The Greek populations generally remained in these areas of the Caliphate and helped translate ancient Greek works into Arabic, thus contributing to early Islamic philosophy and science (which, in turn, contributed to Byzantine science).\n\nAfter the Byzantine–Ottoman Wars, which resulted in the fall of Constantinople in 1453 and the Ottoman conquest of Greek lands, many Greeks fled Constantinople (now Istanbul) and found refuge in Italy. They brought ancient Greek writings which had been lost in the West, contributing to the Renaissance. Most of these Greeks settled in Venice, Florence, and Rome.\n\nBetween the fall of the Empire of Trebizond to the Ottomans in 1461 and the second Russo-Turkish War in 1828–29, thousands of Pontic Greeks migrated (or fled) from the Pontic Alps and eastern Anatolia to Georgia and other southern regions of the Russian Empire, and (later) the Russian province of Kars in the South Caucasus. Many Pontic Greeks fled their homelands in Pontus and northeastern Anatolia and settled in these areas to avoid Ottoman reprisals after supporting the Russian invasions of eastern Anatolia in the Russo-Turkish Wars from the late 18th to the early 20th century. Others resettled in search of new opportunities in trade, mining, farming, the church, the military, and the bureaucracy of the Russian Empire.\n\nGreeks spread through many provinces of the Ottoman Empire and took major roles in its economic life, particularly the Phanariots (wealthy Greek merchants who claimed noble Byzantine descent during the second half of the 16th century). The Phanariots helped administer the Ottoman Empire's Balkan domains in the 18th century; some settled in present-day Romania, influencing its political and cultural life. Other Greeks settled outside the southern Balkans, moving north in service to the Orthodox Church or as a result of population transfers and massacres by Ottoman authorities after Greek rebellions against Ottoman rule or suspected Greek collaboration with Russia in the Russo-Turkish wars fought between 1774 and 1878. Greek Macedonia was most affected by the population upheavals, where the large, indigenous Ottoman Muslim population (often including those of Greek-convert descent) could form local militias to harass and exact revenge on the Greek-speaking Christian Orthodox population; this often forced the inhabitants of rural districts, particularly in the more vulnerable lowland areas, to abandon their homes.\n\nA larger-scale movement of Greek-speaking peoples in the Ottoman period was Pontic Greeks from northeastern Anatolia to Georgia and parts of southern Russia, particularly the province of Kars Oblast in the southern Caucasus after the short-lived Russian occupation of Erzerum and the surrounding region during the 1828–29 Russo-Turkish War. An estimated one-fifth of Pontic Greeks left their homeland in the mountains of northeastern Anatolia in 1829 as refugees, following the Tsarist army as it withdrew back into Russian territory (since many had collaborated with—or fought in—the Russian army against the Muslim Ottomans to regain territory for Christian Orthodoxy). The Pontic Greek refugees who settled in Georgia and the southern Caucasus assimilated with preexisting Caucasus Greek communities. Those who settled in Ukraine and southern Russia became a sizable proportion of cities such as Mariupol, but generally assimilated with Christian Orthodox Russians and continued to serve in the Tsarist army.\n\nDuring and after the Greek War of Independence, Greeks of the diaspora established the fledgling state, raised funds and awareness abroad and served as senior officers in Russian armies which fought the Ottomans to help liberate Greeks under Ottoman subjugation in Macedonia, Epirus, and Thrace. Greek merchant families had contacts in other countries; during the disturbances, many set up home bases around the Mediterranean (notably Marseilles in France, Livorno, Calabria and Bari in Italy and Alexandria in Egypt), Russia (Odessa and St. Petersburg), and Britain (London and Liverpool) from where they traded (typically textiles and grain). Businesses frequently included the extended family, and they brought schools teaching Greek and the Greek Orthodox Church. As markets changed, some families became shippers (financed through the local Greek community, with the aid of the Ralli or Vagliano Brothers). The diaspora expanded across the Levant, North Africa, India and the US. Many leaders of the Greek struggle for liberation from Ottoman Macedonia and other parts of the southern Balkans with large Greek populations still under Ottoman rule had links to the Greek trading and business families who funded the Greek liberation struggle against the Ottomans and the creation of a Greater Greece.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Constantinople, the political situation stabilised; some displaced families returned to the newly-independent country to become key figures in cultural, educational and political life, especially in Athens. Financial assistance from overseas was channeled through these family ties, providing for institutions such as the National Library and sending relief after natural disasters.\n\nDuring the 20th century, many Greeks left the traditional homelands for economic and political reasons; this resulted in large migrations from Greece and Cyprus to the United States, Australia, Canada, Brazil, The United Kingdom, New Zealand, Argentina, The United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Germany, Norway, Belgium, Georgia, Italy, Armenia, Russia, Chile, Mexico and South Africa, especially after World War II (1939–45), the Greek Civil War (1946–49) and the Turkish Invasion of Cyprus in 1974.\nAfter World War I, most Pontian and Anatolian Greeks living in Asia Minor (modern-day Turkey) were victims of Muslim Turkish intolerance for Christians in the Ottoman Empire. More than 3.5 million people, including Greeks, Armenians, Assyrians, Kurds, and Jews, were killed in the regimes of the Young Turks and Mustafa Kemal from 1914 to 1923. Greeks in Asia Minor fled to modern Greece, and the Russian Empire (later the USSR) was also a major destination.\n\nAfter the Greek Civil War, many communist Greeks and their families fled to neighboring Yugoslavia, the USSR and the Soviet-dominated states of Eastern Europe (especially Czechoslovakia). Hungary founded a village (Beloiannisz) for Greek refugees, and many Greeks were resettled in the former Sudeten German region of northern Czechoslovakia around Krnov (Jägerndorf). Sweden also admitted large numbers of Greeks, and over 17,000 Greek-Swedish descendants live in the country.\nAlthough many immigrants later returned to Greece, these countries still have a number of first- and second-generation Greeks who maintain their traditions.\n\nThe Arab nationalism of President Nasser of Egypt led to the expulsion of a large Greek population. With the fall of Communism in eastern Europe and the USSR, Greeks of the diaspora immigrated to modern Greece's main urban centers of Athens, Thessaloniki, and Cyprus; many came from Georgia.\n\nPontic Greeks are Greek-speaking communities originating in the Black Sea region, particularly from the Trebizond region, the Pontic Alps, eastern Anatolia, Georgia, and the former Russian south-Caucasus Kars Oblast. After 1919–23, most of these Pontic Greek and Caucasus Greek communities resettled in Greek Macedonia or joined other Greek communities in southern Russia and Ukraine.\n\nAnyone who is ethnically Greek and born outside Greece may become a Greek citizen through naturalization if they can prove that a parent or grandparent was a Greek national. The Greek ancestor's birth and marriage certificates and the applicant's birth certificate are required, along with birth certificates for all intervening generations between the applicant and the person with Greek citizenship.\n\nGreek citizenship is acquired by birth by all persons born in Greece and all persons born to at least one parent who is a registered Greek citizen. People born out of wedlock to a father who is a Greek citizen and a mother who is a non-Greek automatically gain Greek citizenship if the father recognizes them as his child before they turn 18.\n\nCenters of the Greek diaspora are New York City, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, London, Melbourne, Sydney, Auckland, Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires.\n\nThe SAE – World Council of Hellenes Abroad has compiled several studies on the Greek diaspora. The total number of Greeks living outside Greece and Cyprus is uncertain. Available census figures indicate about three million Greeks outside Greece and Cyprus, but the SAE estimates about seven million worldwide. The Greek diaspora defends Greek interests, particularly in the US. Assimilation and loss of the Greek language influence the definition of the Greek diaspora. To learn more about how factors such as intermarriage and assimilation influence self-identification among young Greeks in the diaspora, and to help clarify the estimates of Greeks in the diaspora, the Next Generation Initiative began an academically-supervised research study in 2008.\n\nThe United States has the largest ethnically-Greek population outside Greece. According to the US Department of State, the Greek-American community numbers about three million and the vast majority are third- or fourth-generation immigrants. According to the World Council of Churches, the Ecumenical Patriarchate has a membership of 2,800,000 in the US and Canada who are still Greek Orthodox; however, many Greeks in both countries have adopted other religions or become secular. The 2010 census recorded about 1,300,000 Greek Americans, although members of the community dispute its accuracy.\n\nMost Greek Canadians live in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver. The 2016 census reported that 271,405 Canadians were Greek by ancestry and 62,715 people were born in Greece. According to \"Greeks around the Globe\", the Greek Canadian population totals about 450,000.\n\nGreek immigration to Chile began during the 16th century from the island of Crete. Cretan Greeks settled in the Antofagasta Region in the mid-16th century and spread to other locations, such as the Greek colony in Santiago and the cities of San Diego, Valparaíso, Talcahuano, Puerto Mont, and Punta Arenas.\n\nAustralia has one of the world's largest Greek communities. Greek immigration to Australia began during the 20th century, increasing significantly in the 1950s and 1960s. According to the 2016 census, there were 422,234 Greeks and Greek Cypriots (by ancestry) living in Australia and 110,669 Greeks born in Greece or Cyprus. According to \"Greeks around the Globe\", Greek Australians number about 700,000.\n\nAbout 50,000 Greeks immigrated to Brazil from Greece and Cyprus, with 20,000 in the city of Sao Paulo. Brazil has a sizable community of Antiochean Greeks (known as Melkites), Orthodox, and Catholics. According to the Catholic Church, the Eparchy of Nossa Senhora do Paraíso em São Paulo (Melkite Greek), the Eparchia Dominae Nostrae Paradisis S. Pauli Graecorum Melkitarum had a 2016 membership of 446,600. The World Council of Churches estimates that the Greek church of Antioch has a membership of 2,500,000 in Latin America, almost all of whom live in Brazil.\n\nAbout 250 Non-Jewish Greeks immigrated to Israel for the service of the Greek-Orthodox church in the country between 1850-1920, mostly residing in Jerusalem and Nazareth City. About 1,500-2,500 Ethnic Greeks Today, few were able to obtain Greek Citizenship largely due to the refusal of recognition from Greece.\nFrom 1884 to 1933, about 130,000 people immigrated from Lebanon to Brazil. Approximately 65 percent were Catholics (primarily Greek Melkites and Maronites), 20 percent were Greek Orthodox Melkites, and 15 percent were Druzes and other Muslims. The Brazilian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Lebanese government estimate that 7,000,000 people in Brazil have Lebanese ancestry. According to the Brazilian government, about 4,000,000 Brazilians have Syrian ancestry (primarily Christians: Greek Orthodox or former Greek Orthodox, Greek Catholic, Melkites, and minorities of Maronites and Assyriacs).\nAbout 20 percent of Lebanese Brazilians are Greek Orthodox. Approximately 2,500,000 Greek Orthodox Melkites and 446,600 Greek Catholic Melkites live in Brazil, for a total 2,946,600 Antiochean Greeks.\nHowever, adherents of Greek Orthodox Churches are not necessarily ethnic Greeks. Probably the majority of Melkites, Maronites, and some Greek Orthodox are ethnic Syrians and Lebanese.\n\nNotable people of the Greek diaspora (including those of Greek ancestry):\n\n"}
{"id": "2043537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043537", "title": "USS Arethusa (IX-135)", "text": "USS Arethusa (IX-135)\n\nUSS \"Arethusa\" (IX-135) began life as \"Gargoyle\"—a tanker built in 1921 at Oakland, Calif., by the Moore Shipbuilding Co. and was renamed \"Arethusa\" by the Navy and designated IX-135 on 3 November 1943; acquired by the Navy on 23 March 1944 from the War Shipping Administration on a bareboat basis for use as a mobile floating storage tanker; and placed in commission on that same day at Majuro Atoll, Marshall Islands, Lt. Walter J. Tross in command.\n\n\"Arethusa\" remained at Majuro through early June providing fuel to various ships of the Fleet. She got underway on 8 June and proceeded to Eniwetok, where she resumed her fueling operations. The tanker sailed on 19 August for the Admiralty Islands, reached Manus on 28 August, and once again dispensed fuel to Allied ships. The tanker headed for the Philippines on 12 October to support Fleet units about to begin the reconquest of that archipelago. She reached Leyte Gulf on 20 October and commenced fueling operations.\n\n\"Arethusa\" shaped a course back to Manus in early January 1945 and operated there through 5 May, when she got underway for the Western Caroline Islands. The vessel reached Ulithi four days later and resumed fueling services. The ship weighed anchor once again on 22 June and set a course for Kerama Retto in the Ryukyus. She was stationed at Okinawa when the Japanese surrendered in mid-August 1945 and continued operations at that island until mid-December.\n\n\"Arethusa\" then moved to Subic Bay, Philippines. She provided fuel to fleet ships at that port through 3 March 1946, when the vessel got underway for home. She reached Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on 28 March and remained there for a short period of voyage repairs. The ship left Hawaiian waters on 5 April and steamed into San Francisco Bay on 15 April. She was decommissioned at San Francisco on 16 May 1946 and returned to the War Shipping Administration on that same day. Her name was struck from the Navy list on 5 June 1946. The vessel was sold to Kaiser Co., Inc., on 8 December 1947, and was subsequently scrapped.\n\n\"Arethusa\" won two battle stars for her World War II service.\n"}
{"id": "2043546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043546", "title": "Andrew Jarecki", "text": "Andrew Jarecki\n\nAndrew Jarecki is an American filmmaker, musician, and entrepreneur. He is best known for the Emmy-winning 2015 documentary series \"The Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst\", which led to the arrest and imprisonment of Durst. He is also known for the documentary film \"Capturing the Friedmans\", which won eighteen international prizes including the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival and the New York Film Critics Circle award, and was nominated for an Academy Award. He also co-founded Moviefone and created the KnowMe iOS platform.\n\nJarecki graduated from Princeton University in 1985. He is the co-founder and CEO of Moviefone, which provides film schedules over the Internet and telephone and was sold to AOL in 1999. With producer J. J. Abrams, Jarecki co-wrote the theme song to \"Felicity\", \"New Version of You\", in 2000.\n\nJarecki's 2003 documentary about a family, \"Capturing the Friedmans\", his first feature, began as an offshoot from a short film he was making about birthday party clowns, which was titled \"Just a Clown\" and released in 2004. Jarecki went on to direct the narrative feature \"All Good Things\" starring Ryan Gosling, Kirsten Dunst and Frank Langella. The film, inspired by the life of millionaire Robert Durst and the unsolved disappearance of his wife Kathie, was released in 2010. Along with filmmaking partner Marc Smerling, Jarecki also produced the 2010 documentary film \"Catfish\", and co-produced and directed the documentary miniseries \"\", which aired on HBO in 2015. Jarecki plays the drums and sings backing vocals on Bikini Robot Army's single \"Joe Strummer's House\".\n\nJarecki is the son of financier-philanthropist Henry Jarecki, the brother of documentary filmmaker Eugene Jarecki, and the half-brother of filmmaker Nicholas Jarecki.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043563", "title": "Oeceoclades decaryana", "text": "Oeceoclades decaryana\n\nOeceoclades decaryana is a terrestrial orchid species of the genus \"Oeceoclades\" that is native throughout southern and southeastern Africa. It can be found growing in Kenya, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Madagascar, and KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa. It was first described by the French botanist Joseph Marie Henry Alfred Perrier de la Bâthie in 1935 as a species in the genus \"Eulophia\". He later transferred this species to the genus \"Lissochilus\" in 1941, followed by another transfer to the genus \"Eulophidium\" in 1957 by the English botanist V.S. Summerhayes in 1957. When Leslie Andrew Garay and Peter Taylor revised the genus \"Oeceoclades\" in 1976, they transferred this species to the expanded \"Oeceoclades\".\n"}
{"id": "2043566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043566", "title": "Alegria, Cebu", "text": "Alegria, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is home of the first onshore oil field in the Philippines, the Alegria Oil Field.\n\nTimeline:\n\nEstablishment of parish:\n\n\nAlegira is bordered to the north by the town of Badian, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east are the towns of Dalaguete and Alcoy, and to the south is the town of Malabuyoc.\n\nAlegria comprises 9 barangays:\n\nThe formal extraction of oil and gas reserves from the Alegria Oil Field Polyard-3 Well in Barangay Montpeller would generate numerous job opportunities and income for residents, neighboring towns and the entire Cebu province.\n\nExtracted oil will be sold to power plants at US$70 per barrel with a current production of 200 to 300 barrels per day, as told by Country Manager Edgar Benedict Cutiongco of China International Mining and Petroleum Company Inc. (CIMP), the service contractor of the oil extraction project. The Municipal government will receive an 18% income share coming from the 60% allotted to the National Government, while 14% will go to Barangay Montpeller and 8% to the Provincial Government.\n\nThe municipality of Alegria launched the Kawayan Festival on 2 December 2006, in time for the annual town fieSanta Local contingents paraded the streets, and locally produced kawayan (bamboo) products were on display. Kawayan Festival has been part of the fiesta celebration in honor of Saint Francis Xavier since then.\n\nThere is also a plan to develop Alegria as the \"Organic Vegetable Basket\" in Cebu and in the Visayas region by its mayor, Verna Magallon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043567", "title": "Aloguinsan", "text": "Aloguinsan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBy road it is southwest of Cebu City. Aloguinsan public market is held at the top of the beach.\n\nAloguinsan was formerly a barrio of Pinamungajan. It was created a town by the Royal Decree of the Kingdom of Spain in 1886.\n\nBulwarte, a historic landmark, still stands as mute testimony to the courage of the early inhabitants of Aloguinsan. Because of the frequent Moro attacks, the natives, under the supervision of the Spaniards, constructed a watchtower on top of a hill at the mouth of a river. From this vantage point, they could see incoming Moro vintas.\n\nOne night (a full moon and favorable winds), the Muslim invaders approached the village. With old people, women, and children safe behind the hills, the men began firing their cannons and did not stop until the pirates had been annihilated. It was the end of Moro assaults.\n\nThe historic hill of Villona between the barrios of Olango and Cawasan was also the site of a battle between the American forces and Filipino revolutionaries. The rebels under the leadership of Anastacio de la Cruz encountered the forces of Lt. Walker on Holy Thursday, April 1903. Lt. Walker and a number of his men were killed. The following day, Good Friday, Lt. McCoy took over the command of the American troops and outfought the Pulahanes (the rebels were so called because of their red headbands) who were defeated.\n\nThe courage and patriotism of the Aloguinsan were again tested in World War II. Cebuano guerillas resisted Japanese invaders, and joined Allied and Filipino troops of the 3rd, 8th, 82nd and 83rd Infantry Division of the Philippine Commonwealth Army.\n\nAloguinsan is bordered to the north by the town of Pinamungajan, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the city of Carcar, and to the south is the town of Barili.\n\nAloguinsan comprises 15 barangays:\n\nEvery June, they celebrate the famous \"Kinsan Festival,\" named for a fish that is usually abundant in months of May to July. The town fiesta is celebrated every 23 and 24 October in honor of Saint Raphael the Archangel. Interestingly, the saint is sometimes depicted in religious iconography as holding a fish.\n\nOnly Aloguinsan has a titular parish of Saint Raphael the Archangel in the entire Metropolitan Archdiocese of the Most Holy Name of Jesus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043568", "title": "Argao", "text": "Argao\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality of Argao is located in the southeast of the province of Cebu, from Cebu City.\n\nArgao is bordered to the north by the town of Sibonga, to the west are the towns of Ronda, Alcantara and Moalboal, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the town of Dalaguete.\n\nArgao comprises 45 barangays:\n\nLa Torta Festival replaced the Pitlagong Festival in 2011. La Torta Festival happens every 28–29 September to celebrate Argao's cultural heritage from the Spanish period tradition of making the torta, which is a popular cake in Argao.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043571", "title": "Edmund Dalbor", "text": "Edmund Dalbor\n\nEdmund Dalbor (30 October 1869 – 13 February 1926) was a Polish Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Archbishop of Gniezno and Poznań, thus Primate of Poland, from 1915 until his death. Dalbor was elevated to the cardinalate in 1919.\n\nEdmund Dalbor was born in Ostrów Wielkopolski to Władysław and Katarzyna (née Rutkowska) Dalbor. Confirmed on 7 November 1889, he was educated at the Men's Grammar School in Ostrow, the University of Münster, and the seminary of Gniezno and Poznań before traveling to Rome in 1892 to further his studies.\n\nWhilst in Rome, Dalbor was ordained to the priesthood by Cardinal Lucido Parocchi on 25 February 1893. He obtained his doctorate in canon law from the Pontifical Gregorian University on 6 July 1894, and became a parochial vicar in Poznań upon returning to Poland. After serving as vicar of the archcathedral and director of the chancery, Dalbor went to Gniezno, where he was a professor at its seminary and penitentiary of its cathedral. He became a canon theologian of the cathedral chapter of Poznań in 1901, also serving as confessor and chaplain of the Sisters of Charity of Saint Elizabeth. He was raised to the rank of vicar general of Poznań in 1909 and Domestic Prelate of His Holiness on 23 November 1914.\n\nOn 30 June 1915, Dalbor was appointed Archbishop of Gniezno and Poznań by Pope Benedict XV; as Archbishop, he was also the spiritual leader of the Church in Poland. He received his episcopal consecration on the following 21 September from Felix Cardinal von Hartmann, with Bishops Adolf Bertram and Wilhelm Kloske serving as co-consecrators.\n\nBenedict XV created him Cardinal-Priest of \"San Giovanni a Porta Latina\" in the consistory of 15 December 1919. Dalbor later participated in the papal conclave of 1922, which elected Pope Pius XI.\n\nThe Cardinal died in Poznań, at age 56. He is buried in the cathedral of Gniezno.\n"}
{"id": "2043572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043572", "title": "Simon Goddard", "text": "Simon Goddard\n\nSimon Goddard (born Cardiff, 21 December 1971) is a British author and music journalist.\n\nHe was born in Wales, later moving to Scotland. Though a writer by profession, Goddard originally went to art school in Carlisle, then Hull, and briefly considered a career in visual media. In 1995 he directed his one and only pop promo for Edwyn Collins (the subject of one of his future books, \"Simply Thrilled\"). He started freelance writing the following year and eventually found regular work as a music journalist in London. He has written for various magazines and newspapers including \"Uncut\", \"The Guardian\" and \"Record Collector\". In 2006 he joined \"Q\" magazine where he is currently listed among its Contributing Editors.\n\nHis first two books, \"Songs That Saved Your Life\" and \"Mozipedia\", established his initial reputation as an authority on The Smiths and their former lead singer Morrissey. The latter was voted Book Of The Year by readers of \"Mojo\" magazine and has since been published in America by Plume, and in Brazil by Leya.\n\nIn the wake of \"Mozipedia\", Goddard’s writing style and choice of subjects has broadened considerably, adopting a frequently unorthodox approach to popular music narratives. \"Ziggyology\" (2013) presented an evolutionary history of David Bowie’s extraterrestrial Ziggy Stardust persona, taking as its starting point the creation of the universe itself. \"Simply Thrilled\" (2014) was the first biography of the influential Scottish indie label Postcard Records written as a whimsical post-punk comedy of manners. His 2015 \"Rollaresque\" was a \"mock-picaresque biographical novel\" documenting the early adventures of The Rolling Stones as if it had been written in the 19th century. His most recent book is \"The Comeback\", telling the story of Elvis Presley and his 1968 Comeback Special which made both \"Q\" and \"Mojo\" magazines' 2018 Music Books Of The Year lists, described as \"a genre-busting modernist rock'n'roll fable\". \nGoddard has also supplied the accompanying essays to two deluxe collections by esteemed rock photographer Tom Sheehan and written several sleevenotes including reissues by Orange Juice, Siouxsie & The Banshees, Nico and Soft Cell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043573", "title": "Asturias, Cebu", "text": "Asturias, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe original name of Asturias is Naghalin, perhaps from the word \"lalin\", native Cebuano term for settlers coming from far places. Other authorities say that \"Naghalin\" is a mispronunciation of the Cebuano word \"naghaling\" which means \"making fire\" as preparation for cooking. This assertion is supported by the old name of an adjacent municipality, \"Bagacawa\" (now known as Tuburan), which means \"fiery cauldron\" from the Cebuano \"baga\" (ember) and \"kawa\" (cauldron).\n\nThe first occupants of Asturias came from other places and neighboring islands such as Negros and Bohol. At first, one part of Naghalin was part of Tuburan and the other part of Balamban. Over time, the population of Naghalin increased because of immigration and natural population growth. Eventually the inhabitants petitioned Spain to grant them their own local government. This petition was granted in the late 19th century by Spain, thereby creating the pueblo (region) of Asturias. This event was witnessed by the arrival in 1888 of the alférez, Antonio Alonso, uncle of José Rizal.\n\nAsturias is bordered to the north by the town of Tuburan, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the city of Danao, and to the south is the town of Balamban.\n\nAsturias comprises 27 barangays, of which 7 are coastal and 20 are inland:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043575", "title": "Badian, Cebu", "text": "Badian, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBadian is southwest of Cebu City.\n\nBadian is bordered to the north by the town of Moalboal, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Dalaguete, and to the south is the town of Alegria.\n\nBadian comprises 29 barangays:\n\nThe main barangay of Badian is the Poblacion, located in the center of the town. It is the only urban barangay, and the most populous of Badian. It contains the hospital and the marketplace where most of the trading takes place. Many vendors from all over town trade here particularly at weekends.\n\nPoblacion is where the local high school is located. Badian National High School (BNHS) is one of two high schools in Badian. This is also the larger of the two and many students come from neighboring towns to study here. The lower educational facility in Badian is the Badian Central Elementary School where all the younger children go to school.\n\nPoblacion is also the location of the church of Santiago Apostle, whose feast day is celebrated each 25 July. Held together with the feast of Santiago Apostle is the Banig Festival, the town's flagship festival, celebrating the town's bed making industry.\n\nThe Kawasan Falls, a three-layered waterfall, is one of the popular tourist destinations in the province. Canyoning tours are offered upstream of the Kawasan Falls, where the Matutinao river flows through a secluded canyon. There is also the Badian mountain range and the popular trekking destination of Osmeña Peak.\n\nThe town's jurisdiction includes Zaragosa or Badian Island, where there is a white sandy private beach and which from there snorkeling and diving activities can be arranged. Nearby Pescador Island, Moalboal offers corals and marine life for divers.\n\nOther tourist attractions of Badian include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043576", "title": "Balamban", "text": "Balamban\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBalamban is bordered to the north by the town of Asturias, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east Is Cebu City, and to the south is the City of Toledo.\n\nMount Manunggal in Barangay Magsaysay (formerly Sunog), is the site of the plane crash on in which President Ramon Magsaysay and 17 of his Presidential staff and news correspondents are killed.\n\nBalamban comprises 28 barangays:\n\nTsuneishi Heavy Industries (Cebu), Inc. (THICI), located in barangay Buanoy , builds merchant ships of up to 180,000 deadweight tons using the same high quality shipbuilding technologies and standards as those in Tsuneishi Japan.\nAlso located in Balamban is Austal Philippines which caters to market demands for high speed ferries, workboats, fast crew transfer boats, other commercial vessels and defense vessels.\nThere are currently two shopping malls. The Gaisano Balamban Town Center and Gaisano Grand Balamban.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043583", "title": "Koara", "text": "Koara\n\nThe Koara people, more recently spelt \"Kuwarra,\" are an Indigenous Australian people living in the Kuwarra Western Desert region of Western Australia. Most of the present-day Kuwarra may be found in Meekatharra, Cue and Wiluna.\n\nNorman Tindale calculated that the Koara tribal lands embraced roughly , extending westwards from Mount Morgans and Leonora west to Mount Ida, taking in the areas of Lake Barlee, and Sandstone, and its northwestern boundary was west of Sandstone. The northern limits ran to Gidgee, Mount Sir Samuel and Lake Darlot. The eastern frontier lay around Mount Zephyr. Their western lands were contiguous with those of the Watjarri and Badimaya, and on the east and northeast by those of the traditional Ngaanyatjarra, Martu people and Mantjiltjarra.\n\nEstimates of the pre-contact Kuwarra population range from 250 to several hundred. By 1980, aboriginals with Kuwarra descent numbered a mere 60 people. The dispersion and detribalization of aboriginal tribes in this area followed in the wake of three successive waves of immigration, beginning with the Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie gold rushes, and concluding with the discovery of uranium deposits and the development of Laverton and Agnew, in the 1960s and 70s.\n\nThe indigenous people living in and around the Yeelirrie district had their continuity and transmission of cultural across generations severely compromised by the government practice of seizing their half-caste children to be raised elsewhere, so that the latter would 'grow up' unaffected by their traditional identities. One technique devised by people like the Kuwarra who had half-caste children in their family camps was to rub the offspring with charcoal ash from burnt sandalwood, to make them pass as of pure tribal descent. At times, if a pastoralist vouchsafed that they worked on his property, they could escape the meshes of the round-up law. Such forced removals persisted down to the late 1970s.\n\nThose who managed to find employment on pastoral stations were often taken on as indentured labourers and were paid a pittance. A law was passed forbidding any white, other than station owners, to approach groups of aboriginals at a distance under\nfive chains(100 metres. To escape bondage under such conditions, some endeavoured, when WW2 broke out, to enlist in the army, but pastoralists could overturn this by arguing they were needed on the property. Their nomadic movements were drastically disrupted, again, when a 1940 law ruled that no native person could cross over below the 20th parallel of latitude unless he could obtain a signed medical certificate and written permission fromn the government minister.\n\nKuwarra could, like other Westralian aboriginals, obtain citizenship according to a law passed in 1944, which was on the books until its repeal in 1971. However, obtaining such citizenship carried with it a provision, that the new 'Australian' ex-aboriginal person solemnly undertake to no longer associate with aboriginals, with the sole exception of members of their immediate families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043597", "title": "Circuit-level gateway", "text": "Circuit-level gateway\n\nA circuit-level gateway is a type of firewall.\n\nCircuit-level gateways work at the session layer of the OSI model, or as a \"shim-layer\" between the application layer and the transport layer of the TCP/IP stack. They monitor TCP handshaking between packets to determine whether a requested session is legitimate. Information passed to a remote computer through a circuit-level gateway appears to have originated from the gateway. Firewall traffic is cleaned based on particular session rules and may be controlled to acknowledged computers only. Circuit-level firewalls conceal the details of the protected network from the external traffic, which is helpful for interdicting access to impostors. Circuit-level gateways are relatively inexpensive and have the advantage of hiding information about the private network they protect. However, they do not filter individual packets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043607", "title": "Boljoon", "text": "Boljoon\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBoljo-on, as locally called, has a total land area of .\n\nBoljoon is bordered to the north by the town of Alcoy, to the west are the towns of Malabuyoc, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the town of Oslob.\n\nBoljoon comprises 11 barangays, of which six (including Poblacion) are coastal, and the rest inland:\n\nNuestra Señora de Patrocinio Parish Church of Boljoon shows old and intricate carvings and bas-reliefs. It is in a pseudo-baroque rococo style. It has a main nave, a transcript, and twenty-eight pillars which support the walls. The walls are as thick as the pillars which are thick and made of mortar and lime.\n\nBoljoon became a \"visita\" of Carcar founded according to some authors in 1599. It became an independent vicariate on 31 October 1690, and on 5 April 1692, Fr. Nicolas de la Cuadra was appointed as prior. Because of the lack of priests, the church was turned over to the Jesuits on 27 September 1737, following the recommendation of the intermediate chapter of 1732. In the year 1747, the General of the Augustinians Order proposed the recovery of the parishes left off in the Visayas.\n\nBoljoon's earlier building had been destroyed in a raid in 1782, and its pastor Fr. Ambrosio Otero started rebuilding the following year. The work was continued by Fr. Manuel Cordero in 1794 but when Fr. Julian arrived, the work was not yet completed. He decided to build a blockhouse on which artillery was mounted, and he enclosed the church perimeter with a wall. He finally completed the church. The church and the adjoining convento were restored by Fr. Leandro Moran (1920–1948) the last Augustinian friar to be assigned to Boljoon.\n\nIn 1999 the National Historical Institute declared it a National Historical Landmark. The following year, the National Museum declared it as a National Cultural Treasure. The Nuestra Señora de Patrocinio Parish Church withstood the 7.2 magnitude earthquake in 2013 which affected Bohol and Cebu.\n\nThe Boljoon Church is currently in the tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage Sites under the \"Baroque Churches of the Philippines (Extension)\". A proposal has been suggested by scholars to make a separate UNESCO inclusion for the \"Old Centre of Boljoon which includes the Boljoon Church\". The same would be made for other churches listed in UNESCO's tentative sites, where each town plaza and surrounding heritage buildings would be added. No government agency has yet to take action on the proposal.\n\nOn February 2008, archaeologists discovered 26 human remains (with china plates on top of heads) and 16th-century artefacts beneath the parvis of Boljoon Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043608", "title": "Borbon, Cebu", "text": "Borbon, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAccording to the Panublion publication, Borbon was established as a parish on 15 September 1862 and had San Sebastian as its patron saint. Today St. Sebastian's fiesta is celebrated every 20 January. Borbon was formerly a \"visita\" or an extension community of the town of Sogod. That is why many of the first settlers of Borbon were families whose roots can be traced back to relatives in Sogod.\n\nIn addition, describes the Borbon church made of wood and tabique resting on a base of mortar, dimensions . The church was thatched with grass. The original church is believed to have been one of the oldest churches in Cebu prior to its demolition after World War II.\n\nThe town name was said to have been named after Bourbon in Spain, or a misinterpretation of the Cebuano term \"\"Bonbon\"\" which means pebbly sand, but the generally accepted history of its name is of legend.\n\nBorbon is bordered on the north by the town of Tabogon, to the west by the town of Tabuelan, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the town of Sogod.\n\nSilmugi River is an eco-tourism site in northern Cebu. Located between the barangays of Poblacion and Cadaruhan, the river stretches for about between barangays Vito and Suba. It is where the rainwater from the many mountain barangays cascades and discharges into the sea.\n\nThe river played a big part during Borbon's formation as a town because in the past the river was known to be so big and wide that many boats traveled it.\n\nBorbon comprises 19 barangays:\n\nSource of livelihood:\n\n\nSchools:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043612", "title": "Carmen, Cebu", "text": "Carmen, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town fiesta is celebrated every 28 August in honor of St. Augustine of Hippo.\n\nThe town of Carmen was formerly known as Bugho, it became a municipality on June 16, 1851 through the efforts of Facundo Buot. The first municipal president was Fabio Buot when the first elections was held by the Americans in 1899.\n\nCarmen is bordered on the north by the town of Catmon, to the west by the town of Tuburan, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the City of Danao.\n\nCarmen comprises 21 barangays:\n\nMandaue City-based Shemberg Marketing Corporation, the world's number one supplier of refined carrageenan since 2005, owns and operates the Shemberg Biotech Corporation located in Barangay Cogon West.\n\nThe famous 7D mango product manufacturer FPD Foods International Inc. has one of its branches located at Dawis Norte, Carmen, Cebu.\n\nMetro, a stand alone supermarket opens branch in Carmen, Cebu. Located at the heart of the town's commercial area near the town's public market.\n\nA famous exporter of home decors and furniture maker Yoshio Home Decors also provides employment in the town as well as additional revenue for the local government.\n\nCarmen is also known for its homegrown \nsignature product sinamay, made of abaca. Sinamay industry in carmen is one of kind that we can be proud of. Thus, making the town as \"The sinamay capital of Cebu\". These sinamay products are passionately weaved by the locals with such high quality standard.\n\nCarmen is the home of the largest safari and adventure park in Cebu. The Cebu Safari and Adventure Park . It is a one of a kind zoological and botanical complex in the Philippines. It is also becoming a tourist destination spots in the northern Cebu because of its amazing adventure park .The Cebu Safari and Adventure Park had already been featured in many local news articles as well as the famous infotainment kids program of ABS-CBN's Matanglawin hosted by Kuya Kim Atienza .\n\nBefore the famed Sinulog Festival started in Cebu City in 1980, the town of Carmen had already dancing the beat and rhythm of the Sinulog way back in 1974. It was started by Fr. Jose Motus, the parish priest, and then-Mayor \"Benyong\" Villamor, and patterned it from his hometown's festival, the Ati-Atihan of Kalibo, Aklan. During its launching it was named Ati-Atihan sa Carmen, but renamed Sinulog sa Carmen the next year. From then on, Sinulog sa Carmen is held every second Sunday of January, just a week after the Sinulog Grand parade of Cebu City. Participating contingent dance their way around to honor the Santo Niño.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043614", "title": "Euston Road School", "text": "Euston Road School\n\nThe Euston Road School is a term applied to a group of English painters, active either as staff or students at the School of Drawing and Painting in London between 1937 and 1939. \nThe School opened in October 1937 at premises in Fitzroy Street before moving to 314/316 Euston Road in February 1938. The School was founded by William Coldstream, Victor Pasmore and Claude Rogers. Graham Bell was a substantial theoretical influence on these teachers and Rodrigo Moynihan was also closely associated with the School. Students at the school included Lawrence Gowing, Tom Carr, Peter Lanyon, Vivien John and Thelma Hulbert. The writer Adrian Stokes and the poet Stephen Spender attended drawing classes. Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant were among visiting teachers to the School. The emphasis was on acute representational painting based on observation. The School emphasised naturalism and realism, in contrast to the various schools of \"avant-garde\" art then prevalent. Many of the members were on the political left, and naturalism was seen as an attempt to make art more relevant and understandable to non-specialists and members of the public. To this end, Bell and Coldstream spent three weeks in working-class lodgings in Bolton, Lancashire in April 1938 painting cityscapes showing local factories. The resulting paintings were not highly regarded locally in Bolton. Later in 1938, the Euston Road artists contributed to the \"Fifteen paintings of London\" exhibition held at the Storran Gallery. In an attempt to engage the wider public, private invitations were sent to everyone named Brown, in the Post Office telephone directory.\n\nThe School closed at the start of the Second World War, as its members joined the Armed Forces, worked as war artists or, in the case of Pasmore, were imprisoned for being a conscientious objector. A small exhibition, \"Members of the Euston Road group\" was held at the Ashmolean Museum in 1942. In 1945 Pasmore, Coldstream, Rogers and Gowing were all teaching at the Camberwell School of Art and two further exhibitions followed, \"The Euston Road School and others\" at the Wakefield Art Gallery in 1948 and a group retrospective organised by the Arts Council which toured Britain throughout 1948 and 1949. By the end of 1949 the artists had embarked on separate projects, with Coldstream leaving Camberwell for the Slade School of Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043628", "title": "Compostela, Cebu", "text": "Compostela, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCompostela is bordered on the north by the city of Danao, to the west by Cebu City, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the town of Liloan. Compostela is within the Metro Cebu area.\n\nIn the year 1844, Spanish authorities established local government units on the northern part of Cebu starting from what is now known as the town of Compostela as far north as what is now called the town of Borbon. Compostela was among the early barrios of the Danao. The newly established barrio was named Compostela on the suggestion of a Roman Catholic friar who came from the town of Compostela in Spain and brought along with him the image of that town's patron saint, St. James the Great. Adopting the said saint as the local patron, a parish chapel was built from light materials. As the population grew, the Spanish church authorities decided to elevate the chapel into a church so that in the year 1866 the catholic church was constructed on the same site. Up to present time, the same structure continues to be the major place of worship in Compostela.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, the Americans gained control over the Philippines when they defeated the Spaniards in the Battle of Manila Bay. As a consequence, the Treaty of Paris caused the reorganization and reclassification of all local government units in the country according to their population and income. The reorganization which took place in 1903 resulted in the secession of Compostela to Liloan. In 1919, Compostela became a municipality.\n\nCompostela comprises 17 barangays:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043629", "title": "Consolacion, Cebu", "text": "Consolacion, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nConsolacion is bordered on the north by the town of Liloan, to the west by Cebu City, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the city of Mandaue.\n\nConsolacion was a component barangay first founded in 1871 with a population of 14,248. Before this, it was only a barrio of the municipality of Mandaue. The barrio, formerly named \"Kampiig\" named after a kind of crab living in mangroves, which was abundant in the area, became a separate town in 1871. However, in 1902 and 1903, unable to maintain its status as an independent municipality, it reverted to Mandaue.\n\nIn 1920 Consolacion was again made an independent municipality after a petition was accepted by the governor. So grateful were the townspeople to the Cebuano governor that they named their new town after his daughter – Consolacion – and they also chose San Narciso as their patron saint, the namesake of the governor's wife, Narcisa.\n\nA year after the construction of the \"Casa Real\" or municipal hall, the people built their first church. Because it was made of wood, nipa, and bamboo, it was totally destroyed by a typhoon in 1888. A second one was also destroyed by a typhoon in 1892. A third one was built just before World War II, on its current site.\n\nThe present municipal hall is already the third one. The first was destroyed by the typhoon of 1892. The second one was also destroyed, by the Japanese during World War II. Today, Consolacion is a robust residential urban municipality with a vigorous economy, providing a place to live for people employed in the neighboring cities of Mandaue, Lapu-Lapu and Cebu.\n\n70% of the total area of the town is above or highland mountains and 18% foreshore land. The contours are irregular and the highest point is about above sea level.\n\nConsolacion comprises 21 barangays over its :\n\nThe population of Consolacion is fast-growing with an intercensal growth rate of 50.45% from 1980 to 1990, repeated and more in subsequent decades.\n\nThe demographic distribution profile of Consolacion shows sparsely populated upland barangays, and densely populated lowland barangays within the commercial area along the existing national highway.\n\nConsolacion's recent economic trend is towards the development of operation of housing/subdivision facilities even with the presence of several medium size manufacturing industries. Consolacion is predicted to become a residential urban municipality in the next 5–10 years.\n\n\n\n\nThe Sarok Festival is celebrated on Consolacion's foundation day. Sarok is a hat made of bamboo strips and dried banana leaves. Sarok Festival a mardigras of colors and street dancing along the main road of Consolacion is celebrated every 14 February in commemoration of Consolacion founding anniversary. The main attraction of this festival is the colorful Sarok and its wide uses.\n\n\nTo protect farmers and the folks from the sun and the rain, the sarok, a conical hat made from bamboo strips and dried banana leaves, becomes the needed fad for the people of Consolacion especially that the town is an agricultural land. The festival was traditionally celebrated every 14 February to coincide with its charter day celebrations but this now celebrated in October. However, the Sarok Festival evolved into a free interpretation dance, with the musical concept inspired from the Miligoy de Cebu, a published Filipino folk dance originating from the same place.\n\n\nConsolacion is one of the contributor in Cultural History. It had created a dance called \"Miligoy de Cebu\". This dance is usually performed by pairs of dancers during social gatherings like baptism, weddings, and special programs in the poblacion. Dancers hold a pair of bamboo castanets in each hand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043634", "title": "Cordova, Cebu", "text": "Cordova, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAlso spelled Cordoba, most of the municipality lies on separate islands off the southern coast of Mactan Island. It is connected to the main island of Mactan by two bridges with a third to be opened by 2021.\n\nCordova is bordered to the north by the city of Lapu-Lapu, to the west is the Mactan Channel, to the east is Hilutangan Channel and Olango Island, and to the south is the Cebu Strait.\n\nOn 22 May 1863, the Spanish Governor General of the Philippines Rafael Echagüe y Bermingham (1815-1887) created a new town comprising the barrios of Gabi, Dayas and Pilipul (now called Pilipog), all of which are located on the southeastern tip of Mactan Island. Some authors think he chose the name Cordoba which means \"stark nakedness and bare\", but they do not indicate in what language. The decree of becoming a municipality only became effective in 1864.\n\nHowever, before being appointed Governor General, in 1858, Rafael Echagüe y Bermingham was representative in the Spanish Congress of Deputies for the province of Cordoba (Spain), so he should have given that name in memory of his previous experiences. \n\nIn addition to Spain and the Philippines, there are other cities or provinces named \"Cordoba\", \"Cordova\" or \"Las Cordobas\" in Argentina, Colombia, USA and Mexico, all of them founded and named by Spanish, in memory of the Spanish Cordoba or the surname/family name of its founders.\n\nCordova became a municipality in 1864, and from 1913 up to the present, a total of 15 mayors governed the district.\n\nA future 3rd bridge that will connect mainland Cebu to the small island of Cordova and will commence on March 1, 2018 and the project has a completion date of December 2021.\n\nGeographically, Cordova consists of a main island, bordering on and separated from Mactan Island by a narrow stream, as well as the islets of Gilutongan (also spelled Hilutungan), Nalusuan, Shell, Tongo and Lava. The two islets of Gilutongan and Nalusuan are part of the Olango Island Group in the middle of the Cebu Strait. Its land area is , of which constitutes the main island and are outlying islets.\n\nThe surface of the town consists entirely of karstic limestone rock geologically associated with the Plio-Pleistocene Carcar Formation, dated to 2½–3 million years ago. The topography of Cordova is flat land, the highest point being only above sea level.\n\nA PRIVATE firm is set to build a Mangrove Propagation and Information Center in Barangay Day-as in the town of Cordova, a facility that will help the local government protect its mangroves. Metro Pacific Investments Foundation (MPIF), the corporate social responsibility (CSR) arm of Metro Pacific Investments Corp. (MPIC), will build the center in the middle of a 500-square-meter mangrove plantation in Barangay Day-as. Cordova has at least two hectares of mangroves that surround several of its barangays.\n\nThe climate of Cordova is of Coronas type III, meaning the seasons are not very pronounced and are classified as hot and humid.\n\nIts temperature ranges from , with a mean high temperature of and a mean low of .\n\nCordova comprises 13 barangays:\n\nCordova is a quiet fisherman town off the coast of mainland Cebu. It has several hotels, resorts and accommodations, which include:\n\n\nA special attraction is the mangrove forest and swamp area. The best access to this area is the Day-as Boardwalk and Marine Park. The total mangrove plantation is estimated to cover more or less . Most of the mangrove forest is located in the barangays of Pilipog, Bangbang, San Miguel, Dayas and Catarman.\n\nThe children in Cordova are served by 14 day-care centers, eleven public elementary schools, two private elementary schools, one public high school, a private high school and the public college. Educational achievement is relatively high, with 75% of adults (i.e. 21 years old and above) having finished elementary and high school and 23% have attended university or received a degree. Around 2% of the population report not having received formal schooling.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043635", "title": "Daanbantayan", "text": "Daanbantayan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLocated at the northern tip of Cebu island, Daanbantayan celebrates its annual fiesta along with the \"Haladaya Festival\" which starts 21 August and ends with street-dancing on 30 August, in honor of Datu Daya, the legendary founder of the town.\n\nDaanbantayan is bordered on the north by the Visayan Sea, to the west by Bantayan Island, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the town of Medellin. \n\nThe name Daanbantayan was derived from two words: the word \"\"daan\"\", which means \"old\" in Cebuano, and the word \"\"bantayan\"\", which refers to a place that served as a look out for Moro raiders during the Pre-Hispanic Philippines. The original site of the town might have been at an elevated vantage point near Punta, in Tapilon.\n\nOn 8 November 2013, 9 people were killed and 50 injured when Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda in Philippines area of responsibility) passed over Daanbantayan.\n\nThere are several small islands/islets and diving spots, with the list below arranged by latitude from nearest to farthest from Cebu island:\n\nDaanbantayan comprises 20 barangays:\n\nCeres Liner (And Sugbo Transit), White Stallion Express (Subsidiary Of Rough Riders) and Cebu Autobus are among the bus companies with regular service to and from Cebu city (North Bus Terminal). Jeepneys, tricycles, and trisikads are the main modes of transportation within the town.\n\nDaanbantayan is now known for its pristine, white powder-like sandy beaches – one of which is Malapascua Island. With its vast and rich marine resources, it hosts a long string of dive sites offering unique marine life and beauty.\n\nAs a tourist destination, Daanbantayan stages the Haladaya Festival every year as an added attraction to local vacationers, holidaymakers, Filipino expatriates, and foreign tourists from as far away as North America, South America, and Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043636", "title": "Dalaguete", "text": "Dalaguete\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLocated south of Cebu City, Dalaguete is bordered to the north by the town of Argao, to the west are the towns of Badian and Alegria, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the town of Alcoy.\n\nDalaguete offers one of the trails to Cebu's highest mountain, the Osmeña Peak.\n\nThe dalakit (Ficus benjamina) tree is the foundation of the origin and name of Dalaguete.\n\nThey highly consider this tree for their belief that it harbors spirits or \"diwatas\" who could impose sickness if maltreated or hand in fortunes and gifts if placated. When fully grown, the intertwining roots are exposed from the earth and form huge caverns that could house several people.\n\nIn ancient times, before the coming of the Spaniards, these trees had been used by people as major landmarks. People gathered under the encompassing shades and conduct social and economic activities such us festivities, contest, trading meetings, and other community gatherings. They establish market places under the shades of the dalaket where they sell their products and conduct trade with local roving traders bringing in Chinese and Asiatic goods from the port of Cebu.\n\nThe place where the church or the poblacion were laid would have been the site of a communal gathering area for the natives. It was also the abode of a huge dalakit tree which provide shade and shelter while people conduct their activities. \"\"Adto ta mag-abot sa dalakit\". \"Adto ta magtigom-tigom sa dalakit\"\" [Let us meet at the dalakit]. These and other phrases were common among locals of centuries past when coming up with an agreement to meet or conduct an activity specifically at the site where the dalakit is situated. For several generations in pre-Hispanic Dalaguete, the area has always been unofficially called as dalakit. Its accessibility and its reputation as a communal area for community gathering have prompted the Spanish authorities to construct the church and eventually establish the area as part of an encomienda. From this common ground, and from this tree, begun the conception of a larger town which later come to be known as Dalaguete.\n\n\nTropical climate prevails year round in Dalaguete. The temperature is high and varies little with a difference of about between the coldest month which occurs around January and hottest month around May. The mountain barangays are cold and Mantalongon is considered the \"Little Baguio of Cebu\". Average daytime temperatures except in mountainous region range from . Humidity is 77%.\n\nDalaguete comprises 33 barangays:\n\n\nDalaguete celebrates its annual town fiesta in honor of its patron saint, San Guillermo, every 9 and 10 February. One of the highlights of the celebration is the street dancing and showdown competition called \"Utanon Festival\".\n\nUtanon Festival is also a form of thanksgiving for all the blessings and graces the Dalaguetenons have received from San Guillermo and for giving them a place so rich in agriculture and music. Utanon Festival is a celebration of good harvest through dance and music. The town is known as the \"Vegetable Basket of Cebu\" and Mantalongon as the \"Summer Capital of Cebu\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2043637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043637", "title": "Dumanjug", "text": "Dumanjug\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was established in 1855. Based on the cadastral survey map of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), Dumanjug has an effective land area of \n\nDumanjug is bordered to the north by the town of Barili, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Sibonga, and to the south is the town of Ronda.\n\nDumanjug is also known as \"The Land of Golden Friendship\".\n\nDumanjug comprises 37 barangays:\n\nDumanjug's population is characterized mainly by an increasing birth rate and a gradually declining mortality rate. The growth in population is thus attributed to higher rate of birth than of death.\n\nThe bulk of the household population is concentrated in the coastal barangays located in the western part of the municipality. The urban area comprising Poblacion, Sima, Ilaya, and Looc has the biggest slice of the population. Barangays Bitoon, Tangil, Tapon, Balaygtiki, Cogon and Liong are catching up with the urban barangays in terms of household population. With the urban area fast becoming a commercial hub, Bitoon, Paculob, Cogon and Liong are foreseen as upcoming dormitory communities.\n\nDumanjuganons speak Cebuano, the official language spoken in Cebu. Cebuano is also spoken in most areas of the Visayas and in many provinces of Mindanao.\n\nThe people of Dumanjug are mostly Catholics. The town has three Catholic parishes:\n\nMajority of the existing industrial establishments in Dumanjug are those of micro-scale industries or establishments. These include bakeshops, welding shops, and cottage industries. Their products are mostly bakery products, assembled vehicles and handicrafts. Most of these establishments are found in the poblacion area and Bitoon. There are also four existing rice and corn mills operating in the municipality.\n\nThe municipality has considerable quantities of high-grade dolomites and large phosphate reserves found in Kanghumaod, Balaygtiki, Bullogan, Kabalaasnan, Matalao and Kabatbatan.\n\nThe Dumanjug Agora Complex is the center of trade & commerce of the municipality. Within the complex, various commercial establishments contribute greatly to the movement of goods and generation of revenues. These establishments cover basic goods for daily needs to construction supplies, agri-feeds, dry goods and many more. Sunday is designated as market day when various livestock and farm products congregate in the market. Out of town traders create an atmosphere of competition and creating opportunities for local consumers. Opposite the Agora complex is Gaisano Grand Mall, the first mall to be constructed in southwestern Cebu.\n\n\nDumanjug is currently served by eight bus operators\nThe municipality also has a RORO (Roll-On Roll Off) port situated in Tangil, which serves as the gateway between southern Cebu and mideastern Negros Island. There are two shipping companies effectively offering round-the-clock service.\n\nDumanjug has 30 schools offering basic education, six secondary schools, two tertiary education institutions, and two school districts: District I (Dumanjug Central) and District II (Bitoon Central). One of the town's prominent schools, the Little Flower School, was established in 1946 as the Dumanjug branch of the Colegio de San Carlos (now University of San Carlos). It was later renamed as the Dumanjug Catholic High School. It is currently administered by the Oblates of Notre Dame. Dumanjug's biggest school, Bitoon National Vocational School, is in the northern barangay of Bitoon. A satellite campus of the Cebu Technological University is also located in Bitoon.\n\nElementary Schools - Public Schools\n\nElementary Schools - Private School\n\nHigh Schools - Public Schools\n\nUniversities or Tertiary Schools - Public Schools\n\n"}
{"id": "2043639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043639", "title": "Ginatilan", "text": "Ginatilan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nGinatilan is bordered to the north by the town of Malabuyoc, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Oslob, and to the south is the town of Samboan.\n\nGinatilan comprises 14 barangays:\n\nInambakan Falls is the municipality's most visited natural attraction. Hidden in a river valley in the middle of Ginatilan's highlands, the towering waterfall can be reached via motorcycles for hire.\n\nMount Hambubuyog straddles the border of Ginatilan and Samboan. The summit offers views of Tañon Strait and Negros Island.\n\nLocal delicacies include \"palagsing\", \"tinumpi\", and \"kinugay\", made from \"buli\" tree.\n\nEvery March is annual festival in honor of the patron St. Gregory the Great.\n\nLivelihood includes farming, fishing, government, and business.\n\nGinatilan was the hometown of Catholic martyr and second Filipino saint, St. Pedro Calungsod, who was killed during his missionary work in Guam with Diego Luis de San Vitores in 1672.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043642", "title": "Liloan, Cebu", "text": "Liloan, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. Liloan lies within Metro Cebu.\n\nLiloan is bordered on the north by the town of Compostela, to the west by Cebu City, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the town of Consolacion. \n\nAlong its coastline, there is spot called Silot, where a whirlpool is created by the ebbs and flows of the waters from the bay. This phenomenon is called \"lilo\" in Cebuano. Because of this, the town was known as Liloan, meaning \"a place where there is a lilo\".\n\nSome time in the 1970s, a newspaper article stated that the \"pueblo de Liloan\" was separated from the municipality of Mandaue (now Mandaue City), and was created a new municipality in 1840. However, in his \"\"Breve reseña de lo que fue y de lo que es la Diócesis de Cebú en las Islas Filipinas\",\" states that Liloan was created as a parish in 1845 (in 1995, Liloan celebrated its sesquicentennial - 150th – anniversary.)\n\nThe creation of the municipality of Liloan could have been at the same time the parish was established, but not earlier than its being a parish. As recorded, the first priest of Liloan served in 1845. The term of the first mayor was from 1845–1846.\n\nDuring the war years (World War II), Liloan had three mayors at one time. The elected mayor was Catalino Noval. The Japanese Occupation Forces appointed another, Pascual Delgado. Not to be outdone, the Guerilla Forces also designated another, Jose Cañete.\n\nLiloan comprises 14 barangays:\n\nList of The Gobernadorcillo (Principalias) , American Commonwealth and The Republic of The Philippines elected mayors\n\n\nOne of the best known landmarks in Liloan is its historic lighthouse at Bagacay Point. The original lighthouse was built in 1857 by the Spanish. The current tower was constructed in 1904 by order of William Howard Taft, the first Governor-General of the Philippines and later the President of the United States. The tower is tall and remains in active use today, using solar energy. The lighthouse was declared a National Historical Landmark in 2004 by the National Historical Commission of the Philippines (formerly known as National Historical Institute).\n\nThe designer of the church in Liloan is viewed by some as visionary. Despite Liloan having only 5,000 citizens, when the church was constructed in 1847, this local church was even larger than that of Mandaue, Cebu's second largest city.\n\nOne unusual detail about the church in Liloan is that it faces the mountains to the west, whereas most churches face the sea to the east. Some have theorized that this is because Mass is often performed in the morning; and the church is thus shielded from the morning sun, making it less hot and uncomfortable. Others have speculated that the church's direction has a symbolic significance related to church rites.\n\nThe making of these little ringlet cookies dates back to 1907, when 21-year-old Margarita \"Titay\" (single, unmarried) was tinkering in her kitchen with her baking ingredients and made her new culinary creation. Kneading the dough manually and using a wooden eggbeater, some baking tins and a clay oven, she started a product that would put her little town in the national and international map of gastronomic delight.\n\nThe market for her unnamed cookie started with her neighbors and passers-by who were offered the snack with a bottle of soda. It was Sergio Osmeña (then Cebu governor, who later became Philippine president), who gave it the name \"rosquillos\" after the Spanish word \"rosca\".\n\nThe biscuits have been a regular stopover of tourists and locals travelling north of Cebu. The company has withstood the taste of time. It started with just \"rosquillos\" and \"tablea\" making. It later expanded to an array of homemade delicacies including \"torta\", \"mamon\", \"monay\", \"otap\", CPA (chicken pork \"adobo\"), \"bao-bao\" and more.\n\n\nCelebrated every last week of May in honor of the town's patron saint, St. Ferdinand III. Rosquillos have become a household name, a product that is aptly celebrated in a festival that Liloan could call its very own.\n\nLiloan is home to a number of ceramics manufacturers. Their shops sell a variety of ceramic items: from ordinary plant pots, to bricks and exotic jars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043645", "title": "Kleophrades Painter", "text": "Kleophrades Painter\n\nThe Kleophrades Painter is the name given to the anonymous red-figure Athenian vase painter, who was active from approximately 510 – 470 BCE and whose work, considered amongst the finest of the red figure style, is identified by its stylistic traits.\n\nThe name \"Kleophrades painter\", given him in 1910 by classicist John Beazley, arises from a potter's inscription \"Kleophrades\" on a cup now in the Cabinet des Medailles, Paris; after having had this designation for some time, scholars discovered a pelike, now in Berlin, which has the painter's name \"Epiktetos\" inscribed on it, and the painter was for a time designated \"Epiktetos II\", distinguishing him from a contemporary painter of the same name.\n\nHowever, in 1981 Sir John Boardman demonstrated that the signature on the vase was a modern forgery, and the Kleophrades Painter returned to anonymity. The Kleophrades painter is thought to be the son of the potter Amasis, and the pupil of Euthymides, as his earliest work greatly resembles that of his master. He himself had pupils, which include the Berlin Painter and also the Boot Painter. Overall the Kleophrades painter is recognized as one of the greatest pot painters in the late Archaic period in Athens.\n\nThe Beazley Archive Pottery Database has approximately 227 vases either attributed to, near, or compared with the Kleophrades painter, and of these 227, 113 are directly attributed to this great painter, although aside from the potter's name on the one pelike, his name is not found anywhere. Although he painted a number of different shapes, the Kleophrades painter focused mostly on large vases, with the four most common shapes being Calyx kraters, Hydrias, panathenaic Amphorae, and neck amphorae. The provenances of these vases vary, although the great majority are found in Italy. Most of which were sent to Etruria, Vulci, which is now the modern Province of Viterbo. This evidence indicates that many of his vases were intended for export.\n\nAlthough the Kleophrades painter was not a member of the pioneer group of red-figure painters, it is suggested that he worked in the pioneer workshop. The pioneer workshop included Euphronios, Euthymides, Smikros, Hypsias, and the 'Dikaios Painter'. Beazley as well as Michael Padgett believe that Kleophrades not only worked in the pioneer workshop, but Kleophrades was also trained and taught by Euthymides. Euthymides is older and had a clear influence on Kleophrades based on technique and style. He may have started off his training as a black figure painter, given that on his earliest vases all of the borders and patterns surrounding the painted scenes are done in black figure. In addition to being trained in both black and red-figure, Kleophrades also used the white ground technique. Kleophrades did use it often and when the painter did it was a sub technique of his black-figure works. As he progresses, one side of the vase will have patterns in black figure, and the other in red, until finally, in his later work, all of the borders and patterns are done in red figure. The attribution of the Kleophrades painter’s work is based on the expressive emotions of his characters, and his work is particularly identifiable through study of his painted faces. The eyes of his figures are often drawn rather long and slender, accompanied by strong chins, and a unique way of showing the inner detail of the ear.\n\nAlthough working primarily in red figure (apart from the borders and patterns previously mentioned), the Kleophrades painter completed a number of panathenaic amphorae, many of which were actually used as prizes. All panathenaic amphorae, not only those by the Kleophrades painter, are done in black figure, and his personal pots show great proficiency in this style. The panathenaic amphorae by the Kleophrades painter can be recognized by the representation of Pegasus, the winged horse, on the shield carried by Athena, the manner in which her hair is represented, and the position of the spear behind Athena’s head, as well as the relation of the spear to her face.\n\nThe Kleophrades Painter's style is praised for the quality of the draughtsmanship, as well as for the vigorous, robust, and well-proportioned figures that he depicted. His influence has been seen in the work of the Boot Painter and the Troilos Painter. In this latter case, the two artists have decorated vessels apparently by the same potter produced at roughly the same time, making it appear likely that they may have been working in the same workshop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043649", "title": "Madridejos, Cebu", "text": "Madridejos, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is one of the three municipalities that make up the island of Bantayan, which lies to the west of the northern tip of Cebu. Madridejos is bordered to the north and west by the Visayan Sea, to the east is the town of Medellin and to the south is the town of Bantayan. \n\nThere is a light station – LS Madridejos – about north of the mean highwater mark at Kota point .\n\nLawis was the old name of Madridejos. Even today people still use the name \"Lawis\", meaning \"promontory\", the portion carved out to constitute the municipality of Madridejos being the peninsula located on the northern side of Bantayan island facing the Visayan Sea.\n\nDuring the time of governor Sebastián Hurtado de Corcuera (1635–1644), the Visayas were continually harassed by the Moros, who wreaked dreadful havoc, capturing, massacring, robbing, sacking churches, and burning everything there was.\n\nThe kota (\"cota\" or \"cuta\" = fort) also built in 1790s. Blowing of the \"budyong\" served as signal of the coming of the Moros. A watch tower was built in Kaongkod, a barrio about from the fort. It is the place from where the approach of the Moros could easily be seen, to give a timely warning to the townsfolk of their coming. All watchtowers on Bantayan where built by Fr. Doroteo Andrada del Rosario, parish priest of Bantayan in the 19th century (Moro attacks were worst around 1840s).\n\nThe general scenery of Lawis was that of a quiet place, of virgin grounds covered by small shrubs and lantana. When more people discovered Lawis and flocked to it, the place became a visita.\n\nIn 1917 the pueblo Lawis became a municipality named Madridejos. This was the name given to the third town of Bantayan island in honour of Benito Romero de Madridejos the former archbishop of Cebu. The town's feast day is celebrated annually on 8 December.\n\nIn the year 1600s, before Madridejos was made into a town, there was a barrio called Lawis at the tip of Bantayan island. In this barrio was a chapel built by the Augustinians who also built the parish church of Bantayan in the year 1580.\n\nThe chapel was located within the Spanish fort near the seashore. Inside the chapel, there was a framed picture of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception which was the object of devotion and before which the Holy Rosary was prayed every afternoon. Once a month and during church feasts, the chapel was visited by the priest of Bantayan to say mass and celebrate its annual feast.\n\nIn the 1700s there was an image of La Virgen Purisima carved in the Island from \"batikuling\" wood. It was tall and was placed on the altar of the first chapel built by the Augustinian priests near the seashore of barrio Lawis. Folklore say there would be times when the clothes of the image were wet and damp although there was no rain, and was full of \"amorseko\" (crab grass) – a kind of weed in the fields. During the time of the El Tor epidemic a beautiful lady was observed ministering to the sick mountain folks.\n\nSince olden times, every October the Virgin is brought in a fluvial procession and the Holy Rosary is prayed. The feast was celebrated every eight day of December, until Lawis became a parish in the year 1928.\n\n\nMadridejos comprises 14 barangays:\n\nThe main industries of Madridejos are fishing, poultry and tourism.\n\nBecause of its rich fishing grounds, Madridejos earned the name of \"Little Alaska of the Philippines\": the first canning factory in the country was established here, but it lost its sustaining impact in the history of the municipality after it was bombed during World War II. At present, poultry-raising is a growing industry and Madridejos provides a substantial quantity of eggs produced for sale to the neighboring provinces.\n\nMadridejos also hosts a fairly substantial tertiary college – Salazar College.\n\nThere are two radio stations:\n\nMadridejos can be reached by boat from Cebu City via Santa Fe with 75-minutes ferry service to San Remigio (Hagnaya) via Island Shipping or SuperShuttle Ferry and also via Ceres bus from North Bus Terminal to Madridejos Vice-Versa. Bus (jeepney) travel to Madridejos via the municipality of Bantayan takes about a further hour.\n\nThere are currently NO overnight boats from Cebu City to Bantayan Island, nor are there any scheduled commercial air flights. Private air companies occasionally fly smaller Cessna and Piper aircraft into Bantayan Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043650", "title": "Uncut (magazine)", "text": "Uncut (magazine)\n\nUncut magazine, trademarked as UNCUT, is a monthly publication based in London. It is available across the English-speaking world, and focuses on music, but also includes film and books sections. A DVD magazine under the \"Uncut\" brand was published quarterly from 2005 to 2006.\n\n\"Uncut\" was launched in May 1997 by IPC as \"a monthly magazine aimed at 25- to 45-year-old men that focuses on music and movies\", edited by Allan Jones (former editor of \"Melody Maker\"). Jones has stated that \"[t]he idea for Uncut came from my own disenchantment about what I was doing with \"Melody Maker\". There was a publishing initiative to make the audience younger; I was getting older and they wanted to take the readers further away from me\", specifically referring to the then dominant Britpop genre.\n\nAccording to IPC Media, 86% of the magazine's readers are male and their average age is 37 years.\n\n\"Uncut\"'s contents include lengthy features on old albums, interviews with film directors, music and film news, and reviews of all major new album, film and DVD releases. Its music features tend to focus on genres such as Americana, rock and alternative country. Each month the magazine includes a free CD, which may include both new and older music. Special Issues have covered U2, Radiohead, Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, the Byrds, David Bowie, Demon Records, Eric Clapton, John Lennon, Pink Floyd, Queen, Martin Scorsese, Motown Records, Morrissey, George Harrison, Jimmy Page, Led Zeppelin, the Beach Boys, Paul McCartney, Neil Young, the Beatles, Elvis Costello, the Kinks, Fleetwood Mac and more.\n\n\"Uncut\" underwent a radical redesign in May 2006, as a result of which the magazine no longer catered for books and reduced its film content.\n\nAllan Jones writes a regular monthly column, recounting stories from his long career in music journalism.\n\n\"Uncut\"s monthly circulation dropped from over 90,000 in 2007 to 47,890 in the second half of 2015.\n\nIn 2019, TI Media, successor to IPC, sold \"NME\" and \"Uncut\" to Singaporan company Bandlab Technologies.\n\n\"Uncut\" often produces themed spin-off titles celebrating the career of one artist. This series has been known as \"Uncut Legends\". Artists who have so far had magazines entirely devoted to them include Radiohead, Kurt Cobain, U2, Bruce Springsteen, Tom Waits and John Lennon. The Lennon magazine was produced to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the death of the former Beatle. The majority of these titles have been produced by magazine editor Chris Hunt. The series started in 2003 with an inaugural issue devoted to Bob Dylan, edited by Nigel Williamson.\n\nIn 2008, \"Uncut\" launched its inaugural Uncut Music Award; this is described as \"a quest to find the most inspiring and rewarding musical experience of the past 12 months\". A list of 25 nominees is selected by a panel of 10 judges, who are all musicians or music industry professionals, and they come together to decide a winner. Past winners have included Fleet Foxes (2008), Tinariwen (2009), Paul Weller (2010) and P.J. Harvey (2011).\n\nIn late 2005, editor Allan Jones and publishing director Andrew Sumner launched a spin-off of the main movies and music magazine, that focused its attention on DVD releases of classic movies. Billed as \"the only great movie magazine\", \"Uncut DVD\" was designed to compete with such established titles as \"Ultimate DVD\", \"DVD Review\" and \"DVD Monthly\". Despite strong reviews in the UK trade press, \"Uncut DVD\" folded after three quarterly issues.\n"}
{"id": "2043651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043651", "title": "Malabuyoc", "text": "Malabuyoc\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. Malabuyoc is situated in the southwestern coast of the island of Cebu and is about from Cebu City.\n\nMalabuyoc is bordered by Alegria in the north, The Tañon Strait in the west, Boljoon in the east, and Ginatilan in the south.\n\nAccording to a popular story, once Malabuyoc grew plenty of fruit trees like mangoes, lanzones, cacaos, and others. So much that the branches of the trees bent down (\"buyoc\" in Visaya) under their weight. On account of this, the place came to be called \"Buyoc\". \n\nMalabuyoc is the mother town for Alegria and a contributor town to GInatilan. Some barangays of both Alegria and Ginatilan were originated from Malabuyoc. Almost half or more than half of the current jurisdictions of Alegria and Ginatilan respectively originally belonged to the jurisdiction of Malabuyoc. If the town of Ginatilan had not been created, Malabuyoc would have been the claimant for the 2nd Filipino Saint: Pedro Calungsod\n\nIt was officially established as the original municipality of Alegria and Ginatilan . Though the municipality of Ginatilan is a daughter town of Samboan, Malabuyoc was a contributor to Ginatilan. Malabuyoc separated its parish from Samboan in 1832. Its Parish Church was finished in 1834.\n\nRoman Catholic Parishes for these 3 municipalities in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Cebu are,\n\n\nMalabuyoc comprises 14 barangays:\n\nThe main economy is agriculture in particular fruit-bearing trees. There is a cement plant located within, and a power station planned.\n\nSecondary Schools\n\nHigh schools\n\nElementary schools\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043653", "title": "Medellin, Cebu", "text": "Medellin, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality of Medellin is one of the nine municipalities comprising the 4th Congressional District of Cebu Province. It is approximately north from Cebu City via barangay Curva, or via barangay Luya. \n\nMedellin is bordered on the north by the town of Daanbantayan, to the west by the Tañon Strait, on the east by the Camotes Sea, on the southwest by the town of San Remigio and the southeast by the city of Bogo.\n\nThe name Medellin is of Spanish origin and refers to the village with the same name in the Badajoz province of Extremadura in Spain. Medellin became a municipality by royal decree of Queen Isabel II of Spain on September 9, 1881.\n\nMedellin was formerly part of Daanbantayan. As a town, it started with only 3 barangays, namely; Kawit and Buenavista on the west coast, and Tindog on the east coast. Kawit, being the biggest and most progressive barangay at that time, became the first seat of government. But because of its deep shore water, the area was prone to pirates. As a consequence, the seat of government was then transferred to Buenavista (Daanlungsod). However, in view of its shallow shore water, traders and merchants found it difficult to transport their wares to and from Buenavista. A distance away south of Buenavista, there was a place called Tawagan which was an ideal site for trade and commerce. When the seat of government was transferred to Tawagan, the new poblacion was then called Medellin.\n\nMedellin comprises 19 barangays:\n\nThe principal source of livelihood among locals is Fishing and Farming while Tourism plays a promising future. Large tracts of land were engage in cultivating Sugarcane hence the tagged as the \"Sugar Bowl of Cebu\". A sugar milling company BOMEDCO is still operating since it was founded in the year 1928. Its mill is located in Barangay Luy-a, Medellin, Cebu. The principal product of the Company is raw sugar. \n\n\nhttps://www.reuters.com/companies/BMM.PS"}
{"id": "2043654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043654", "title": "Minglanilla, Cebu", "text": "Minglanilla, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMinglanilla is bordered to the north by the City of Talisay, to the west is the city of Toledo, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the city of Naga.\n\nMinglanilla lies within Metro Cebu. It is known as the \"Sugat Capital of the South\". (\"Sugat\" in Cebuano means meeting.) The \"Kabanhawan\" (Cebuano for \"Resurrection\") festival is held annually on Easter Sunday.\n\nA big socio-religious event in Minglanilla is the Sugat, which attracts not only people from adjacent towns but also from Cebu city and further. On Black Saturday night, a public dance is held at the church plaza to witness the reenactment of the \"meeting\" of the risen Christ and his mother. Their images, borne on richly decorated \"carrozas\", meet amidst joyous songs and the presence of child angels suspended by wires.\n\nFather Sanchez, Minglanilla's first parish priest, is credited as the founder of the town in 1858. The roads and bridges were built by the same Fr. Sanchez together with Fr. Magaz.\n\nThere were a number of \"capitanes\" who headed the town during the Spanish era. The first capitan was Hilario Castañares. During the American regime the first was Canuto Larrobis. The first elected municipal mayor was Gregorio de la Calzada.\n\nBuat was the former name of Minglanilla. It was the place where early settlers dried (\"buad/buat\") their sea catches. But in 1858, it was renamed by Fr. Sanchez after a municipality called \"Minglanilla\" in Castilla–La Mancha, Spain.\n\nThe town suffered setbacks, among them during the Philippine Revolution of 1896-1898 when \"insurrectos\" burned down its municipal building and looted many houses. This event is remembered by a street named 18 de Julio (18 July). In 1942, its poblacion was razed to the ground by the Japanese in retaliation for the presence of the guerrillas in the town\n\nMinglanilla is located south of Cebu City. It is bounded southwest by Naga; northwest by Toledo; northeast by Talisay; and southeast by the Bohol Strait. Its land area is .\n\nMinglanilla comprises 19 barangays:\n\nThe climate of Minglanilla is classified as Coronas type III, characterized by a dry season lasting from one to six months. There is no pronounced maximum rain period. The town is placed within the tropical rainforest type of world climate (Köppen type: Af) which has uniform high temperature and heavy precipitation distribution throughout the year.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043655", "title": "MRT Line 3 (Metro Manila)", "text": "MRT Line 3 (Metro Manila)\n\nThe Manila Metro Rail Transit System Line 3, also known as the MRT Line 3, MRT-3 or Metrostar Express is a rapid transit system of Metro Manila, Philippines. The line runs in an orbital north to south route following the alignment of the Epifanio de los Santos Avenue (EDSA). Although it has the characteristics of light rail, such as with the type of rolling stock used, it is more akin to a rapid transit system owing to its total grade separation and high passenger throughput.\n\nEnvisioned in the 1970s as part of the Metropolitan Manila Strategic Mass Rail Transit Development Plan, the thirteen-station, line was the second rapid transit line to be built in Metro Manila when it started full operations in 2000 under a 25-year concession agreement between its private owners and the Philippine government's Department of Transportation (DOTr).\n\nThe line is owned by the Metro Rail Transit Corporation (MRTC), a private company operating in partnership with the DOTr under a Build-Lease-Transfer agreement.\nServing close to 550,000 passengers on a daily basis when MRTC's maintenance provider, Sumitomo Corp. of Japan, was handling the maintenance of the system, the line is the busiest among Metro Manila's three rapid transit lines, built with essential standards such as barrier-free access and the use of contact-less card tickets to better facilitate passenger access. Total ridership significantly exceeds its built maximum capacity of 350,000 passengers a day, with various solutions being proposed or implemented to alleviate chronic congestion in addition to the procurement of new rolling stock.\n\nSince 2006, the system's private owners had been offering various capacity expansion proposals to the DOTC. In 2014, after the DOTC's handling of the line's maintenance for two years amid questions about the line's structural integrity owing to the poor maintenance and the pronouncements that the system, in general, was safe, experts from MTR HK were commissioned to review the system. MTR HK made the opinion that the rail system was compromised due to the DOTC's poor maintenance.\n\nIt is integrated with the public transit system in Metro Manila, and passengers also take various forms of road-based public transport, such as buses, to and from a station to reach their intended destination. Although the line is aimed at reducing traffic congestion and travel time along EDSA, the transportation system has only been partially successful due to the DOTC's inaction on the private sector's proposals to expand the capacity of the system to take up to 1.1 million passengers a day. Expanding the network's capacity to accommodate the rising number of passengers is currently set on tackling this problem.\n\nThe line serves 13 stations on of line, spaced on average around apart. The rails are mostly elevated and erected either over or along the roads covered, with sections below ground before and after Buendia and Ayala stations, the only underground stations on the line. The southern terminus of the line is the Taft Avenue station at the intersection between Epifanio de los Santos Avenue and Taft Avenue, while the northern terminus is the North Avenue station along Epifanio de los Santos Avenue in Barangay Bagong Pag-asa, Quezon City. The rail line serves the cities that Circumferential Road 4 (Epifanio de los Santos Avenue) passes through: Pasay, Makati, Mandaluyong, San Juan and Quezon City. The line crosses South Luzon Expressway (SLEX) at Magallanes Interchange in Makati.\n\nThree stations currently serve as interchanges between the lines operated by the MRTC, Light Rail Transit Authority (LRTA), and Philippine National Railways (PNR). Magallanes station is near the PNR's EDSA station, while Araneta Center-Cubao Station is connected by a covered walkway to its namesake station of the Line 2, and Taft Avenue station is connected via a covered walkway to the EDSA station of the Line 1. No stations are connected to other rapid transit lines within the paid areas, though that is set to change with the connection of Line 1 to, the subsequent opening and connection of Line 7 to and the construction of a new concourse for North Avenue station which accommodates interchange within the paid area.\n\nEarly on during the construction of the line, a plan was drafted for a spur line towards the Makati Central Business District, built between Ayala and Buendia stations. This was subsequently abandoned and rail tracks never laid down. The remaining evidence of this abandoned plan is an underground viaduct between Buendia and Ayala station turning right.\n\nThe line is open from 5:30 a.m. PST (UTC+8) until 11:00 p.m. on weekdays, and 5:30 a.m. PST (UTC+8) until 10:00 pm during weekends and holidays. It operates almost every day of the year unless otherwise announced. Special schedules are announced via the PA system in every station and also in newspapers and other mass media. During Holy Week, a public holiday in the Philippines, the rail system is closed for annual maintenance, owing to fewer commuters and traffic around the metro. Normal operation resumes after Easter Sunday.\n\nIt has experimented with extended opening hours, the first of which included 24-hour operations beginning on June 1, 2009 (primarily aimed at serving call center agents and other workers in the business process outsourcing sector). Citing low ridership figures and financial losses, this was suspended after two days, and operations were instead extended from 5:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Operations subsequently returned to the former schedule by April 2010, but services were again extended starting March 10, 2014, with trains running on a trial basis from 4:30 am to 11:30 pm in anticipation of major traffic buildup in light of several major road projects beginning in 2014.\n\nDuring the construction of the first line of the Manila Light Rail Transit System in the early 1980s, Electrowatt Engineering Services of Zürich designed a comprehensive plan for metro service in Metro Manila. The plan—still used as the basis for planning new metro lines—consisted of a network of rapid transit lines spanning all major corridors within 20 years, including a line on Epifanio de los Santos Avenue (EDSA), the region's busiest road corridor.\n\nThe project (originally known as the LRT-3 project) officially began in 1989, five years after the opening of the Line 1, with the Hong Kong-based EDSA LRT Corporation winning the public bidding for the line's construction during the term of President Corazon Aquino. However, construction could not commence, with the project stalled as the Philippine government conducted several investigations into alleged irregularities with the project's contract. In 1995, the Supreme Court upheld the regularity of the project (G.R. No. 114222, April 6, 1995) which paved the way for construction to finally begin during the term of President Fidel V. Ramos. A consortium of local companies, led by Fil-Estate Management, Ayala Land, and 5 others, later formed the Metro Rail Transit Corporation (MRTC) in June 1995 and took over the EDSA LRT Corporation.\n\nThe MRTC was subsequently awarded a Build-Lease-Transfer contract by the DOTC, which meant that the latter would possess ownership of the system after the 25-year concession period. Meanwhile, the DOTC would assume all administrative functions, such as the regulation of fares and operations, leaving the MRTC responsibility over construction and maintenance of the system as well as the procurement of spare parts for trains. In exchange, the DOTC would pay the MRTC monthly fees for a certain number of years to reimburse any incurred costs.\n\nConstruction began on October 15, 1996, with a BLT agreement signed between the Philippine government and the MRTC. An amended turnkey agreement was later signed on September 16, 1997 with a consortium of companies (including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Sumitomo Corporation. A separate agreement was signed with ČKD Dopravní Systémy (ČKD Tatra, now part of Siemens AG), the leading builder of trams and light rail vehicles for the Eastern Bloc, on rolling stock. MRTC also retained the services of ICF Kaiser Engineers and Constructors to provide program management and technical oversight of the services for the design, construction management, and commissioning.\n\nDuring construction, the MRTC oversaw the design, construction, equipping, testing, and commissioning, while the DOTC oversaw technical supervision of the project activities covered by the BLT contract between the DOTC and MRTC. The DOTC also sought the services of SYSTRA, a French consultant firm, with regards to the technical competence, experience and track record in the construction and operations.\n\nOn December 15, 1999, the initial section from North Avenue to Buendia was inaugurated by President Joseph Estrada, with all remaining stations opening on July 20, 2000, a little over a month past the original deadline. However, ridership was initially far below expectations when the line was still partially open, with passengers complaining of the tickets' steep price and the general lack of connectivity of the stations with other modes of public transportation. Passengers' complaint of high ticket prices pointed to the maximum fare of ₱34, which at the time was significantly higher than a comparable journey on those lines operated by the LRTA and the PNR or a similar bus ride along EDSA. Although the MRTC projected 300,000–400,000 passengers riding the system daily, in the first month of operation the system saw a ridership of only 40,000 passengers daily (the ridership improved quickly, however, when passengers experienced significantly faster and convenient travel along EDSA, which experience soon spread by word of mouth). The system was also initially criticized as a white elephant, comparing it to the Manila Light Rail Transit System and the Metro Manila Skyway. To alleviate passenger complaints, the MRTC later reduced passenger fares to ₱15, as per the request of then President Joseph Estrada and a subsequent government subsidy.\n\nBy 2004, the line had the highest ridership of the three lines, with 400,000 passengers daily. By early 2015, the system was carrying around 550,000 commuters during weekdays and was often badly overcrowded during peak times of access during the day and night.\n\nOn October 27, 2018, the Department of Transportation started the gradual deployment of the 2nd generation trains, after various tests and audits.\n\nWith the exception of Buendia and Ayala stations, and the platform level of Taft Avenue and Boni stations, all stations are situated above ground, taking advantage of EDSA's topology.\n\nThe stations have a standard layout, with a concourse level and a platform level. The concourse is usually above the platform, with stairs, escalators and elevators leading down to the platform level. Station concourses contain ticket booths, which is separated from the platform level by fare gates. Some stations, such as Araneta Center-Cubao, are connected at concourse level to nearby buildings, such as shopping malls, for easier accessibility. Most stations are also barrier-free inside and outside the station, and trains have spaces for passengers using wheelchairs.\n\nStations either have island platforms, such as Taft Avenue, Buendia, Boni Avenue, and Shaw Boulevard stations, and side platforms, such as from Magallanes station to Ayala stations, Guadalupe, and from Ortigas to North Avenue stations. Due to the very high patronage of the line, part of the platform corresponding to the front car of the train is cordoned off for the use of women, children, elderly and disabled passengers.\n\nThe stations are also designed to occupy the entire span of EDSA, allowing passengers to safely cross between one end of the road and the other.\n\nInside the concourse of all stations are stalls or shops where people can buy food or drinks. Stalls vary by station, and some have fast food stalls. The number of stalls also varies by station, and stations tend to have a wide variety, especially in stations such as Ayala and Shaw Boulevard.\n\nStations such as Taft Avenue and North Avenue are connected to or are near shopping malls and/or other large shopping areas, where commuters are offered more shopping varieties.\n\nSince November 19, 2001, in cooperation with the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\", passengers are offered copies of the \"Inquirer Libre\", a free, tabloid-size, Tagalog version of the \"Inquirer\", which is available at all stations. In 2014, Pilipino Mirror also started distributing free tabloid newspapers.\n\nThe line has always presented itself as a safe system to travel in, which was affirmed in a 2004 World Bank paper prepared by Halcrow describing the overall state of metro rail transit operations in Manila as being \"good\". However, in recent years after the DOTr (formerly DOTC) took over maintenance of the train system in 2012, the safety and reliability of the system has been put into question, with experts calling it \"an accident waiting to happen\", and while several incidents and accidents were reported between 2012 and 2014, that has not deterred commuters from continuing to patronize the system. The Philippine government, meanwhile, continues to assert that the system is safe overall despite those incidents and accidents.\n\nWith a current daily ridership of around 560,000 passengers, the line operates significantly above its designed capacity of between 360,000 and 380,000 passengers per day. Operating over capacity since 2004, government officials have admitted that capacity and system upgrades are overdue, although the DOTr never acted on the numerous capacity expansion proposals of the private owners. In the absence of major investment in improving system safety and reliability, DOTr project management office of the line has resorted to experimenting with and/or implementing other solutions to reduce strain on the system, including crowd management on station platforms, the proposed implementation of peak-hour express train service. However, some of these solutions, such as platform crowd management, are unpopular with passengers.\n\nFor safety and security reasons, persons who are visibly intoxicated, insane and/or under the influence of controlled substances, persons carrying flammable materials and/or explosives, persons carrying bulky objects or items over 1.5 meters (5 ft) tall and/or wide, and persons bringing pets and/or other animals are prohibited from entering the line. Products in tin cans are also prohibited on board, citing the possibility of home-made bombs being concealed inside the cans.\n\nIn 2000 and 2001, in response to the Rizal Day bombings and the September 11th attacks, security was stepped up on the line. The Philippine National Police has a special police force, and security police provided by private companies can be found in all stations. All stations have a head guard. Some stations may also have a deployed K9 bomb-sniffing dog. It also employs the use of closed-circuit television inside all stations to monitor suspicious activities and to assure safety and security aboard the line. Passengers are also advised to look out for thieves, who can take advantage of the crowding aboard the trains. Wanted posters are posted at all stations to help commuters identify known thieves.\n\nThe original designed ridership of the line is 350,000, yet as the years passed, the number doubled to as much as 650,000 in 2012–2013, due to the time consumed when commuting via EDSA, as well as the speed of the trains reaching up to , and connectivity to Metro Manila's major transport hubs and central business districts. The daily ridership can reach as much as 300,000–500,000 passengers from 2012–2016, despite poor maintenance and long lines, causing the government to launch bus services, known as MRT Buses, around its stations, to serve as alternatives for 1 Million Passengers. Yet, the daily ridership continues to exceed the line's designed capacity, and as it continues its capacity expansion project, it aims to reach a ridership of 800,000 daily passengers as all of the new trains from China will be added to its current fleet.\n\nCurrently, the line serves more than 310,000 passengers with the trains reaching up to in 8–10 minute intervals.\n\nThe line, like all other lines in Metro Manila, uses a distance-based fare structure, with fares ranging from 13 to 28 pesos (29 to 63 U.S. cents), depending on the destination. Commuters who ride the line are charged ₱13 for the first two stations, ₱16 for 3–4 stations, ₱20 for 5–7 stations, ₱24 for 8–10 stations and ₱28 for 11 stations or the entire line. Children below 1.02 meters (3 ft 4.4 in) (the height of a fare gate) may ride for free.\n\nTwo types of tickets exist: a single-journey (one-way) ticket whose cost is dependent on the destination, and a stored-value (multiple-use) ticket for 100 pesos. The 200-peso & 500-peso stored-value tickets were issued in the past, but have since been phased out. The single-journey ticket is valid only on the date of purchase. Meanwhile, the stored-value ticket is valid for three months from date of first use.\n\nThe tickets come in several incarnations: these include tickets bearing the portraits of former presidents Joseph Estrada and Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, which have since been phased out, and one bearing the logos of the DOTC and the MRTC. Ticket shortages are common: in 2005, the MRTC was forced to recycle tickets bearing Estrada's portrait to address critical ticket shortages, even resorting to borrowing stored-value tickets from the LRTA and even cutting unusable tickets in half for use as manual passes. Shortages were also reported in 2012, and the DOTC was working on procuring additional tickets in 2014. Because of the ticket shortages, it had become common practice for regular passengers to purchase several stored-value tickets at a time, though ticket shortages still persist.\n\nAlthough it has partnered with private telecommunications companies in experimenting with RFID technology as an alternative ticketing system in the past, these were phased out in 2009.\n\nCurrently, inter-operable beep cards with similar-to-the-previous single-journey and stored-value ticket types are now issued, along with the deployment of brand-new ticketing machines that replaced the barely-used ticketing machines that has been in place since the line's inauguration. The beep, tap-and-go tickets, loadable up to ₱10,000 can be used in all three rail lines since December 2015.\n\nAdjusting passenger fares was ordered by President Joseph Estrada as a means to boost flagging ridership figures, and the issue of fares both historically and in the present day continues to be a contentious political issue involving officials at even the highest levels of government.\n\nCurrent fare levels were set on January 4, 2015 as a consequence of DOTr (formerly DOTC) having to increase fares for Line 1 as per their concession agreement with MPIC-Ayala, with fare hikes delayed for several years despite inflation and rising operating costs. Prior to the current fares levels, fares were set on July 15, 2000 under the orders of then President Estrada; this was intended to have the line become competitive against other modes of transport, but had the effect of causing revenue shortfalls which the government shouldered. While originally set to last only until January 2001, the new fare structure persisted due to strong public opposition against increasing fares, especially as ridership increased significantly after lower fares were implemented. These lower fares—which are only slightly more expensive than jeepney fares—ended up being financed through large government subsidies amounting to around ₱45 per passenger, and which for both the MRT \"and\" LRT reached ₱75 billion for the 10-year period between 2004 and 2014. Without subsidies, the cost of a single trip is estimated at around ₱60, and a ₱10 increase in fares would yield additional monthly revenues of ₱2–3 billion a month.\n\nPassenger fare subsidies are unpopular outside Metro Manila, with subsidy opponents claiming that their taxes are being used to subsidize Metro Manila commuters without any benefit to the countryside, and that the fare subsidies should be used for infrastructure improvements in the rest of the country. In his 2013 State of the Nation Address, President Benigno Aquino III claimed that it would be unfair for non-Metro Manila residents to use their taxes to subsidize the LRT and MRT. However, supporters of the subsidies claimed that the rest of the country benefits economically from efficient transportation in Metro Manila.\n\nCurrently, two train generations run in the line, the most recent one purchased from CRRC Dalian, under the Aquino administration.\n\nThe Dalian train deployment was delayed due to several factors, including line incompatibility and production inconsistencies, which has since been in the process of correction.\n\nThe trains currently run at the minimum of 30–40 km/h due to worn out railtracks, currently undergoing replacement that started in November 2019, and set to be completed in early 2021.\n\nThe system has 73 light rail vehicles (LRV) made in the Czech Republic by ČKD (now part of Siemens AG) in a three-car configuration, a number of which are now damaged due to poor maintenance since 2012 by the previous appointed contractor of DOTC (now DOTr). The LRV's were purchased with export financing from the Czech government. Trains have a capacity of 1,182 passengers, which is a little bigger than the normal capacity of Line 1 first generation rolling stock, although trains came with air conditioning. Despite this, it is designed to carry in excess of 23,000 passengers per hour per direction (PPHPD), and is expandable to accommodate 48,000 passengers per hour per direction.\n\nThe plans for new rolling stock has been an issue for the MRT during the Aquino Administration, with plans to acquire 52 second-hand LRVs offered from Spain, under the leadership of then DOTC Secretary Joseph Emilio Abaya, with ₱8.43 billion budget, along with Inekon Trams. However, undisclosed issues and train incompatibility issues regarding the project, the project was downgraded to 48 LRVs, with the contract having CRRC Dalian supply 48 new LRV Coaches.\n\nHowever, due to poor maintenance by the previous maintenance contractors, the line currently operates with 7–10 minute headways under the DOTr orders, and the system's passenger volume is presently closer to 14,000–18,000 passengers per hour per direction.\n\nEarly 2018, lack of spare parts for the trains decreased the number of usable trains to just 3 operational trains running during peak hours, however by April 2018, 14–16 trains are now operational in peak and off-peak hours.\n\nOn October 27, 2018, DOTr started the gradual deployment of the 2nd generation trains. With 3 Train sets set for full deployment by the end of 2019, as signalling upgrades and safety certificates are being made under the takeover of Sumitomo.\n\nDue to aging air-conditioning units that have been in place since the line's inauguration and complaints of uncomfortable train temperatures from riders, replacement air-conditioning units in all Tatra RT8D5 Train Sets were ordered from Thermo King and installed.\n\nThe Passenger Assist Railway Display System, a passenger information system powered by LCD screens installed near the ceiling of the train that shows news, advertisements, current train location, arrivals and station layouts, are already installed in the Trains, along with the Line 2 and the Line 1\n\nThe line maintains an underground depot in Quezon City, near North Avenue station. On top of the depot is TriNoma, a shopping mall owned by the Ayala Corporation. The depot occupies 84,444 square meters (908,948 sq ft) of space and serves as the headquarters for light and heavy maintenance, as well as the operations of the system in general. It is connected to the mainline network by a spur line. The depot is capable of storing 81 light rail vehicles, with the option to expand to include 40 more vehicles as demand arises. They are parked on nine sets of tracks, which converge onto the spur route and later on to the main network. However, a lot of rail tracks for storage inside the depot were taken by DOTr to repair broken rails, as DOTr's appointed maintenance provider did not purchase spare rails.\n\nBy 2014, the line was seen to have significantly deteriorated due to the removal of tested maintenance provider Sumitomo Corp. in 2012 by the then Department of Transportation and Communications (Predecessor of DOTr) and its persistence in using unqualified maintenance providers. The government of Benigno Aquino III had been planning to buy the line from the MRT Corporation (MRTC), the private concessionaire that built the line, and then bid it out to private bidders. The Aquino government accused the MRTC of neglecting and not improving the services of the line under its watch.\n\nIn February 2016, the Philippine Senate released a report stating that DOTC Secretary Jun Abaya and other DOTC officials \"may have violated\" the Anti-Graft and Corrupt Practices Act in relation to questionable contracts with the subsequent maintenance providers. In a Senate report where the line's condition was found to be in \"poor maintenance\" as per studies made by MTR HK, DOTC officials were reported to be involved in graft in relation to questionable contracts, especially those for the maintenance of the line.\n\nA Korean-Filipino consortium, Busan Universal Rail Inc. (BURI), became the maintenance provider of the line on January 2016. In 2017, DOTC's succeeding agency, the Department of Transportation (DOTr) attributed the operation's disruptions of the rail system to BURI with Transport Undersecretary noting 98 service interruptions and 833 passenger unloadings (or average of twice daily) as well as train derailments in April–June 2017.\n\nBURI insisted that the disruptions the railway line was experiencing is due to \"inherent design and quality concerns\" and not to poor maintenance or normal tear or wear. It said that the trains had \"excessive lateral movement\", the train-protection equipment has a \"short delay time\", the trains' air conditioning system were \"underrated\", and other equipments and features such as bogie frames, couplers, line contractors, and tracks are of \"poor quality\".\n\nThe maintenance provider also said that the design flaws in the railway line has been causing disruptions since the first year of operation in the year 2000. According to data cited by BURI 1,492 glitches were recorded in 2000, 1,927 glitches in 2008 and the figure rose to 2,199 in 2009. MRT Corp. the owner of the line dismissed BURI's claim on the train's lateral movement and said that the issues raised by the firm were absent when the line was maintained by Sumitomo.\n\nThe DOTr announced its intentions on August 24, 2017 to terminate its contract with BURI. By October 2017, the government agency issued its termination notice and took over maintenance by November 2017.\n\nDue to dissatisfaction in performance, the government planned to replace BURI with the maintenance provider of Singapore's MRT, France's RATP, or Sumitomo back as the maintenance provider. In late-November it was reported that Sumitomo will return as the maintenance provider for the line with an agreement to formalize the beginning of talks to facilitate the return of the firm within the later-half of December 2017. The DOTr projects that Sumitomo could work with the line again by around October–December 2018.\n\nThe comeback of Sumitomo commenced with an Exchange of Notes signed on November 7, followed by the loan agreement the next day. On December 27, 2018, Sumitomo and DOTr signed the contract for the rehabilitation of the line. The rehabilitation started in February 2019 and is expected to last for 43 months.\n\nThe rehabilitation includes the overhaul of the all MRTC Class 3000 vehicles, as well as the deployment of 3 MRTC Class 3100 train sets, escalator and elevator operations, railway track and signalling system replacement, and upgrades on power supply, overhead systems, maintenance and station equipment. Interest in deploying the rest of the Class 3100 trains were expressed both by DOTr and Sumitomo, but ultimately will be deferred pending railtrack replacement and further equipment rehabilitation. The newer Dalian trains that have not undergone RAMS test are currently stored at the LRT-1 depot in Paranaque.\n\nDue to the high ridership of the line, a proposal under study by the DOTC and NEDA proposed to double the current capacity by acquiring additional light rail vehicles to accommodate over 520,000 passenger a day.\n\nIn line with this need, the DOTC secured the procurement of a total of 48 light rail vehicles (LRVs) or 16 trains from Chinese rolling stock manufacturer CRRC Dalian. Delivery began on January 2016 until January 2017. The introduction of the new LRVs will allow the line to now handle over 800,000 passengers.\n\nThe first train was scheduled to be in revenue service before April 2016 but delays in its 5,000 km run test had delayed its deployment for Revenue service. Moreover, further tests and analysis of the new trains revealed several incompatibilities that made it unable to run along the lines safely, which was a subject of audit from TuV Rheinland, hired by the DOTr to determine the true usability of the trains.\n\nLater, it was revealed that several adjustments to the Dalian trains are required prior to revenue run deployment. The train manufacturer CRRC Dalian has agreed to amend the train specifications to match the contract terms at no cost, and will do so in the soonest possible time. Due to the Dalian trains undergoing said adjustments, they are now slowly being introduced into revenue runs.\n\nAlthough Phase 1 of the line (Taft Avenue to North Avenue) has already been built, the route envisioned by the DOTC and the government, in general, was for it to traverse the entire length of EDSA (from Monumento to Taft Avenue), eventually meeting with the LRT 1 at Monumento in Caloocan (Phase 2) to create a seamless rail loop around Metro Manila. The expansion has been shelved by then President Gloria Arroyo in favor of the LRT 1's extension from Monumento to a new common station that it will share with at North Avenue, thus closing the loop. However, this move of President Arroyo to take away Phase 2 had proven to be ill-advised as the ridership is very low at only about 30,000 passengers a day. The southern terminus of the MRT 7 (originally Line 4 along Quezon Avenue., but had since changed route several times), which will link Quezon City, Caloocan (north), and San Jose del Monte City, Bulacan will be sharing the same station.\n\nThe National Economic and Development Authority as well as then President Arroyo herself have said that the link at North Avenue is a national priority, since it would not only provide seamless service between the LRT 1 and MRT 3, but would also help decongest Metro Manila. It is estimated that by 2010, when the extension is completed, some 684,000 commuters would use the line every day from the present 400,000, and traffic congestion on EDSA would be cut by as much as 50%.\n\nProposals to fully unite LRT 1 and MRT 3 operations and systems have been pitched but has not been pursued so far. Feasibility tests for this proposition included LRT 1 trains visiting MRT 3 depot facilities and running them on the entire line. It has since been shelved for undisclosed reasons, but may be a possibility should Manny Pangilinan's Metro Pacific attempts to purchase the entire system succeed. If and when this happens, the system may be theoretically controlled or connected to LRT 1's current operating concessionaire, LRMC (Light Rail Manila Consortium), of whom Pangilinan has a controlling stake, paving the way to a possible line merger.\n\nA new study for the Metro Manila Rail Network has been unveiled by DOTC Undersecretary for Public Information Dante Velasco that LRT 1, LRT 2, and MRT 3 will be placed under the management of the Light Rail Transit Authority (LRTA). This is due to maintenance cost issues for LRT 1's maintenance cost, which is approximately ₱35 million, along with Line 2's ₱25 million and Line 3's ₱54 million maintenance costs. Another reason for this study is for the unification of the lines. According to DOTC Undersecretary for Rails Glicerio Sicat, the transfer was set by the government in June 2011. However, it is unlikely that the private owners, MRTC, will approve this plan.\n\nOn January 13, 2011, Light Rail Transit Authority Chief Rafael S. Rodriguez took over as officer-in-charge of the line in preparation for the integration of operations of the three lines., but with the entry of a new leadership into the MRTC that year and in 2012, the transfer was deemed not likely to happen; however, in April 2012, a LRT 1 trainset made the first trial journey to the MRT 3 depot.\n\nOn May 26, 2014, the line's general manager Al Vitangcol was sacked by Transportation and Communication Secretary Joseph Emilio Abaya, and was replaced by LRTA Administrator Honorito Chaneco as officer-in-charge. The move came after Vitangcol was accused by the ambassador of the Czech Republic of extortion and for awarding an anomalous deal, the maintenance contract, to an uncle-in-law.\n\nOn November 21, 2013, the NEDA board, chaired by then Former President Benigno Aquino III, approved the construction of a common station within North Avenue between SM City North EDSA and TriNoma Mall. It is estimated to cost 1.4 billion pesos. It will feature head-to-head platforms for LRT 1 and MRT 3 trains with a elevated walkalator to MRT 7. SM Investments Corporation posted 200 million pesos for the naming rights of the common station. This is inconsistent with the original plan of having seamless connectivity to Monumento and is also an unusual arrangement of having two train stations beside each other. However, the project was shelved indefinitely due to disputes over cost, engineering issues and naming rights. Even if the physical infrastructure connecting the two rail systems are in place and successfully tested, commuters have to go down at the Roosevelt station of Line 1 and walk over or take a tricycle or jeepney for the one kilometer distance to the Trinoma terminal of Line 3. The Supreme Court halted the construction of the project in August 2014 after SM Prime Holdings contested the new location near Trinoma. An agreement was later reached under the administration of President Rodrigo Duterte, and the common station is now under construction.\n\nThe MRT–3 has been prone to numerous disruptions and breakdowns due to technical problems in the overall systems and design since its opening in 2000. \n\nThe situation has worsened in 2012 due to poor maintenance causing train glitches, lack of spare parts, and negligence since 2012, causing lower ridership, unloading of passengers and passenger inconvenience.\n\nMost incidents at the line are caused by mechanical failure, electric power supply issues, and human error.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043656", "title": "Moalboal", "text": "Moalboal\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nExtending as a peninsula on the south-western tip of Cebu, Moalboal is bordered to the west by the Tañon Strait. Negros Island can be seen from the western shoreline. Moalboal is located from Cebu City, about 2½ hours by public bus.\n\nMoalboal is bordered to the north by the town of Alcantara, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Argao, and to the south is the town of Badian.\n\nPescador Island, a popular tourist attraction, is part of the municipality.\n\nMoalboal comprises 15 barangays:\n\nThough the majority of the people in Moalboal are Cebuanos, a few members of cultural minorities have found their way there. Bajaus who are similar to Muslim nomads, are often seen in the streets, especially during the holiday season, as some of them make their living by begging. There is no evidence though that the \"badjaos\" have taken up permanent residence in the town.\n\nMoalboal is a peninsula and therefore it is almost entirely surrounded by water. The majority of the people who live in the flat lands engage in fishing as their main mode of livelihood. Those who live in the mountain regions, like Agbalanga and Bala, live through farming.\n\nThe common mode of transportation is by bicycles with side cars, known locally as \"pedicabs\" or, depending on the distance, tricycles with side cars, called trisikads.\n\nSince the 1970s, Moalboal has developed a tourism industry based on recreational diving and beaches. Panagsama Beach (\"Basidot\") is where most resorts and restaurants are established, while further north on the peninsula, in Saavedra, is White Beach (\"Basdako\"), a beach. This beach used to be mostly frequented by locals, but has since developed an international tourist trade.\n\nIn Moalboal, most tourists stay at either Panagsama Beach (\"Basdiot\") or White Beach (\"Basdako\"), both located away from the main bus stop in Moalboal.\n\nRecreational diving is the main tourist activity in Moalboal, and reefs along the west coast of the Copton peninsula are home to a great variety of marine life. Pescador Island, about off the coast, is the most popular dive spot with an underwater cave known as \"the Cathedral\". Indeed a breath-taking view of the underwater world as some of the country’s best diving sites in Moalboal as the terrain of the reef follows the entire coast line, making the place ideal for scuba-diving, snorkeling and freediving, with a shallow drop-off close to shore dropping down to more than . The area is also known to be a sanctuary for sea turtles, as well as vast schools of sardines. nearby Pescadores. Whale shark, dolphins and threshers are also seen out of the blue.\n\nMoalboal has been featured by several Filipino TV show hosts, such as Kuya Kim Atienza of Matanglawin, Drew Arellano of Biyahe ni Drew, Slater Young, and Kryz Uy.\n\nMoalboal also serves as a base for other activities, such as canyoneering in Badian and the Kawasan Falls, away from Moalboal.\n\nThe annual feast of Moalboal is held on the 15 and 16 of May. Moalboal is known also for its \"\"Kagasangan\" Festival\" (coral) in which they perform tribal dances and music. It is held in honor of St. John of Nepomuk, the town's patron saint.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043659", "title": "Oslob, Cebu", "text": "Oslob, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nOslob is bordered to the north by the town of Boljoon, to the west are the towns of Ginatilan And Samboan, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the town of Santander.\n\nGenerally, topography of the area is hilly and rolling, dominated by open grasslands and second growth forest. There are fairly level and rolling plateaus and valleys spread throughout the interior. These are some of the most suitable areas for upland agriculture. The highest mountain peak is above sea level.\n\nFaraon clay steep phase; Medellin clay Lugo clay\n\nThe municipality of Oslob belongs to Coronas climate type III with a dry season from February to September and the wet season from October.\n\nOslob comprises 21 barangays:\n\nPublic Markets: 2\n\nThe official festival of Oslob is the annual Toslob Festival which coincides with the feast of the Immaculate Concepcion in December.\n\nThe official was originally named \"Sadsad Festival\" (which started as a barangay festival of Poblacion) and then was renamed to \"Sadsadayon Festival\", but was changed again to \"Toslob Festival\".\n\nThe Baluarte (Spanish for watchtower) of Oslob was built in 1788. Its main purpose was to provide a safe place wherein guards could observe the surrounding area. It was a part of the defense system in dispelling the Moro raiders of the past, which included 6 other watchtowers along the coastline of Oslob. Just near the \"cuartel\", are the ruins of an ancient watchtower. So effective was this system that in 1815, the townspeople of Oslob were able to repel one such attack and remain at peace ever since. This prompted them to relocate the town to its present site from their fortified settlement in Daanglungsod, which is now in ruins but still breathtaking.\n\nOslob was established as a visita of Boljoon in 1690 and became an independent parish in 1848 with the Immaculate Conception as its patroness. The present-day church of cut coral stone was started in 1830 and finished 18 years later. The buttresses that were added between 1848 and 1850. The adjacent bell tower was built in 1858. The church was burned down during the Second World War liberating Philippine Commonwealth troops and Cebuano guerillas against the Japanese in Oslob in 1945, and 1955 but was eventually restored.\n\nOutside the walls are the remains of a watchtower, one of the many that line the southeastern coast of the Cebu.\n\nThe church is connected to the parish house or \"convento\" that still has its original clay-tiled roof. Across the road from the church is the former mortuary chapel with a pediment decorated with a relief of a human skeleton. North of the complex is a small road that leads to the old cemetery.\n\nIn 2008, a fire gutted the 19th-century church's interior, including the altar and adjacent rectory, but it spared the image of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception, which is inside a glass case, and the 73 other icons near the door to the bell tower.\n\nLocated front right of the church of Oslob, just outside the perimeter stone fence and near the sea, at the intersection of \"Calle Aeternidad\" and the end of \"Calle Aragones\", stands an unfinished building made of coral blocks resembling a Spanish-era barracks. This was intended to be the \"cuartel\", barracks for Spanish soldiers or \"guardia civil\". It was started about 1860, but remained unfinished at the end of Spanish occupation in 1898.\n\nSumilon Island is a coral island off the coast of Bancogon, Oslob, Cebu. The island hosts the Sumilon Bluewater Island Resort which developed the island into an eco-friendly haven for those who want to get away from the stress of city living.\n\nThe island of Sumilon is located in the southeastern tip of Oslob. It is the first marine protected area in the Philippines; created as a marine sanctuary in 1974 under the guidance of the Silliman University Marine Reserve of Dumaguete City in the nearby province of Negros Oriental.\n\nThe island is famous throughout the country and internationally for the exceptional beauty of its dive sites. Sumilon has four major dive sites, which are Garden Eel Plaza, Nikki's Wall, Coral Landscape and Julie's Rock. The island's diving sites are famous for their superb visibility, stunning reefs and abundance of varied tropical marine species that provide an ideal and memorable dive. There are occasional sightings of black tip sharks during dives. A popular attraction in Sumilon Island is its sandbar because of its changing shapes and shifting locations around the island depending on the season. Other places of interest in the island are a natural lagoon with high mangroves and natural caves used by fishermen to seek refuge during storms, and a lake. On the south portion of the island, a lighthouse rests on a protected tree park and beside it is a \"baluarte\", a historical watchtower built as part of a warning system to thwart slavers and marauders in the 19th century.\n\nBesides diving, there is also bird-watching, picnicking, fishing, hiking, island tours, paddling and trekking. The island is from Cebu City and separated from the mainland by the Cebu Strait. It is also close to Dumaguete in the nearby island province of Negros Oriental.\n\nFrom the port of Oslob, there are various boats to the island. Another route to Sumilon Island is via Dumaguete City since it is also close to the island.\n\nWhale sharks can be spotted in Tanawan which is from the center of the town. It has become a popular tourist attraction. Local fishermen feed the whale sharks by hand which tourists find entertaining.\n\nIn the vicinity of whale shark swimming is a recent attraction: Tumalog Falls. Most tourists and visitors who go whale shark swimming in Tanawan usually include this waterfall in their itinerary.\n\nTumalog Falls, also called as \"Toslob falls\" or \"Mag-ambak falls\", is situated in barangay Luka. It takes approximately two and a half hours to get to the area from Cebu City.\n\n\nSchools (public & private):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043660", "title": "Pilar, Cebu", "text": "Pilar, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is contiguous with Ponson Island, one of the four Camotes Islands in the Camotes Sea (along with Pacijan Island, Poro Island, and Tulang Island). The island is about long and wide.\nPilar is bordered to the north by the Province of Leyte in the Camotes Sea, to the west is by the island of Poro Island With the town of Tudela, to the east is the Camotes Sea facing the Province of Leyte and to the south is also the Camotes Sea\n\nPilar comprises 13 barangays:\n\nPeople in Pilar mainly speak Cebuano with an accent similar to the locals of Bohol. Like most Filipinos, Pilaranons may also speak Tagalog and English. Waray is also spoken due to its proximity to Leyte.\n\nThe town is home to the \"Porohanon language\", one of the most endangered languages in the Visayas. The language is only used in the Poro islands. The language is classified as distinct from Sebwano (Bisaya) by the Komisyon ng Wikang Filipino and is vital to the culture and arts of the Porohanon people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043662", "title": "Pinamungajan", "text": "Pinamungajan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is bordered to the north by the City of Toledo, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the city of Naga and the town of San Fernando, and to the south is the town of Aloguinsan.\n\nThe municipality, also known as Pinamungahan, was established in the 1815 under the Spanish colonial government in the country. The municipality got its name from the diligent and hardworking people, working hand-in-hand especially during the agricultural harvest season – \"Pinamungajan\", which originated from the Visayan word \"pinamuhuan\", meant a worker share for his effort during a farm harvest. Over time the Pinamuhuan eventually changed to the current name of the municipality.\n\nThe town patroness is Saint Monica, mother of one of the fathers and doctors of the Catholic Church, Saint Augustine of Hippo. However, instead of August 27, Pinamungajan celebrates the memorial of the saint on May 4. In 2008, in response to the call of then governor and now Congresswoman Gwendolyn Garcia for each Cebu town and city to hold a festival as part of local culture and heritage, Pinamungajan began the Pinamuohan Festival in honor of Saint Monica on her memorial.\n\nPinamungajan comprises 26 barangays:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043663", "title": "Poro, Cebu", "text": "Poro, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPoro, along with the municipality of Tudela, is located on Poro Island of the Camotes Islands.\n\nPoro is bordered to the north by the Province of Leyte in the Camotes Sea, to the west is by the island of Pacijan Island With the town of San Francisco, to the east is the town of Tudela and to the south is the Camotes Sea\n\nThe patronal feast of Poro is celebrated on the third Friday of January, in honour of the Santo Niño de Cebu.\n\nPoro comprises 17 barangays:\n\nThe town's name is derived from the Waray-Waray word \"puro\" meaning \"island\". This how Camotes Island is called by Warays and Leyteños. Before the first municipality to be established in Camotes, \"puro\" meant the name of all the islands.\n\nAside from Cebuano, Waray, Tagalog, and English, the townsfolk also speak the local Porohanon language. Also known as Camotes Visayan, the language is mutually intelligible with other Visayan languages (e.g. Cebuano) spoken in the rest of the Camotes Islands, Cebu, other parts of the Visayas, and Northern Mindanao.\n\nThe town is home to the \"Porohanon language\", one of the most endangered languages in the Visayas. The language is only used in the Poro islands. The language is classified as distinct from Sebwano (Bisaya) by the Komisyon ng Wikang Filipino and is vital to the culture and arts of the Porohanon people. Porohanon is distinguished by the way the locals substitute /'/ sounds with /'/, for instance Cebuano \"maayong buntag\" (\"good morning\") vocalised as \"maazong buntag\" in Porohanon. (Possibly occasions too a handover from the \"yeísmo\" phenomenon in Spanish.) Other dialectical variations include the Porohanon \"ara dira\" instead of the standard Cebuano \"na-a diha\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2043667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043667", "title": "Ronda, Cebu", "text": "Ronda, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nRonda is bordered to the north by the town of Dumanjug, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Argao, and to the south is the town of Alcantara.\n\nRonda comprises 14 barangays:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043669", "title": "Samboan", "text": "Samboan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located south of Cebu City.\n\nSamboan is bordered to the north by the town of Ginatilan, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east is the town of Oslob, and to the south is the town of Santander.\n\nSamboan is popularly known as an abbreviation of the word \"sinamboang\" as a form of fishing during the Spanish time. \n\nHowever, Samboan in our historical papers is probably known to be \"Canamucan\" which is a territory under the Spanish encomienda system of the Spanish administration during their tenure and conquest. As time goes by, Canamucan becomes Samboan in the current usage. \n\nSamboan is a small town on a hill. But it used to be a much bigger town, with Alegria under its territorial jurisdiction. In fact, people of Alegria were made to render forced labor for the construction of the Samboan church. It was only some time during the middle of the 1880s that those two towns were separated from Samboan (the towns of Ginatilan and Malabuyoc, which now lie in between, were created after the separation).\n\nToday, the municipality of Samboan is one of the emerging town in the island of Cebu. It is one of the resilient towns of the whole Philippines ranking 6th in the whole country per ranking under the competitive index of LGUs as of year 2017. It is also a two-time awardee for the National Seal of Good Local Governance from year 2016 and 2017. It is also a known awardee for the Child-Friendly municipality in 2016 and continuous to be so at present.\n\nSamboan comprises 15 barangays:\n\nOne aspect of interest is that of Samboan's cultural heritage left by the Spanish conquerors. \n\nSt. Michael Archangel Church is one of the oldest Spanish-built churches in Cebu, made of coral stones. Today, it is a national protected heritage structure by the National Historical Commission. It has now a NHC permanent marker.\n\nThe Watch Tower is another Spanish structure, also made up of blocks of coral stones. It was built on the side of the hill to watch out for Moro invaders approaching the island. It is the tallest watch tower in the entire island of Cebu, and best preserved.\n\nConnecting the beach area with the Spanish Watch Tower is St. Jacob's Ladder (\"Escala de Jacobe\"). It is a flight of 147 stone steps built in 1878, which leads to the old watchtower on a plateau above the town. From here, one can get a view of the Tañon Strait.\n\nThe Museo de Samboan is the old municipal building of Samboan which now housed items of Samboan's way of life during our history up to the present. It was converted into a museum when the New Samboan Municipal Hall was erected.\n\nThe Samboan WWII Volunteers Monument, at the center of Poblacion on the National Highway, was built in honor of the many volunteers who fought for the freedom of the Philippines.\n\nThe San Sebastian Stone Walls are old stone structures near San Sebastian Parish Church. This may be why this barangay is popularly known as 'Bato' (meaning \"stone\").\n\nThe Spanish Boundary Post. It stands along the highway in Tangbo beside the Tangbo—Bonbon River Bridge. It was believed that it used to mark the boundary limit of old Poblacion but now merely serves to mark the boundary between Bonbon and Tangbo barangays.\n\nSamboan is known for its beautiful crystal clear waters with a rich marine ecosystem along its coastal barangays.\n\nColase Marine Sanctuary is managed by the municipality together with a fisherfolks organization.Here one can visit the fish sanctuary or dive for a fee to experience the most preserved marine ecosystem where sharks, dolphins and whales in the shallowest part of the foreshore.\n\nAguinid Waterfalls in Tangbo comprises five different tiers along Tangbo river. Each tier has a unique waterfall. One can never reach the peak or last waterfall without climbing the limestone walls of each waterfall from the lowest to highest.\n\nBonbon Binalayan Hidden Falls to the immediate south of Poblacion which some visitors call the Triple Drop Falls.\n\nPonong Hidden Lake is a small enclosed lagoon with a brackish water. It is unique in the sense that here is where a certain kind of bird – the \"manolong\" – dives into its salty waters and stays under for a long time in order to escape hunters. Today, it is perfect for relaxation, bird watching, fish feeding and firefly watching.\n\nBalayg Sawa Falls has a waterfall located in the heart of Samboan covered with lush forest greens. It is along the river shared by Poblacion and Bonbon. It is home to protected species including bats and siloys not to mention some local plants and trees.\n\nMt. Bartolina situated in between Bulangsuran and Canang (Oslob) is where one can climb the peak and see both sides of Cebu, facing Bohol Strait to the east and Tañon Strait to the west. Bartolina is the highest peak in the south of Cebu where the panoramic view of north and south Bais Bay and the rest of Negros, Siquijor, and Bohol islands can be seen.\n\nDau Falls is the highest waterfall in Samboan.. It is located in Barangay Suba.\n\nTabon Falls is a recently developed natural spot found between Tangbo and Bonbon.\n\nThe town fiesta is celebrated each 29–30 September in honor of the patron saint, Michael (\"San Miguel, ang Arkanghel\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043670", "title": "San Fernando, Cebu", "text": "San Fernando, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSan Fernando is bordered to the north by the City of Naga, to the west is the town of Pinamungajan, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the city of Carcar.\n\nSan Fernando lies within Metro Cebu.\n\nSan Fernando comprises 21 barangays:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043671", "title": "San Francisco, Cebu", "text": "San Francisco, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is one of the municipalities that comprise the Camotes Islands.\n\nSan Francisco is bordered to the north by the Province of Leyte in the Camotes Sea, to the west is the Camotes Sea Facing Catmon, to the east is the island of Poro with town of Poro and to the south is the Camotes Sea\n\nCarl Guthe, director of the University of Michigan Anthropological Museum, during his 1923-25 collecting trip and explorations of archaeological sites in the Philippines, conducted an archeological dig in a cave site on Tulang. Located on the southeastern coast of the island, the cave measures about . Guthe reported it to contain bone fragments and teeth of about 60 individuals. Associated grave goods included earthenware pottery, shell bracelets, bronze and iron artefacts (iron tang, bronze chisel, iron blade), glass and stone beads, hammerstone and pestle. Filed teeth were also recovered from this site.\n\nJust before Typhoon Yolanda struck in November 2013, the mayor of San Francisco ordered the evacuation of all the residents (approximately 1,000) to the main island. This was credited with saving their lives as all houses on the island (about 500) were completely destroyed.\n\nSan Francisco consists primarily of Pacijan Island (also known as \"Pajican\" Island), as well as the tiny Tulang islet (area less than 1 sq km) just north of Pacijan. Both islands are part of the Camotes Islands group in the Camotes Sea (that also includes Poro Island and Ponson Island). They are located east of the main island of Cebu, south and west of Leyte and north of Bohol.\n\nTulang island (known locally as Tulang Diot) is a five-minute boat ride from Tulang Dako on the main island of Pacijan. Both Tulang Diot and Tulang Dako are part of Esperanza barangay. The islet is almost entirely covered with coconut palms and measures about : the residential area is confined to a small triangle at the southern end. Total area is less than 1 sq km or , of which only (%) is inhabited.\n\nSan Francisco comprises 15 barangays:\n\nThe town is home to the \"Porohanon language\", one of the most endangered languages in the Visayas. The language is only used in the Poro islands. The language is classified as distinct from Sebwano (Bisaya) by the Komisyon ng Wikang Filipino and is vital to the culture and arts of the Porohanon people.\n\n Lake Danao is a freshwater lake located in the northern part of Pacijan Island, about long and wide, with an elevation of above sea level. Its area of makes it the largest lake not only in the province but also in the Visayas regions. It has two interior islands which can be reached by paddleboat or as part of the scenic lake cruise. An hiking and cycling trail encircles the entire perimeter of the lake. Although classifies as \"freshwater\", that doesn't necessarily make it suitable for irrigation. A 2015 study determined which crops could be sustained.\n\n is a grotto in the Tumibo plateau in Sonog, which offers swimming in a crystal-clear underground pool.\n\n is located in Esperanza. Its sugary sand and clear waters make it safe for children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043673", "title": "San Remigio, Cebu", "text": "San Remigio, Cebu\n\n', officially called the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSan Remigio (local pronunciation: san remiyo) is bordered to the north by Medellin, to the west is Tañon Strait then Bantayan Island, to the east is the City of Bogo and the town of Tabogon, and to the south is the town of Tabuelan.\n\nSan Remigio celebrates its annual fiesta on the 15th and 16th of May in honor of their patron saints, San Isidro Labrador and San Juan Nepomuceno. The parish, which was founded in 1864, celebrated its 150th anniversary celebration in May of 2014.\n\nSan Remigio was formerly known as \"Kanghagas\", a kind of tree that grew in abundance in the area. When the Spanish conquistadores arrived, they identified a town site by clearing the kanghagas trees. At the time, Kanghagas was part of barangay Punta.\n\nInitially, the \"visita\" of Kanghagas was within the jurisdiction of Bantayan. In 1850, the town of Bogo established a parish and took over civil governance of the three barrios of Kanghagas, Lambusan, and Victoria (formerly Maarat). Later, barangay Kanghagas was renamed Isabel after the queen of Spain, but was eventually changed in 1863 to its new and permanent name, San Remigio. The name San Remigio can be found in Florence, Italy called Church of San Remigio, a church building that was built in the 1100s and later rebuilt in the 1300s. In 1864, San Remigio and other barrios established their own parish, San Juan Nepomuceno Parish .\n\nSan Remigio comprises 27 barangays:\n\nSan Remigio has the longest shoreline of any municipality in Cebu. There are several beach resorts, as well as public beaches with long stretches of white sand and warm ocean.\n\nToday, San Remigio has become a swimming and diving destination. There are a few marine sanctuaries, with new dive sites being developed as we speak. A PADI dive shop in San Remigio Beach Club caters to beginner and experienced divers who want to enjoy San Remigio's marine life.\n\nThe port of Hagnaya offers a frequent ferry service to Santa Fe and Bantayan Island as well as Masbate (particularly Cawayan and Placer).\n\nBeach Resorts in San Remigio include Casa Del Mar Beach Resort, Elegant Beach Resort, San Remigio Beach Club, and Hagnaya Beach Resort.\n\nThe town of San Remigio has many public and private elementary and secondary schools.\n\n\nThere are many churches that hold services throughout the week and weekends.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043674", "title": "Santa Fe, Cebu", "text": "Santa Fe, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality's territory occupies the southeastern portion of Bantayan Island (marching with the municipality of Bantayan), together with the islands of Guintacan (or Kinatarkan), Hilantagaan and Hilantagaan Diot. Because the island's airport and principal ferry port are both located within the municipality, Santa Fe is considered the gateway to Bantayan and its islands.\n\nSanta Fe is bordered to the north by the town of Bantayan, to the west also by Bantayan, to the east is the town of Medellin and to the south is the Tañon Strait\n\nSanta Fe comprises 10 barangays:\n\nAlthough there is some small-scale industry, the municipality's principal source of income is fishing and agriculture, and from holidaymakers who come in large numbers, most notably during Holy Week, to enjoy the particularly fine white sand and uncrowded beaches.\n\nBantayan Airport, serving the whole Bantayan Island, is located in Santa Fe. Air Juan operates scheduled flights between Mactan Airport three days a week. The town can also be reached by ferry from Hagnaya Wharf in San Remigio, Cebu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043675", "title": "Santander, Cebu", "text": "Santander, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSantander is the southernmost municipality of Cebu province about south of Cebu City with travel time taking about 3-4 hours. It serves as one of the sea ports connecting to the province of Negros Oriental with its passenger ferries making way to Sibulan in just 20 minutes.\nSantander is bordered to the north by the towns of Oslob and Samboan, to the west is Tañon Strait, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the province of Negros Oriental in Negros Island.\n\nRoll-on roll-off (roro) barges of the Maayo Shipping Lines also carry motorcycles, cars, buses, and trucks between the ports of Liloan (in Santander) and Sibulan (in Negros Oriental) with trips taking about 30 minutes, and between Liloan and Larena (in Siquijor) in about 1 hour and 30 minutes. \n\nSantander was originally called Tañong, but as the Spaniards came, it was renamed Santander after a city on the northern (Atlantic) coast of Spain.\n\nThe town was established in 1867 and the parish in 1897, It became a municipality during the American occupation in 1918.\n\nSantander is known for its annual Tostado Festival celebrated on the third Sunday of April. Street dancers from different districts dance to moves inspired by the making of tostados.\n\nSantander's terrain is dominated by a backdrop of rugged ranges which raise from a flat narrow coastal plain to an average elevation of . Strongly sloping to sleepy sloping contours are scattered throughout the municipality.\n\nSantander comprises 10 barangays (districts):\n\nThe climate of Santander is classified as Af ('Tropical monsoon'). All 12 months have an average precipitation of at least rainfall per month. Based on temperature, the warmest months of the year are March through October; the winter monsoon brings cooler air from November to February. May is the warmest month, and January, the coolest.\n\nThe death rate is 3.06 per 1000 people, or 0.306%.\n\nMost of the Tañonganons (people living in Santander) speak Cebuano (Santander Version). In schools, Filipino and English languages are taught and used as a major instruction in all subjects.\n\nSantander is the smallest town in Cebu. The majority of the people depend on the sea for livelihood – fishermen who continually explore the vast Palawan and East Philippine seas in search for rich fishing grounds. The method of fishing used is the destructive muro-ami technique, which has been banned on several occasions due to its negative effects on marine life.\n\nIn the 1990s, there were four wholesale enterprises, one superstore and few Sari-sari stores. There was also an improvised market composed mostly of talipapas (fish markets). These were located along Jose Rizal Street beside the Municipal building. By the year 2001, the business establishments began to grow and develop. Many larger businesses have been established in Santander such as LGC Marketing.\nThe major agricultural produce in Santander is corn, copra, and root crops (cassava and sweet potato). Most people, particularly those living in mountain barangays, plant corn as a source of income.\n\nSantander's municipal income classification is fourth class.\n\nSeveral buses and vans-for-hire travel to and from Santander at 20-minute intervals. The ride from Cebu South Bus Terminal in Cebu City is three to four hours.\n\nA wharf in Barangay Talisay takes passengers via fastcrafts or barges to Tampi, San Jose, Negros Oriental. There are also two ports in Barangay Liloan, one for fastcrafts and another for pumpboats to Sibulan, Negros Oriental.\n\nSantander's popularity as a tourist destination has increased in the past few years, since it serves as the hub for some world-renowned dive spots like Apo Island, Balicasag, Pescador Island, Sumilon and Siquijor. This is also reflected in the growth of Santander in the tourism industry. Six years ago there were only two resorts, still open today. Today there are eleven.\n\nBasketball is the most popular sport in Santander. This game is usually played in the afternoons where school time is over and also for the adults whose work hours is done (specially construction works). During summer, a lot of basketball competitions between different barangays. This was done in order that youths avoid vices and illegal drugs. Volleyball is also played in summer competitions but it is more usually participated in by women. Other sports such as baseball and football are also played in Santander.\n\nThere are eight elementary and three high schools in Santander. Two of these schools are private located in Looc. Most of the Tañonganon students are enrolled in public schools especially in Santander Central Elementary School and Santander National School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043676", "title": "Sibonga", "text": "Sibonga\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSibonga is bordered to the north by the city of Carcar, to the west are the towns of Barili and Dumanjug, to the east is the Cebu Strait, and to the south is the town of Argao.\n\nThe town fiesta is every 10 August each year. This celebrates the feast of Saint Philomena. Sibonga has 2 patron saints: Saint Philomena and Our Lady of the Pillar. One of the highlights of the fiesta is the \"Bonga Festival\" which features cultural dancing and the town's local produce. It is a home of many historical houses built in the Spanish era. \"Tulay\" or wharf is a common place where people of Sibonga and visitors spend time to relax - sightseeing, camping and merely having a siesta time. The Catholic Church is one of the most beautiful Churches in Cebu. It has a beautiful \"Tan\" \"Tinoy\" Park (named after a former barrio captain Tinoy) in front of the Sibonga Municipal Office. The \"escuela\" (school) houses during the Spanish era are still standing adjacent to the Catholic Church. There is \"Tubig\" \"Mainit\" (hot water) spring in Barangay Can-aga.\n\nSibonga comprises 25 barangays:\n\nSibonga has begun developing the town to become more industrial while still preserving its natural bounty. Sibonga is abundant in root crops, corn, rice, coconuts among others. The public market is held every Saturday in Poblacion. Each baranggay has its own \"agora\" or marketplace with its own specific days of function. For example, in Barangay Papan, people from neighboring barangays convene in every Thursday for trade.\n\nSibonga now has Sibonga Community College which offers 4-year courses to its inhabitants.\n\nPastores de Sibonga is a short Christmas play which narrates the nativity as performed in Magcagong. The play depicts the shepherds' adoration of the child Jesus. Pastores de Sibonga dates back to the 1920s.\n\nPastores de Sibonga is performed by at least four dancers. The female dancer wears a red blouse or shirt paired with a long white skirt. The male dancer wears a red shirt paired with black pants. Accessories include a round hat decorated with cut-outs of the sun, moon and stars in yellow, red, green, and other brightly colored papers together with a yellow sash placed across the body. It is performed used red fans and white handkerchiefs. An oval-shaped native fan is used and held by the right hand during the performance. The white square handkerchief is held by the left hand folded into a triangular shape.\n\nThe accompaniment music is a rondalla – a ensemble (guitar, bandurria, and banjo), played with the plectrum. The lyrics tell of the pre-, nativity, and post-nativity settings. It expresses happiness, joy, and worship, and offers praises and gifts for Jesus, Mary and Joseph.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043678", "title": "Sogod, Cebu", "text": "Sogod, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is north of Cebu City and is bordered on the north by the town of Borbon, to the west by the town of Tuburan, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the town of Catmon.\n\nSogod comprises 18 barangays:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043679", "title": "Tabogon", "text": "Tabogon\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTabogon is bordered on the north by the city of Bogo, to the west by the town of San Remigio, on the east by the Camotes Sea, and on the south by the town of Borbon. \n\nTabogon may come from the archaic Visayan word, \"tabog\", which means \"busy\", in reference to the bustling and busy farm fields that dotted this place during the olden times, hence, \"tabogon\", means a busy workplace or any place that is busy with work.\n\nTabogon comprises 25 barangays:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043680", "title": "Tabuelan", "text": "Tabuelan\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTabuelan is bordered to the north by the town of San Remigio, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east are the towns of Borbon and Sogod, and to the south is the town of Tuburan.\n\nThe Municipality of Tabuelan used to be a barangay of Tuburan until the 1950s. And also was Tuburan's largest Barangay at the time. In fact, all of its constituent barangays were once barrio of then Barangay Tabuelan. In 1953, Tabuelan was separated via a Philippine Law from its mother municipality of Tuburan, on the grounds that Barangay Tabuelan is far from the administrative center of Tuburan (Poblacion Tuburan) and hence, it was not able to properly maintain and address the needs of the people in that barangay. Tuburan opposed such partition but when the law was upheld, it humbly gave way and followed the mandate of the law to avoid economic repercussions. Hence, being formally established as a full-fledged Municipality in 1953, makes Tabuelan, the newest and youngest municipality in Cebu Island.\n\nTabuelan comprises 12 barangays:\n\nV-Hire, Ceres Liner and Mini Buses are among the PUVs going to the town. They mostly bypass here for their Main Routes are either San Remigio or Tuburan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043681", "title": "Tuburan, Cebu", "text": "Tuburan, Cebu\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTuburan is bordered to the north by the town of Tabuelan, to the west is the Tañon Strait, to the east are the towns of Carmen, Catmon and Sogod, and to the south is the town of Asturias. \n\nTuburan was the hometown of the revolutionary leader Arcadio Maxilom. And is also known for its crystal-clear springs, beaches, creeks, rivers, caves and natural attractions.\n\nIndustrial and domestic products include decorative apparel and fashion accessories made of seashells and coconut shells, wood and other indigenous products. Tubod Festival is held in honor of the parish patron, Saint Anthony of Padua.\n\nTuburan is the largest municipality in Cebu in terms of land area. It also has the most number of barangays for a municipality in Cebu. And it is also the only municipality in Cebu to have numerous barangays with very small population count. Most of these barangays are located in the mountains. The barangay with the lowest population count is Barangay Kanlunsing with 210 people as of 2016, though the barangay with the lowest recorded population count on Cebu Island is located in the nearby municipality of Catmon, which is the Barangay of Amancion, with 190 people in 2016.\n\nTuburan was founded in the 1851 by Don Mariano Montebon who came from the town of Sogod. The townsite was first located at Daan Lungsod which is just across the Adela River, north of the present poblacion. Tuburan got its name from the prevalence of springs, which are the sources of potable water for household use of the early settlers. \"Tuburan\" evolved from the Cebuano word \"Tubod\", meaning \"spring\".\n\nGeneral Arcadio Maxilom y Molero was a hero of the Philippine Revolution. He was born in Tuburan where his family were members of the local gentry, or \"principalía\". He worked as a public school teacher but later joined the Katipunan, whose activities in Cebu were led by León Kilat.\n\nAfter Kilat's execution, Maxilom continued the revolution in Cebu as second in command. The Katipunan regrouped in the then impenetrable, mountainous central part of Cebu island which now part of the central highlands. On 16 December 1898, Maxilom wrote a letter to the Spanish authorities in Cebu, demanding the latter to surrender. The Spaniards quickly responded, weary after incessant fighting and on the impending defeat of the Spanish forces by the Americans overseas, on Christmas Eve of the same year, the Spaniards had left, leaving behind only three Catholic clerics.\n\nTheir newfound liberty short lived, when the Treaty of Paris took effect on April 10, 1898, Spain had to sell the fate of their former subjects to the United States for twenty million dollars.\n\nMaxilom is best remembered for stubbornly refusing to surrender to the American occupying forces even as his fellow revolutionaries in Manila and Cebu were starting to capitulate or collaborate with the new colonial power. He finally surrendered on 27 October 1901. Virtually forgotten after the revolution, Maxilom died in his hometown of Tuburan, after a long period of time with paralysis. Decades later, the then, Mango Avenue of Cebu City, the second most historic road of the City was renamed after the late general.\n\nTuburan is still the largest municipality in Cebu. But before the 1950s it was even bigger than the land area of Cebu City. The town's land area decreased in size when the former barangay Tabuelan separated form the Mother Town to become the Municipality of Tabuelan in 1953.\n\nTuburan comprises 54 barangays:\n\nCeres Liner and Corominas Bros. are among the bus companies going to the town. But riding a V-Hire is the quickest way of going to the town. There are three ways of getting to the town: \n\n\nThere is a coffee farm which has the capacity to produce , which if when roasted can be sold at the (2017) prevailing price of , and the farm could earn annually. This farm is located within the mountain barangay of Kabangkalan.\n\nIn addition, the coffee farm is gaining ground as a tourist attraction in an ecotourism niche.\n\nAmong the scenic spots are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043683", "title": "Tudela, Cebu", "text": "Tudela, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTudela is east of the town center of Poro. Along with the town of Poro, Tudela is located on Poro Island. The town celebrates the fiesta of parish patron Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception each 8 December.\n\nThe town center comprises two barangays: Northern and Southern Poblacion. The nearly symmetrical arrangement of the streets allows pedestrians to navigate easily while viewing old houses (early 1900s) standing side-by-side with new ones.\n\nTudela is bordered to the north by the Province of Leyte in the Camotes Sea, to the west is the town of Poro, to the east is the island of Ponson with town of Pilar and the Province of Leyte, and to the south is the Camotes Sea\n\n is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\nLocal dialect is Cebuano. Waray is also spoken due to its proximity to Leyte.\n\nThe town is home to the \"Porohanon language\", one of the most endangered languages in the Visayas. The language is only used in the Poro islands. The language is classified as distinct from Cebuano (Bisaya) by the Komisyon ng Wikang Filipino and is vital to the culture and arts of the Porohanon people.\n\nTudela may be reached by boat through Poro port. A large pump boat typically takes 3½ hours from Danao City pier. A fast craft (called Golden Bridge) takes 1½ hour from Pier 1, Cebu City. The slowest option is a ship that takes 5 hours from Pier 1, Cebu City. Motorcycles and jeepneys are available for ground transportation on arrival - all expensive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043693", "title": "Stefan Dečanski", "text": "Stefan Dečanski\n\nStefan Uroš III Nemanjić (, ), known as Stefan Dečanski (Stefan of Dečani; Стефан Дечански, ; 1276 – 11 November 1331), was the King of Serbia from 6 January 1322 to 8 September 1331. Dečanski was the son of King Stefan Milutin, and he defeated several of his family members vying for the throne. He took his epithet \"Dečanski\" from the great monastery he built at Dečani.\n\nStefan Uroš III was the son of King Stefan Uroš II Milutin and his first wife Jelena, a Serbian noblewoman. He was born before his father took the throne in 1282.\n\nWhile still a youth, he was sent by his father as a hostage with his entourage to Nogai Khan of the Golden Horde, to maintain the peace between the Serbs and Tatars. He stayed at Nogai's court until the Khan's death in 1299.\n\nIn 1314, Dečanski quarreled with his father, who sent him to Constantinople to be blinded. Dečanski was never totally blinded and was likely not blinded at all. In Constantinople, Dečanski was at the court of Andronikos II Palaiologos, indicating good relations between the states. Dečanski wrote a letter to Danilo, Bishop of Hum, asking him to intervene with his father. Danilo wrote to Archbishop Nicodemus of Serbia, who spoke with Milutin and persuaded him to recall his son. In 1320, Dečanski was permitted to return to Serbia and was given the appanage of Budimlje, while his half-brother Stefan Konstantin, held Zeta.\n\nMilutin became ill and died on 29 October 1321, leaving no formal instruction regarding his inheritance. Konstantin was crowned King in Zeta, but civil war broke out immediately as both Dečanski and his cousin, Stefan Vladislav II, claimed the throne. Dečanski revealed that his eyesight was still intact, claiming a miracle, and the populace rallied behind him believing the restoration of his sight to be a sign from God. On 6 January 1322, the Archbishop of Serbia, Nicodemus, crowned Dečanski king and his son, Stefan Dušan, the young king. Dečanski later granted Zeta to Dušan as a fief, indicating his intention for Dušan to be his heir. According to one account, Dečanski offered to split the realm with Konstantin, who refused. Dečanski then invaded Zeta, and Konstantin was defeated and killed.\n\nIn the meantime, Vladislav II had been released from prison upon Milutin's death and recovered the throne of Syrmia, which his father had established in northern Serbia. Vladislav also claimed the throne of Serbia upon Milutin's death and mobilized local support from Rudnik, a former possession of Vladislav's father. Also supported by Hungarians, Bulgarians, and Bosnians, Vladislav consolidated control over Syrmia and prepared for battle with Dečanski.\n\nIn 1323, war broke out between Dečanski and Vladislav. In autumn, Vladislav still held Rudnik, but by the end of 1323, the market of Rudnik was held by officials of Dečanski, and Vladislav seems to have fled further north. Some of Vladislav's supporters from Rudnik, led by Ragusan merchant Menčet, took refuge in the nearby Ostrovica fortress, where they resisted Dečanski's troops. Dečanski sent envoys to Dubrovnik (Ragusa), to protest the support of Vladislav. Dubrovnik rejected Dečanski's complaint, claiming Ostrovica was held by Serbs. Dečanski was not satisfied, and in 1324 he rounded up all the Ragusan merchants he could find, confiscated their property, and held them captive. By year's end, Rudnik was restored to Dečanski, who released the merchants and returned their property. Vladislav was defeated in battle in late 1324, and fled to Hungary. Tensions between Dubrovnik and Serbia continued: in August 1325 Vojvoda Vojin plundered Dubrovnik, resulting in a brief trade ban. On 25 March 1326 Dečanski reaffirmed privileges previously granted to Ragusa by Milutin. Tensions began again, however, when Bosnia and Dubrovnik took actions against the Branivojevići.\n\nDečanski generally maintained an alliance with Andronikos II, aside from occasional disruptions. He avoided taking a position in the Byzantine civil war between Andronikos II and Andronikos III Palaiologos. Nevertheless, as Andronikos III gained control, he developed an alliance with Tsar Michael Asen III of Bulgaria. Michael Asen III divorced Dečanski's sister Anna and married the Byzantine princess Theodora Palaiologina instead. The allies intended to join forces for a major invasion of Serbia in 1330. In the most significant event of Dečanski's reign, he defeated and killed Michael Asen III in the Battle of Velbazhd (1330). Prince Stefan Dušan also contributed to the victory.\n\nHearing of Michael's defeat, Andronikos III retreated. Dečanski's subsequent conquests pushed the Serbian border south into Byzantine Macedonia. Some of his courtiers, however, were discontented with his policies and conspired to dethrone him in favour of Stefan Dušan. In 1331, Dušan came from Skadar to Nerodimlje to overthrow Dečanski, who fled to Petrič. On 21 August 1331 Dušan captured Petrič after a siege and imprisoned his father in Zvečan Fortress, where he was strangled to death on 11 November 1331.\n\nDečanski was married to an unnamed wife. They had no issue.\n\nBy his second wife, Theodora of Bulgaria, Stefan Dečanski had:\n\nBy his third wife, Maria Palaiologina, daughter of John Palaiologos, Dečanski had:\n\nDečanski is seen as a noble character in epic poetry, and the Serbian Orthodox Church had him canonized; his feast day is 24 November. His remains are venerated at the church of the Visoki Dečani monastery, which he built, in Kosovo.\n\nDečanski's royal crown has been preserved and is now kept at the Cetinje Monastery, in Montenegro.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043696", "title": "Hebbal", "text": "Hebbal\n\nHebbal is an Assembly Constituency area in Bangalore, Karnataka, India, which was once indicative of the north endpoint of the city. Though originally famous for Hebbal Lake, it is now better known for the serpentine maze of flyovers that network the Outer Ring Road and Bellary Road. The flyover spans a length of over all the loops combined. The flyover was built by Gammon India. The lake area is well known for the park, the boating facility, and for the bird watching opportunities.\nHebbal used to be the end of the corporation limits of Bangalore City. One can still see the milestone between the Baptist hospital and checkpost. Bangalore has now grown quite a bit towards north, beyond these marks. L&T factory, which was established in the 1970s, is also close to Hebbal. Raintree Boulevard project is coming up at same place before GKVK University. All arterial roads and road networks leading to the BIAL intersect at Hebbal. Further, BIAL has its office on the National Highway (NH 7) exit of the Hebbal flyover in Gayathri Lake Front. Due to short-sightedness of the governing authorities, the Hebbal Flyover has become a bottle-neck for traffic flow from the city centre towards North and the same when traveling from North to city centre. Traffic is crawling be it any time of the day. This is because almost 6 lanes coming from each side, jostle to fit in the two lane Hebbal bridge bringing the traffic to a stand still.\n\nHebbal is an upcoming area in Bangalore. Though originally famous for the Hebbal Lake, it is now better known for several flyovers spread across the Outer Ring Road and Bellary Road on NH7. The largest flyover spans a length of 5.23 km over all the loops combined. The lake area in Hebbal is a well-known picnic spot, with a well-maintained park and boating facilities. A number of new office buildings and commercial enterprises is making Hebbal a new and attractive investment spot.\n\nHistorians have suggested that the vicinity of Hebbal Lake to the area has made Hebbal possibly one of the oldest inhabited areas in Bengaluru. An inscription stone dating back to 750 AD was found near Maaramma temple in Hebbal which describes what may be the first-named Bengalurean, Kittayya. The stone describes an attack by Rashtrakuta raiders against whom he defended Perbolal, a name that morphed into Hebbal over the years. Historian B N Sundar Rao in his seminal work ‘Bengaluru Itihasa’, has also theorized that Kempegowda borrowed the name Bengaluru from a hamlet to the northwest of Hebbal Lake. \n\nThe area is well connected by BMTC buses. Hebbal also has a small railway station.\n"}
{"id": "2043707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043707", "title": "Urup", "text": "Urup\n\nUrup (; , ) is an uninhabited volcanic island in the Kuril Islands chain in the south of the Sea of Okhotsk, northwest Pacific Ocean. Its name is derived from the Ainu language word for salmon trout. It was formerly known as Company's Land.\n\nUrup has a roughly rectangular shape, measuring along its long axis and approximately along its narrow axis. It is the fourth largest of the Kuril Islands, with an area of . The highest point is Gora Ivao at .\n\nThe strait between Urup and Iturup is known as the Vries Strait, after Dutch explorer Maarten Gerritsz Vries, the first recorded European to explore the area. The strait between Urup and Simushir is known as Bussol Strait, after the French word for \"compass\", which was the name of one of La Pérouse's vessels. This French mariner explored the area of the Kuril Islands in 1787.\n\nUrup consists of four major groups of active or dormant stratovolcanos:\n\nDespite its temperate latitude, the cold Oyashio Current and powerful Aleutian Low combine to give Urup a subarctic climate (Köppen \"Dfc\"), that is close to a polar climate (Koppen \"ET\") with mild, foggy summers and cold, snowy winters. In reality the climate resembles the subpolar oceanic climate of the Aleutian Islands much more than the hypercontinental climate of Siberia proper or Manchuria, but the February mean of is well below the limit of \"oceanic\" climates. Urup, like all the Kuril islands, experiences extremely strong seasonal lag, with the highest temperatures in August and September, the lowest in February and temperatures typically in fact warmer at the autumn equinox than at the summer solstice.\n\nIn the spring and summer crested auklet, tufted puffin, and pigeon guillemot nest on the island; there is also a colony of black-legged kittiwake.\n\nUrup was originally inhabited by the Ainu, the native peoples of the Kurils, Sakhalin and Hokkaidō. The first recorded visit by Europeans was in 1643, when a ship of the Dutch East India Company commanded by Maarten Gerritsz Vries landed, probably seeking furs. It appears on an official map showing the territories of Matsumae Domain, a feudal domain of Edo period Japan dated 1644, and these holdings were officially confirmed by the Tokugawa shogunate in 1715. Administration of the island came under the Matsumae domain’s regional office location on Kunashir from 1756.\n\nRussian fur traders appeared in the late 18th century, hunting sea otter and seizing foreign ships in the area. There were clashes between the Russians and the Ainu in 1772, and the Russians left for a time, but soon returned. G.F. Muller’s \"Voyages & Découvertes faites par les Russes\" (Amsterdam, 1766) contained a list and description of the Kuril Islands, including Urup whose people were said to trade with the Japanese but were not under their control. A small Russian presence was established on Urup by the fur trader Ivan Chernyi in 1768, acting on instructions from the governor of Siberia. During the 1770s it was the base for attempts to establish trade with the Japanese on Yezo (Hokkaido) which came to an end when it was destroyed by a tsunami in June 1780.\n\nDuring the decade following 1795, a party of 40 Russian men and women under Zvezdochetov established on Urup a colony baptized \"Slavorossiia\". In 1801, the Japanese government officially claimed control of the island, incorporating it into Ezo Province (now Hokkaidō Prefecture). This led to a series of clashes with Imperial Russia over Urup and the other Kurils, and sovereignty initially passed to Russia under the terms of the Treaty of Shimoda in 1855. The same year, in an effort to find the Russian fleet in the Pacific Ocean during the Crimean War, a French-British naval force reached the port of Hakodate (open to British ships as a result of the Anglo-Japanese Friendship Treaty of 1854), and sailing further north, landed on Urup, taking official possession of the island as \"l'Isle de l'Alliance\" and nominating a local Aleut inhabitant as provisional governor. The Treaty of Paris restituted the island to Russian control.\n\nThree whaleships have been wrecked near or on the island: one in 1853 and two in 1855. On the night of 27–28 April 1853, the ship \"Susan\" (349 tons), of Nantucket, was stove by ice and sank in Bussol Strait while attempting to enter the Sea of Okhotsk. Two men were lost, one drowning and the other perishing on the ice. The remaining twenty-five crew members crowded into two whaleboats and reached Urup on the afternoon of 29 April. Here they spent eight days before being rescued by the barque \"Black Warrior\", of New London. On 13 May 1855, the ships \"King Fisher\" (425 tons), and \"Enterprise\" (291 tons), both of New Bedford, were wrecked on the island while attempting to pass through Vries Strait into the Sea of Okhotsk. All hands were saved.\n\nUnder the Treaty of Saint Petersburg, sovereignty passed to the Empire of Japan along with the rest of the Kuril islands. The island was formerly administered as part of Uruppu District of Nemuro Subprefecture of Hokkaidō. The remaining local (mainly Aleut) inhabitants were transferred to Kamchatka, according to their will, and replaced by Japanese colonists.\n\nDuring World War II, all civilian inhabitants of the island were relocated to the Japanese home islands, and towards the end of the war, the Imperial Japanese Army stationed approximately 6,000 troops on Uruppu, including the IJA 129th Independent Mixed Brigade, 5th Independent Tank Company, 23rd Independent AA Company, 80th Airfield Battalion and 6th Disembarkation Unit. During the Invasion of the Kuril Islands by the Soviet Union after the end of World War II, Japanese forces on Uruppu surrendered without resistance.\n\nIn 1952, upon signing the Treaty of San Francisco, Japan renounced its claim to the island. Soviet Border Troops occupied the former Japanese military facilities. As early as the 1950s, a P-14 radar \"Tall King\" VHF air defense radar existed on the far northeastern tip of Urup Island. The troops were withdrawn upon the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, the co-located airfield was turned into a bombing range. The island is now uninhabited and is administered as part of the Sakhalin Oblast of the Russian Federation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043714", "title": "USS Sara Thompson (AO-8)", "text": "USS Sara Thompson (AO-8)\n\nUSS \"Sara Thompson\" (SP-3148/AO-8) was a tanker in the United States Navy. She was purchased at the start of World War I by the U.S. Navy and served as a tanker supporting American troops in Europe. Post-war she operated in the Pacific Ocean, supporting Navy operations in the Guam, China, and the Philippines. Because of her age and deteriorating condition, she spent her final days in the US Navy as a receiving hulk in the Philippines.\n\n\"Sara Thompson\" was built during 1888 by William Armstrong, Mitchell and Co., Newcastle, England, as the German merchant tanker \"Gut Heil\", and was sold to a United States firm in 1912, retaining her original name. Accidentally lost on the Mississippi River during 1914, \"Gut Heil\" was raised during 1917 and repaired.\n\nShe was purchased on 8 August 1918 for United States Naval service from J. W. Thompson of New York, and renamed \"Sara Thompson\" on 7 September 1918 at the request of her former owner. \"Sara Thompson\" was commissioned on 17 September 1918 at New Orleans, Louisiana with Lt. Cmdr. Frederick S. Hayes, USNRF, in command.\n\nAssigned to the Naval Overseas Transportation Service (NOTS), \"Sara Thompson\" transported fuel oil from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Port Arthur, Texas, and Hoboken, New Jersey, to Boston, Massachusetts and Bermuda into February 1919. \n\nArriving on 4 March 1919 at Ponta Delgada, São Miguel, Azores, she was detached from NOTS on the same day and assigned to the Train, Atlantic Fleet. \"Sara Thompson\" remained at Ponta Delgada as station tanker until 7 September 1919 when she sailed for the Philippine Islands. Calling at Gibraltar, Suez, and Colombo, the tanker arrived in Manila Bay on 9 November 1919 for permanent assignment as fuel storage ship at the Cavite Navy Yard.\n\n\"Sara Thompson\" steamed to Apra Harbor, Guam, during April 1920 to refuel units of Destroyer Division 13, before returning to Cavite on 7 May 1920. She was classified AO-8 as an oiler on 17 July 1920. She steamed northward to Chefoo, China, twice during 1920, operating with ships of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet before returning to Manila Bay on 12 October. \"Sara Thompson\" continued local operations with Cavite-based destroyer forces into November 1921.\n\nInspection of her deteriorating engines led to \"Sara Thompson\" being placed in reduced commission \"in ordinary\" on 8 December 1921 for duty only as a floating storage vessel for fuel and diesel oil. She remained in service into the 1930s, being designated the receiving ship at Cavite on 6 January 1930 with her commanding officer also commanding the Receiving Station ashore.\n\n\"Sara Thompson\" was decommissioned on 21 July 1933 and struck from the Navy list on 12 December 1933. Her hulk was sold on 9 August 1934 to Alberto Barrette of Manila. Renamed \"Sarangani\". The vessel was used by the US Navy as a bunker ship (storage hulk).\n\nScuttled in 1942 to prevent capture by the Japanese. The ship was renamed \"Sanraku Maru\" on 6 May 1942. On 30 September 1942, the hulk was refloated. Repairs were completed in December 1942. The ship was registered with the Imperial Japanese Navy as an auxiliary oiler on 1 January 1943. Conversion to an oiler began 19 January 1943 and finished 3 February 1943. \"Sanraku Maru\" was operated by Osaka Shosen Kaisho. The ship was sunk by near Cape Lovieanne, Borneo in the Celebes Sea on 15 June 1943.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043715", "title": "Woking railway station", "text": "Woking railway station\n\nWoking railway station is a major stop in Woking, England, on the South Western Main Line used by many commuters. It is down the line from . The station is managed by South Western Railway, who operate all trains serving it. Many South Western Railway services call at Woking, including:\n\nFast trains from Woking take approximately 26 minutes to reach London Waterloo (some stop at Clapham Junction). Trains from the Alton Line take roughly 35 minutes, and the stopping service 50 minutes, to Waterloo.\n\nAn hourly National Express bus service runs between the terminus beside the station and Heathrow Airport, a journey of about 50 minutes.\n\nThe London and Southampton Railway (L&SR) was authorised on 25 July 1834. It was built and opened in stages, and the first section, that between the London terminus at and \"Woking Common\" was opened on 21 May 1838. Woking Common became a through station with the opening of the next section of the line, as far as , on 24 September that year. On 4 June 1839, the L&SR was renamed the London and South Western Railway (LSWR), and Woking Common station assumed its current name of \"Woking\" around 1843.\n\nWoking became a junction with the opening of the Guildford Junction Railway (GJR) on 5 May 1845; it had been authorised less than a year earlier, on 10 May 1844. The GJR was always operated by the LSWR, and was absorbed by that company on 4 August 1845.\n\nThe signal box, built by the Southern Railway, is a Grade II listed building.\n\nWoking Station has six platforms, two of which act as termini with buffers.\n\nSouth Western Railway operates northbound suburban and mainline services to London Waterloo. Southbound services operates to Alton, Weymouth, Basingstoke, Haslemere, Exeter St David's, Portsmouth Harbour and Salisbury. Limited destinations served at peak times include: Bristol Temple Meads and Yeovil Pen Mill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043731", "title": "Soul Mining", "text": "Soul Mining\n\nSoul Mining is the debut album by British post-punk/synth-pop band (the 1981 album \"Burning Blue Soul\" was originally released by the band's frontman Matt Johnson as a solo album, but later reissues credited it to ). After a bidding war between major record labels which resulted in the group signing with CBS Records, Johnson began recording the album in New York City, but the initial recording sessions were aborted after the album's first two singles and Johnson returned to London where he wrote and recorded the rest of the record. Musically, \"Soul Mining\" is a post-punk and synth-pop album with influences of the early 1980s New York club scene, while Johnson's lyrics focus on relationship insecurities and social alienation, with imagery derived from dreams. \n\n\"Soul Mining\" was released in the United Kingdom on 21 October 1983 on Some Bizzare Records/Epic Records and included versions of the singles \"Uncertain Smile\", \"Perfect\", and \"This Is the Day\". Although the album received positive reviews, its initial sales were modest, reaching number 27 in the UK and charting in a number of other countries, but in 2019 the album was certified gold in the UK. \"Soul Mining\" was reissued in June 2014 as a two-disc 30th anniversary deluxe version on vinyl, attracting retrospective reviews which universally praised the record, with critics describing it as both Johnson's best work and one of the best albums of the 1980s.\n\nFollowing the release of \"Burning Blue Soul\" (1981) Johnson had started work on a follow-up, provisionally titled \"The Pornography of Despair\". Although \"Burning Blue Soul\" had been released on the 4AD record label, had also released a one-off single, \"Cold Spell Ahead\", in 1981 on the Some Bizarre label run by Stevo, and major record labels were expressing interest in Some Bizarre's acts following the worldwide success of Soft Cell.\n\nJohnson and Stevo decided that the best way to achieve commercial success was to record a new version of \"Cold Spell Ahead\". Stevo verbally agreed a singles deal with London Records, and in May 1982 the label sent Johnson to New York to record the new version of the song, now retitled \"Uncertain Smile\", with Soft Cell's producer Mike Thorne at Media Sound studios. The song followed Johnson's original demo, with a Roland 808 providing the drumbeat and Johnson and Thorne playing guitars, bass and synthesizers. While in New York, Johnson visited Manny's Music store on West 48th Street, and was fascinated by a toy xylimba that he saw there. He bought the instrument and returned to the studio with it, using it to create an intro for \"Uncertain Smile\". On the recommendation of a friend Thorne also brought in Crispin Cioe of the Uptown Horns to play flute and alto saxophone on the record.\n\nWhen Stevo took the finished song back to London he reneged on his verbal agreement with London Records and initiated a bidding war, eventually won by CBS Records, and were signed to CBS's Epic imprint. The single became 's first release on Epic, released in October 1982 and reaching number 68 on the UK Singles chart. Thorne was unhappy at the underhand way in which the deal had been conducted.\n\nJohnson and Stevo returned to New York in October 1982 to record a second song with Thorne. The track was \"Perfect\", which was a reworked version of a song written for \"The Pornography of Despair\" and originally titled \"Screw Up Your Feelings\". Johnson wanted a harmonica on the record, and Thorne suggested his friend David Johansen of the New York Dolls. However, the second session at MediaSound did not go as smoothly as the first one had. In the intervening period Johnson had gone from being unemployed to receiving a rumoured £80,000 advance from CBS. With his new-found wealth Johnson was keen to experience what New York had to offer, disappearing from the studio to explore the Lower East Side and take drugs, which left him in an unfit state to record. Johnson and Stevo also decided to make a road trip to Detroit, with Johnson saying that that he had felt compelled to visit the city during the recording of \"Perfect\" because he felt he was being inauthentic singing the song's lyrics about down-and-outs unless he had experienced it personally, and that \"although I hadn't lived there, I knew that I'd seen more than virtually any of the other bands in the charts so I had no reason to feel bad about it\".\n\nThe relationship between Thorne and the visitors deteriorated as a result of Johnson and Stevo's actions, and disagreements over the songs' production. Thorne wanted to use his new Synclavier unit, but Johnson preferred the sounds of his far cheaper Omnichord. Eventually a mutual decision was made to abandon the recordings, and Johnson returned to London in November.\n\nThe original New York-produced 7\" single versions of \"Uncertain Smile\" and \"Perfect\" were included on 's greatest hits album \"\" in 2002, while the two 12\" versions were included on the second disc of the 30th anniversary reissue of \"Soul Mining\" in 2014.\n\nHaving returned to London with only two songs, CBS asked Johnson if he had any other material that could be used. In response, Johnson began to re-record his unfinished album \"The Pornography of Despair\", but he was not happy with the new versions of the songs, feeling that they lacked impact. He abandoned the album entirely, and decided to write a new album from scratch instead, with \"The Sinking Feeling\" being the only song retained from \"The Pornography of Despair\".\n\nThe rest of the songs for \"Soul Mining\" were written during 1983, either in Johnson's bedsit in Highbury or in the flat of his girlfriend Fiona Skinner, in Braithwaite House in Finsbury. Johnson's preferred method of writing was lying on the floor with a pencil and notepad, spending hours writing and rewriting the songs, and his demos were recorded using a guitar, drum machine, synthesizers and a Portastudio that Johnson had bought. Although Johnson had learnt how to create tape loops and overdub tracks during his job as a tape operator at De Woolf studios when he was a teenager, he did not have a sequencer, so he would play the lines for each instrument over and over – for the longer tracks like \"I've Been Waiting for Tomorrow (All of My Life)\" and \"Giant\", this could mean playing for up to ten minutes at a time.\n\nIn an interview with \"Melody Maker\" in May 1983, five months before the album's release, Johnson shared fragments of the lyrics that he was working on, and said that many of them were based on mental images and states of mind. He explained one image, \"I'm floating into harbour in a soggy cardboard box\", saying, \"I've always had this weird thing about the sea, incredibly deep and cold\". He also quoted another lyric in progress: \"The sun is high and I've been out on the verandah sitting in life's proverbial rocking chair, blanket over my knees\", and then explained that \"I've always had these images on my mind, very strange dreams. The idea of a clear blue sky, a \"massive\" sky in the desert with this little American hut, a verandah, a guy in a rocking chair watching planes flying across the sky, philosophising about his past life\". However, he stated that another line, \"I'm in the corner of an overgrown garden, head between my knees, trying not too breath too loudly\" (an early version of the opening lines from \"I've Been Waitin' for Tomorrow\") was based on a real incident from his childhood, when he had broken into a house – when the police arrived, he had fled into the garden and hidden in a chicken hut.\n\nIn interviews for the 2014 reissue Johnson stated that some of the earlier songs such as \"Uncertain Smile\" and \"The Twilight Hour\" had the theme of \"unrequited love\", although as he had fallen in love with Skinner while writing the album, the later songs explored other themes. \"I've Been Waitin' for Tomorrow (All of My Life)\" was about the cognitive dissonance and confusion created by media propaganda. He rejected his reputation for writing depressing lyrics, saying that they were \"supposed to be uplifting, but thoughtful. A poignant reflection.\"\n\nFollowing their return to London from New York, Stevo recommended that Johnson should contact Thorne's former engineer Paul Hardiman to act as his new producer. Hardiman's first job for Johnson was to remix \"Perfect\" for release as a single, keeping only Johansen's harmonica from the original New York recording. The remix was done on Christmas Eve 1982, which Hardiman recalled had caused some friction with his wife. The remixed version of \"Perfect\" was released as a single on 11 February 1983, reaching number 79 in the UK.\n\nWhile the songs for the album were being written, Johnson and Hardiman set about looking for a recording studio in London. Although the only two studios credited in the liner notes for \"Soul Mining\" are Advision and Sarm, Johnson has since stated in several interviews that the majority of the album was recorded at the Garden studio in Shoreditch, east London.\n\nThroughout May 1983 held a weekly residence of concerts at the Marquee club in central London, featuring many of Johnson's musician friends from the British post-punk scene. Johnson used these concerts to decide which musicians he wanted to contribute to the forthcoming album. These included Orange Juice drummer Zeke Manyika, do-it-yourself synthesizer pioneer Thomas Leer, and the experimental Australian musician Jim Thirlwell, credited on the album as one of his early aliases \"Frank Want\", and who would go on to achieve some degree of recognition recording under the name Foetus.\n\n\"Uncertain Smile\" was re-recorded for the album, keeping the xylimba intro but replacing Crispin Cioe's saxophone solo with a lengthy piano solo by Jools Holland. The idea to include a piano solo resulted from the Garden studio having a Yamaha C3 baby grand piano, and it was suggested to Johnson that Holland would be a good choice to play it. Johnson recalled that Holland had turned up on a hot summer's day in full motorbike leathers, listened to a couple of minutes of the song as a run-through, and then played his solo in one take, with a second drop-in afterwards. In his 2007 autobiography \"Barefaced Lies and Boogie-Woogie Boasts\" Holland recounted that when he first listened to the track he had expected to hear his contribution used as an instrumental break in the middle of the song, only to discover that Johnson had edited together the two solos and used them as the song's outro instead.\n\nAs with many of 's early albums and singles, the original cover artwork was created by Matt Johnson's brother Andrew, aka \"Andy Dog\". The UK album cover featured a painting of one of the wives of Fela Kuti smoking a joint, adapted from a photograph Andy had seen in \"The Face\". Johnson liked the painting, feeling that its colours and African connections fitted with \"Soul Mining\"s musical style, and insisted on using it for the album cover, despite Andy's reservations about its suitability. Andy had made a second painting featuring Johnson's head in profile and apparently screaming while being attacked by hammers, which was used for the cover of the US release. In a 2014 interview with \"Electronic Sound\" Johnson stated that his brother had been correct, and it would have been better to have used the second painting for the cover of the album in all territories. The 2002 remastered CD reissue replaced the original cover art with an early photograph of Matt Johnson.\n\nGraphic designer Fiona Skinner, who had become Johnson's girlfriend in 1982, created the bespoke typeface used on \"Soul Mining\". The album and the single \"This Is the Day\" marked the first appearance of the band's logo, which also used Skinner's font, and which would be used on the majority of 's subsequent releases.\n\n\"This Is the Day\" was released ahead of the album as a single on 2 September 1983, but like the previous singles, it performed poorly in the UK, peaking at number 71.\n\n\"Soul Mining\" was released on 21 October 1983. The album was released with several different track listings, depending on the format and the territory. In the UK and Europe the album had seven tracks and ended with \"Giant\", as Johnson had intended. Early pressings of the original UK vinyl album included a free 12\" single of an extended remix of \"Perfect\", with \"Fruit of the Heart\" and \"Soup of Mixed Emotions\" as the B-sides (catalogue number XPR 1250). However, in the US a record company executive decided that seven songs was not enough for a full album, and a re-recorded version of \"Perfect\" was added to the US version of \"Soul Mining\", as well as some versions of the Canadian release, much to Johnson's annoyance. This extra track was also included on the album when it was first released on CD in June 1987, in both the UK and the US. In Australia and New Zealand, the album contained nine tracks, with \"Fruit of the Heart\" closing side one and \"Perfect\" at the end of side two. It was not until 's early albums were remastered and reissued in 2002 that Johnson finally succeeded in having \"Soul Mining\" reissued without \"Perfect\", as originally intended.\n\nThe US cassette version also included extended mixes of \"I've Been Waitin' for Tomorrow (All of My Life)\" and \"This Is the Day\" added on to the end of each side of the cassette. The UK cassette version contained the original seven-track album on side one, and \"Perfect\" and five other extra tracks on side two, which had originally been recorded for \"The Pornography of Despair\". \"Three Orange Kisses from Kazan\" and \"Waitin' for the Upturn\" were released as B-sides on the \"Uncertain Smile\" single, \"Mental Healing Process\" was on the B-side of \"This Is the Day\", and a version of \"The Nature of Virtue\" appeared on the B-side of \"Perfect\". \"Fruit of the Heart\" was an instrumental track. To date these five songs have never appeared anywhere on CD.\n\nThe 2014 2-LP \"30th Anniversary Deluxe Edition\" boxset of \"Soul Mining\" includes an authentic vinyl reproduction of the 1983 release, with audio remastered in 2013 (overseen by Matt Johnson at Abbey Road Studios), and is expanded with a second vinyl containing alternate versions, 12\"'s and remixes, intended to complete a \"purist album experience\".\n\nThe album was well received on its release. Don Watson of \"NME\" said, \"In days when the pop song has been reduced to the reiteration of catch-phrases, Matt Johnson flexes a rare literary flair. More importantly he has the command of music's immense possibilities to carry them through without self-indulgence. Ignore this LP if you must, but you'll be ignoring one of the year's rare heart-stopping moments.\" In \"Melody Maker\" Steve Sutherland said, \"As you return to \"Soul Mining\" again and again, there will be times when you discover it was the last thing you really wanted to do. It will sound mawkish, almost absurd, like a voice crying wolf over and over ... Then again, there'll be times when it will sound obscenely close to the bone, as if [Johnson] were invading and defiling your most private thoughts and emotions ... In other words, you'll use \"Soul Mining\" as a barometer to your day and if that's the principal function of great pop, then surely \"Soul Mining\" is great pop.\" Dave Henderson of \"Sounds\" called the album \"a classic slice of everyman's everyday music, ready for the radio, the dance floor and those thoughtful interludes late at night\". In \"Record Mirror\" Jim Reid wrote that Johnson was \"not always able to find a soundtrack to complement his lyrical angst\" but that \"if \"Soul Mining\" is not the complete Matt Johnson it is an intriguing first taste\". In the US, Kurt Loder of \"Rolling Stone\" praised Johnson's \"sense of structure and his unerring ear for sonic definition\" and highlighted \"Uncertain Smile\" and the \"entirely gorgeous piano solo by the exceptionally talented Holland\", but had reservations about the \"obsessively self-absorbed lyrics... Youthful \"angst\" and anomie are fine in their place, but not all over the place.\" However, Loder concluded, \"Johnson creates pop music with an agreeably individual stamp: In the current sea of synth-pop sludge, \"Soul Mining\" stands out\".\nThe release of the 30th anniversary deluxe edition in 2014 received universal praise from music critics. Michael Bonner of \"Uncut\" described the record as a \"masterpiece\" and said, \"Released in the interzone between post-punk and synth pop, and reflecting both, \"Soul Mining\" thrums with ideas, tension and dread. Johnson's enduring lyrical concerns – social alienation, political disillusionment and troubles of the heart – are all present and correct, but unlike the industrial/psychedelic adventuring of \"Burning Blue Soul\", they are here given a glossier sheen... Certainly, for an album of heavy themes, \"Soul Mining\" is musically surprisingly light.\" He concluded, \"\"Soul Mining\" is arguably Johnson's defining work: ambitious, strange, exciting. And, 30-odd years on, remarkably fresh.\" In \"Q\" Peter Paphides described the album as being \"like one long distress signal from someone being held against their will inside a Sartre novel\". He stated, \"The years might not have been quite so kind to \"Soul Mining\" were it not for the inspired guest performances that Johnson teased out of his collaborators\", singling out Holland's piano solo as \"a high point on an album full of them\". Alexis Petridis of \"The Guardian\" also noted Holland's \"genuinely astonishing performance\" and said, \"The lyrics contained the occasional hint of histrionic gaucheness – 'the cancer of love has eaten out my heart' seems a pretty melodramatic way to say you got dumped – but more often they're strikingly precocious: 'Uncertain Smile's brilliant drawing of a confused relationship, 'The Twilight Hour's painfully accurate depiction of self-obsession... More striking still is the ease with which Johnson marshals a kaleidoscopic array of musical influences into something coherent and unique. Quite aside from Holland's boogie-woogie piano, over the course of \"Soul Mining\"s seven tracks, you variously hear folk fiddles and accordion, the popping basslines of contemporary funk, punishing industrial beats, electronics derived from New York's then current club music... But \"Soul Mining\" never sounds disjointed, never feels like an exercise in smart-alec showboating: Johnson's songwriting holds its disparate elements tightly together.\" He concluded, \"\"Soul Mining\" is a brilliant and very idiosyncratic album. Maybe that's why it's never really cited as an influence these days: you can't hope to mimic something this personal and unique.\"\n\n\"Melody Maker\" placed \"Soul Mining\" at number three in its critics' list of the best albums of 1983 and the \"NME\" placed it at number 25 in its own list the same year. In 1989 the music magazines \"Record Mirror\" and \"Sounds\" both included the album in their critics' lists of the albums of the decade, \"Record Mirror\" ranking it at number eight and \"Sounds\" ranking it at number 24.\n\nReviewing the remastered reissue in 2002, \"PopMatters\" said, \"It may not make the list of best records of the '80s, but it's damn close, and would definitely stir some intense debate over its inclusion.\" A supplement entitled \"80 from the 80s\" in the August 2007 issue of \"Mojo\" included \"Soul Mining\" as one of only four albums from 1983 to make its list of the 80 best albums of that decade, and three months later in November 2007 the UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" included \"Soul Mining\" in its list of \"1000 albums to hear before you die\", where it stated that Johnson's \"artful pop... hides an underlying menace at odds with the chart-toppers of the time\".\n\nThe album was also included in the books \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\" and \"Fear of Music: The Greatest 261 Albums Since Punk and Disco\" by journalist Garry Mulholland, who described it as \"a hidden masterpiece\".\n\nAll songs written and composed by Matt Johnson.\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\n\nDisc one\n\nTrack listing as the original UK vinyl version.\n\nDisc two – \"Recollected\"\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2043732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043732", "title": "Lorenzo Baldissera Tiepolo", "text": "Lorenzo Baldissera Tiepolo\n\nLorenzo Baldissera Tiepolo (8 August 1736 – August 1776) was an artist and son of the more famous Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. In 1750, he travelled to Würzburg with his father and brother, Giovanni Domenico Tiepolo, where he worked alongside them on the decorative fresco cycle in the Würzburg Residence. A number of drawings have been attributed to him from these apprentice years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043735", "title": "Danao, Cebu", "text": "Danao, Cebu\n\n', officially the ', (; ), or simply known as City, is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is in the Metro Cebu area and is approximately from Cebu City. It is bordered on the north by Carmen, on the west by Asturias, on the south by Compostela on and to the east by the Camotes Sea. \n\nThe area was a part of the Cebuano Kingdom of Nahalin, ruled by Sri Ukob, one of the sons of Sri Lumay, the ruler and founder of the Rajahnate of Cebu, before the conquest of Cebu by the Spanish starting in 1565. In 1570, it became an \"ecomienda\" of unknown Spanish officials, until the 18th century. Danao was made a parish by the Recollects in 1609, and in 1773 it officially became a municipality. In 1961 a national charter was passed to convert it into a city.\n\nDanao City comprises 42 barangays:\n\nIn the 2016 electoral roll it had 86,085 registered voters, meaning that 63% of the population are aged 18 and over.[7]\n\nThe Cebu railway ran from Danao south to Argao. During World War II, the bridges, tracks and Central Station were bombed so extensively that the railway never recovered, and it closed in 1942. After that, whatever was left after the war was dug up to become the Cebu North Road.\n\nThe old system of milling sugar cane used to produce sugar, called \"\"intosan\"\". Although the railway was originally to move coal, it was soon used too to move sugar cane to the docks.\n\nDanao City was well known for its gun industry. The industry started around 1905–06. When World War II came, the Danao gunsmiths went underground, joined the guerrilla movement or were inducted into the United States Army Forces in the Far East. Their main task was to re-chamber the Japanese Arisaka rifles to fit the US .30 caliber round or to keep the original Japanese rifle in good service.\n\nThe industry went on, still underground. In the 1960s, the term \"paltik\" was given to the homemade (and illegal) guns. In the early 1990s the industry was legalized by the government, with the creation of two organizations of local gunsmiths. The organization now left with proper permit is Workers League of Danao Multi-purpose Cooperative (World MPC), in Dungguan, Danao City.\n\nWorld MPC was incorporated on October 1994 with twenty-five initial members. In November 1996 it was given license to manufacture handguns from caliber .22 to .45 by the Philippine National Police (PNP). The organization had been a potent group in working for the legalization of gun-making industry in the country with the aim to upgrade the technology and skills of gun makers, to provide job security and additional revenue for the government. The gun-making industry in Danao was pioneered using brass or copper as materials. The Chairman of World MPC was in charge of the compliance of the requirements of the Firearms Explosives Security Service Agency and Guards Supervisory Section (FESSAGES) until his death in 2010 after which World MPC itself was then shutdown for non-compliance of FESSAGES policies.\n\nTourism in the area is still in its infancy. All along the eastern seaboard of Cebu there are family-owned resorts.\n\nIn 2017, Danao hosted the Xterra Off-road Triathlon. This was held at the Coco Palms resort.\n\nMinebeaMitsumi, Inc. (ミネベア株式会社 Minebea Kabushiki-gaisha) or NMB (Nippon Miniature Bearing) is a Japanese multinational corporation and a major producer of machinery components and electronics devices.[2 MinebeaMitsumi,Inc. is one of the largest employers in northern Cebu.\n\n\"Work for the ₱50 billion, Metro Cebu Expressway, started in 2018. It will connect Naga City in the south to Danao City in the north.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2043738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043738", "title": "Macquarie Fields railway station", "text": "Macquarie Fields railway station\n\nMacquarie Fields railway station is located on the Main South line, serving the Sydney suburb of Macquarie Fields. It is served by Sydney Trains T8 Airport & South line services.\n\nMacquarie Fields station opened on 3 October 1888.\n\nAn additional track was opened to the west of the station in 1995 as part of the Glenfield - Ingleburn passing loop. This unelectrified track was used by freight and long distance passenger trains. In December 2012, the track was incorporated into the Southern Sydney Freight Line and became freight only.\n\nIt has been reported that a ghost of a teenage girl haunts the station, where screaming is often heard at night after train services have stopped. In July 1906, a woman named Emily Gengeson was reportedly ran over and killed by a train.\n\nSince the second half of 2017, Macquarie Fields railway station has been served exclusively by the Airport and East Hills line, meaning commuters have to change at Glenfield to travel to either the city via Granville or to Blacktown via the Cumberland Line.\n\nInterline Bus Services operates one route to and from Macquarie Fields station:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043739", "title": "Barafundle", "text": "Barafundle\n\nBarafundle is the fourth album by Welsh psychedelic folk band Gorky's Zygotic Mynci, which was released 7 April 1997 in the United Kingdom. The album's title comes from the name of a beach in Pembrokeshire, Wales.\n\nSongs are often sung in both Welsh and English, and the album's influences range from twee-pop to traditional folk music. Lynn Childs, father of singer Euros and violinist Megan, plays shawm and other traditional instruments on the album's occasional medieval interludes (for example, on \"Starmoonsun\").\n\nTwo singles were released from the album. The first single, \"Patio Song\", was released in late 1996 and became the band's highest charting single in the UK, peaking at #41 in early 1997. The song also ranked #8 on John Peel's 1996 Festive Fifty countdown.\n\nThe second single, \"Diamond Dew\", reached #42 on the UK Singles Chart in mid-1997. A contemporaneous non-album single, \"Young Girls & Happy Endings\", was also released in 1997 and appeared as a bonus track on some American copies of the album.\n\nAll songs written by Euros Childs unless otherwise stated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043744", "title": "Ghulat", "text": "Ghulat\n\nGhulāt (, singular \"ghālī\") is used in the theology of orthodox Shia Islam to describe some minority Muslim groups who either ascribe divine characteristics to figures of Islamic history (usually some members of the Ahl al-Bayt) or hold beliefs deemed deviant by mainstream, orthodox Shi'a theology. In later periods, this term was used to describe any Shia group not accepted by the Zaydis, orthodox Twelvers, and sometimes the Isma'ilis.\n\nThe usage derives from the idea that the importance or the veneration of such a religious figure has been \"exaggerated\".\n\nTraditionally, the first of the ghulāt was Abdullah ibn Saba', who may have denied that Ali had died and predicting his return (\"rajʿa\"), which was considered one form of \"ghuluww\". According to M. G. S. Hodgson, the notion of the Occultation or absence of an Imam who is due to return as Mahdi seems to have appeared first among the ghulāt. Other positions which seem to have been considered \"ghuluww\" by early writers were the (public) condemnation (\"sabb\") of Abu Bakr and Umar as usurpers of Ali's right to be a successor of Muhammad, and the notion that the true Imams were infallible (\"maʿṣūm\"). \n\nIn later periods, mainstream Shia groups, especially the Imamiyya, have identified three acts that have been judged as \"extremism\" (\"ghuluww\"). These acts of heresy are: the claim that God sometimes takes abode in the bodies of the Imams (\"ḥulūl\"), the belief in metempsychosis (\"tanāsukh\"), and considering Islamic law to be not obligatory (\"ibāḥa\"), similar to antinomianism.\n\nFor example, the Alawites are considered ghulat by orthodox Shia sects of Islam. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani issued \"fatwa\" forbidding orthodox Shia Muslims from marrying Khawarij or ghulat sects “who claim to be Muslims, but are classified as non-Muslims.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043747", "title": "USS Alameda (AO-10)", "text": "USS Alameda (AO-10)\n\nUSS \"Alameda\" (Fuel Ship No. 10/AO-10), was a United States Navy tanker in commission from 1919 to 1922. She was built as the civilian tanker SS \"Alameda, but transferred to the U.S. Navy after completion in 1919. She was sold for commercial service and operated under the names SS \"Olean and SS \"Sweep before she was transferred to the Navy again in World War II as USS \"Silver Cloud\" (IX-143).\n\nSS \"Alameda\", one of four Design 1128 civilian tankers, was built by William Cramp & Sons for the United States Shipping Board, but was acquired by the U.S. Navy after her completion. After suffering a major fire in 1921, she was decommissioned in 1922 and sold. Repaired, she entered commercial service as SS \"Olean\" in 1925.\n\nAround the time the United States entry into World War II in December 1941, \"Olean\" was equipped with defensive armament and a complement of Naval Armed Guardsmen. In March 1942, the tanker was sailing unescorted off the North Carolina coast, when she was torpedoed twice by and abandoned with the loss of six men. The ship, however, remained afloat and was towed to Hampton Roads, Virginia. Although originally thought too damaged to repair, she nevertheless reentered service under the control of the War Shipping Administration in April 1943 as SS \"Sweep\".\n\nIn October 1943, the U.S. Navy selected \"Sweep\" for service as a floating storage tanker in the Pacific. The ship was transferred to Navy control in July at Eniwetok, and commissioned as USS \"Silver Cloud\" (IX-143). She was transferred to Manus in August, and to Leyte in January 1945. At the end of 1945, she sailed to Mobile, Alabama, to await disposal. Transferred to the War Shipping Administration in March 1946, she was struck from the Naval Vessel Register in April, sold for scrapping in January 1947.\n\n\"Alameda\" was laid down on 16 December 1918 as SS \"Alameda\" at Philadelphia, by William Cramp & Sons for the United States Shipping Board (USSB). She was one of four Design 1128 tankers built by Cramp, all of which served as United States Navy oilers. \"Alameda\" was launched on 15 July 1919, sponsored by Helen Mull Widdows, daughter of Cramp's president, J. H. Mull.\n\nAs built, the ship was in length (overall), abeam, and had a depth of . She drew with of freeboard. She was powered by a single triple-expansion steam engine (also manufactured by Cramp) with cylinders of 27, 45½, and 76 inches (69, 115, and 190 cm) diameter with a stroke. Operating at , her three boilers had a grate area of and heating surface of . The engine generated , and could move the ship with a top speed of .\n\n\"Alameda\" was acquired by the U.S. Navy from the United States Shipping Board on 17 October 1919. She was commissioned that same day at the Philadelphia Navy Yard as USS \"Alameda\" (Fuel Ship No. 10) with Commander Malcolm P. Nash, USNRF, in command. Soon after commissioning, \"Alameda\" was assigned to the Naval Overseas Transportation Service. She embarked upon her first voyage—to Port Arthur, Texas, on the gulf coast—took on a cargo of oil there, and headed back to the east coast. She entered port at Norfolk, Virginia, on 27 November 1919 and underwent repairs there until 5 December 1919.\n\nAfter visiting Boston, \"Alameda\" departed from New York on 29 December 1919 and once again headed for Port Arthur. She stopped at Charleston, South Carolina, for engine repairs on 2 January 1920, then resumed her voyage to Port Arthur on 11 January 1920, arriving there on 16 January 1920. Since no fuel oil was available there at that time, she headed back to Hampton Roads, Virginia, on 23 January 1920 without a cargo. She arrived at Norfolk on 29 January 1920 and began another round of engine repairs. \"Alameda\" departed Hampton Roads on 11 February 1920 and arrived at Port Arthur on 18 February 1920. There she loaded a cargo of fuel oil in preparation for her first transatlantic voyage.\n\nOn 21 February 1920, \"Alameda\" departed Port Arthur for the British Isles. She entered port on the River Clyde in Scotland on 13 March 1920 and remained there until 24 March 1920, when she headed back toward the Texas coast. She reached Port Arthur on 16 April 1920 and began loading another cargo of fuel oil. Once loaded, she put to sea bound for Norfolk, where she arrived on 2 May 1920. She underwent ten days of repairs at Norfolk before heading for New York on 12 May 1920. She entered port at New York on 13 May 1920 and began fueling ships of the United States Atlantic Fleet. On 16 May 1920, \"Alameda\" departed New York and headed back to Norfolk for additional repairs. On 1 June 1920, she exited Chesapeake Bay and shaped a course back to Port Arthur. Arriving there on 6 June 1920 she loaded fuel oil and then put to sea bound for Glasgow, Scotland.\n\nIn the summer of 1920, the U.S. Navy adopted the alphanumeric system of hull designations, and \"Alameda\" was designated \"AO-10\" under the new system. \"Alameda\" continued to serve with the Naval Overseas Transportation Service for the remainder of her naval career. In addition to operations between Port Arthur and ports on the U.S. east coast, she also made further voyages across the Atlantic Ocean to support U.S. Navy warships operating in European waters.\n\nOn 19 November 1921, while steaming about off Cape Henry, Virginia, \"Alameda\" suffered an explosion in her fire room and began to burn. When firefighting efforts proved fruitless, her crew abandoned the vessel in stormy seas. Among the ships responding to \"Alameda\"s distress calls, were the United States Coast Guard cutter and the British steamer \"Bristol\", which rescued \"Alameda\"s entire crew and remained near the burning ship until firefighting equipment arrived. \"Alameda\" remained afloat and was towed into Norfolk on the 20th. There she remained until formally decommissioned on 29 March 1922. Her name was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 8 August 1922, and she was sold to the Newport Engineering Company of Washington, D.C., on 18 August for $100,000.\n\nHer new owner repaired her, and she entered mercantile service as SS \"Olean\" in 1925. By 1930, she was sailing for the Vacuum Oil Company, and, after that company's 1931 merger with Standard Oil Company of New York (or Socony), for the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company which was later renamed Mobil Oil. In March 1930, \"The New York Times\" reported that \"Olean\"s chief engineer disappeared while the ship was steaming from Port Arthur to Paulsboro, New Jersey. According to the article, the engineer's wife had received a message from her husband stating that he was worried about their financial affairs. Another death of an \"Olean\" crewman was reported by \"The New York Times\" in September 1939, when a fireman aboard the ship was stabbed to death by a mess attendant while the ship was anchored in the Delaware River at the Port of Paulsboro.\n\nAround the time that the United States entered World War II in December 1941, \"Olean\" was defensively armed and assigned a crew of four Naval Armed Guardsmen.\n\nOn 14 March 1942, \"Olean\" was sailing from Norfolk, Virginia, to Beaumont, Texas. The ship was sailing unescorted and—according to Theodore Bockhoff, the ship's master—with all lights extinguished. One survivor, however, reported that a dim light was burning on one of the masts. At 23:05, while near position , about from Cape Lookout, North Carolina, \"Olean\" was hit in the engine room by a single torpedo launched from under the command of \"Kapitänleutnant\" Erwin Rostin. Damage from the torpedo caused the ship to veer out of control. The Naval Armed Guard spotted \"U-158\", but were unable to depress their gun far enough to be able to hit the U-boat. At 23:45 the order to abandon ship was given and the 36 officers, men, and gunners took to the lifeboats. As the no. 3 boat reached the water, however, a second torpedo launched by Rostin hit the engine room and destroyed the lifeboat, killing one officer and six men. Lifesaving stations at Cape Lookout and Fort Macon sent motor launches and were able to rescue the remaining 30 men from \"Olean\" nine hours after the attack, and landed them at Morehead City.\n\nAs with her November 1921 fire, \"Olean\" did not sink from the twin torpedo hits. She was towed to Hampton Roads and dry docked, but was declared a constructive total loss. The need for shipping was great, and despite the severity of \"Olean\"s damage, the ship was acquired by the War Shipping Administration (WSA) in April 1942. The WSA had the vessel reconditioned and repaired at Baltimore. The ship was re-engined with a triple-expansion steam engine built in 1941 by Hooven-Owens-Rentschler of Hamilton, Ohio. The cylinders of the new engine were 22½, 41½, and 68 inches (57, 105, and 170 cm) in diameter and had a stroke, which generated a nominal . The ship was also re-boilered with two water tube boilers that had a heating surface of and operated at . The newly reconditioned ship was renamed \"Sweep\" and was employed in duties in the Pacific.\n\nIn October 1943, the U.S. Navy selected \"Sweep\" for use as a mobile floating storage tanker in the Pacific and in November chose the name \"Silver Cloud\" for her. The ship was accepted and commissioned at Eniwetok in the Marshall Islands on 12 July 1944. The Navy acquired \"Sweep\" for use as a mobile floating storage tanker for fuel oil, and commissioned her as USS \"Silver Cloud\" (IX-143) the same day under the command of Lieutenant Commander H. R. Will, USNR.\n\nOn 15 July, \"Silver Cloud\" fueled her first ships, two destroyers. She remained in the Marshall Islands until 17 August, when she departed for Manus Island in the Admiralty Islands. She dropped anchor there in Seeadler Harbor on 28 August and fueled almost 200 ships before departing for Hollandia, New Guinea, on 28 December. After calling at Hollandia, \"Silver Cloud\" moved to San Pedro Bay at Leyte in the Philippine Islands. She arrived there on 15 January 1945, and remained in the Philippines until 30 December, when she departed for the Panama Canal and from there to New Orleans, for disposal. She arrived at New Orleans on 10 March 1946 and departed the next day for Mobile, Alabama, arriving there on 12 March. \"Silver Cloud\" was decommissioned and delivered to the War Shipping Administration on 29 March. She was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 17 April and sold to Pinto Island Metals Company for scrapping on 21 January 1947.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043755", "title": "Common Riding", "text": "Common Riding\n\nA common riding is an equestrian tradition in the Scottish Borders in Scotland. Typically male riders ride out of the town and along its borders to commemorate the practice from 13th and 15th centuries where there were frequent raids on the Anglo-Scottish border known as the Border Reivers and also to commemorate the Scottish defeat at the Battle of Flodden. Today, the common ridings, rideouts, or riding of the marches continue to be annual events celebrated in the summer in the Borders of Scotland. Each town may have many rideouts over their festival week, usually having one on festival day. Some towns re-enact historic 'common ridings' – although many others have well-established 'festival rides' that are cemented within their town's history. The common riding towns are: Berwick-upon-Tweed, Hawick, Selkirk, Langholm, Jedburgh, Coldstream, West Linton, Lanark, Lauder, Edinburgh, Melrose, Musselburgh, Galashiels, Duns, and Peebles.\n\nThe tradition of common riding dates back to the 13th and 14th centuries, during the continual land border wars both with England and against other clans. It was a Border Country custom to plunder and thieve cattle, known as reiving (a historical name for robbing), and commonplace amongst the major Borders families. In these lawless and battle-strewn times, it became the practice of the day for the local lord to appoint a leading townsperson, who would then ride the clan's boundaries, or \"marches,\" to protect their common lands and prevent encroachment by neighbouring landlords and their peoples.\n\nLong after they ceased to be essential, the ridings continued in commemoration of local legend, history, and are \"devoted to pageantry, singing, and unique traditions centered around equestrian events.\"\n\nIn current times, Common Ridings celebrate each Border town's history and tradition in mid-summer, during a period spanning May through to September. Rideouts now involve hundreds of horses, often ridden in costume to evoke a passion worthy of the rivers of old.\n\nHawick is traditionally the start of the season of annual common ridings, due to the fact that the community captured a flag from the English army in 1514. Alongside the true common riding towns, other towns which now hold ridings are Currie, Penicuik, West Linton, Peebles, Biggar, Galashiels Musselburgh, Duns, Kelso, Jedburgh, Melrose, Coldstream, Yetholm, Annan, Dumfries, Lockerbie, Kirkcudbright, Wigtown, Gatehouse of Fleet. One of the most recent common ridings was the Copshaw Riding, formed in 1998.\n\nEach community starts its celebration with the election of that year's principal in the spring, choose from amongst the community. The leader of the community's celebration, once elected and until the end of ceremonies that year in that community, the principal man/woman/ pair is are an honoured figure(s). The principal is usually an unmarried man of good character. The principals then lead the rideout and celebrate with other towns to show their kinship.\n\nEach community often has a different name for their nominated leader/principal:\n\nWhile most community festivities last a week, some are focused around a few days while others last for up to two weeks. The programme will consist of a combination of ceremonies, ride outs, entertainment, and traditional Scottish sports. Community spirit for the ride is symbolised by the Burgh Flag, which is a colourful ceremony is \"bussed\", recalling the days when a knight's lady attached her ribbon to his lance before a battle, whereby now ribbons are tied to the Burgh Flagstaff by the principal lass. The colours are usually that of the town or village (for instance, Kelso is blue and white, Hawick is blue and yellow).\n\nToday Common Ridings attract large crowds (of emigrants and tourists) gathering from all around the world.\n\nThese events take place over the Summer season starting with hawick on the First Wednesday of May, continuing till Mid September.\n\nThe Hawick Common-Riding is the first and largest of the Border festivals. It celebrates the legendary capture of an English Flag in a skirmish at Hornshole believed to have taken place in 1514 and the traditional checking of the boundaries of the town's common land.\n\nAfter election night in May, each Saturday and Tuesday leading up to the Common-Riding, the Cornet and his supporters ride-out to visit surrounding villages and farms. The first Cornet's Chase takes place uphill on the \"Nipknowes\" to St. Leonards hut where a local publican is tasked to supply the customary dish of “curds and cream” or \"soordook\" for refreshment during the official riding of the marches the following week.\n\nIn 2014, Hawick celebrated its 500th Common Ridings.\n\nIn 2018, after a hotly fought battle in 1996 to prevent women riders was lost in the courts women took many years to be accepted. Hawick reluctantly accepts female participate in all activities in the Hawick Common Ridings although certain diehard women refuse to enter The Hut. Women rode in the common riding before an accident in 1931 led to their banning by the all-male common riding committee. \"They were finally allowed at all preliminary ride outs, chases, Friday’s main Common Riding day and Common Riding Saturday. A drinking event, called the “Hut”, was also open to women.\" Despite this progression, 2019 again saw renewed hostilities towards female participants. \n\nOn the Sunday before the Common-Riding in June, the Honorary Provost's Council attends the Kirkin' of the Cornet, a church service held in the Cornet's place of worship. In the afternoon the Cornet's party travels to the Hornshole Memorial where the Cornet's Lass lays a wreath. They then travel to the Moor to inspect the race-course.\n\nFollowing Chases on a Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday mornings the second major Chase takes place on the Thursday morning at 6.00 a.m. when the Cornet carries the Flag for the first time. Later the Principals visit local schools where the Cornet asks that the children are given a holiday for the rest of the week. This is, of course, granted and the children and parents join in singing festival songs.\n\nThe Colour Bussing takes place on a Thursday evening in the Town Hall. The Honorable Provost and Magistrates are played into a packed Hall by the Drum and Fife Band. Then come the Lasses with the Maids of Honour. The Cornet's Lass carries the Flag to the front of the Hall with her attendants and “busses” the Flag by tying ribbons to the head of the staff. The Flag is then given to the Cornet when he is reminded that it is “the embodiment of all the traditions that are our glorious heritage”. The Cornet is charged to ride the marches of the commonty of Hawick and return the Flag “unsullied and unstained”. The Halberdier then calls on the burgesses to “ride the meiths and marches of the commonty”. Then begins the Cornet's Walk around the town with his supporters stopping on the way to tie his ribbons on the 1514 Memorial.\n\nEarly the following morning the Drum and Fife Band set off to rouse the town. At 6.00 a.m. in Towerdykeside a ceremony called the Snuffin' takes place, when snuff is dispensed from an old horned mull by the town's official song singer. The crowd soon disperses to the surrounding pubs for the traditional rum and milk before breakfast followed by the singing of the “Old Song” at the door of The Borders Textile Towerhouse, each of the Principals taking it in turn to sing verses.\n\nThen the Principals, along with many mounted supporters, processes around the town up to the Nipknowes where the main chase takes place concluding in song, toasts and curds and cream at the Hut. The riders then set off via Williestruther Loch and Acreknowe Reservoir to ride the marches where the Cornet ceremoniously “Cuts the Sod” at the furthermost point of the common. They then make their way to the race-course where, after a programme of horse-racing, the company remounts and proceeds to Millpath where a proclamation is made that the marches have been duly ridden without interruption or molestation of any kind. This is followed by more singing and playing of Drums and Fifes and the Flag is returned temporarily to the Council Chambers where it is displayed. Later the Cornet's party attend the Common-Riding Dinner followed by the Ball where dancing continues into the night before seeing in the dawn from the summit of the Mote.\n\nOn Saturday the town is again roused by the Drum and Fife Band and by 9.30 a.m. the Cornet and supporters ride to Wilton Lodge Park where the male Principals lay wreaths of remembrance at the town's War Memorial. The procession then heads for the Moor where horse races are again held. At 3.00 p.m. the Cornet and his mounted supporters leave the Moor for the town stopping at the Coble Pool in the River Teviot to dip the flag marking the boundary between Hawick land and the ancient Langlands estate.\n\nOn the Cornet's return, his official duties end when he ceremoniously returns the Flag to the Hon. Provost in the Council Chambers. This is a solemn occasion as it marks the end of the common riding. Outside the riders stand to attention in their stirrups whilst the Saxhorn Band plays 'Invocation' and the Cornet displays the Flag for the last time. Teribus is traditionally sung at many occasions during the festivities.\n\nThe Selkirk Common Riding is a celebration of the history and traditions of the Royal and Ancient Burgh. Held on the second Friday after the first Monday in June, the ceremony is one of the oldest in the area, with 300–400 riders, Selkirk boasts one of the largest cavalcades of horses and riders in Europe. Selkirk still owns common land to the north and south of the town, but only the northern boundary of Linglie is ridden on the day. Selkirk Common Riding commemorates how, after the disastrous Battle of Flodden in 1513, from the eighty men that left the town, only one – Fletcher – returned bearing a captured English flag. Legend has it that he cast the flag about his head to indicate that all the other men of Selkirk had been cut down. At the climax of the day, the Royal Burgh Standard Bearer and Crafts and Associations Standard Bearers cast their colours in Selkirk's ancient Market Place.\n\nThe Standard Bearer is picked from the eligible unmarried young men of the town who have applied for the post by the trustees of the Common Riding Trust, successors to the old Selkirk Town Council which disappeared following local government reorganisation in 1974. He will normally have served his time as an Attendant to previous Standard Bearers. He is introduced on Appointment Night, the last Friday in April. He is carried shoulder high around the town, accompanied by bands and the crowds of locals. Many civic duties follow in preparation for the main event, participation in other town common ridings and festivities including Spurs Night where the Standard Bearer and attendants meet with the principals of Galashiels at Galafoot and receive a pair of spurs at a dinner in Galashiels. In 2014, Fiona Deacon became the first female Standard Bearer to carry the Ex-Serviceman's flag.\n\nThe Saturday before Common Riding Day is marked with the annual Children's Picnic, where primary school children have races. Sunday sees the inspection of the Rig, the town racecourse and Show Sunday, recently moved to the grounds of the Haining. Traditionally Souters would meet up in their new finery bought for the festivities and sing songs to the town bands. Other events include the Standard Bearers Dinner on Monday, and Ladies Night on Wednesday when the female population take-over the bars and clubs for the evening and only the bravest males venture out! Various bussing concerts and dinners are held for the Crafts and Associations.\n\nOn Thursday evening the Senior Burgh Officer takes to the streets to “Cry the Burley”, giving notice to the population that the marches are to be performed the following day, naming the Burleymen (four ex standard-bearers), the Burgh Standard Bearer and his attendants. His trek, accompanied by the bands starts in the West Port, stopping in the Market Place, High Street, Back Row and South Port to read the proclamation, ending with the time-honoured phrase “There will be all these, and a great many more, and all be ready to start at the sound of the Second Drum”\nThere follows the Bussing concert for the Incorporations of the Weavers and the Hammermen, in the Victoria Hall. This is followed by an act of remembrance when all available ex-Standard Bearers march to the statue of Fletcher outside the Victoria Hall. A wreath is placed on the statue by the chairman of the ex-Standard Bearers association, and each ex-Standard bearer walks around the statue in order of the year they represented the town, earliest first. (A list of ex standard bearers can be found here.) Then the pubs and clubs get busy with old friendships renewed, and much singing, or it is off to bed in preparation for a full day ahead.\n\nThe day begins before dawn, at 4.00 a.m. Selkirk Flute Band begin to march around town, wakening, in turn, Standard Bearer and Provost. There follows an Act of Remembrance by the Ex-Soldiers at the War Memorial at 05.30. The “First Drum” is struck at Six a.m., the Silver Band play around the town and lead the singing of “Hail Smiling Morn” alternating with the first verse of the hymn “Lead Kindly Light”. The band stops off outside the County hotel for a rendition of Exiles’ Song 'Her Bright Smile' before continuing to the Victoria Halls for 06.30. Meanwhile, the riders assemble in the Back Row. At 06.45 there is the Installation of Standard Bearer and Bussin' of Royal Burgh Flag on the balcony of Victoria Hall. The procession forms and marches to Market Place awaiting the “Second Drum” at 07.00. The procession moves off 'down the Green' behind the Silver band playing “O’ a’ the airts” and the pipe band, along with the flags of the Incorporations and Guilds on foot. Then follows the Standard Bearer and his attendants and the mounted cavalcade behind.\n\nBy 07.30 the riders begin to ford River Ettrick and onwards to Linglie Glen. The cavalcade reaches the summit of the Three Brethren cairns, the highest point of the ride; Here they rest and the Standard Bearer and Attendants sing “Hail Smilin’ Morn” before remounting and continuing the ride.\n\nBack in Selkirk, the foot procession re-forms in Market Place and leaves for Shawburn Toll led by the bands to Shawburn toll for community singing led by bands until the riders return at the gallop. The procession re-forms again and returns to Market Place via Bleachfield Road and High Street to the Market Square for ceremony of the Casting of the Colours; In turn the Royal Burgh Standard Bearer followed by those of the Weavers, Merchants, Fleshers, Colonials, and ex-soldiers cast their flags to the tune “Up wi’ the Souters”. The ex-soldiers standard is dipped at the end of his/her performance, there follows a Two Minutes Silence to honour the towns War Dead, broken by the Silver band playing the haunting ballad “The Liltin”.\n\nThe ceremonial ends with the Return of the Burgh Flag \"unsullied and untarnished\" by the Standard Bearer to the Provost. After lunch, there is horse racing at the Rig, and the ball is held in the Victoria Halls. Saturday ends with “The Games” – gymkhana and professional foot racing at the towns Cricket Club.\n\nLangholm's Common Riding (\"Langholm's Great Day\") attracts a large number of Langholmite exiles and also tourists from all over the world. The Public election for Cornet takes place in May. It comes from the settlement of a legal dispute in the 18th century, which ensured Langholm people certain common rights (e.g. the digging of peat) within set boundaries. Every year, those boundaries must be re-marked to maintain \"the rights.\" Over the years, this has become a celebration of the town and its people.\n\nAlthough not originally ridden to check the boundaries, horses are an extremely important part of the Common Riding and the traditions that have built up around it over the years. Common Riding Day is preceded by 'ride-outs' of horses on the hills around the town, and on the day itself the Cornet and his followers have to be able to ride – and ride well – to gallop up the Kirk Wynd, and get to the Monument (erected in memory of Sir John Malcolm), as part of checking the ancient boundaries.\n\nOn Common Riding Day, the last Friday in July, after the Cornet receives the flag, there are three Cryings of the Fair: two outside the Town Hall and one on Whita Hill. The Fair Cryer stands on the back of a horse.\n\nThe emblems – Thistle, Spade, Crown and Barley Banna' – are also important. The \"barley banna\" is barley bread nailed to a wooden platter, along with a salted herring, with a large (\"twai-penny\") nail.\n\nCommon Riding Day is concluded by returning from the Castleholm to the tune of \"Auld Lang Syne\", dancing polkas on the A7 trunk road, handing back the flag and finally singing of \"God Save The Queen.\"\n\nThe origins of common riding in Lauder are lost in the midst of time, but it cannot be denied that its pedigree is quite lengthy.\n\nIn Lauder, the boundaries were marked not by field boundaries but by a number of Cairns. The burgesses rode from cairn to cairn and it fell upon newer or younger men to fill their pockets with stones to place upon each cairn in turn. This practice was abandoned when it was found that the pockets contained not stones but bottles of refreshment to be consumed at each cairn. The Riding of the Marches was nevertheless serious business, the date and time being intimated by Tuck of Drum by the Town Drummer. Failure to attend to the duties could result in a fine, in the early 19th Century this was 5/- for a Burgess.\n\nThe ceremony originally was held on Ascension Day, when the lands, crops, and affairs of the Burgh were blessed, and the health of the monarch was toasted. Later the date became the King's Birthday. In this respect, it is recorded in the minutes of the Town Council in the early 19th century that the expense of celebrating the King's Birthday should not exceed £2.10/-.\n\nThe riders used to race from the Stirk Hill to the Town Hall, but this proved dangerous to rider and bystander alike and was discontinued after many protests. The day closed with a dinner in the Town Hall. The practice was discontinued for about 70 years but was resuscitated in 1911 to celebrate the Coronation of King George V, and has continued ever since with the exception of the two Wars. The revived Common Riding, which we have today differs very little from the original.\n\nIt is not held to commemorate a victory over the English in Battle like other Towns or as a Gala Day. The religious aspect is still observed with the Kirkin’ of the Cornet, at which the Lords Blessing is sought for the weeks' events. With a few alterations where land was sold, the Cornet leads his followers around the Marches of the Royal Burgh of Lauder with a halt for refreshments at the Waterin Stane and a Toast to Her Majesty. On leaving the Waterin’ Stane the cavalcade makes for the Burgess Cairn, the only surviving cairn, and places a stone upon it and on return reports no encroachment on Burgh Land.\n\nIn recent times “Tom Waldies bridge”, the Waterin’ Stane and the Burgess Cairn have been repaired and improved to ensure the smooth running of the common riding. The Millennium Cairn, at the top of the Whiteknowe End, was erected to commemorate regaining the Burgh Charter of 1502.\n\nJethart callant's festival was founded when, on 7 February 1947, a Committee named the Border Games Festival Committee called a meeting to discuss further the formation of a Pageant.\n\nJudge Jack presided and those present were Messrs: A Cairncross; D Thomson; T K Middlemist; T Dryburgh; W Henderson; A Fairbairn; J Hewie; Councillors JHL Hope, J Elliot, J Dryden; also present were A O Clarkson (Acting Hon. Secretary) and D J Cochrane (Hon. Treasurer). Office bearers were elected, and a programme for the pageant was adopted.\n\nJedburgh Callants Festival lasts two weeks, with ceremonial rides to places of historic interest. The most important ride is to Redeswire, close by Carter Bar, the site of Raid of the Redeswire in 1575, when the timely arrival of the Jedburgh contingent with their cry \"Jethart‘s here\" turned an apparent defeat of the men from Liddesdale into a rout of the English.\n\nThe Callant leads the mounted cavalcade to Ferniehurst Castle, halts for a ceremony at the Capon Tree, a survivor of the ancient Jed Forest, and returns to the town for the final ceremony at the War Memorial.\n\nSaturday commences with the firing of a cannon and a race around the town, followed by the Jedburgh Border Games, which date from 1853.\n\nCommon Ridings in West Linton are led by the \"Whipman\", the old Scots word for carter or carrier. In 1803 after the annual meeting of the Whipmen Benevolent Society, the committee paid formal visits to local mansions. The rest of the day, one of the few holidays of the year at the time, was devoted to sporting activities, a gathering which was styled “The Whipman Play”. The ceremony has continued since, unbroken except by two wars, revived in 1949.\n\nThe Linton Whipman is installed and invested with his sash of office on Friday evening and leads a mounted procession through the village. Saturday begins with a ride out and there follows a week-long programme of activities of sports, competitions, barbecue, and bonfire.\n\nThe Braw Lads’ Gathering is the annual summer festival for the town of Galashiels. The Braw Lads' Gathering was established in 1930 to celebrate the town's history, and in particular commemorates an event in 1337 where Gala men defeated English soldiers in a field of sour plums, the marriage in 1503 of King James IV of Scotland to Margaret Tudor of England, the granting of a burgh charter to the town, and the sacrifices made by local people in World War I.\n\nEvery year, a local man and woman are appointed to be Braw Lad and Braw Lass. They take part in the ceremonies and lead the ride outs, where hundreds of people ride through the town and across the countryside on horseback. The main Braw Lads’ Day takes place on a Saturday, beginning at 8 am when the Braw Lad receives the burgh flag and rides to the \"Raid Stane\" at Netherdale, the site of the 1337 affray. The cavalcade then crosses the River Tweed and stops for a reception at Abbotsford House, before riding back to the town, where the Braw Lass mixes red and white roses, commemorating the 1503 marriage. Then the Laird of Gala and the President of the Gathering exchange a parchment, celebrating the granting of the ‘Burgh of Barony’ charter in 1599. Finally, the party proceeds to the town's war memorial where, as the clock strikes noon, the Braw Lad dips the flag in a mark of respect to fallen soldiers, and a period of silence is held.\n\nEdinburgh Riding of the Marches dates from 1579, with the inspection of the Common Land continuing until the demise of the practice in 1718. In 1946 a special ‘Riding of the Marches’ was held in Edinburgh to celebrate peace and the end of the war. Seventy riders took part and a large crowd reported to be ‘approaching Royal visit dimensions’ greeted the riders in the Royal Mile.\n\nThe modern revival was re-established in 2009 and has grown in popularity every year since.\n\nEach year, shortly after the new year, the process begins to elect the Edinburgh Captain & Lass, who as the elected principals for the city will represent Edinburgh over the coming summer at various common rides and town festival celebrations, and also at civic events within the capital. Come September, they will lead the Edinburgh common ride around the boundaries of the city in the morning to represent the 'inspection of the common land,' before they ride for the Royal Mile to re-enact Randolph Murray returning from the battle of Flodden bearing the Blue Blanket, with the news that Scotland has been defeated and the death of King James IV.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043756", "title": "Penpont", "text": "Penpont\n\nPenpont is a village about west of Thornhill in Dumfriesshire, in the Dumfries and Galloway region of Scotland. It is near the confluence of the Shinnel Water and Scaur Water rivers in the foothills of the Southern Uplands. It has a population of about 400 people.\n\nThere are several archaeological sites nearby, including Late Bronze Age hill forts on Tynron Doon and Grennan Hill and a long cairn at Capenoch Loch dating from the 2nd or 3rd century.\n\nThe toponym \"Penpont\" means \"bridge-head\" in the Cumbric language once spoken in the region.\n\nThe A702 road passes through Penpont. West of Thornhill it crosses the River Nith on a two-arched stone bridge in Penpont parish. It was built in the 1760s after the presbytery of Penpont raised £680 toward the cost. Work started about 1774, but in 1776 the bridge collapsed. The bridge was completed in 1778 and strengthened in 1930–31. It is a Category A listed building.\n\nPenpont's Church of Scotland parish church is a Gothic Revival building completed in 1867. It is a Category B listed building. It has an Art Nouveau Communion table made in 1923.\n\nPenpont's war memorial was made by Glasgow sculptor William Kellock Brown and installed in 1920. It is a bronze statue of an infantryman, with his rifle pointing downwards, his hands resting on the butt and his head slightly bowed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043781", "title": "Residenz", "text": "Residenz\n\nResidenz () is a German word for \"place of living\", now obsolete except in the formal sense of an official residence. A related term, Residenzstadt, denotes a city where a sovereign ruler resided, therefore carrying a similar meaning as the modern expressions \"seat of government\" or \"capital\". As there were many sovereign (imperially immediate) rulers in the Holy Roman Empire, ranking from Lord (\"Herr\") to prince elector and king, there are many cities, palaces, and castles in this territory which used to be a residenz and are partially still so referred to today. The former residenz status of a city is frequently reflected by the architecture of its center. During the baroque period especially, many prestigious buildings were erected, sometimes even new towns were founded. Today, former \"Residenzstädte\" mostly still serve as cultural and administrative centers.\n\nExamples of buildings or cities:\n\nResidenzes newly founded in the baroque era:\n"}
{"id": "2043785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043785", "title": "USS Sapelo (AO-11)", "text": "USS Sapelo (AO-11)\n\nUSS \"Sapelo\" (AO-11) was a of the United States Navy. Laid down on 3 May 1919 for the United States Shipping Board by the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co., Newport News, Virginia, the ship was launched on 24 December 1919, transferred to the Navy on 30 January 1920, and commissioned on 19 February 1920, Comdr. W. R. Kennedy, USNRF, in command.\n\nAfter carrying fuel oil from Texas ports to shore stations in Panama, Cuba, and on the east coast, \"Sapelo\" completed her first transatlantic run, to the Firth of Clyde with oil for the British Admiralty, in June 1920. On her return, she remained in American waters through mid-August; then loaded fuel oil, gasoline, and stores for store ships and shore stations supporting United States Navy ships operating in Adriatic and Turkish waters. During September, she delivered cargo at Constantinople, Constanţa, Venice, and Split. From there, she proceeded to Brest where she received American war dead to return to the United States.\n\nOn 29 October, \"Sapelo\" arrived at New York City and, for the next four years, alternately operated along the gulf coast, in the Caribbean, and along the east coast, with semi-annual one-to-three-month tours in the Mediterranean–Middle East area. In April 1924, she transited the Panama Canal and proceeded to San Pedro, California. From there, she refueled ships conducting exercises off the California, Mexican, and Panamanian coasts and carried fuel to shore bases in the Canal Zone. In June, she returned to the east coast; underwent overhaul; and, in August, resumed gulf coast-east coast-Caribbean shuttle runs.\n\nIn January 1925, she returned to the Pacific for winter maneuvers; then, in April, departed San Francisco for Hawaii to support units participating in joint Army-Navy exercises. During May and June, she carried fuel oil and gasoline from California to Hawaii; and, in July, she carried her vital cargo to Samoa. On the 21st, she returned to Pearl Harbor; but, by the middle of August, was again en route west. After a stop at Wellington, N.Z., she once more delivered petroleum products to Samoa; and, on 1 September, she departed Tutuila to return to the United States.\n\nBy mid-October, \"Sapelo\" had resumed shuttling fuel from the Texas oil ports to bases in the Caribbean and along the east coast. In late November 1926, she again transited the Panama Canal; loaded fuel oil in California; delivered her cargo to Canal Zone depots; and returned to the Atlantic for operations along the coast, in the Caribbean, and the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nFor the next three years, she maintained a similar schedule. Most of her time was spent on the east coast, on the gulf coast, and in the Caribbean with runs, at least twice a year, into the Pacific to carry fuel, supplies, and personnel from California to the Canal Zone and Nicaragua. In 1929, she interrupted this schedule to carry fuel and torpedoes to the Philippines before returning to the United States to resume her previous operations.\n\nIn July 1932, the oiler was transferred to the Pacific. In mid-August, she arrived at San Pedro and, for the next seven months, operated along the California coast with periodic fuel, freight, and passenger runs to Pearl Harbor. In April 1933, she departed California for the east coast and, in mid-June, arrived in Philadelphia where she was decommissioned on 14 October.\n\nSix years later, World War II broke out in Europe; and \"Sapelo\" was ordered activated. Recommissioned on 19 August 1940, she was assigned to Train, Atlantic Fleet, and homeported at Norfolk. Into the spring of 1941, she carried petroleum cargoes along the gulf and east coasts. That summer, she extended her runs to Nova Scotia, Newfoundland, and Greenland. In the fall, she commenced runs to Iceland; and, on 7 December 1941, she was at sea, en route from NS Argentia to Reykjavík, Iceland.\n\nInto the winter of 1943, she continued to carry vital fuels to ships and shore stations in Canada, Newfoundland, and Iceland. Then, in late March, she departed Boston to deliver fuel oil, aviation gas, and ammunition to Loch Ewe, Scotland. On 15 April, she turned westward with salt water ballast and a partial cargo of ammunition. On the 19th, she arrived at Reykjavík; and, on the 24th, she departed Iceland to join convoy ONS-5. Two days later, the rendezvous was completed, and the convoy of 43 merchant ships moved west on a course to maximize air coverage from bases on Iceland, Greenland, and Newfoundland.\n\nFurther west, 47 German submarines, organized into Groups \"Star,\" \"Specht,\" and \"Amsel,\" were positioning themselves along projected convoy courses between Iceland and Newfoundland. On the 29th, a unit of \"Star\" located ONS-5 and relayed the information.\n\nThe signals were picked up by the convoy's escorts; and, that night, they drove off the first U-boat attack. The slow convoy continued west. Merchant ships began showing breakdown lights. Escorts began to deplete their fuel tanks. Heavy seas precluded refueling while underway.\n\nBy 4 May, 10 ships had dropped out of the main convoy body and had been organized into two straggler groups. The convoy's screen had been reduced to seven ships. Four additional U-boats joined the attacking units, who were reorganized and repositioned to trap the convoy between Cape Farewell on the southern tip of Greenland and Flemish Cap, some east of Cape Race, Newfoundland.\n\nJust prior to 2100 on 4 May, the escort ahead of the convoy dropped three depth charges. For over 30 hours, the convoy came under continuous attack. The escorts fought back, assisted by land-based aircraft; but ships ahead of, astern of, and to starboard of \"Sapelo\" were hit.\n\nOn the night of 5 and 6 May, after the convoy entered a fog bank, German accuracy dropped off. The U-boats waited for morning, but the fog continued to shield the survivors of ONS-5. At mid-morning on the 6th, the German attack was called off. The U-boats retired eastward. They had sunk 13 merchantmen. The escorts of ONS—5 had sunk five U-boats; Allied aircraft, one.\n\n\"Sapelo\" arrived at New York on 15 May. An overhaul period followed; and, in July, she resumed resupply runs to bases in the Maritime Provinces and Newfoundland. In September, she shifted south to the Caribbean and through the fall shuttled petroleum products from Aruba and Curaçao to the east coast. In December, she moved north again; shuttled fuels to Canadian ports; then, with the spring of 1944, commenced plying routes between the gulf coast, the east coast, and Bermuda. That summer, she again crossed the Atlantic; and, in September, she resumed operations along the east and gulf coasts, to Bermuda, and into the Caribbean which she continued until the end of World War II.\n\nWith the end of the war, \"Sapelo\" was designated for disposal. In September 1945, she reported to Commander, 5th Naval District for inactivation. On 26 October 1945, she was decommissioned; and, on 13 November, her name was struck from the Navy List. She was sold, via the War Shipping Administration to the Patapsco Scrap Co., in May 1946.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043786", "title": "Chinpara", "text": "Chinpara\n\n\"Chin Para\" (Japanese: チン☆パラ) was a pop a cappella group featuring 6 members. The group made its major debut in 2002 and broke up on April 7, 2004. Chin*Para entered the final round of the Japanese a cappella TV competition \"Hamonepu\" on FUJI TV.\n"}
{"id": "2043791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043791", "title": "Persepolis F.C.", "text": "Persepolis F.C.\n\nPersepolis Football Club (), is a Persian Gulf Pro League professional football club based in Tehran, Iran.\n\nPersepolis F.C. was founded in 1963 by Ali Abdo and has been in the first division of Iranian football since 1968. Persepolis also had three teams in bowling, basketball and volleyball in its first years of establishment. Persepolis F.C. is the football club of the multisport Persepolis Athletic and Cultural Club. The club is owned by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. There have been many attempts to privatize the club with no success due to the large debt the club has accumulated.\n\nThe club has played at its home ground, Azadi Stadium, since 1973. They contest the Tehran derby, which is regarded as one of the biggest in Asia, with archrivals Esteghlal, a match that is always closely followed by Iranian football fans. According to the Asian Football Confederation, Persepolis is the most popular football club in Asia.\nAt AFC Champions League, Persepolis has the records of the most attendances (11 matches among 20 matches with the most attendances) and five matches with the most attendances. Persepolis has also broken the record of 100,000 attendances in four matches at AFC Champions League. Persepolis has won a record twelve Iranian league titles, as well as six Hazfi Cups, three Super Cups and the 1990–91 Asian Cup Winners' Cup. Many notable players have played for the club, including former Bayern Munich players Ali Karimi, Ali Daei, Vahid Hashemian and former Hamburger SV player Mehdi Mahdavikia. However, Ali Parvin is widely regarded as the club's greatest ever player. Parvin has spent 18 years with the club from 1970 to 1988.\n\nShahin was established in 1942 by Dr. Abbas Ekrami, a teacher.\nEkrami founded the club with help of some young students under the motto\nShahin produced many talented players like Parviz Dehdari, Masoud Boroumand, Homayoun Behzadi, Jafar Kashani, Hossein Kalani, Hamid Shirzadegan, and many more that played for Team Melli. These talents made Shahin popular in the 1960s but its very popularity was viewed as a threat by the Iran Football Federation and the \"Keihan Varzeshi\" newspaper (Iran's most important sports publication at the time).\nThe conflict between them became worse and on 9 July 1967, two days after Shahin's 3–0 win against Tehranjavan F.C., the Iran Sports Organization declared Shahin F.C. as dissolved. League attendance dropped and other clubs including Pas, Rah Ahan, and Oghab tried to sign Shahin players.\n\nPersepolis Athletic and Cultural Club was established in 1963 by Ali Abdo. Abdo had returned to Iran from the United States and was a championship boxer.\n\nPersepolis F.C. started the 1968 season with Parviz Dehdari as manager. Despite the efforts to sign and disperse Shahin players to various clubs, Parviz Dehdari and Masoud Boroumand transferred the popularity of Shahin to Persepolis F.C. by taking most Shahin Players to join Persepolis. The team was initially quite weak, and participated in the 2nd division of the country. The best player on the team then was Mahmoud Khordbin.\n\nThe club, using four Shahin players, had a friendly match with \"Jam Abadan\", a respected team at the time. After the match the remainder of the Shahin players joined Persepolis. That year no league competition was held, as many teams had been dissolved, so a 44-team tournament was held, and Persepolis, along with Pas, Taj, and Oghab finished top of the group.\n\nThe next year they represented as the first Iranian club in the Asian Champion Club Tournament held in Thailand, but they were not successful and were eliminated in the group stage.\n\nIn 1962, the Iran Universal (Iran National \"Iran Nacional\") automobile factory was opened. In 1969, The boss of the factory, Mahmoud Khayami, who was also the owner of a football team, was a big fan of Shahin. Khayami, who wanted to improve his football team, entered into negotiations with Persepolis and was able to get all the former Shahin players except Aziz Asli and Mahmoud Khordbin to join his new team, Paykan Tehran F.C.\nPaykan won the championship that year, but the new players moved back to Persepolis at the end of the season.\n\nIn 1971, Persepolis won its first ever championship in the Iranian League.\nPersepolis had an impressive season with 13 wins and 1 draw, in 14 weeks. In 1972, Abdo announced Persepolis as the first professional football club in Iran. The club did not enter the domestic league and only played against foreign clubs, and a few months later it became amateur again.\nNext year the Takht Jamshid Cup was established.\nPersepolis won the inaugural Takht Jamshid Cup in 1973 and won it again in 1975.\nIn the third year of establishment of Takhte Jamshid cup Persepolis lost just two matches of thirty matches of that year.\nPersepolis is the most successful club in the Takht Jamshid Cup league, clinching two championship titles and finishing three times as runner-up.\n\nWhen the Iranian Revolution took place in 1979, Abdo returned to United States. Although Persepolis won the Espandi Cup, the club fell apart and many of the old players did not return.\nThe club's property was sequestered by The Oppressed and Veterans Foundation () and the club placed under the responsibility of The Physical Education Department () of Iran.\n\nIn 1981, the Physical Education Department declared that the name of the club would change, but club officials, players, and fans opposed the move. The team didn't appear in the match against Homa in the Tehran league as a protest against the Physical Education Department. They lost the match 3–0 by default and Homa became champion. In 1986, The club was taken over by the Oppressed and Veterans Foundation and renamed \"Azadi\" (meaning \"freedom\", ). Players declared that they wouldn't play for the club if the name change went through. After a brief period the Foundation did not want the club any more, and it was taken over by the Physical Education Department again.\nOn 16 February 1987, the Physical Education Department renamed the club \"Pirouzi\" (meaning \"victory\", ) with players' agreement, although fans still call the team by its original name, Persepolis. On 10 April 2012 the club chairman Mohammad Rouyanian announced that the club will officially only be known as Persepolis.\n\nIn the 1980s the club only played in the Tehran League and various elimination tournaments. Persepolis was successful during this time and maintained its popularity, winning the Tehran League five seasons in a row. During all that time, Ali Parvin served as player-manager.\n\nThe 1990s were a dream decade for the team, with four league championships, two Hazfi Cups, dozens of great players, and renewed support. At one point more than six Persepolis players were starters on Iran's national team.\nThe team won the national championship in the 1995–96 season. At one point in that season they were 10 points behind Bahman. They came back and finished first, six points ahead of the league runner-up. They won the league again the next season, again finishing ahead of the runner up by six points. They were stopped by the Korean side Pohang Steelers in the semi-finals of the Asian Champions' Cup. Persepolis finished third, defeating Iraq's Al-Zawraa in the third place match.\n\nThe next season they showed good form again, but due to their commitments in the Asian Champions' Cup and the large number of national team players they had, they withdrew from the league. The poor scheduling and mismanagement of both the I.R.I.F.F. and AFC officials led to this unprofessional event. This prevented Persepolis from possibly winning a third consecutive league championship. Persepolis did not have much luck in the Asian Champion's cup either, as they were once again stopped in the semi-finals, this time by Chinese club, Dalian Wanda. They lost the third place match as well to Al-Hilal.\n\nThe 1996–97 and 1997–98 Persepolis teams are considered by many to be among the greatest Iranian clubs to ever play. National team players and future superstars such as Ahmadreza Abedzadeh, Khodadad Azizi, Karim Bagheri, Ali Daei, Mehdi Mahdavikia, Mehrdad Minavand, Ali Karimi and many more were among the players who played for the club in those years.\n\nAfter the World Cup 1998, several of Persepolis' best players were transferred to European clubs, but Persepolis was able to keep a talented squad. Future national team members Ali Karimi and Hamed Kavianpour would join the team at this time. They won the 1998–99 championship as well as the Hazfi Cup that season. They also won the 1999–2000 league championship, finishing third again in the Asian Champions Cup. This would be their last championship in the Azadegan League era.\n\nMost of Persepolis' championships at the time were won while Ali Parvin was the manager, and Amirali Abedini was the chairman.\n\nPersepolis entered the newly established IPL looking to dominate once again, but near the end of the season they were in a very close race with their rival Esteghlal.\nEsteghlal led the league by two points going into the final day of the regular season. Esteghlal's loss to Malavan and Persepolis' 1–0 win against Fajr Sepasi in their last games of the season gave Persepolis a one-point lead and another championship. Their 2001–02 season championship made them the first-ever IPL champions.\nThe 2002–03 season proved to be extremely difficult and Persepolis finished third, never managing to come close to the eventual winners, Sepahan. They also fell apart in the newly created AFC Champions League, failing to advance out of the group stage.\n\nWhen Akbar Ghamkhar took over as club chairman, he made several changes in an effort to improve the team. He made public the amount of player and staff salaries, severely angering Parvin, the highest paid player on the team. Ghamkhar hired coach Vinko Begović, and entered into contracts with several prominent players. Persepolis started off very well in the 2003–04 season but things deteriorated. Begovic left the team and German manager Rainer Zobel was bought in. Parvin was brought back, taking the position of technical director. The club finished fifth in the standings in the 2004–05 season.\n\nGhamkhar was replaced with Hojatollah Khatib. He decided to bring back Parvin. The club experienced major financial problems as some of the spending decisions made in previous years had overextended the club. Persepolis finished the 2005–06 season in ninth place, the lowest it had ever placed. Parvin left the club in February 2006, vowing to never return to Persepolis, after a 4–2 loss to Fajr Sepasi in Azadi Stadium. After the game, the fans began cursing at Ali Parvin and the players.\n\nKhatib resigned as chairman and Mohammad Hassan Ansarifard was elected to the post by the club council. Arie Haan was brought in as the new manager, helping the team make it to the 2005–06 Hazfi Cup final, but he was fired by the club just before the 2006–07 season began. Turkish manager Mustafa Denizli signed with the team on 17 August 2006. With the final cup match being his first one as the club's manager, Denizli was not able to help the club win the Hazfi Cup in 2006, a cup that the team needed to gain entry into the Asian Champion's League and to receive financial benefits by doing so.\n\nThe club did not win the Hazfi Cup the next year either, losing to Sepahan in the semifinals in June 2007. The club finished third in the IPL 2006–07, and Denizli left the club after Ansarifard resigned as chairman in June 2007.\n\nHabib Kashani became the club chairman in June 2007 and selected Afshin Ghotbi as head coach of Persepolis for the 2007–08 season.\nGhotbi Promised to lead Persepolis to the IPL championship and started the IPL with a 3–2 win over Sanat Naft. Persepolis was undefeated until the 17th round, where they suffered a 2–1 loss to Sepahan. On 9 January 2008, the disciplinary committee of the Iranian Football Federation announced because of a serious injury to a security soldier by the Sepahan fans, Sepahan would be charged with a five-point deduction. This was later reduced to three points. Persepolis was also docked six points by FIFA because of unpaid wages to a number of former players. This placed Persepolis behind Sepahan in the standings.\nNear the end of the season Sheys Rezaei and Mohammad Reza Mamani were expelled by the team after both players showed poor behavior towards club players, coaches, and management as well as other non-football-related issues. Habib Kashani and Mahmoud Khordbin both suffered heart attacks. Persepolis cut Sepahan's seven-point lead to two points by the last game of the season.\n\nIn the last week, Persepolis defeated Sepahan when Sepehr Heidari scored a 90+6th-minute goal in front of over 110,000 fans in Azadi Stadium to give Persepolis its second championship in the IPL and a berth in the Asian Champions League. In the 2007–2008 Golden Ball award ceremony Persepolis, Afshin Ghotbi, and Mohsen Khalili won the Team, Manager, and Player of the year titles.\n\nGhotbi's contract expired at the end of the season and he decided to leave the club. His assistant, Hamid Estili, was very close to management but, Kashani and other club officials resigned because of conflicts between them and the Iran Physical Education Department. Dariush Mostafavi was selected as club chairman. Mostafavi promised to bring Ghotbi back. Negotiations were successful, and on 4 July 2008, Ghotbi signed a two-year contract with Persepolis. Ghotbi had many problems with Mostafavi and resigned on 19 November 2008. When talking to the popular Iranian show 90, Ghotbi showed tears before leaving Persepolis and the fans that loved him who had given him the nickname Emperor.\n\nHowever, Ghotbi left the team in mid-season after a series of losses and eventually became head coach of the Iran national football team.\n\nDue to the mismanagement of the club, Persepolis had underachieved in the recent seasons of the Iran Pro League. The selection of incompetent coaches, and the acquisition of low quality players have enhanced the present deep in form. After the resignation of Ghotbi, his assistant Afshin Peyrovani was named as interim head coach of the club, led the team in 11 matches in Iran Pro League but he was replaced with former Portugal and Saudi Arabia manager, Nelo Vingada. Vingada's contract was terminated at the end of the season.\n\nAfter Vingada was sacked as head coach of the club, former Croatia and Dinamo Zagreb manager, Zlatko Kranjčar was hired as his successor but he was soon replaced with former Persepolis and Iran national football team captain, Ali Daei. At the end of the 2009–10 Season, Persepolis finished fourth in the league but they became Hazfi Cup champions. In the Hazfi Cup final, Persepolis defeated Azadegan League side Gostaresh Foolad Tabriz 4–1 on aggregate to qualify for the 2011 AFC Champions League. In the 2010–11 season, Persepolis finished fourth in the league and was eliminated in the group stage of the 2011 AFC Champions League but at the end of the season Persepolis won the 2010–11 Hazfi Cup after defeating rivals Sepahan, Foolad and Malavan. The technical committee chose Hamid Estili as Daei's successor on that day. Under the management of Daei, Persepolis won back to back trophies for the first time in 13 seasons.\n\nAfter Daei's resignation, Hamid Estili, Mustafa Denizli, Manuel José and most recently Yahya Golmohammadi managed Persepolis for a record 4 head coaches in only two seasons. Golmohammadi led Persepolis to the final of the Hazfi Cup, but losing to Sepahan on penalties. After the Hazfi Cup, Golmohammadi announced that he would not be managing Persepolis the following season.\n\nHowever, Daei returned to the club and signed a three years contract before the start of 2013–14 season. Under Daei Persepolis finished second with 55 points, 2 points behind Champions Foolad. Persepolis retained its place in the AFC Champions League after a two-year absence.\n\nAfter a poor start to the 2014–15 season which left Persepolis in 9th place, Daei was sacked and was replaced by Hamid Derakhshan.\n\nOn 5 April 2015, Hamid Derakhshan resigned as head coach of Persepolis and was temporarily replaced by Hossein Abdi.\n\nOn 15 May 2015 Ivanković won his first Tehran derby after a 1–0 victory over Esteghlal. Later that week on 19 May 2015 Persepolis defeated Al-Hilal 1–0 in the first leg of AFC Champions League round of 16. In the second leg they lost 3–0 against Al-Hilal and were eliminated.\n\nAfter the departure of Mohammad Nouri, the club named Hadi Norouzi as the captain for the 2015–16 season. Persepolis was also very active in the summer transfer season, adding Iranian international Ramin Rezaeian, Croatian defender Luka Maric and Honduras international Jerry Bengtson.\nOn 1 October 2015, the club captain Hadi Norouzi died in his sleep at the age of 30 after an apparent heart attack. His death caused a profound shock in Iranian sports.\n\nAfter the death of Hadi Norouzi Persepolis improved their form and their long unbeaten streak propelled them to the top 3 midway through the season. After a historic 4–2 win against Esteghlal in the Tehran derby, the team moved into first place. However, after a loss to Naft Tehran on 28 April, the team dropped down to third place. Persepolis won the following week match against Gostaresh Foolad and moved into second place, behind Esteghlal Khuzestan on goal difference. A final day win on 13 May 2016 against Rah Ahan was not enough for Persepolis as Esteghlal Khuzestan also won and were crowned champions of Persian Gulf Pro League 2015–16.\n\nBefore the 2016–17 season, Persepolis added national team members Alireza Beiranvand, Jalal Hosseini, and Vahid Amiri. Persepolis started the season strong and never dropped below third place. They set records for least ever goals conceded and most ever points accumulated after 17 weeks in a Persian Gulf Pro League season. On April 15, 2017, Persepolis became the champions of the season with three weeks remaining to the end of the season. After a victory against Machine Sazi, Persepolis claimed its third championship in the Persian Gulf Pro League and its 10th championship in total. Persepolis defended its championship in the Persian Gulf Pro League 2017–18 and won Super cup.\n\nOn 30 May 2017 Persepolis made history again after advancing to the Quarterfinals after defeating Qatari club Lekhwiya 1–0 in the AFC Champions League Round of 16. This was the first time in club history that Persepolis made Quarterfinals in the current Champions League format. Persepolis beat Saudi club Al Ahli 5–3 on aggregate to make it to the Semifinals, where they lost to Al Hilal 6–2 on aggregate. the following year Persepolis advanced to AFC Champions League Final in 2018 and lost 2–0 in First-leg. Persepolis were held to a goalless draw by Kashima Antlers of Japan in the second leg of the AFC Champions League.. On may sixteenth 2019 Branko Ivanković made another history with Persepolis F.C. by Hat-trick of championship of Iran premier football league in Persian Gulf Pro League.\n\nPersepolis Football Club was named after the historical landmark, Persepolis, the capital of the Achaemenid Empire. The club logo incorporates elements from the location.\nThe first design of Persepolis' crest used the Faravahar, an ancient Persian and Zoroastrian symbol. The Faravahar is a man with falcon wings, each with three feathers. This version of the crest used in early years. After that there was not a crest on the shirt until the 1980s. In the middle of the 1980s the design of the crest changed. This version had two bull heads attached to one body as seen on a column at Apadana. A cup is designed on the top of the body and Olympic rings are seen under the cup. The bull is the symbol of productivity in ancient Persian beliefs and Persian Literature and the cup on the top of the column represents the championship. In the mid 1990s the crest changed again and became more stylized; the crest became bent and the Olympic rings were dropped, the cup became more explicit while bull heads leaned to the cup. This version used until 2004; the following crest was simpler still. The Olympic rings returned to the crest and the bull of past versions was turned into Homa, another mythological creature and symbol used in the architecture of Persepolis. In 2012, during 2011–2012 season, and before 74th Tehran derby, club released a new version of its logo This current version of the club's logo incorporates the previous version into a whole red shield shaped frame entailing the name of Persepolis in Persian and English.\n\nOne of Persepolis' nicknames is \"Sorkhpoushan\" (\"The Reds\", ), stemming from their traditional kit, which is predominantly red. From the foundation of the club, the common home kit includes a red shirt, red (in some seasons black or white) shorts, and red socks. White and black colours are also seen in the kit. In the early 1970s the shorts were black; white shorts were used in the late 1970s, and red shorts became predominant in the 1980s.\n\nIn the 2006–07 season, fans saw the team wear red and white striped shirts. The away kit of the club is commonly with a white background.\n\nWhen Persepolis F.C. was created, the sport club already had a number of buildings such as gymnasiums, swimming pools, and bowling alleys in the Bowling Abdo Complex. The facility is in the north of Tehran and was renamed Shahid Chamran Bowling after the revolution. There was initially no stadium for the football team. Ali Abdo bought some land in the Ekbatan area of Tehran and constructed a stadium there. At the time it was known as Apadana stadium. Persepolis played only one game at the stadium due to poor organization of the seating and a lack of co-operation with other Iranian clubs. Persepolis only used the stadium as a training ground.\n\nAround the time of mid-1970s, Abdo had to sell much of the club's property to keep the club functioning due to its poor financial situation; he sold Apadana Stadium to Rah Ahan for 200,000 Tomans in 1975. Apadana Stadium is now called Rah Ahan Stadium. Due to the Iranian Islamic Revolution in 1979 club properties were confiscated by the Oppressed and Veterans Foundation (Bonyad Mostazafan, ); Bowling Abdo, the club's original headquarters, burnt down, Abdo returned to the United States.\n\nBefore the construction of Azadi Stadium in 1971, Persepolis played its matches at Amjadieh (Shahid Shiroudi) Stadium. They have played almost all of their home games at Azadi Stadium, except for the 2002–03 season, when they played all but two of their home matches at Tehran's Takhti Stadium while renovations were taking place at Azadi.\n\nIn mid-2006 Persepolis considered buying Shahre Ghods Stadium, but the deal fell through due to Persepolis' poor financial situation and the long distance between the city center and the stadium.\n\nThis stadium is the training ground and Academy base of Iranian football club Persepolis.\nInside the complex, there are training areas, Hotel and pools. There are also a sauna, steam and weight rooms, a restaurant, conference rooms and offices.\n\nDerafshifar Stadium was given to Persepolis in 2013 and it was considered as the club's property. President Mohammad Rouyanian announced that after his efforts Iranian government accepted the assignment of Derafshifar Stadium to Persepolis and he said that it is an enterprise in order to increase the club's properties.\n\nPersepolis became the owner of Shahid Kazemi Stadium in the winter of 2016. The stadium with a capacity of 15,000 is to be used for training sessions and friendly matches. The complex has a sauna, steam room, weight room, restaurant and conference room.\n\nIn January 2017, the club announced they would renovate the complex by adding a second natural grass pitch, adding parking lots, and a cafeteria. As well as upgrading the already existing conference room, changeroom, gym and swimming area.\n\nIt is first Iranian sport university which opened in 2013. Dariuosh Soudi was appointed as the first president of the university and Mehdi Mahdavikia was the first student of this university. This university has 600 students and accepts students in thirteen different fields.\nSome fields provided by the university:\n\n\nIn June 2013 Persepolis launched their first full-time television channel, with the channel to be available on Hot Bird satellites across the world. The manager of Persepolis TV was Reza Rashidpour. However the channel closed in October 2013.\n\nDuring the 2017–18 season, Persepolis reopened its channel with the name of \"Persepolis TV\".\n\nThe radio of the club started working after revealing new version of Persepolis official website. This radio worked through recording programs and make them ready for fans to download from the club's official website. The number of recordings and programs was more than thirty different entertaining parts and the number of downloads of each program was more than one million. President Rouyanian came on an agreement with \"Iran Seda\" internet radio to put its link in the official website of the club and make it possible to listen to the live commentary of the 77th Tehran derby through it. The commentator of this match was Eskandar Koti one of the most famous commentators in Iran.\n\nThe club started producing energy drinks since 2013. This product is advertised widely in IRIB TV channels.\n\nThe club established these restaurants as an economic movement in order to improve its fans feeling of living with the club through their routine life. Persepolis restaurants chain based in different cities of Iran. The first Persepolis restaurant opened in Shiraz where the Iranian precious historical places \"Takhte Jamshid\" and \"Persepolis\" are located. As of May 2014, there are four branches of Persepolis restaurants open in Iran.\n\nPersepolis is one of the highest supported teams in Iranian football. It is said in unofficial counts that the club has over 40 million fans.\nThe club is based in Tehran and is popular in all parts of country. Persepolis also has a fan base in Afghanistan and Persian Gulf countries.\n\nThe peoples below are little part of the Persepolis most famous fans:\n\n\nPersepolis is one side of Iran's and Asia's most important club football match which is called The Sorkhabi derby. The rivalry between Persepolis and Esteghlal was derived from the previous significant derby between Shahin and Taj.\n\nThis match was declared as the most important derby in Asia and 22nd most important derby in the world in June 2008 by \"World Soccer\" magazine.\n\nAfter the departure of Shahin players to Persepolis, the club became too popular and its arch-rival Taj (meaning \"crown\" in Persian) was the royal team supported by the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza. As the two biggest and most successful clubs in Iran, nowadays the rivalry continues on an annual basis with both teams often challenging each other for the championship. In each transfer season, both clubs try to attract rival team players.\n\nEsteghlal has the most wins in the derby, but Persepolis has the largest margin of victory. Historically defeating Esteghlal 6–0 on 7 September 1973.\n\nAnother Persepolis rival is Sepahan, the club based in Esfahan. Both clubs were dependent upon Shahin; one hired most of the Shahin players in its early years and the other was the branch of Shahin F.C. in Esfahan. The rivalry renewed in the early 2000s (decade), when Esfahan rose in Iran football. Sepahan and Zob Ahan became strong, replacing Tehran popular teams in the 2002–2003 season. Both of Iran's important football competitions, IPL and the Hazfi Cup, were won by Esfahan teams that season.\nPersepolis also had a derby against the now dissolved club, Pas Tehran.\n\n\n\n\nFor recent transfers, see List of Iranian football transfers summer 2019.<br>For more on the reserve and academy squads, see Persepolis B, Persepolis Academy, Persepolis Shomal & Persepolis Qaem Shahr.\n\nOn 6 October 2015, the club decided to retire the squad number 24 in memory of Hadi Norouzi, who died of heart attack in sleep at the age of 30. He played for Persepolis at the time.\n\n\"For notable players see List of Persepolis F.C. players.\"<br>\n\"For details on former players see .\"\n\nThe table below shows Persepolis managers that have won noteworthy titles or had a great impact on the team. For a more detailed and chronological list of Persepolis managers from 1964 onwards with their trophies, see List of Persepolis F.C. managers.\n\nReserve teams\n\n"}
{"id": "2043792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043792", "title": "Rudi Koertzen", "text": "Rudi Koertzen\n\nRudolf Eric Koertzen (; born 26 March 1949) is a former international cricket umpire. Koertzen was born in Knysna in the Western Cape, South Africa. A cricket enthusiast since his youth, he played league cricket while working as a clerk for South African Railways. He became an umpire in 1981.\n\nKoertzen officiated in his first One Day International (ODI) on 9 December 1992, and in his first Test match from 26–29 December 1992. Both matches were contested between South Africa and India at Port Elizabeth, during the first series in which television replays were used to assist with run-out decisions. Koertzen soon became well known for very slowly raising his index finger to indicate that a batsman was out.\n\nHe became a full-time ICC umpire in 1997, and was one of the original members of the Elite Panel of ICC Umpires when it was founded in 2002. He went on to officiate in a record 209 ODIs - becoming the second umpire (after David Shepherd) to stand in 150 ODIs with the match between India and Pakistan at Abu Dhabi on 19 April 2006, surpassing Shepherd's record of 172 ODIs with the Cricket World Cup match between the West Indies and England in Barbados on 21 April 2007, and standing in his 200th ODI with the match between Ireland and Kenya at Dublin on 11 July 2009. He also became the second umpire, after Steve Bucknor, to stand in 100 Test matches with the second Test of the 2009 Ashes between England and Australia at Lord's on 16 July 2009, and eventually officiated in 108 Tests.\n\nKoertzen was appointed to several high-profile matches, including India-Pakistan series and Ashes series (he was one of the umpires during the famous 2005 Ashes). In both the 2003 and 2007 Cricket World Cups, he officiated on-field in one of the semi-finals and was the third umpire in the final. He was also one of the on-field umpires for the final of the ICC Champions Trophy in both 2004 and 2006, and was selected to umpire in the ICC SuperSeries (Australia v World XI) in 2005, along with Simon Taufel, Aleem Dar and Darrell Hair.\n\nHis professionalism saw him through some controversial moments: in September 1999 he refused a bribe to fix the outcome of the final of the Coca-Cola Singapore Challenge between the West Indies and India, and in January 2000 he stood in the Test match between South Africa and England at Centurion, where both teams forfeited an innings in order to force a result after South African captain Hansie Cronje had been approached by a bookmaker. He was also highly regarded by the players: he was officially voted the top umpire in 2002, and was nominated for the ICC Umpire of the Year award in 2005 and 2006, on both occasions finishing third behind Taufel and Dar. However, he also made a number of high-profile errors - most notably in the ill-tempered Test between Sri Lanka and England at Kandy in March 2001, and in the final of the 2007 World Cup, where his misinterpretation of the rules regarding bad light resulted in him being banned from officiating in the inaugural ICC World Twenty20 tournament later that year (though he was selected for the following World Twenty20 tournament, in 2009).\n\nOn 4 June 2010, Koertzen announced his decision to retire from umpiring. He stood in his final ODI on 9 June 2010, between Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka at Harare, and in his final Test from 21–24 July 2010, between Pakistan and Australia at Leeds.\n\nKoertzen is the first umpire to achieve all three of these awards. This feat has only been achieved by Aleem Dar since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043796", "title": "Rainer Zobel", "text": "Rainer Zobel\n\nRainer Zobel (born 3 November 1948 in Wrestedt) is a German football manager and former player.\n\nHe played for FC Bayern Munich during the 1970s.\n\nIn 2005, Zobel was head coach of Persepolis F.C. in Iran's Premier Football League. He was named as coach of Moroka Swallows, a South African team from Johannesburg and signed on 17 July 2009 a one-year contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043801", "title": "Albin Dunajewski", "text": "Albin Dunajewski\n\nAlbin Dunajewski (born 1 March 1817 in Stanisławów - 19 June 1894 in Kraków) was a Bishop of Kraków, Poland, as well as charitable patron and high-profile social activist.\n\nIn 1882, Albin Dunajewski ordained Brother Raphael Kalinowski as Priest of the Discalced Carmelite Order. Father Raphael was canonized in 1991, by Pope John Paul II. In 1892, Cardinal Dunajewski (elevated to that rank in 1890) laid the corner-stone for the construction of the Church of the Holy Virgin Mary of Lourdes founded by the Lazarists in the district of Krowodrza, but died two years later, just before its consecration in 1894.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043808", "title": "International School of New Media", "text": "International School of New Media\n\nInternational School of New Media (short ISNM) in Lübeck, Germany was an international, affiliated private institute at the University of Lübeck. It was closed end of 2011.\n\nISNM was established in 2001 by founding director Hubertus von Amelunxen for the purpose of providing a course that combines the technological, scientific, social, economical, and cultural aspects and implications of New Media.\n\nAt the ISNM, students work and study with peers with diverse cultural and educational backgrounds. For instance, architects, computer scientists, artists, and sociologists can work together on a project as a team.\n\nUntil 2008, ISNM offered a graduate program conducted entirely in English leading to an award of a \"M.Sc. in Digital Media\" degree. The 24-month-long program received international accreditation by ZeVA Hannover. The M.Sc. in Digital Media program provided academic training in interdisciplinary media competence. It connected Media Technology, Computer Science, design and e-commerce with the New Media in the arts, culture and society. The M.Sc. degree qualified students for positions at the intersections of digital media in business, industry, research, education, tourism and international organisations, among others.\n\nThe ISNM’s interdisciplinary graduate program in Digital Media aimed at creating decision-makers and managers in every sector and discipline with a more complete understanding of digital media's role in the 21st century’s global world and market. The program followed a concerted strategy to reach this goal by providing a unique combination of technology, business, research, arts, design and culture in the Digital Media sector. Substantial emphasis was placed on the transfer of learning from the university to the work setting and an integration of students’ diverse backgrounds into interdisciplinary project management and intercultural teamwork.\n\nISNM founders have set the standard for the faculty whose teaching and research is consistently influencing New Media practices. The faculty is a group with honors and research awards on their credits.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043818", "title": "Augustine Bradshaw", "text": "Augustine Bradshaw\n\nDom Augustine Bradshaw (1575–1618) was a Benedictine monk. Born John Bradshaw near Worcester in 1575 to recusant Roman Catholic parents, he was sent to Royal Grammar School Worcester (a \"free school\", i.e. with no religious affiliation). He was sent to St. Omer by the Jesuit Edward Oldcorne and then in 1596 to the English College, Valladolid.\n\nAfter an illness, he was sent to the Abbey of San Martín Pinario in Santiago de Compostela in 1599 where he took the name \"Augustine of St John\". He returned to England as a missionary in 1602, and became Vicar-General of the English Benedictines in 1604. He is recorded in contemporary writing as travelling the county of Worcestershire under the pseudonym John White.\n\nAmong his most remembered achievements was the establishment of a monastic foundation at Douai and the College of St. Gregory (later Downside School). He was buried at Longueville near Rouen in 1618.\n"}
{"id": "2043824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043824", "title": "Jewish Lads' and Girls' Brigade", "text": "Jewish Lads' and Girls' Brigade\n\nThe Jewish Lads' and Girls' Brigade (JLGB) is a national Jewish youth organisation based in and primarily serving the United Kingdom. \nThe UK's oldest Jewish youth movement, it was founded in 1895 as the Jewish Lads' Brigade by Colonel Albert E. W. Goldsmid, a senior army officer, to provide an interest for children of the many poor immigrant families who were coming into England at that time. The first company was launched in London's East End but others soon appeared throughout the city and the provinces. The movement later spread as far as South Africa and Canada.\n\nModelled on the Church Lads' and Church Girls' Brigade (and often referred to as its \"Sister Organisation\"), The Brigade catered for boys only in the early days, providing them with more than just spare-time activities. It offered food, clothes and the chance to learn skills which might help in finding a job, and it sought to turn young Jewish immigrant boys into good Englishmen. Just 19 boys attended the first summer camp in 1896. Girls were admitted to membership in the 1963 (as the Jewish Girls' Brigade) and in 1974 the JLB and JGB amalgamated to become the JLGB. Nowadays, several hundred youngsters camp with JLGB throughout the year. JLGB still gives young people the type of valuable training which helps them to succeed in today's world. It also offers a Summer tour to Israel for its members.\n\nSince the Second World War the formation of the first girls' company, the first junior units for the under-elevens and several bands has resulted in a larger and more exciting Brigade. There are now hundreds of Jewish boys and girls sharing in the Brigade's experiences.\n\nThe JLGB has a rank-structured hierarchy, with members progressing as Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) to become leaders as Warrant Officers and Officers. There are also many non-uniformed helpers and instructors who, together with the Officers and Warrant Officers provide a diverse range of activities within a Jewish environment, including camping, voluntary and community service, citizenship, sports, drama, social events, crafts, music, outdoor pursuits and tours, as well as:\n\n\nBy virtue of its work towards the personal and social development of young people, JLGB is a member of the National Council for Voluntary Youth Services (NCVYS).\n\nIn April 1891 \"The Jewish Chronicle\" published a letter from Rev Francis Lyon Cohen headed ´But what about the boys?´ in which he called for the creation of a Jewish youth group based on the Boys' Brigade for the well-being of working-class Jewish boys in the East End of London at the crucial period ´\"Between their leaving school and their attainment of manhood\". After a lecture by Colonel Albert Goldsmid before the Maccabaeans at a meeting held at the Jews' Free School in the East End of London on 16 February 1895 the first company of boys was enrolled; and six weeks later the first weekly drill was held. Recruits were drawn from JFS, the Norwood Orphanage and local elementary schools, known as Board Schools, which had been set up under the Education Act of 1870. In 1896 the first summer camp, of nineteen boys, was held at Deal, and social and athletic clubs were organised. Rev Cohen served as staff chaplain.\n\nThe idea quickly became popular, and by March 1898, there were thirteen companies in England, while a company was also established at Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Four of these, consisting of five officers and ninety boys, had been represented at the seaside camp at Deal, England, during the preceding summer. A labour bureau was then established with a view to obtaining employment for the boys; and provincial companies rapidly sprang into existence. In 1898 the summer encampment consisted of 400 boys; and a year later the number of companies in existence rose to 23, including one at Johannesburg, South Africa.\n\nIn August 1899, a second summer camp was formed in the north of England for the benefit of the members of the northern contingent, while the Deal camp was inspected by Lt.-Gen. Sir Charles Warren, who highly praised the efficiency of the lads. In 1900 a public display was given in London, which was attended by Maj.-Gen. Sir Henry Trotter, the general officer commanding the home district. The following year the number of companies had increased to thirty, while the muster-roll showed a total strength of between 3,000 and 4,000 members. Seventeen officers and members of the brigade took part in the South-African war, including Colonel Goldsmid, his place as commandant being occupied by Lieut.-Col. E. Montefiore. Of the seventeen, two lost their lives, one of them being Lieut. F. M. Raphael, who was killed at Spion Kop while attempting to rescue a wounded soldier.\n\nIn 1901 there were 540 boys at the Deal camp, and about 250 at the camp at Lytham. Goldsmid returned to the helm in 1902, followed by Montefiore later returning again in 1904. The membership by 1904 was about 3,500, and there were companies existing, in addition to those in London, at Newcastle, Bradford, Leeds, Sheffield, Hull, Birmingham, Manchester (with an adjoining youth club), Liverpool, Johannesburg, and Montreal. A somewhat similar movement in New York City has resulted in the formation of the Manhattan Rifles.\n\nOn Thursday 13 August 2009, the JLGB broke the Guinness World Record for the largest custard pie fight at their annual summer camp with 253 people taking part and throwing 648 pies in a matter of minutes.\n\nIn 2017, 80% of JLGB trustees left the organisation following a governance review the year before.\n\nThe JLB declined in popularity in the inter-war period as a result of public desire for peace and revulsion against 'militarism'. Membership in the JLB halved from a peak of 4,000 in 1910 to a low of 2,000 in 1925.\n\nMost of the senior Brigade members went into Civil Defence in 1939. The ordinary boys in the Brigade units were more confident and able to cope with service in the war. They knew their drill and were able to bypass a great deal of basic training because of the training they got in the Brigade.\n\nDuring World War II, approximately 60,000 Jewish men and women out of an Anglo-Jewish community estimated at 400,000 undertook military service. At least 2,010 of them lost their lives. No separate figures exist for the JLB contribution to the national effort during the war, but there is ample evidence that many ex-JLB lads saw rapid promotion through the ranks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043828", "title": "Marlene Dumas", "text": "Marlene Dumas\n\nMarlene Dumas (born 1953) is a contemporary South African artist and painter currently based in the Netherlands.\n\nDumas was born in 1953 in Cape Town, South Africa and grew up in Kuils River in the Western Cape, where her father had a vineyard. Dumas began painting in 1973 and showed her political concerns and reflections on her identity as a white woman of Afrikaans descent in South Africa. She studied art at the University of Cape Town from 1972 to 1975, and then at Ateliers '63 in Haarlem, which is now located in Amsterdam. She studied psychology at the University of Amsterdam in 1979 and 1980. She currently lives and works in the Netherlands and is one of Hollands most prolific artists., She is also widely regarded as one of the most influential painters working today. \n\nDumas has also featured in some films, , , , , and . Several books included illustrations by Dumas,- Marlene Dumas: Myths and Mortals, Venus and Adonis, David Zwirner: 25 Years, Marlene Dumas: Against the Wall, Marlene Dumas: Sweet Nothings, Marlene Dumas: The Image as Burden, Marlene Dumas: Measuring Your Own Grave, Experiments with Truth: Gandhi and Images of Violence.\n\nDumas often uses reference material of polaroid photographs of her friends and lovers, whilst she also references magazines and pornographic material. She also paints portraits of children and erotic scenes to impact the world of contemporary art. She has said that her works are better appreciated as originals since many of her smaller sexual works are very intimate. With many of her paintings she depicts her friends, models, and prominent political figures.\n\nDumas paintings are seen as portraits but they do not represent people but an emotional state that one could be in. Her art focuses on more serious issues and themes such as sexuality and race, guilt and innocence, violence and tenderness. Dumas style is more older Romanticism tradition. She uses loose brushstrokes to add distortion but also great detail to her art. Dumas likes to use a wet-on-wet technique, that combines thin layers of paint with thick ones. Her media of choice is oil on canvas and ink on paper. Her subjects range from new born babies, models, strippers, and many figures from popular culture.\n\nThe sale of Dumas's \"Jule-die Vrou\" (1985), positioned Dumas as one of three living female artists to trade for over $1 million.\n\nDumas taught at the Academie voor Beeldende Vorming (ABV) in Tilburg, Academie voor Kunst en Industrie (AKI) in Enschede, Rijksakademie Van Beeldende Kunsten in Amsterdam, and De Ateliers in Amsterdam (Tutorials and Coaching).\n\nDumas was awarded an honorary degree from the University of Antwerp. She also holds degrees from the University of Cape Town, from Ateliers 63 in Haarlem and the Institute of Psychology, University of Amsterdam.\n\n“Smoke” (2018)\n\n“Adonis” (2018)\n\n“Venus With Body of Adonis” (2015-16)\n\n“Losing (Her Meaning)” (1988) Sold $1.5 million\n\n\"The Blindfolded\" (2002)\n\n\"Feather Stola\" (2000) Sold for $307,663 in 2003.\n\n\"Velvet and Lace (Schnabel Meets Baselitz),\" (1999)\n\n\"Ryman's Brides\" (1997)\n\n\"Couples\" (1994)\n\n“The Image as Burden” (1993)\n\n\"Young Boys,\" (1993) Sold for $993,600 in 2005.\n\n\"Black Drawings\" (1991-92)\n\n\"Baby\" (1990)\n\n\"Wet Dreams\" (1987) \n\n\"The Teacher\"  (1987) Sold $3.34 million in 2005.\n\n\"Jule-die Vrou\" (1985)\n\n\"Evil is Banal\" (1984)\n\n\n2020 \"Marlene Dumas: 25 years of collaboration\", Zeno X Gallery, Antwerp\n\n2018  \"Myths and Mortals\". David Zwirner Gallery, New York (cite: )\n\n2014-2015 \"The Image as Burden\". Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam. Exhibition was named after her small 1993 painting depicting one figure carrying another.\n\n2008-2009 First American retrospective exhibition. \"Measuring Your Own Grave\". Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles; Museum of Modern Art in New York, New York; Menil Collection, Houston\n\n2008 First South African exhibition. \"Intimate Relations\", Standard Bank Gallery, Johannesburg\n\n2003 Venice Biennale.\n\n2001 \"Marlene Dumas: One Hundred Models and Endless Rejects\", Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston\n\n1997 First Asian exhibition \"Young Boys - Part II\", Gallery Koyanagi, Tokyo\n\n1993 First United States museum exhibition \"Marlene Dumas\", Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia\n\n1992 First North American exhibition \"Insight\", Axe-Néo-7, Hull Québec\n\n1979 First Solo exhibition.  \"Marlene Dumas\", Galerie Annemarie de Kruyff, Paris\n\n"}
{"id": "2043830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043830", "title": "Queensland Sport and Athletics Centre", "text": "Queensland Sport and Athletics Centre\n\nThe Queensland Sport and Athletics Centre (QSAC), more commonly known by its former names ANZ Stadium or QE II, is a major multi-purpose sporting facility on the south side of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. From 1993 to 2003, QSAC was the home of the Brisbane Broncos, who play in National Rugby League.\n\nThe facility opened in 1975 providing a synthetic running track for athletics competitions that was unaffected by wet weather. It was officially named Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Sports Centre by the Queen in 1977 to mark her Silver Jubilee. It was constructed in close proximity to both the Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Hospital and Griffith University campus, which provided athlete accommodation.\n\nOriginally the section of the stadium covered by roofing was intended to be the only permanent seating facility. The remainder of the stadium seating was built as \"temporary\" seating and was intended to be removed after the Commonwealth Games had finished. Public opinion resulted in the unroofed temporary seating being retained as permanent. \n\nThe stadium was named ANZ Stadium from 1993 to 2003 when it was the home of the Brisbane Broncos rugby league football team. The stadium currently has a capacity of 48,500 people , although the record crowd is 58,912, set during the 1997 Super League Grand Final which saw the Broncos defeat the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks 26–8. The capacity can be increased to 60,000 with the use of extra temporary seating in front of the Eastern and Western grandstands. These were removed when the running track was relaid for the 2001 Goodwill Games.\n\nIn 1999, ANZ Stadium hosted eventual champions Australia in their Davis Cup Semi-Final win over Russia 4–1. Temporary grass courts were erected up one end of the field and temporary stands on 3 sides. The crowd capacity for this event was 10, 600. 1999 Australian Open Champion and Russian Davis Cup player Yevgeny Kafelnikov described the court \"like playing on a potato field\" and \"that court is just not acceptable for this kind of event\" \n\nIn 2002, ownership transferred to the Queensland Government Major Sports Facilities Authority and the venue was given its present name.\n\nWhile the athletics facilities are well utilised, the stands at the stadium have largely stood empty and unused since the Broncos returned to a redeveloped Lang Park in 2003.\n\nThe stadium has hosted a number of events, including:\n\nThe stadium is still actively used by athletes at a local, State and National level Many local clubs such as Thompson Estate and Eastern Suburbs Athletics use it regularly for training.\n\nThe stadium has also permitted students of the neighbouring Griffith University (Nathan campus) to use its expansive carpark, free of charge. This is due to the relatively low availability of parking as well as the cost of parking on the campus (there is no free parking). Students who don't mind the ten-minute walk from the stadium take advantage of the large carpark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043841", "title": "Infected (The The album)", "text": "Infected (The The album)\n\nInfected is the second album by the The, released on Some Bizzare/Epic Records on 17 November 1986. The album produced four UK singles, including their best-selling single \"Heartland\", which reached 29 and spent 10 weeks on the chart, \"Infected\" (UK #48), \"Slow Train to Dawn\" (UK #64) and \"Sweet Bird of Truth\" (UK #55). Although it only peaked at 14 in the UK Albums Chart, it stayed on the chart for 30 weeks, making it by far The The's most commercially successful album.\n\nThe first single from the album, \"Heartland\", held particular significance for Johnson. Describing it as \"probably the best song I've ever written\", he said, \"I'm attacking those working class Tories and middle class who still think Britain is on a par economically with France and Germany... I wanted to write a classic song which is basically representative of its time, a record that in 1999 people will put on and it will remind them exactly of this period of time... you know it took 18 months to write on and off because I knew it was the most important song I was writing.\"\n\n\"Sweet Bird of Truth\" is about the USA's military involvement in Middle East politics. Johnson said, \"The idea of that single was to provide a musical interpretation of the sort of cultural conflict that occurs when the ultimate Western power takes on the sort of Eastern fundamentalism that you'll find in the Arab nations.\" Johnson wanted to release \"Sweet Bird of Truth\" as the album's first single in April 1986, but this coincided with the US bombing of Libya, and with the song's lyrics critical of US military involvement in the Middle East, CBS were unwilling to release and promote the single. In the end it was released as a low-key limited edition single and deleted on the day of release. Johnson said, \"The day I went in to tell them I wanted to release the single, they'd just been told by Special Branch to take their American flags down, since, as an American multi-national, they were a possible target for Libyan bombing. So I prepared a statement for the press, but apparently the [UK national daily newspapers] were told not to print it, because they could then be held responsible if CBS were bombed.\"\n\nJohnson described \"Slow Train to Dawn\" as \"about the psychological relationship between two people and the weakness of the male in that relationship, and infidelity, which is borne from insecurity and weakness\". He admitted that the song was partly autobiographical, saying, \"I get myself into a lot of difficult situations. I feel I have to live out what I write about out. I don't feel it's fair if I've never done the things I'm singing about. So I've done everything. I've lived out the lives of the characters.\" In Johnson's mind \"Twilight of a Champion\" was set in Chicago, despite filming the video in New York: \"When I wrote the song, I created this scene where I was in this Chicago skyline at the top of a building and had become everything I wanted to become, but had sold my soul. There's the young boy and the old man, and I'm in the middle, between innocence and corruption.\" \"Mercy Beat\" is \"essentially about spiritual salvation which is why I wanted to do [the video for the song] in South America, because of the heavy influence of Catholicism and Americana\".\n\nTo promote the album Johnson decided to make a video for each track. Johnson gave his reasons for this unusual form of promotion in an interview with \"NME\":\n\nJohnson and his manager Stevo persuaded CBS Records to advance £350,000 to make the videos, a then unheard of sum of money for a little known act. The project began by filming a video for \"Heartland\" at Greenwich Power Station, directed by Peter Christopherson, and then \"Sweet Bird of Truth\", directed by Mark Romanek. It was when Johnson and Christopherson flew to South America to film the videos for \"Infected\" and \"Mercy Beat\" that events started to spiral out of control. Filming in the Peruvian jungle in Iquitos, Johnson used the services of a local Indian tribe as guides. The Indians introduced Johnson, already an enthusiastic user of drugs, to the hallucinogenic concoctions used in their tribal rituals. The video for \"Mercy Beat\" captures a scene where during filming the crew were attacked by a rally of Communist rebel fighters, angry at the appearance of what they considered Western intruders. Johnson confirmed that the scene was genuine and unscripted, and admitted that at the time he was \"so high\", recalling the madness that had ensued: \"Someone produced a snake which I was grappling with, and I \"hate\" snakes. A monkey bit me, and then me and this guy, who I'd only just met, cut each other and we became blood brothers, rubbing blood over each other's face, stuff like that.\" \"Infected\"'s opening scenes picture Johnson strapped to a chair on board a boat sailing down a river in the jungle: Johnson said that he had wanted the opening of the film \"to be like that Klaus Kinski movie \"Fitzcarraldo\"\".\n\nAfter spending a month in the Amazon jungle, Johnson flew back to New York to shoot the video for \"Out of the Blue\" with Tim Pope in the Spanish Harlem district. In keeping with the song's lyrical theme, part of the video was filmed in a brothel next door to a crack house. The police protected the film crew until 1 o'clock in the morning, before pulling out saying they could no longer guarantee the crew's safety. The already tense situation was exacerbated by Johnson, who had been drinking heavily and had become progressively more aggressive, and provoked the crack dealers by throwing a bottle against the wall near them. Johnson and Pope also shot the video for \"Twilight of a Champion\" in New York, which includes a scene where the singer places a gun loaded with live bullets in his mouth. Johnson explained his actions by saying, \"I wanted to see what it felt like. To have all that power, to be so close to dying. It's incredible.\" The final two videos for the album were filmed back in the UK, with \"Angels of Deception\" directed by Alastair McIlwain and \"Slow Train to Dawn\" directed by Pope. The video for \"Slow Train to Dawn\" features Neneh Cherry, who duets with Johnson on the track, tied to a railway line while Johnson pilots a train towards her. Pope later dismissed his work on the video, saying, \"I hate that one. It's pretentious and kind of stupid.\"\n\nThe completed film was premiered at the Electric Cinema in west London, and first shown on British television on Channel 4 on 16 December 1986, followed by a showing on MTV. It was shown at independent cinemas across the world and released on VHS video early in 1987. It has never been released on DVD.\n\nDespite critical acclaim for both the album and accompanying video film, the making of \"Infected\" took its toll on Johnson. Already unwell and suffering from bouts of paralysis before making the film due to his heavy intake of vodka and drugs, Johnson's failure to look after his health and insistence on pushing the boundaries during the making of the videos had a lasting impact. He separated from his girlfriend of five years (graphic designer Fiona Skinner, who created the The The logo) and had to step back from music for a time in order to recover his physical and mental health. Pope recalled that he had not particularly liked Johnson during filming as he had become arrogant, a fact acknowledged by Johnson when he reflected in 2002 on the making of the album, telling \"Mojo\", \"I took a long hard look at myself and realised I didn't like the way I was acting... That initial flush of success is a toxin, it really warps people's personalities for the worse and I didn't like what it did to me.\"\n\nThe reviews from the British music magazines upon \"Infected\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s release in 1986 were mostly very positive, with reviewers impressed by the bleakness of the lyrics and the strength of Johnson's vision. \"Melody Maker\" stated, \"Kicking concepts of democratic creativity in the kidneys, Johnson has justifiably come out with a one-man vision of terrifying proportions\". \"Sounds\" claimed that \"there's self-controlled passion and strength seeping out all over this thing\" while \"Q\" described the album as \"grim stuff, with the lyrical tension well-matched by the music. Imagine a bizarre collision between Soft Cell and Tom Waits and you might get some idea of the disparate elements sloshing around in each of these songs.\" \"Record Mirror\" opined that \"coming to any judgement about this new record is quite daunting. What becomes clear, however, is that we are dealing with something special... Two sides of this intense brooding can be a bit much to take though, and the lyrics are at times self-consciously poetic, but these are minor complaints. \"Infected\" might not be a particularly optimistic record, but it is rather a good one.\" Only \"NME\" was critical of the album, describing it as \"shocking\" but then pondering, \"The question is – and it's one that was endlessly asked of \"Low\" – what remains after the initial impact, my shock, wears off? The answer to that will vary, naturally, from one burning blue soul to the next; for me, the lasting afterglow is one of detachment... In the final analysis, living with \"Infected\" is like having one of those vast, mirror-windowed office blocks built across the road from your front door. You can't fail to notice it, and you'll be impressed, sure. But you won't grow to love it.\"\n\nAllMusic said, \"Instead of the light fare displayed on \"Soul Mining\", \"Infected\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s songs seethe instead of preen, and Matt Johnson's lyrics are laced with tension. Thematically, he plunges a lance into the exposed midsection of Great Britain, analyzing the state of modern urban life in the country... \"Infected\" was the first true indication of Johnson's mercurial nature, and established the dissonance and reinvention of his later work.\"\n\n\"Record Mirror\" placed \"Infected\" at number 3 in its year end list of the best albums of 1986, and \"Heartland\" at number 4 in the equivalent singles list.\n\nIn 2000 \"Q\" placed \"Infected\" at number 99 in its list of the \"100 Greatest British Albums Ever\".\n\nArtwork by Andy Johnson.\nFiona Skinner, who created the iconic The The logo, again took an existing font which she copied and ‘distressed’ then created transfers for Andrew Johnson to use in the final artwork\n\n\nAll tracks written and composed by Matt Johnson, except where noted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043846", "title": "Janaka", "text": "Janaka\n\nJanaka was an ancient Indian king of Videha, approximately in the 8th or 7th century BCE. The rulers of the Videha kingdom were all called Janakas. He later appears as a character in the Ramayana. His original name was Seeradhwaja and he had a brother named Kushadhwaja. His father name Hroshhoroma. King Nimi was the first ruler of Videha kingdom. Then king Mithi, supposed the name Mithila came after him. His son king Janaka(1st), he was the first janaka. Then after three successor came king Devraat and after Devraat the 15th successor was Hroshhoroma. \n\nJanaka is revered as being an ideal example of non-attachment to material possessions. He was intensely interested in spiritual discourse and considered himself free from worldly illusions. His interactions with sages and seekers such as Ashtavakra and Sulabha are recorded in ancient texts. His relationship with adopted daughter Sita led her to be called Janaki Mata. The city of Janakpur is named for him and daughter Sita. The Videha (or Mithila) kingdom was located between east of Gandaki River, west of Mahananda River, north of Ganga river and south of Himalayas.\n\nLate Vedic literature such as Shatapatha Brahmana and Brihadaranyaka Upanishad mention a certain King Janaka (c. 8th or 7th century BCE) as a great philosopher-king of Videha, renowned for his patronage of Vedic culture and philosophy and whose court was an intellectual center for sages such as Yajnavalkya, Uddalaka Aruni, and Gargi Vachaknavi. Under his reign, Videha became a dominant political and cultural center of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nJanaka is the father of Sita, the wife of God Ram in the Hindu epic Ramayana. His conversation with Ashtavakra is recorded as Ashtavakra Gita, wherein he is depicted as one realised and this tested by the sage Ashtavakra. Many spiritual teachers have referred to this writing often translating and deducing its meaning.\n\n\nHare Krishna\n\n"}
{"id": "2043851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043851", "title": "USS Chemung (AO-30)", "text": "USS Chemung (AO-30)\n\nUSS \"Chemung\" (AO-30), a fleet replenishment oiler serving in the United States Navy, was the second ship named for the Chemung River in New York State.\n\n\"Chemung\" was launched 9 September 1939 as Esso Annapolis by Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation at Bethlehem Sparrows Point Shipyard, Sparrows Point, Maryland, under a Maritime Commission contract; sponsored by Miss Howard; acquired by the Navy 5 June 1941; and commissioned 3 July 1941, Commander E. T. Spellman in command.\n\nFrom 13 July 1941 until the entry of the United States into World War II, \"Chemung\" operated between east coast ports and the oil ports of Texas and Louisiana transporting fuel oil.\n\nFrom 20 December 1941 to 3 January 1942 she issued fuel at NS Argentia, Newfoundland. Reloading at Norfolk, Virginia, she steamed to Hvalfjörður, Iceland carrying fuel (19 February–25 March), then operated between Norfolk and ports in the Gulf of Mexico from 1 April to 16 May. Following another tour as fuel station ship at Hvalfjörður (30 May–26 June), \"Chemung\" departed from New York City 20 August with a convoy bound for the United Kingdom. Two days later collided with her at night. The destroyer sank almost immediately when the depth charges on her stern exploded. \"Chemung\", although heavily damaged by the explosion and resulting fires, reached Boston, Massachusetts 26 August for repairs.\n\nSteaming 1 October 1942 to Beaumont, Texas, to load fuel, \"Chemung\" accompanied the North African assault force to sea, remained off the coast during the landings, then returned to Norfolk 30 November to resume coastwise fuel runs. From 15 February 1943 to 11 June 1945 \"Chemung\" alternated five convoy voyages to United Kingdom ports and five to North Africa with coast-wise and Caribbean cargo duty and station duty at Bermuda and in the Azores.\n\nAn assignment to occupation duty in the Far East found \"Chemung\" circumnavigating the globe as she cleared Norfolk 18 July 1945, passed through the Panama Canal for service at Okinawa 17 September to 13 October, and returned by way of the Cape of Good Hope to Norfolk 6 December. She operated with the US Atlantic Fleet, serving the US 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean (12 November 1948—1 April 1949), until 17 March 1950, when she sailed for San Diego, where she was decommissioned and placed in reserve 3 July 1950.\n\nRecommissioned 1 December 1950, \"Chemung\" steamed to the Far East 28 January 1951 for a brief tour refueling forces engaged in the Korean War. During her second tour of duty (7 July 1951—20 April 1952), she supported United Nations troops in Korea, served on the Formosa Patrol, then transported oil from Ras Tanura, Arabia, to Guam. She again sailed from San Pedro 24 June 1952 to support the US 7th Fleet off Korea until returning to Mare Island for overhaul on 24 February.\n\nIn nine succeeding tours of duty in the Western Pacific from her home port at San Pedro California between 1953 and 1960, \"Chemung\" supported many of the 7th Fleet's most notable contributions to the keeping of peace in the Far East. During her 1954—1955 tour she provided fuel for the ships carrying out the evacuation of the Tachen Islands. During each of the tours she has served as station tanker at Kaohsiung, Taiwan, fueling the ships of the Taiwan Patrol.\n\n\"Chemung\" served through the 1960s, including service in support of the Vietnam War, until she was decommissioned on 18 September 1970. She was transferred to the Maritime Administration and ultimately scrapped.\n\n\"Chemung\" received two battle stars for World War II service, and four for service in the Korean War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043857", "title": "Central serous retinopathy", "text": "Central serous retinopathy\n\nCentral serous retinopathy (CSR), also known as central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC or CSCR), is an eye disease that causes visual impairment, often temporary, usually in one eye. When the disorder is active it is characterized by leakage of fluid under the retina that has a propensity to accumulate under the central macula. This results in blurred or distorted vision (metamorphopsia). A blurred or gray spot in the central visual field is common when the retina is detached. Reduced visual acuity may persist after the fluid has disappeared.\n\nThe disease is considered of unknown cause. It mostly affects white males in the age group 20 to 50 (male:female ratio 6:1) and occasionally other groups. The condition is believed to be exacerbated by stress or corticosteroid use.\n\nRecently, central serous chorioretinopathy has been understood to be part of the pachychoroid spectrum. In pachychoroid spectrum disorders, of which CSR represents stage II, the choroid, the highly vascularized layer below the retina, is thickened and congested with increased blood vessel diameter, especially in the deep choroid (the so-called Haller's layer). This results in increased pressure from the deep choroid against the superficial choroid close to the retina, damaging the fine blood vessels (capillaries) needed to supply oxygen and nutrients to the retinal pigment epithelium and retina. Additionally, fluid can leak from these damaged vessels and accumulate under the retina.\n\nDifferent stages of the \"pachychoroid\" are defined depending on the amount of cumulative damage. If there are defects in the retinal pigment epithelium without accumulation of fluid below the retina, a pachychoroid pigmentepitheliopathy (PPE) is present. Accumulation of fluid results in central serous chorioretinopathy (CSR). The development of secondary blood vessels, so-called choroidal neovascularization (CNV) leads to pachychoroid neovasculopathy (PNV). If parts of these new vessels bulge outward, so-called aneurysms develop within this CNV, defining pachychoroid aneurysmal type 1 CNV (or, still widely used, polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV)).\n\nSince the individual stages develop one after the other from the respective preliminary stage, pachychoroidal diseases of the macula are divided into 4 stages according to Siedlecki, Schworm and Priglinger:\nCSR is sometimes called \"idiopathic CSR\" which means that its cause is unknown. Nevertheless, stress appears to play an important role. An oft-cited but potentially inaccurate conclusion is that persons in stressful occupations, such as airplane pilots, have a higher incidence of CSR.\n\nCSR has also been associated with cortisol and corticosteroids. Persons with CSR have higher levels of cortisol. Cortisol is a hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex which allows the body to deal with stress, which may explain the CSR-stress association. There is extensive evidence to the effect that corticosteroids (e.g. cortisone), commonly used to treat inflammations, allergies, skin conditions and even certain eye conditions, can trigger CSR, aggravate it and cause relapses. In a study documented by Indian Journal of Pharmacology, a young male was using Prednisolone and began to display subretinal fluid indicative of CSR. With the discontinuation of the steroid drop the subretinal fluid resolved and did not show any sign of recurrence. Thus indicating the steroid was the probable cause of the CSR. A study of 60 persons with Cushing's syndrome found CSR in 3 (5%). Cushing's syndrome is characterized by very high cortisol levels. Certain sympathomimetic drugs have also been associated with causing the disease.\n\nEvidence has also implicated helicobacter pylori (see gastritis) as playing a role. It would appear that the presence of the bacteria is well correlated with visual acuity and other retinal findings following an attack.\n\nEvidence also shows that sufferers of MPGN type II kidney disease can develop retinal abnormalities including CSR caused by deposits of the same material that originally damaged the glomerular basement membrane in the kidneys.\n\nThe diagnosis usually starts with a dilated examination of the retina, followed with confirmation by optical coherence tomography and fluorescein angiography. The angiography test will usually show one or more fluorescent spots with fluid leakage. In 10%-15% of the cases these will appear in a \"classic\" smokestack shape. Differential diagnosis should be immediately performed to rule out retinal detachment, which is a medical emergency.\n\nA clinical record should be taken to keep a timeline of the detachment. An Amsler grid can be useful in documenting the precise area of the visual field involved. The affected eye will sometimes exhibit a refractive spectacle prescription that is more far-sighted than the fellow eye due to the decreased focal length caused by the raising of the retina. \n\nIndocyanine green angiography or laser Doppler imaging can be used to reveal the underlying swollen choroidal vessels under the retinal pigment epithelium and assess the health of the retina in the affected area which can be useful in making a treatment decision. \n\nAny ongoing corticosteroid treatment should be tapered and stopped, where possible. It is important to check current medication, including nasal sprays and creams, for ingredients of corticosteroids, if found seek advice from a medical practitioner for an alternative.\n\nMost eyes with CSR undergo spontaneous resorption of subretinal fluid within 3–4 months. Recovery of visual acuity usually follows. Treatment should be considered if resorption does not occur within 3–4 months, spontaneously or as the result of counselling. The available evidence suggests that half-dose (or half-fluence) photodynamic therapy is the treatment of choice for CSR with subretinalfluid for longer than 3–4 months.\n\nDue to the natural disease course of CSR - in which spontaneous resolution of subretinal fluid may occur - retrospective studies may erroneously report positive treatment outcomes and should, therefore, be evaluated with caution.\n\nFull-dose photodynamic therapy (PDT) with verteporfin was first described in CSR back in 2003. Later, reduced-settings PDT (half-dose, half-fluence, and half-time) was found to have the same efficacy and a lower chance of complications. Follow-up studies have confirmed the treatment's long-term effectiveness including its effectiveness for the chronic variant of the disease. In the PLACE trial, half-dose photodynamic therapy was found to be superior compared to high-density subthreshold micropulse laser, both with regard to anatomical and functional outcomes. Indocyanine green angiography can be used to predict how the patient will respond to PDT.\n\nLaser photocoagulation, which effectively burns the leak area shut, may be considered in cases where there is little improvement in a 3- to 4-month duration, and the leakage is confined to a single or a few sources of leakage at a safe distance from the fovea. Laser photocoagulation is not indicated for cases where the leak is very near the central macula or for cases where the leakage is widespread and its source is difficult to identify. Laser photocoagulation can permanently damage vision where applied. Carefully tuned lasers can limit this damage. Even so, laser photocoagulation is not a preferred treatment for leaks in the central vision and is considered an outdated treatment by some doctors. Foveal attenuation has been associated with more than 4 months' duration of symptoms, however a better long-term outcome has not been demonstrated with laser photocoagulation than without photocoagulation.\n\nIn chronic cases, transpupillary thermotherapy has been suggested as an alternative to laser photocoagulation where the leak is in the central macula.\n\nYellow micropulse laser has shown promise in very limited retrospective trials.\n\nSpironolactone is a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist that may help reduce the fluid associated with CSR. In a retrospective study noted by Acta Ophthalmologica, spironolactone improved visual acuity in CSR patients over the course of 8 weeks.\n\nEpleronone is another mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist that has been thought to reduce the subretinal fluid that is present with CSR. In a study noted in International Journal of Ophthalmology, results showed Epleronone decreased the subretinal fluid both horizontally and vertically over time. However, the most recent randomized controlled trial showed that eplerenone had no significant effect on chronic CSR.\n\nLow dosage ibuprofen has been shown to quicken recovery in some cases.\n\nThough no topical treatment has been proven to be effective in the treatment of CSR. Some doctors have attempted to use nonsteroidal topical medications to reduce the subretinal fluid associated with CSR. The nonsteroidal topical medications that are sometimes used to treat CSR are, Ketorolac, Diclofenac, or Bromfenac.\n\nPeople who have irregular sleep patterns, type A personalities, sleep apnea, or systemic hypertension are more susceptible to CSR, as stated in Medscape. “The pathogenesis here is thought to be elevated circulating cortisol and epinephrine, which affect the autoregulation of the choroidal circulation.” With management of these lifestyle patterns and associated cortisol and epinephrine levels, it has been shown that the fluid associated with CSR can spontaneously resolve. Melatonin has been shown to help regulate sleep in people who have irregular sleep patterns (such as 3rd shift workers, or overnight employees), in turn, better regulating cortisol and epinephrine levels to manage CSR.\n\nA Cochrane review seeking to compare the effectiveness of various treatment for CSR found low quality evidence that half-dose PDT treatment resulted in improved visual acuity and less recurrence of CSR in patients with acute CSR, compared to patients in the control group. The review also found benefits in micropulse laser treatments, where patients with acute and chronic CSR had improved visual acuity compared to control patients.\n\nThe prognosis for CSR is generally excellent. While immediate vision loss may be as poor as 20/200 in the affected eye, clinically, over 90% of patients regain 20/25 vision or better within 45 days. Once the fluid has resolved, either spontaneously or through treatment, distortion is reduced and visual acuity improves as the eye heals. However, some visual abnormalities can remain even where visual acuity is measured at 20/20. Lasting problems include decreased night vision, reduced color discrimination, and localized distortion caused by scarring of the sub-retinal layers.\n\nComplications include subretinal neovascularization and pigment epithelial detachment.\n\nThe disease can re-occur causing progressive vision loss. There is also a chronic form, titled as type II central serous retinopathy, which occurs in approximately 5% of cases. This exhibits diffuse rather than focalized abnormality of the pigment epithelium, producing a persistent subretinal fluid. The serous fluid in these cases tends to be shallow rather than dome shaped. Prognosis for this condition is less favorable and continued clinical consultation is advised.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043858", "title": "Vilhelm Kyhn", "text": "Vilhelm Kyhn\n\nPeter Vilhelm Carl Kyhn (30 March 1819 – 11 May 1903) was a Danish landscape painter who belonged to the generation of national romantic painters immediately after the Danish Golden Age and before the Modern Breakthrough. Even though he outlived many of his artistic peers by several decades, he remained a traditionalist and expressed strong criticism of many of the new trends in the painting of his day.\n\nKyhn also played a role as an educator, establishing several alternative art schools, including a painting school for women which was attended by Anna Ancher among others.\n\nKyhn was born in Copenhagen to Carl Gottlieb Kyhn and his wife Sara Marie. His father was against his becoming an artist, and he was first put to train in a business office; then as a compromise he was allowed to train with copperplate engraver, Georg Hoffmann. Here he learned to make vignettes, a skill which became useful to him later when he learned to make etchings.\n\nHe also got the opportunity to begin his training at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 1836. He entered the School of Plaster Model Painting in 1840, and into the School of Model Painting in 1841, where he was influenced by the classicism of teacher Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg, father of the Golden Age of Danish Painting, and J. L. Lund. He was also influenced by Niels Lauritz Høyen, another teacher at the Academy as well as an important art critic and art historian, who encouraged a unique Danish school of art. N. F. S. Grundtvig was also a source of inspiration in his turn towards national romanticism.\nHe won the small silver medallion in 1843 for a figure drawing, but he was set on becoming a landscape painter. At about this time Danish landscapes started to become a serious domain for Danish artists. Kyhn became part of the movement and was able to exhibit his first landscape, \"\"Et bornholmsk Strandparti\"\" (\"A View of the Beach on Bornholm\"), an area he had visited over a period of several years. This painting was purchased by the Danish Royal Painting Collection, now the Danish National Gallery, and later loaned to Aarhus Art Museum.\n\nIn 1845, Kyhn won a prize in the Neuhausen Competition (\"Neuhausenske Konkurs\") for \"\"Landskab, hvori Foraaret karakteriseres\"\" (\"Spring Landscape\").\n\nAfter a few years of diligent work painting landscapes in Jutland and the north of Zealand, he began to seek out a travel stipend; he was awarded one in 1848. He delayed, however, his travels until the spring of 1850 on account of the turbulent times around the European revolutions of 1848 which led to Denmark’s becoming a constitutional monarchy on 5 June 1849.\n\nHe traveled over the Netherlands and Belgium to Paris in the spring of 1850, and reached Italy in September of the same year. The following year he received an extension to his stipend. He painted few landscapes of the countries he visited, and only during his travels abroad.\n\nBack in Denmark in June 1851, he returned to painting direct studies from nature. The paintings which Niels Lauritz Høyen bought from Kyhn show good development in his style. His landscape painting ability continued to improve over the years, as exemplified by the winter scene, \"\"Kystparti ved Taarbæk\"\" (\"View of Coast near Taarbæk\") and \"\"Udsigt over det flade Land ved Bjærgelide\"\" (\"View over the flat land near Bjærgelide\") painted in 1858, which featured the typical Danish countryside near Horsens. The flat prairies of Jutland in this picture were not a popular subject at the time. He helped open the way for other artists to interpret this quintessential Danish landscape.\nAfter 1863, he painted many scenes in the special light of Denmark’s late summer evenings. These include the atmospheric \"\"Efter solnedgang i udkanten af en landsby\"\" (\"After Sunset on the Outskirts of a Village\") painted in 1863 and \"\"Sildig Sommeraften ved Himmelbjærget\"\" (\"Late Summer Evening near Himmelbjerget\") painted in 1874. Both of these paintings are in the collection of the National Museum of Art.\n\nHe painted many landscapes in the area near Silkeborg, and spent his summers starting in 1873 at Himmelbjerg, one of Denmark’s highest points. It was likely in this area that Kyhn began to experiment with painting in the open air, instead of painting in the studio as he had done previously and was customary.\n\nHe was one of the driving forces behind the establishment of The Danish Etchers Union (\"Den danske Radeerforening\") in 1853. He married Pauline Petrine Leisner on September 11 of that same year.\n\nHe taught at both the School of Drawing and the School of Painting from the 1850s. He became a member of the Art Academy in 1870. He was a member of the Exhibition Committee at Charlottenborg 1873-1888, and of the Exhibition Committee for the World Exhibition in Paris 1877-1878. He traveled to Sweden in 1866 and 1874, to Norway in 1873 and 1874, to Skagen in 1877.\n\nAs a nationalist artist, the \"blond artists\" as they were called, he was excluded from membership in the Academy, and could not sell his paintings to the influential Kunstforeningen at Gammel Strand.\n\nIn reaction and opposition to the growing internationalism affecting young Danish artists who were choosing to travel to France as part of their education, and to the effect of this French training on Danish art, Kyhn sent a work to Paris in 1876. The work was a defense of Danish national art and the Eckersberg school of painting. He traveled to Paris in 1878 where his work was exhibited at the World Exhibition. He resigned from the Academy in 1882 in protest against works by Peder Severin Krøyer and Theodor Philipsen.\n\nHis work was exhibited at the first international art exhibition in Vienna, Austria in 1882. Kyhn was selected as member of the Academy’s plenary assembly in 1887.\n\nDuring the period 1871-1879, Kyhn’s studio became a gathering place for a group of young, dissatisfied artists and Academy students called the \"\"Huleakademiet\"\" (\"The Den Academy\"), which eventually led to the formation in 1882 of The Artists' Independent Studio Schools (\"\"Kunstnernes Frie Studieskoler\"\").\n\nDuring this period, between 1865 and 1895, he also operated the \"Painting School for Women\" (\"Tegneskolen for Kvinder\"), at a time when women did not have access to the Academy. More than 75 women trained under him, including Anna Ancher, Ville Bang, Johanne Krebs, Emilie Mundt, Marie Luplau, Emmy Thornam, Elise Konstantin-Hansen, Nicoline Tuxen, and Margrethe Backer Welhaven.\n\nHis son Svend Carl, born in 1862, was a promising landscape and interiors painter bit died in 1890. His wife died in 1894. He received the bronze medallion at the Paris Exhibition of 1900. He died in Frederiksberg on 11 May 1903 at the age of 84.\n\nKyhn maintained a freshness of perspective. He portrayed a more naturalistic landscape than previously, one that was anchored in careful study and with an immediacy made possible through open-air painting. He chose to feature and glorify the landscapes of his native land, exploring especially the countryside near his home in Jutland. He was influenced by the times, and could show that influence in his paintings, while the national romanticism of his middle years was still an anchor in his large production of landscapes. He influenced many younger artists.\n\nHe is featured in a portrait by P.S. Krøyer (1898).\n\nOther Danish landscape painters of his generation were Johan Thomas Lundbye and P.C. Skovgaard.\n\nArt of Denmark\n\n"}
{"id": "2043866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043866", "title": "William Gosset", "text": "William Gosset\n\nMajor-General Sir William Gosset (18 January 1782 – 27 March 1848) was a British Army officer and public servant.\n\nCommissioned into the Royal Engineers in 1798, Gosset was secretary to William à Court's mission to the Barbary States in 1813, Member of Parliament for Truro from 1820 to 1826, secretary to Lord Anglesey as Master-General of the Ordnance from 1827 to 1828, private secretary to Anglesey as Lord Lieutenant of Ireland from 1828 to 1829, Under-Secretary for Ireland from 1831 to 1835 and Serjeant-at-Arms of the House of Commons from 1835 until his death.\n"}
{"id": "2043875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043875", "title": "Flattening", "text": "Flattening\n\nFlattening is a measure of the compression of a circle or sphere along a diameter to form an ellipse or an ellipsoid of revolution (spheroid) respectively. Other terms used are ellipticity, or oblateness. The usual notation for flattening is \"f\" and its definition in terms of the semi-axes of the resulting ellipse or ellipsoid is\n\nThe compression factor is \"b/a\" in each case. For the ellipse, this factor is also the aspect ratio of the ellipse.\n\nThere are two other variants of flattening (see below) and when it is necessary to avoid confusion the above flattening is called the first flattening. The following definitions may be found in standard texts and online web texts\n\nIn the following, \"a\" is the larger dimension (e.g. semimajor axis), whereas \"b\" is the smaller (semiminor axis). All flattenings are zero for a circle (\"a\" = \"b\").\n\nThe flattenings are related to other parameters of the ellipse. For example:\n\nwhere formula_3 is the eccentricity.\n\nFor the WGS84 ellipsoid to model Earth, the \"defining\" values are \nfrom which one derives\nso that the difference of the major and minor semi-axes is . (This is only  0.335% of the major axis, so a representation of Earth on a computer screen would be sized as 300px by 299px. Because this would be virtually indistinguishable from a sphere shown as 300px by 300px, illustrations typically greatly exaggerate the flattening in cases where the image needs to represent Earth's oblateness.)\n\nOther values in the Solar System are Jupiter,  \"f\" = 1/16; Saturn,  \"f\" = 1/10, the Moon  \"f\" = 1/900. The flattening of the Sun is about .\n\nIn 1687, Isaac Newton published the \"Principia\" in which he included a proof that a rotating self-gravitating fluid body in equilibrium takes the form of an oblate ellipsoid of revolution (a spheroid). The amount of flattening depends on the density and the balance of gravitational force and centrifugal force.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043879", "title": "Glazer ownership of Manchester United", "text": "Glazer ownership of Manchester United\n\nManchester United Football Club is an English football club based in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester. The club was formed as Newton Heath LYR Football Club, the works team of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway depot in Newton Heath, in 1878. The club split from the railway company in 1892 and remained under private ownership for almost 100 years, changing its name to Manchester United after being saved from bankruptcy in 1902. The club went public in 1990 and was the subject of takeover bids from property trader Michael Knighton and Rupert Murdoch's BSkyB corporation before Malcolm Glazer's stake was announced in September 2003.\n\nBy the end of 2003, Glazer had increased his shareholding from 3.17% to around 15%, which he almost doubled in the year up to October 2004. His acquisition of John Magnier and J. P. McManus's 28.7% stake in May 2005 pushed his own up to around 57%, well over the 30% threshold that would force him to launch a takeover bid. A few days later, he took control of 75% of the club's shares, allowing him to delist the company from the stock exchange, and within a month, the Glazers took 98% ownership of the club via their Red Football parent company, forcing a squeeze out of the remaining 2%. The final purchase price of the club totalled almost £800 million.\n\nMost of the capital used by Glazer to purchase Manchester United came in the form of loans, the majority of which were secured against the club's assets, incurring interest payments of over £60 million per annum. The remainder came in the form of PIK loans (payment in kind loans), which were later sold to hedge funds. Manchester United was not liable for the PIKs, which were held by Red Football Joint Venture and were secured on that company's shares in Red Football (and thus the club). The interest on the PIKs rolled up at 14.25% per annum. Despite this, the Glazers did not pay down any of the PIK loans in the first five years they owned the club. In January 2010, the club carried out a successful £500 million bond issue, and by March 2010, the PIKs stood at around £207 million. The PIKs were eventually paid off in November 2010 by unspecified means. In August 2012, as part of further refinancing, the Glazers sold a number of shares in Manchester United in an initial public offering (IPO) on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).\n\nSome Manchester United fans opposed Glazer's takeover of the club, particularly once they realised the level of debt that the club would have to take on after having been debt-free for so many years. Disgruntled fans launched the football club F.C. United of Manchester in 2005, which entered the North West Counties Football League and has played in the sixth tier National League North since 2015. Since 2005, the Manchester United Supporters' Trust has been working on a way of returning ownership of the club to supporters; in 2010, they met with a group of wealthy Manchester United fans – dubbed the \"Red Knights\" – to discuss a billion-pound takeover bid. However, the bid fell through when the Red Knights refused to meet the Glazers' valuation of the club.\n\nManchester United was formed as Newton Heath L&YR F.C. in 1878 by the workers in the Carriage and Wagon Works of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway's Newton Heath depot. In 1901, the club was in over £2,500 of debt and facing a winding-up order; however, they were saved by local brewer John Henry Davies, who changed their name to Manchester United in 1902. After Davies' death in 1927, the club fell into financial difficulties once again, but James W. Gibson stepped in as a new financial benefactor in 1931. Gibson himself died in 1951, but while ownership of the club passed to his widow, Violet, control of the club passed to director and former player Harold Hardman.\n\nMeanwhile, a local businessman named Louis Edwards began accruing shares in Manchester United and was eventually made chairman on Hardman's death in 1965. His son, Martin Edwards, purchased a percentage of shares from Alan Gibson – son of former owner James Gibson – and became the majority shareholder and chairman when Louis Edwards died in 1980. During Martin Edwards' time as chairman, Manchester United was the subject of several takeover bids; the first came from media tycoon Robert Maxwell, who bid £10 million in February 1984, but the sale fell through before any serious talks could take place. In 1989, property magnate Michael Knighton was on the verge of completing a £20 million takeover, but his financial backers pulled out at the last minute and he had to be content with merely a seat on the board.\n\nManchester United was floated on the stock market in 1991, and they received yet another takeover bid in 1998, this time from Rupert Murdoch's BSkyB Corporation. The Manchester United board accepted a £623 million offer, but the takeover was blocked by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission at the final hurdle in April 1999. A few years later, a power struggle emerged between the club's manager, Sir Alex Ferguson, and his horse-racing partners, John Magnier and J. P. McManus, who had gradually become the largest shareholders via their company, Cubic Expression. In a dispute that stemmed from contested ownership of the horse Rock of Gibraltar, Magnier and McManus attempted to have Ferguson removed from his position as manager, and the board responded by approaching investors to attempt to reduce the Irishmen's influence.\n\nMeanwhile, Avram Glazer – the son of Malcolm Glazer – was looking into investment in European football. The Glazer family already owned several businesses in the United States and had purchased the Tampa Bay Buccaneers National Football League franchise in 1995. They convinced the local government to fund a new stadium for the Buccaneers in 1998 and the franchise won its first Super Bowl in January 2003.\n\nFollowing the Manchester United board's search for new investors, the Glazers purchased their first tranche of Manchester United shares on 2 March 2003, spending around £9 million on a 2.9% stake, which they purchased through a holding company called Red Football. On 26 September 2003, it was reported that they had increased their share to 3.17%, taking their shareholding above the 3% threshold that required them to inform the club's management. There had already been considerable speculation about the possibility of a takeover of the club, either by the Glazers or by one of several other interested parties. By 20 October, they had increased their shareholding to 8.93%, and on 29 November it was reported that they owned around 15% of the club and had met David Gill, its chief executive, to discuss their intentions. On 12 February 2004, the Glazers increased their stake in the club to 16.31% and the following day's \"Financial Times\" reported that they had instructed Commerzbank to explore a takeover bid. The club's share price increased by 5% that day, valuing the club at a total of £741 million. The Glazers increased their shareholding to over 19% the following June, although they were still not the largest shareholders. Their shareholding continued to increase, nearing 30% by October 2004. Upon reaching 30%, they would have to launch a formal takeover bid.\n\nOn 12 May 2005, Red Football announced that it had reached an agreement with shareholders J. P. McManus and John Magnier to purchase Cubic Expression's 28.7% stake in the club, which gave the Glazers a controlling stake with just under 57% of the club's shares. They then managed to secure the stake of the third-largest stakeholder, Scottish mining entrepreneur Harry Dobson, taking their share total to 62% of the club. By 13 May, the Glazers had bought a further 12.8% stake taking their total ownership to 74.81%, just shy of the 75% threshold that would allow them to end the club's public limited company (PLC) status and delist it from the London Stock Exchange. On 16 May, the Glazers took their shareholding in Manchester United to 75.7%, and a month later, on 22 June, they removed the club's shares from the stock exchange for the first time in 14 years.\n\nThe Glazers' shareholding increased gradually to 76.2% by 23 May, when they made their final offer of 300 pence per share, with a deadline of 3 p.m. on 13 June. On 26 May, the Manchester United board wrote to the remaining shareholders indicating their intention to sell their own shares and advising the others to follow suit; in the same letter, chairman Sir Roy Gardner and non-executive directors Ian Much and Jim O'Neill offered their resignations. Despite the board's encouragement, the Glazers' share in the club had only reached 97.3% by 14 June, short of the 97.6% threshold required for a compulsory buyout of all remaining shareholders, prompting them to extend the deadline on their offer to purchase the remaining shares until 27 June. A statement released on 28 June said that Red Football's shareholding had reached 98% (259,950,194 shares), prompting a squeeze out of the remaining shareholders. The final valuation of the club was almost £790 million (approximately $1.5 billion at the exchange rate at the time).\n\nAs a result of the Glazer takeover, a small group of disgruntled Manchester United supporters created a new club called F.C. United of Manchester. This so-called \"phoenix club\" was accepted into the North West Counties Football League second division, six promotions away from The Football League, and secured promotion in each of its first three seasons, twice as league champions.\n\nFollowing the takeover, Manchester United continued to thrive, with the 2005–06 season seeing Old Trafford's capacity being expanded and a lucrative new shirt sponsorship deal signed in April 2006 with American company AIG (which had a large stake in a hedge fund company that helped to fund Glazer's takeover of the club). Increased revenue from TV rights to each competition the club participates in, as well as its various sponsorship deals, also boosted the club's profitability. This came despite fears among many supporters that the debt incurred in buying the club could lead to insolvency.\n\nContrary to the fears of many fans, the Glazers took action to ensure that Gill and veteran manager Sir Alex Ferguson remained at Manchester United, citing the duo's success with the club. In 2006, Malcolm Glazer's other two sons, Kevin and Edward, and his daughter, Darcie, were appointed to the Manchester United board as non-executive directors.\n\nThe debt taken on by the Glazers to finance the takeover was split between the club and the family; between £265 million and £275 million was secured against Manchester United's assets, putting the club into debt for the first time since James Gibson saved them in 1931. This loan was provided by three New York hedge funds: Citadel, Och-Ziff Capital Management and Perry Capital. The total amount was £660 million, on which interest payments came to £62 million a year. The club stated, \"The value of Manchester United has increased in the last year, which is why lenders want to invest in the club ... This move represents good housekeeping and it ensures that Sir Alex Ferguson will be provided with sufficient funds to compete in the transfer market.\" The Manchester United Supporters Trust responded, \"'The amount of money needed to be repaid overall is huge ... The interest payment is one thing but what about the actual £660 million? It is difficult to see how these sums can be reached without significant increases in ticket prices, which, as we always suspected, means the fans will effectively be paying for someone to borrow money to own their club.\" Under the terms of the Glazers' refinancing, as they were unable to repay bondholders by 16 August 2010, the overall interest rate on the loans rose from 14.25% to 16.25%, resulting in annual payments of around £38 million.\n\nOn 11 January 2010, shortly before an announcement that Red Football's debt had increased to £716.5 million ($1.17 billion), Manchester United announced their intention to refinance the debt through a bond issue worth approximately £500 million. They managed to raise £504 million in just under two weeks, meaning that they were able to pay off almost all of the £509 million owed to international banks. The bonds were issued in two tranches, one with a coupon rate of 8.75% worth £250 million, and the other with a coupon rate of 8.375% worth $425 million. The annual interest payable on the bond came to approximately £45 million per annum, with the bond due to mature on 1 February 2017. Contained within the bond prospectus were covenants that would allow the Glazers to filter large sums of money out of the club to repay the PIKs by 2015. These include the carving out of £95 million in cash, the sale and lease-back of the Trafford Training Centre at Carrington, and the ability of the Glazers to pay themselves 50% of the Consolidated Net Income of the club every year.\n\nOn 16 November 2010, it was revealed that the Glazers were to pay off the remaining £220 million contained within the PIK loans by 22 November 2010. The loans were by then accruing interest at a rate of 16.25%, as the club's overall debt had exceeded its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) by more than five times. However, the club claimed that none of its own money had been put towards the repayment, raising questions as to how the Glazer family had raised the funds; suggested methods include the sale of a minority stake in the club to a third party, the sale of some or all of the family's other businesses, and – the most likely option – the refinancing of the PIKs with another loan at a lower interest rate.\n\nA fan campaign known as \"Love United Hate Glazer\" was formed following the family's bid to take over the club. The campaign involved the spreading of the slogan and the acronym \"LUHG\" around various locations via stickers and graffiti. A number of banners have also been displayed in the stands at Old Trafford.\n\nDespite its restructuring, the announcement about the club's debt prompted vociferous protests from Manchester United fans on the weekend of 23 January 2010, both at Old Trafford and at the club's Carrington training facility. A protest was organised by the club's supporters groups, following up on the \"Love United Hate Glazer\" campaign that had existed since 2005, and encouraging match-going fans to wear green and gold, the colours of Manchester United's precursor club, Newton Heath. A few days later, on 30 January, reports emerged that the Manchester United Supporters' Trust had held meetings with a group of wealthy fans with a view to buying out the Glazers' controlling interest in the club. The group then met with Keith Harris, a Manchester United fan and the chairman of investment bank Seymour Pierce, to broker a takeover.\n\nOn 2 March 2010, further reports emerged that the group – dubbed the \"Red Knights\" – had met again to discuss the possibility of a billion-pound takeover of the club. Those present at the meeting included investment bank Goldman Sachs' chief economist and former Manchester United director Jim O'Neill and lawyer Mark Rawlinson, a partner at law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, as well as Duncan Drasdo, the chief executive of the Manchester United Supporters' Trust, and Keith Harris, Executive Chairman of Seymour Pierce. The initial goal of the group was to increase the Supporters' Trust's membership to at least 100,000, to demonstrate the fans' support for a change in ownership. To better promote themselves, the Trust enlisted the services of Blue State Digital, the Internet strategy firm that worked on Barack Obama's 2008 presidential election campaign.\n\nLater that day, Manchester United announced that their gross debt for the final three months of 2009 totalled £507.5 million, a reduction of £30.6 million compared to the same period in 2008. They also reported pre-tax profits of £6.9 million, an increase of £9.6 million after making a loss of £2.7 million the previous year. This announcement was accompanied by a statement from the Glazers' spokesperson that the club was not for sale, as well as public support from David Gill, who claimed that the Glazers were \"running the club the right way\".\n\nMeanwhile, membership of the Manchester United Supporters' Trust passed the 100,000 mark on 3 March, before exceeding 125,000 a week later. The green-and-gold scarf campaign also grew, with large portions of the Old Trafford crowd showing the colours. Following Manchester United's 4–0 victory over Milan in their Champions League first knockout round tie, former Manchester United player David Beckham was seen wearing a scarf that had been thrown onto the pitch; however, he later said that he was merely showing his support for Manchester United, and that the running of the club is \"not [his] business\". It was also claimed that United manager Alex Ferguson would be prepared to invest his own money in the Red Knights' bid, but he dismissed these reports as \"absolute rubbish\".\n\nGiven the amount of debt on Manchester United's books at the time, some analysts estimated in 2010 that any takeover bid would have had to total more than £2 billion, of which around £1.6 billion would be needed to match the Glazers' valuation of the club – double what they paid for the club in 2005. However, the Red Knights publicly stated that they would only pay \"a fair price\" when their takeover bid finally came. On 11 March 2010, the Red Knights appointed Nomura Securities Co. as their advisers for their takeover bid. Nomura previously advised the Manchester United board before the Glazers' bid to buy the club. The Red Knights later admitted that they would not make a bid for the club before the end of the 2009–10 season, but it was believed that their preferred bid option would have involved retaining the £500 million bond issued by the Glazers. Two-thirds of a further £700 million would be provided by 30–40 wealthy Manchester United fans, with the remainder provided by fund-raising from ordinary fans. Once the club was secured, shares would then be offered to fans, allowing them to take ownership of the club. Despite these plans, the Red Knights put their takeover bid \"on hold\" in June 2010, citing \"inflated valuation aspirations\" in the media as the reason. Having already stated that they would only pay a \"sensible\" amount for the club, the group was thought to have baulked at the suggestion that the Glazers' valuation of the club was significantly higher than the amount they were willing to pay.\n\nIn 2011, rumours surfaced that the Glazers intended to list a number of shares in Manchester United on an Asian market such as Hong Kong or Singapore, in an attempt to raise a potential £400–600 million. The Singapore flotation looked to be gaining traction in August 2011, when it emerged that the club had applied to list its shares on the Singapore Exchange; approval for the listing was given in September 2011.\n\nIn June 2012, after several months with no further developments on the Singapore front, several sources reported that the club was considering moving its share issue to the United States, and in July 2012, an application was made for the club to sell shares on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), with a target of raising $100 million (£64 million). More details of the sale were released at the end of July, with the club announcing that they intended to sell 16.7 million shares (approximately 10% of the club) at between $16 and $20 each, raising up to $330 million (£210 million). Shares in the club would be divided into two groups, with Class A shares sold to the public and Class B shares retained by the Glazer family.\n\nAhead of the opening of the IPO, concerns were raised among both investors and Manchester United supporters regarding the details of the share offering. Although the share prospectus specified that the proceeds from the sale would go towards paying down the club's debts, it was revealed that much of the money would go directly to the Glazers. Furthermore, holders of class A shares would not be entitled to a regular dividend, and the structure of the share issue meant that the Glazers' class B shares had 10 times the voting power of class A shares, essentially denying a controlling interest in the club to anyone but the Glazers. These issues drove down interest and forced a drop in the share price from the planned $16–20 each to $14 each, representing a potential total sale value of $233 million (£150 million).\n\nThe shares debuted on the NYSE on 10 August 2012, and initially showed a slight rise to $14.05 per share, but closed the day back at the offer price of $14 each, valuing the club as a whole at $2.3 billion, and making it one of the most valuable sports teams in the world. One of the biggest investors in the IPO was American billionaire George Soros, whose investment company purchased about 3.1 million class A shares (1.9% of the club), valued at $40.7 million (£25.8 million) at the time. Club records announced in November 2012 revealed that gross debt had fallen to £359.7 million after the share sale paid off £62.6 million of bonds. The club's debts were further remedied in May 2013, after a new loan deal was agreed that would save the club £10 million a year in interest payments on debts now totalling around £307 million.\n\nIn March 2014, American investment group Baron Capital purchased 24% of all of the shares available on the NYSE (equivalent to 5.8% of the entire club, but widely misreported as 2.4% ). At the closing price on the day of purchase of $15.84 per share, Baron Capital's total investment was valued at $151 million (£90 million).\nIn September 2014, Baron Capital raised its stake in the club to 9.2% of the entire club (equivalent to 37.8% of all shares available on the NYSE.) \n\nMalcolm Glazer died on 28 May 2014 at the age of 85. His death was seen as unlikely to result in any significant changes to the operation of the club.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043884", "title": "USS Guadalupe (AO-32)", "text": "USS Guadalupe (AO-32)\n\nUSS \"Guadalupe\" (AO-32), a \"Cimarron\"-class fleet replenishment oiler that served in the United States Navy,it was named for the Guadalupe River in Texas.\n\n\"Guadalupe\" was launched as SS \"Esso Raleigh\" 26 January 1940 by the Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Company at Newport News, Virginia; sponsored by Mrs. W. L. Inslee, wife of the late manager of the Traffic Division, Marine Department, Standard Oil of New Jersey; taken over by the Maritime Commission as MC Hull #12; acquired by the Navy 1 June 1941; and commissioned 19 June 1941, Commander Harry R. Thurber in command.\n\nSix weeks of coastwise voyages carrying oil from Texas to New Jersey ended 16 August as \"Guadalupe\" docked at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Receiving as deck cargo six PT boats later to form the famous squadron commanded by Lieutenant Commander John D. Bulkeley, \"Guadalupe\" sailed for the Western Pacific on 19 August. After discharging cargo and oil at Pearl Harbor, Manila, and Cavite, the tanker returned to Norfolk, Virginia 13 November via San Diego. After America's sudden plunge into war, she put into Baltimore to be fitted with guns.\n\nIn January 1942 \"Guadalupe\" sailed to the Pacific, where she was to participate in virtually every major campaign of the long and bloody war. After months of developing and refining techniques for refueling at sea, a science then in its infancy, \"Guadalupe\" sailed from Pearl Harbor 2 June 1942 to refuel American ships participating in the momentous Battle of Midway,5 June 1942: 550 miles E of Midway. About 0400 (I), I-156 sights fleet oiler USS GUADALUPE (AO-32) escorted by two destroyers but fails to reach a favorable firing position. Except for I-168, I-156 is the only submarine that makes a contact with the Americans during the battle. the first naval defeat inflicted on the Japanese in 350 years. From Midway Atoll \"Guadalupe\" sailed north to spend the rest of the summer supporting American forces in the Attu campaign.\n\nAs the United States launched its first offensive effort in the Pacific, \"Guadalupe\" sailed south to spend the final four months of 1942 fueling warships operating in and around Guadalcanal. The first half of 1943 saw her in overhaul in the United States and operating in the Aleutians, with two shuttle trips to Pearl Harbor with fuel and planes. Departing Pearl 22 August \"Guadalupe\" sailed to the central Pacific to support the Gilbert Islands campaign, working with such famous fighting ships as , , , , , and .\n\nAfter a late winter overhaul, she returned to the Pacific theater in February 1944 operating in support of Vice Admiral Marc A. Mitscher's carrier force during the Truk campaign. A short break at Pearl Harbor ended as \"Guadalupe\" sailed 11 May to operate in support of the US 5th Fleet during the Marianas campaign. From there she sailed in late August to support Admiral William F. Halsey's US 3rd Fleet in action against the Japanese in the Palau Islands and Philippines operating areas. One of her major tasks was refueling ships during the climactic Battle of Leyte Gulf.\n\nOn 29 December 1944 \"Guadalupe\" sailed from Ulithi with units of Task Force 38, then preparing for the invasion of Lingayen Gulf. Joining a fast carrier strike force under Vice Admiral John S. McCain, Sr., \"Guadalupe\" steamed through Luzon Strait into the South China Sea on the night of 9–10 January 1945, concurrent with the first invasion waves on Lingayen Gulf. During the transit of the Strait, another tanker, \nUSS \"Nantahala\", collided with \"Guadalupe\", putting a large hole in the bow. Jury-rigged repairs enabled \"Guadalupe\" to continue with the fast carrier group – which included \"Yorktown\", , and – as they conducted strikes against Japanese positions on Formosa and along the China coast. This action diverted the enemy from the main action at Lingayen Gulf, and crippled his land-based air power.\n\nA month's availability at Ulithi to repair her damaged bow ended in late February and \"Guadalupe\" again steamed for battle, this time operating in support of the Iwo Jima invasion. After two weeks off Iwo Jima, 24 February to 7 March, \"Guadalupe\" returned empty to Ulithi to prepare for her role in the bloody Okinawa campaign. Departing Ulithi 25 March 1945, \"Guadalupe\" spent three weeks off Okinawa, returned to Ulithi for more fuel, and then spent another three weeks off Okinawa. As the fierce struggle raged for this rockbound island, last step before the Japanese home islands, \"Guadalupe\" operated through heavy weather and high seas to provide other services, as well as her normal duties of refueling the giant invasion fleet, largest ever assembled in the Pacific.\n\nOkinawa marked the end of \"Guadalupe's\" service in the Pacific war. She sailed for the States and overhaul 24 May, and was two days out of Pearl Harbor on her way back to the struggle when the Japanese surrender ended the long war on 15 August 1945. From Pearl, \"Guadalupe\" went to Jinsen, Korea, where she replenished units of the US 7th Fleet occupying Yellow Sea ports. The tanker sailed for Okinawa 22 October and remained there through 1945.\n\nIn the post-war period \"Guadalupe\" remained on duty in the Pacific, supplying vital fuel oil to American units in Japan, China, Korea, the Philippines, and scores of islands. Some of this fuel oil she picked up at Bahrein, Arabia, as she sailed from the Far East to Norfolk via the Suez Canal and Gibraltar in 1948, returning over the same route.\n\nWhen North Korean Communist troops crossed the 38th parallel on 24 June 1950, \"Guadalupe\" was undergoing repairs at Long Beach, California, but she was soon ready for an active part. Sailing for the Pacific 29 July, she spent three months shuttling fuel oil between Hawaii, Kwajalein, and Guam before joining the 7th Fleet at Sasebo, Japan, 1 December 1950. Operating with various units of the fleet, \"Guadalupe\" visited Okinawa, Hong Kong, and Formosa in addition to refueling American and United Nations ships in the Korean replenishment area. She also sailed along the Korean coast to support the siege of Wonsan harbor.\n\nAn uneasy peace settled over the war-torn peninsula in August 1953, while \"Guadalupe\" was undergoing overhaul in California, but she returned to the Pacific to support American forces on the Formosa Patrol and training operations. From that time, the tanker's year settled into a routine of six months deployment with the 7th Fleet and six months operating out of Long Beach. In her Far East operations, \"Guadalupe\" has visited every major Pacific port – Hong Kong, Manila, Tokyo, Ceylon, Formosa – while playing her unsung but vital role in keeping the peace.\n\n\"Guadalupe\" continued her service through the Vietnam War and made a brief appearance in the 1965 film \"In Harm's Way\" with John Wayne and Kirk Douglas. She was decommissioned in 1974 and struck from the Navy List 14 May 1975. She was transferred to the Maritime Administration and sold for scrapping 16 October 1975.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043890", "title": "Passe-Partout", "text": "Passe-Partout\n\nPasse-Partout (; ) was a Quebec French-language children's television program produced by Radio-Québec (later Télé-Québec) that was originally in production from 1977 to 1993, and was revived in 2019 with a new cast. \n\nIt aired on Radio-Québec as well as on Radio-Canada for thirty minutes, incorporating both live actors and puppets although neither group interacted with the other.\n\nWhen \"Sesame Street\" was released in 1969, the possibility of translating it into Quebec French for broadcast in Quebec was considered. However, the conclusion was that Quebec children would not be able to identify with an American television show, and thus the Quebec Minister of Education began investigating the possibility of a children's show shot in the province. After two years (in 1973), the project was handed over to a producer, Laurent Lachance.\n\nHowever, internal conflict between Lachance and Radio-Québec led to several delays, and ultimately, to Lachance stepping down as producer. The government then turned toward private enterprises, and, on February 14, 1977, contracted JPL Production to produce the show. In its original run episodes were produced only until 1979, which were then repeated on the network until the government announced a new contract to produce 50 more episodes in 1983.\n\nThe commentary for the first season's DVD mentions that the Quebec Minister of Education was being pressured to take over the pre-school program as part of the regular program (prématernelle). It reveals that the government, experimentally, opted to invest in a show that could have a comparable outreach for the curriculum for a fraction of the cost of establishing and maintaining an actual educational program of similar content within its school system.\n\nLive action segments usually featured the activities and relationships of several humorous and infantile characters: Passe-Partout (a woman dressed mainly in blue played by Marie Eykel), Passe-Carreau (a woman dressed mainly in yellow played by Claire Pimparé) and Passe-Montagne (a man dressed in brown sporting butterfly-shaped bowties played by Jacques L'Heureux). \nOther characters that appeared less frequently were André (a young adult male played by André Cartier), Julie (a young adult female played by Jocelyne Goyette), Fardoche (a male farmer played by Pierre Dufresne) and Grand-mère (a neighbouring older woman that played grandmother for the actors). The latter would sometime narrate legends (the actress playing Grand-mère, Kim Yaroshevskaya, used to be the hostess of another children show called \"Fanfreluche\" where she also acted as a storyteller). Later in the show's run, the show added two people of colour, a Haitian immigrant named Passe-Tourelle (played by Joujou Turenne) and a Vietnameise character named Passe-Midi (played by Daniel Dõ).\n\nApart from the distinctive costumes of the main actors, the live action segments had a surrealistic feel due to the absence of any visible walls: all doors, windows and portraits were seen to hang in mid-air. Whether this was due to budget constraints or artistic choices is unclear.\n\nSegments in this category could either be educational (counting, language skils, memory work, etc.), musical (featuring original songs composed in a traditional folk style), moralistic (personal responsibility), or storytelling.\n\nUnlike the live action segments, these were filmed in a realistic environment (although of course scaled down). The various sketches involved the twins Cannelle (girl) and Pruneau (boy). Their stories often featured Perlin and Perline (their parents), grand-papa Bi (their maternal grandfather), Madame Coucou (a single and coquettish neighbour), Rigodon (their same-age male cousin), Ti-Brin (the slightly older bully/bad influence) as well as their classmates: Doualé (a girl from the fictional country of Cantaloupe) and Mélodie (Cannelle's friend who often acted as an object of pity). Another character that never interacted directly with the children (although they often conversed, largely perhaps in the children's imagination) was Alakazou, an anthropomorphic zebra who hosted Cannelle and Pruneau's favourite TV show.\n\nMore often than not, the puppet segments dealt with social and moral issues relating to children. In one notable instance, the children's father lost his job and went on extended unemployment benefits, making their future uncertain.\n\nLater in the series run, new puppet characters included Minella, who spoke French with an Italian accent, and Jade and Mirio, who were Vietnamese and Haitian respectively.\n\nMany innovative short films were shown in between segments. These could be anything from animation (a face forming out of vegetable), art (a woman carving a puppet out of an apple) or children's testimonials. Many of these shorts depicted real-life activities that viewing children could either relate to (kids playing) or learn from if they happened to be from the opposite end of the spectrum (city life v. country life). Many also aimed to teach about daily happenings, from going to the dentist, getting x-rays, starting school, playing with friends (or alone), cleaning your bike, or simply going to bed.\n\nWhile most of these shorts did not involve any of the characters from the other segments, more orchestrated ones did (such as Passe-Carreau getting her car serviced, Passe-Montagne getting his shoe fixed, etc.).\n\nPeople who grew up watching the program as children are termed the \"Passe-Partout generation\". In 2005, Les Francs-Tireurs dedicated one of their episodes to \"Passe-Partout\" (with Marie Eykel present), while in 2006, \"Ici Louis-José Houde\", a show tracing a comedic history of Québec television, aired an episode tracing the history of children's shows in Quebec, with much of the show dedicated to \"Passe-Partout\", and Eykel, Pimparé and L'Heureux all present.\n\nIt was also announced early in 2006 that work was underway on putting together DVD releases of the first two seasons of the show, in reaction to the sales of pirate versions of the series on eBay (with bids reaching the hundred dollars by the time the auction was canceled). Initially Télé-Québec was not interested in re-broadcasting the series, nor in producing a DVD. Eykel and L'Heureux obtained the broadcast rights to the first 125 episodes. The DVD was produced by both actors, Télé-Québec, and Alliance Atlantis Vivafilm.\n\nThe DVD was released on November 21, 2006, nearly selling out on first day sales.\n\nOn September 29, 2009, a CD album entitled \"Génération Passe-Partout\" was released with some of the songs recorded by current artists from Quebec.\n\nThe cast of the 2019 revival includes Élodie Grenier as Passe-Partout, Gabrielle Fontaine as Passe-Carreau, Jean-François Pronovost as Passe-Montagne, Danielle Proulx as Grand-Mère and Widemir Normil as Fardoche.\n\nThe first episode of the revived series aired on February 25, 2019, with viewership reaching 707,000.\n"}
{"id": "2043892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043892", "title": "Vaitarna", "text": "Vaitarna\n\nThe Vaitarana River is a river in Nashik and Palghar district of Maharashtra. Tanasa is its left bank tributary and Pinjal, Dehraja, Surya are its right bank tributaries. Upper stretches of Vaitarna are clean but in lower stretches it's polluted due to untreated industrial and civic waste. Vaitarna is one of the most polluted rivers in India.\n\nIt originates in Sahyadri mountain ranges near Trimbakeshwar. Vaitarna river is just 2 km away from India’s second longest river Godavari. Vaitarna has a confluence with the Tanasa just before it enters the Arabian Sea. Jhow and Wadhiv islands lie in its estuary. Arnala Island lies off its mouth. It has three major dams which supply water to Mumbai.\n\nVaitarna supplies much of Mumbai's drinking water. It is the largest river in the Northern Konkan region and drains Maharashtra's whole Palghar District.\n\nThe , a steamship, was named after the river.\n"}
{"id": "2043902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043902", "title": "Midland Park High School", "text": "Midland Park High School\n\nMidland Park Jr./Sr. High School is a six-year comprehensive public high school for students in seventh through twelfth grades in Midland Park, in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. Opened in 1957, it is a junior-senior high school operating as the lone secondary school of the Midland Park School District.\n\nAs of the 2017–18 school year, the school had an enrollment of 442 students and 46.1 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 9.6:1. There were 29 students (6.6% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and 3 (0.7% of students) eligible for reduced-cost lunch.\n\nThe school was the 78th-ranked public high school in New Jersey out of 339 schools statewide in \"New Jersey Monthly\" magazine's September 2014 cover story on the state's \"Top Public High Schools\", using a new ranking methodology. The school had been ranked 68th in the state of 328 schools in 2012, after being ranked 116th in 2010 out of 322 schools listed. The magazine ranked the school 44th in 2008 out of 316 schools. The school was ranked 66th in the magazine's September 2006 issue, which included 316 schools across the state. Schooldigger.com ranked the school tied for 76th out of 381 public high schools statewide in its 2011 rankings (an increase of 55 positions from the 2010 ranking) which were based on the combined percentage of students classified as proficient or above proficient on the mathematics (89.7%) and language arts literacy (96.2%) components of the High School Proficiency Assessment (HSPA).\n\nStudents from Midland Park attended Ridgewood High School until 1935, after which they started attending Pompton Lakes High School. Due to limitations on space, the Pompton Lakes School District mandated that the district's high school could not accommodate students from Midland Park after the end of the 1956-57 school year. Midland Park's voters approved a referendum in 1955 that led to the construction of a $1.4 million Midland Park High School that opened in September 1957.\n\nA 1973 plan to have students from Ho-Ho-Kus attend Midland Park High School as part of a regional agreement never came to fruition, despite official approval and encouragement by the New Jersey State Board of Education. Ridgewood had been hosting students in grades 9 to 12 from Ho-Ho-Kus for 75 years at Ridgewood High School as part of a sending/receiving relationship, though the board of education of the Ridgewood Public Schools decided to end the arrangement in 1973 due to overcrowding. A proposed regionalization agreement between Ho-Ho-Kus and Ridgewood had been rejected by voters from both communities in 1969. The state had recommended the formation of a regionalization agreement between Ho-Ho-Kus and Midland Park, though the choices of funding the combined district based on either property values or on the number of students would mean that one borough would shoulder higher costs than the other, regardless of which method was selected. Students from Ho-Ho-Kus attended the school through the 1990s, when the choice was made to shift students to Northern Highlands Regional High School.\n\nThe Midland Park High School Panthers compete in Patriot Division B of the North Jersey Interscholastic Conference (NJIC), made up of private and public high schools located in Bergen County, Hudson County and Passaic County, following a reorganization of sports leagues in Northern New Jersey by the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA). With 230 students in grades 10-12, the school was classified by the NJSIAA for the 2015-16 school year as North I, Group I for most athletic competition purposes, which included schools with an enrollment of 187 to 490 students in that grade range. Prior to the realignment that took effect in the fall of 2010, Midland Park was a member of the smaller Bergen-Passaic Scholastic League (BPSL).\n\nThe school participates in joint football and wrestling programs with Waldwick High School as the host school / lead agency, under an agreement that expires at the end of the 2018-19 school year.\n\nOn November 9, 2007, the boys' soccer team defeated number 1 seed Wallington High School to claim the North I, Group I state sectional championship. The game was tied 1-1 at the end of regulation and was decided on penalty kicks by a 5-4 margin.\n\nOn November 10, 2007, the girls' volleyball team lost to Bogota High School in the title match of the 27-team Group I tournament at William Paterson University by scores of 22-25, 25-18 and 25-13.\n\nIn 2010, Junior javelin thrower Kaleb Zuidema set the New Jersey record with a throw of . Zuidema also went on to win the 2010 Penn Relays and won the High School Javelin National Championship.\n\nIn the fall of 2010, the boys' soccer team lost in the finals of the North 1 Group 1 championship to Wallington 2-1. In the \"Bergen Record\", the North Jersey Boys' Soccer Top 25 placed Midland Park at number 7 when the season had come to an end. That season the team also won the NJIC Patriot B Soccer Title.\n\nThe principal is Nicholas Capuano. His core administration team includes the vice principal and athletic director\n\nAlumni of the high school include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043917", "title": "Jim Reid", "text": "Jim Reid\n\nJames McLeish Reid (born 29 December 1961) is a Scottish singer/songwriter and the lead singer for the alternative rock band The Jesus and Mary Chain, which he formed with his elder brother and guitarist William Reid in 1983.\n\nReid is the lead singer and founding member of the alternative rock band The Jesus and Mary Chain. They released six studio albums before they split up in 1999. They reformed in March 2007.\n\nReid went on to form the band Freeheat with former Mary Chain drummer Nick Sanderson and guitarist Ben Lurie. Freeheat did several tours and released an EP, \"Retox\", before the members went their separate ways in 2003.\n\nReid released his first solo single \"Song for a Secret\" in 2005 on the Transistor record label, and released a follow up called \"Dead End Kids\" in July 2006 also on Transistor. Since April 2006 he has been playing with a new band that features Phil King (Felt, Lush, Jesus and Mary Chain) on lead guitar, Loz Colbert (Ride) on drums and Mark Crozer on bass. The band has performed his new material at several low key gigs including Whelans in Dublin and, more recently, the Carling Bar Academy in Islington.\n\nReid was born in East Kilbride, Scotland and attended Hunter High School. He now lives in Sidmouth, Devon, and has two daughters Simone (born 2003) and Candice (born 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "2043921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043921", "title": "Bangued", "text": "Bangued\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe name \"Bangued\" means \"roadblock\". It was established as a regular town in 1598 and was made the seat of the provincial government of Abra on July 25, 1861. The inauguration coincided with the feast day of Saint James the Great.\n\nThe early settlers were the Tingguians belonging to the Bago, Itneg, Masadiit, lbanao, and Indayas tribes, who later intermarried with the immigrants from Ilocos Sur. The Tingguians opposed the Christianization introduced by the Spanish friars who penetrated the eastern settlements. The Tingguian residents prevented the Spaniards from penetrating their area of which they placed roadblocks on all roads leading to the place. They also cut large logs and threw them to the Abra River to prevent the incoming colonizers from entering the area with the use of their boats and bamboo rafts. These logs were made as obstacles and big rocks were placed along the roads which the natives called \"banggen\", meaning obstacles.\n\nWhen the \"conquistadores\", led by Juan de Salcedo, decided to penetrate the area, they proceeded eastward and saw for themselves the logs along the Abra River, and the stones placed there to block all roads leading to the community. Salcedo's subaltern happened to meet one of the natives and asked what was the name of the place. Thinking that the Spaniards were inquiring about the roadblocks, he answered \"banggen\" and the subaltern jotted down on his notebook about the word.\n\nThe Spaniards were successful in their attempt to penetrate the inner communities in the east by removing the obstacles, saying in Spanish \"Abra esos obstáculos\" and it was in that happening when they developed the area and established the towns and barangays. The place where they found many obstacles, they named it \"Bangen\" and the province they called it \"Abra\".\n\nWhen the Americans colonized the country and established the civil government, the town's name was modified to \"Bangued\".\n\nIn 1692, Augustinians under Fray Columbo made Bangued an independent mission territory. Earlier in 1615, Juan Pareja organized Bangued as a mission center and baptized 3,000 Tingguians with the help of their chief, Manuel Dumawal.\n\nModern-day Bangued was formally organized in 1704 until it was decided to become the capital town of Abra in 1863. It has 31 barangays, seven of them in the town proper.\n\nCityhood for Bangued is being given a push in the 16th Congress. Abra Representative Ma. Jocelyn Bernos filed a resolution seeking congressional nod for the capital town’s cityhood.\n\nBangued is a landlocked municipality, located at . It is elongated in shape towards the north and south, and bisected through the center by the large Abra River. It is situated in the western portion of the province with boundaries defined by the Province of Ilocos Norte and the Municipality of Danglas in the north; La Paz, Tayum and Peñarrubia in the east; San Isidro in the south, and Langiden and Pidigan in the west.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra. The town is generally mountainous from north to south; however, it is flat and rolling at the midsection. From here it has an elevation of above mean sea level. In the north, which consists mostly of mountains, elevation ranges from . In the south, which is interspersed with mountain and hills, elevation ranges from . One such hill is Cassamata Hill which was declared a national park.\n\nBangued is accessible through the Abra-Ilocos Sur National Road from the west, Abra-Kalinga Road from the north-east, and Abra-Ilocos Norte Road from the North. It is from Manila, from Baguio and from Vigan.\n\nThe climate falls under the first type of tropical climate, which is characterized by two pronounced seasons, dry from November to April and wet during the remaining months of the year. Prevailing wind blowing in the area is mostly in the direction from north-west to southeast. However, during summer in the absence of weather disturbance, wind blows from north to south or east to west.\n\nBangued is politically subdivided into 31 barangays with 77 sitios.\n\nIn the , Bangued had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe economy of the municipality is heavily dependent on agriculture particularly \"palay\" and corn, followed by trade and industry. Chinese businessmen dominate trade and manufacturing as a common preoccupation of the populace.\n\nThe commercial activity of Bangued is confined in the urban core establishing a linear pattern of development along major thoroughfares. This is evident from Torrijos Street to Taft Street of Zone 5, McKinley Street to Santiago Street and Partelo Street of Zone 4, and Capitulacion Street of Zone 1 and Zone 2.\n\nFor the year 2000 there were 1,539 commercial/business enterprises classified as wholesale and retail trade, dry and wet markets, banking and finance, service and others. There were 9 large suppliers of lumber, hardware and other construction supplies and materials. Likewise there were also about 3 large contractors with undetermined number of small to medium scale. On the other hand, there were also a number of large to medium scale suppliers of general merchandise, groceries and various types of prime commodities.\n\nAs the economic center of Abra, small scale or cottage industries abound. The most common are hollow blocks and other concrete products manufacturing with gravel and sand readily available at the Abra River bank. Wood and bamboo craft are also promising business enterprises with raw materials available in the vicinity and in the hinterlands for narra and other species of hardwood, rattan, and bamboos. Metalcraft, tinsmithing, jewelry making is also expanding while a lot of households are now in the small scale processing or value adding activities appertaining to various food items.\n\nThe municipality has a total of 24 Educational Institutions at all levels. 21 belong to the government while the rest are private. Of the total public schools, 19 belongs to the elementary levels. Most of the educational institutions of higher levels secondary and tertiary are concentrated in the urban core, while elementary schools are strategically located in different barangays forming their own catchment areas.\n\nAside from these institutions there are at least 15 daycare centers located in different barangays, and 5 private institutions for pre-schoolers complementing that from the government.\n\nThe total number of elementary school teachers in the public sector is 218 giving a gross teacher pupil ratio of 1:30 (SY 1999-2000 DepEd), in the private there are 193 with a ratio of 1:28 in the same period. Two public libraries complement existing facilities, the Provincial Library located al Santiago St. Zone 3 and the Integrated Bar of the Philippines Library located at the Municipal Trial Court.\n\n\nPassenger buses, mini-buses, jeepneys and tricycles including cargo are the major means of transportation in the town. Buses, mini-buses and jeepneys ply the longer routes covering the entire province of Abra and out, while tricycles serve only the inner arteries of the municipality's barangays including the adjacent towns of Pidigan, Tayum and Peñarrubia on a chartered ride basis.\n\nBuses going to Manila have their own permanent station/terminal, while all the rest are accommodated and parked along various open lots, gasoline stations, etc.\n\nThere are jeeps that ply from Bangued to Narvacan.\n\nGMW trans have daily trips to tuguegarao and Santiago City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043924", "title": "Bucay, Abra", "text": "Bucay, Abra\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a 3rd class in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBucay was established on October 29, 1846 and the first settlers were Itnegs. It became the first provincial capital of Abra when the military form of government was set up in May 1847. At the back of the present municipal hall is the centuries-old façade of the ruined \"Casa Real\" (Provincial Capitol Building). Across the town plaza, stand the centuries-old Catholic church, convent and learning school, Spanish structure house owned by then Don Teodoro Arias who served as Gobernadorcillo of Bucay in 1862, and the old American structure house which was built in 1908 and owned by then US Corporal Ernest D. Smith who served the Spanish–American War and the Filipino-American war from 1896 to 1901. Prior to the invasion of the Spaniards, the place had become footfalls of invading headhunters from the dense jungles of the Cordillera range.\n\nThere are two versions on how this town got its name as \"Bucay\". Some residents say that there was a tribe leader by the name of Bucay. When this leader was still young, while patrolling, he found a pretty young lass lying on the way which prompted him to extend assistance, and brought her home. After a period of time, he developed his love with the young lass and took her as his wife. In several occasions, the girl suddenly disappeared. At some instances, Bucay used to see her at the corner of his bamboo hut sitting alone with her bowed head which prompted him to approach and touch her, but always disappeared.\n\nAmong the twenty-seven (27) towns of Abra, Bucay is the most centrally located, situated at . It is bounded on the north by the towns of Tayum and Lagangilang, on the south by Manabo, on the east by Licuan-Baay and Sallapadan, and on the west by Peñarrubia, Bangued and Villaviciosa.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nBucay is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\n\nIn the , Bucay had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043925", "title": "Bucloc", "text": "Bucloc\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nBucloc is politically subdivided into 4 barangays.\n\nIn the , Bucloc had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043927", "title": "Daguioman", "text": "Daguioman\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it had a population of people.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nDaguioman is politically subdivided into 4 barangays.\n\nIn the , Daguioman had a population of . The population density was . Daguioman is the home of the Banao tribe of Itneg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043928", "title": "Tennis and Racquet Club", "text": "Tennis and Racquet Club\n\nThe Tennis and Racquet Club is a private social club and athletic club located at 939 Boylston Street, in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. It is a contributing structure in the National Register Historic District.\n\nDesigned by Parker and Thomas in the classical revival style, and built by Frank L. Whitcomb in 1902, the Tennis and Racquet Club is representative of the ornate private clubs constructed in Boston during the early twentieth century.\n\nThe club still contains its original court tennis court and racquets court. Today the club also has three international and three North American squash courts, although previously there had been more, including a squash tennis court. Additionally, the club is home to one of the nine real tennis courts in the United States. Many of the original social rooms have been converted into office or restaurant rentals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043929", "title": "Danglas", "text": "Danglas\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDanglas is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nDanglas is politically subdivided into 7 barangays.\n\nIn the , Danglas had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe economy of the municipality is heavily dependent on agriculture particularly \"palay\", corn, vegetables and fruits. Other raw materials include rattan and bamboos.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043930", "title": "Dolores, Abra", "text": "Dolores, Abra\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe place was called \"Bucao\", named after the first Tingguian (Itneg) chieftain who settled in the place long before Spanish colonization. It used to be part of the Municipality of Tayum. In 1882, upon the recommendation of the parish priest of Tayum, Fr. Pío Mercado, and the \"Teniente Bazar\" of Bucao, \"Don\" Ignacio Eduarte, Bucao was created as a separate \"pueblo\". In 1885, Bucao was renamed \"Dolores\", to honor its patron saint, \"Nuestra Señora de los Dolores\" (Our Lady Of Sorrows). The first gobernadorcillo of the town was \"Don\" Rosalio Eduarte.\n\nDolores is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nDolores is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\n\nIn the , Dolores had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043931", "title": "La Paz, Abra", "text": "La Paz, Abra\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLa Paz is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLa Paz is politically subdivided into 12 barangays.\n\nIn the , La Paz had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043933", "title": "Lacub", "text": "Lacub\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLacub is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLacub is politically subdivided into 6 barangays.\n\nIn the , Lacub had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043934", "title": "Lagangilang", "text": "Lagangilang\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLagangilang is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLagangilang is politically subdivided into 17 barangays.\n\nIn the , Lagangilang had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043935", "title": "Lagayan", "text": "Lagayan\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLagayan is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLagayan is politically subdivided into 5 barangays.\n\nIn the , Lagayan had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043936", "title": "Langiden", "text": "Langiden\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLangiden is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLangiden is politically subdivided into 6 barangays.\n\nIn the , Langiden had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043938", "title": "Licuan-Baay", "text": "Licuan-Baay\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLicuan-Baay is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLicuan-Baay is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\nIn the , LicuanBaay had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043941", "title": "Luba, Abra", "text": "Luba, Abra\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe earliest known settlement in the municipality of Luba was in Barit. It was then a thickly forested area with tall and big trees interconnected with myriads of rattan vines called \"barit\". The early settlers were hunters as the place was abundant with wild pigs, deer and fruit trees.\n\nThe home of fine quality of rattan, Barit increased in population so that another settlement in a nearby place emerged. They called this \"Barit-Luzong\". Southwest of Barit, another settlement occurred and they called this \"Barit-Lulluno\". Barit-Amtuagan soon followed. It is only after a considerable period of time that the settlement of Bancagan (now the capital of the municipality) took place. The old folks has it that the river banks were being avoided due to the presence of a deadly reptiles called \"buaya\". But in the middle part of the 18th century settlement near river banks begun to flourish the old folks surmised that half a century earlier, settlers from the uplands had turn to “slash and burn” farming. A destructive method that almost dissipated the tall and big premium hardwood trees. As a consequence flash flood occurred that resulted to siltation in the deep river bed portion virtually neutralized the hiding place of these \"buaya\"s. Exposed to attack, their number were kept into a minimum.\n\nThe first formal collective name of the municipality of Luba was Barit-Amtuagan, presumably to include all other settlers from the east side of the “kayan” (river). This is located south east of Barit near the Damalin River, the biggest tributary of the Abra river. After sometime, some influential leaders from Barit-Lulluno had caused the transfer of collective capital from Barit-Amtuagan to Barit-Lulluno. For many years, Barit-Lulluno lingered until the onset of the American Regime.\n\nIn 1917 or probably earlier, the name of Luba was formally adopted as the official name of the municipality. Accordingly, it was a fusion of the first two letters of Lulluno and Barit.\n\nCreation of the Municipality Luba, founded in 1912 or probably earlier finally appeared in the population census in 1918. One and a half centuries earlier, the core settlement at Barit has gradually transformed into a “pueblo” in the middle part of the 18th century and believed to be a part of the military district of Villavieja.\n\nThe first capital of the town and seat of the municipal government was in Luzong, 4 km away from the original settlement at Barit. But in 1920, Caoatig Valera, the third “presidente” of the municipality of Luba transferred the town capital to Bancagan (now Poblacion) in answer to the clamor of some influential people in that sitio.\n\nLuba now consist of 8 barangays scattered in a 20,850 hectares territory with an average of 3 km apart. It has 2 valleys-the upper and the lower. The town’s geographical location has been a major factor in her slow-paced development that she is often tagged as a marginalized community of Abra.\n\nThe municipality is located at the southern part of Abra at located at . It is about south of Bangued, the provincial capital and about north of the city of Baguio. It is bounded on the north by the municipality of Manabo; north-east by Boliney; east by Tubo; south by San Emilio, and west by Villaviciosa.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nLuba is politically subdivided into eight barangays.\n\nIn the , Luba had a population of . The population density was .\n\nLuba is accessible from Benguet/Baguio by vehicle via the Naguilian Road down to San Fernando City, traversing the province of Ilocos Sur to the municipality of Narvacan, then continuing to Bangued. The Bangued–Luba route is seasonal for vehicular traffic (November–June). However the Bangued–Salnec Bucay Road is an all-weather one, and an intermittent section along the Manabo-Luba Road is not passable during typhoons/storms, so the only way to go to and from the town is by crossing the Abra River twice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043942", "title": "Diocese of Bath and Wells", "text": "Diocese of Bath and Wells\n\nThe Diocese of Bath and Wells is a diocese in the Church of England Province of Canterbury in England.\n\nThe diocese covers the county of Somerset and a small area of Dorset. The Episcopal seat of the Bishop of Bath and Wells is located in the Cathedral Church of Saint Andrew in the city of Wells in Somerset.\n\nBefore 909, Somerset lay within the diocese of Sherborne. At this date, Athelm (later Archbishop of Canterbury) was appointed the first bishop of the Diocese of Wells, making the secular church there into the diocesan cathedral. The secular canons at Wells vied with the monks of the monasteries at Glastonbury and Bath for supremacy in the diocese and it was with difficulty that the cathedral retained its status, so much so that the canons were reduced to begging in order to obtain their bread. It was to this impoverished cathedral church that Gisa was appointed bishop in 1060. Under him, grants of land were obtained successively from the kings Edward the Confessor, Harold and William the Conqueror and buildings were constructed for the secular community.\n\nGisa's successor, John de Villula (1088–1122), moved the see to become the Diocese of Bath in 1090, using the Abbey Church of Ss Peter & Paul as his cathedral and in so doing he regressed the position of the cathedral at Wells. Robert of Lewes, appointed bishop in 1136, enhanced on the position of Wells. As well as rebuilding the cathedral he instituted the arrangement by which although Bath retained precedence, the seat was located in both churches and the bishop was elected by both chapters. However the diocesan title remained the same.\n\nReginald fitz Jocelin (bishop 1174–91) brought Saint Hugh of Lincoln to England and his successor, Savaric FitzGeldewin (1192–1205) forcibly annexed Glastonbury Abbey to the diocese in 1197. He moved his seat there, with the approval of Pope Celestine III, and the see became officially known as the Diocese of Glastonbury. The monks of Glastonbury, however, rejected Savaric's authority and the title Diocese of Bath and Glastonbury was therefore used for all practical purposes until his successor, Jocelin of Wells, a native of Wells itself, renounced the claim to Glastonbury in 1219. Thereupon he adopted the style Diocese of Bath. Although he did not use the name of Wells in his title, his contribution to the city was greater than any other bishop of the diocese: under his authority the cathedral was restored and enlarged, adding the west front, making this the visual signature of the building. Further, he increased the thirty-five canons to fifty and founded a grammar school for the city.\n\nFollowing his death in 1242 however, the monks at Bath unilaterally elected one of their number, Roger, as successor, in disregard for the chapter of Wells. His appointment received confirmation from King Henry III and the new pope Innocent IV. The chapter at Wells appealed the decision, with the result that the Pope declared, on 3 January 1245, that whilst Roger should remain, he would be bishop of a see thenceforth styled the Diocese of Bath and Wells.\n\nThe diocese of Bath and Wells proper (\"Badoniensis et Wellensis\") dates therefore from 1245. The diocese contained the three archdeaconries of Bath, Wells, and Taunton. William of Bitton bishop from 1267–74 was renowned for his piety, and his tomb became a place of pilgrimage in Wells. The completion of the buildings was achieved under Ralph of Shrewsbury (bishop 1329–63). Thomas Beckington (bishop 1443–65) was another noted liberal benefactor of the city.\n\nOliver King (1495–1503) rebuilt Bath Abbey in the late Perpendicular style. The work was begun in 1499 and completed in 1530 under John Clerk. The abbey was the last complete monastic edifice to be completed before the impending Reformation. He was succeeded by Adriano Castellesi (1504–18) who was an absentee bishop, under whom the see was administered by Polydore Vergil the noted historian. Castellesi's successor Thomas Wolsey (1518–23) was also an absentee bishop, held the see concurrently with that of York.\n\nThe abbey at Bath was dissolved by King Henry VIII in 1538 during the English Reformation. Thereafter the Church of England bishop, though retaining the old style, had his seat at Wells alone. William Barlow, was appointed in 1548. He fled in 1553 on the accession of Queen Mary I, and his successor was the Roman Catholic Gilbert Bourne (1554–59), who was deprived and imprisoned in the Tower of London by Queen Elizabeth, becoming, in 1569, one of the eleven Roman Catholic bishops who died in prison.\n\nThe \"Report of the Commissioners appointed by his Majesty to inquire into the Ecclesiastical Revenues of England and Wales\" (1835) found the see had an annual net income of £5,946. This made it one of the wealthiest diocese in England.\n\nThe diocesan offices, the bishops' offices and residences and the cathedral are all located in Wells. The diocese is not referred to as \"Bath diocese\" or \"Wells diocese\", but as \"Bath and Wells diocese\".\n\nThe ordinary of the diocese is the diocesan Bishop of Bath and Wells, Peter Hancock; he is assisted throughout the diocese by the Bishop suffragan of Taunton (Ruth Worsley, whose See was created in 1911.) Alternative episcopal oversight (for parishes in the diocese who reject the ministry of priests who are women) is provided by the provincial episcopal visitor (PEV) the, Bishop suffragan of Ebbsfleet, Jonathan Goodall. The bishop is licensed as an honorary assistant bishop of the diocese in order to facilitate his work there.\n\nThere are six retired honorary assistant bishops licensed in the diocese:\n\nAdditionally, Michael Ball (retired Bishop of Truro), a founder of the Community of the Glorious Ascension, lives in the diocese (in Aller, Somerset.)\n\nThe diocese is divided into three archdeaconries: Bath, Taunton and Wells. These in turn are divided into 18 deaneries. The deanery of Crewkerne and Ilminster was split in 2012. Sedgemoor was known as Bridgwater until 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043944", "title": "Boliney", "text": "Boliney\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBoliney is bounded to the north by Sallapadan, Bucloc, and Daguioman, to the east by Tubo and the provinces of Kalinga and Mountain Province, and to the west by of Luba and Manabo.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nBoliney is politically subdivided into 8 barangays.\n\nIn the , Boliney had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe municipality's population consists of the Cordillera sub-tribes, namely Masadiit of the Tingguian Tribes, Belwang of the Igorot and Balatoc of the Kalinga tribe. Descendants of the other Tinguian sub-tribes are also represented in Boliney such as Binongan, Banao, Maeng, Ammotan (now called Muyadan of Manabo).\n\nThe main source of livelihood of the people of Boliney comes from their rice terraces. But most of their rice lands were either seriously damaged or totally lost due to the landslides, mud piles, and by the killer quakes in 1990 and 1992. They get most of their rice now from Bangued, while other mountain municipalities supplied some of the rice needs of some nearby lowland municipalities.\n\nRehabilitation have been on the communal facilities such as roads, trails, irrigation systems, footbridges and rice fields by the Masadiit Farmers Cooperative Inc. (MFCI) with the fund amounting to from the Presidential Management Staff and by the Inter NGO Disaster Relief Services (INDRS) with the fund amounting 292,516.00, from Oxfam.\n\nBoliney is situated from the capital town of Bangued, and can be reached by road which was completed in 1974. Prior to this, it was accessible only by hiking a long mountain trail.\n\nAfter 1974, the road was extended by about before reaching Danac, the farthest barangay. The present-day road is now as far as the Poblacion; however, the rest of the road has been abandoned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043948", "title": "Wolf Howard", "text": "Wolf Howard\n\nWolf Howard (born 7 April 1968) is an English artist, poet and filmmaker living in Rochester, Kent and was a founder member of the Stuckists art group. He is also a drummer who has played in garage and punk bands, currently as a member of The Musicians of the British Empire (MBE's) with Billy Childish.\n\nSimon 'Wolf' Howard was born in Strood, Kent and attended Mid-Kent College for O-levels, where he \"doesn't think he got any but always tells people he got two\". In 1986 he began drumming, having taught himself, and has continued to do so ever since. From 1987 for 15 years he was on the dole, except for a total of two periods of two months, one day and half-an-hour, when he was respectively sweeping an ironmonger's warehouse floor, sweeping a neon light warehouse floor, picking apples and working in a frozen shepherds-pie factory. He decided against going to art college on the basis that it would \"worsen himself\". He lives in Chatham, where he works as a volunteer in an Oxfam shop.\n\nWolf Howard has played drums in many bands. The most important are (in chronological order) The Daggermen, The James Taylor Quartet, The Prime Movers, The Solarflares, Dodsons Dogs and The Buff Medways. His drumming is \"louder than a self-propelled Howitzer.\"\n\nHoward was one of the 13 original founder members of the Stuckists, a pro-figurative painting, anti-conceptual art group, co-founded by Childish and Charles Thomson in 1999. Howard exhibited in group shows, including \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\" (2004) at the Walker Art Gallery for the Liverpool Biennial and \"Go West\" at Spectrum London (2006). He left the group in 2006 to pursue a solo career.\n\nHe paints bold figurative images in a simple, vigorous, impasto style. This has incurred criticism for its apparent naivety. Howard has stated that his finished result only comes about after hard work, which can involve scraping the paint back to the canvas up to ten times.\nHe has explained a particular painting, \"Mrs Chippy\":\nIn \"Aesthetica\" magazine, Abby Jackson contrasted the different\nresponses of Howard and Luc Tuymans to the subject of 9/11: \"Tuymans chooses to avoid his subject matter, whereas Howard, as a Stuckist, approaches his subject head on.\"\n\nWolf Howard is a member of the Stuckism Photography group and takes pinhole photographs. He uses a light-proof wooden box 4\" square with a fixed-size pinhole in the front. Photographic paper is placed at the back of the box. There is no lens and no viewfinder, so he estimates the aim of the camera. A wooden slider allows light into the box for an exposure which is between 40 seconds and 5 minutes. The camera is placed inside a light-proof bag to replace the photographic paper.\n\nHe develops a negative print (in his bathroom) and makes the final positive print by placing another sheet of photographic paper under the negative with a 5-second exposure under a light bulb. The whole process requires estimation throughout and he \"faces many disappointments in his darkroom. The hard work will eventually pay off.\"\n\nHe describes his motivation:\n\nAn exhibition of his work, \"The Pinhole Photographs of a Gifted Gentleman Amateur\", was held at the Stuckism International Gallery in 2003 as part of Alternative Arts Photomonth. He was one of the four Stuckist Photographers showing work at the Lady Lever Art Gallery during the 2004 Liverpool Biennial. Jesse Richards wrote in a review of the show, \"Wolf Howard's pinhole photographs of a pocket watch, a trench cap, and his friend Billy Childish are beautiful haunting images that seem to be from a world long gone by. I've really never seen anything like it.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043953", "title": "Igatpuri", "text": "Igatpuri\n\n[https://www.igatpuri.in/[Igatpuri]] (formerly known as Egutpoora ) is a town and a Hill Station municipal council in Nashik District in the Indian state of Maharashtra. It is located in the Western Ghats. Igatpuri railway station lies in Nashik District between Mumbai and Nashik Road on the Central Railway. Igatpuri is known for Vipassana International Academy, where ancient technique of meditation is taught called Vipassana. The place is one of the best places to visit in Maharashtra in monsoon. It is a hill station on busy Mumbai-Agra NH-3 only 45 km from Nashik and 130 km from Mumbai.\n\nIgatpuri railway station is a major railway station connecting Igatpuri to Mumbai\nThe station is famous for its scenic surroundings, wada pao and idlis sold by vendors to commuters traveling in the train.\nThe exit of Igatpuri railway station signals the proximity of Mumbai on down route.\n\nIgatpuri is surrounded by the highest peaks in Sahyadri i.e. Western Ghats, most of them are forts built in Satavahana dynasty. It's heavenly for trekkers and hikers, Most Indian (Hindi) movie outdoor scenes specially songs are shot in Igatpuri region. Igatpuri is a place of significance in terms of Vipassana meditation. The International Centre for Vipassana meditation called Dhammagiri, supposedly the largest Vipassana Center, is located here. This region consists of those mountains which are accessed by trains going from Mumbai CST to Kasara and Igatpuri. Local trains only go up to Kasara, and don't climb the Thal Ghat from Kasara to Igatpuri. Hence to go to Igatpuri, one has to either take a long distance train or reach Kasara by a suburban train and then take a bus uphill.\n\nIt has an average elevation of 600 metres.\n\n India census, Igatpuri had a population of 31,572. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Igatpuri has an average literacy rate of 74%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 80%, and female literacy is 67%. In Igatpuri, 14% of the population is under 6 years of age.People of Agri community can be found in the city, they are also called Patharvat.\nIgatpuri is well connected by rail and road. By NH-3 to Agra and by, Central Railway to Mumbai, Howrah, Guwahati, New Delhi, etc. It is a major railway station, As Loco Changes are made here for trains from and to Mumbai.\n\nTourism is the most significant segment of the Igatpuri's economy. Following are the places most visited by tourists :\n\nBhatsa River Valley: The Bhatsa river valley is situated at the end of the Thal Ghat, just before entering Igatpuri from Mumbai. The valley lies in the basin of the majestic Bhatsa River. The valley is a picturesque spot with lush vegetation and majestic rocks formed by the river that runs through it.\n\nArthur Lake: A few km from Igatpuri, lies a huge and placid Arthur Lake, set like a huge jewel amidst the dense greenery. The lake is formed by the waters of the Pravara River in the Bhandardara region.\n\nKalsubai Peak About 35 km from Igatpuri is the highest peak in the Sahyadri ranges.\n\nAmruteshwar Temple: Built in 11th century AD, it is dedicated to Lord Shiva. Constructed in a distinct Hemadpanti style, the temple is surrounded by lush green fields and Mount Kalsubai the highest mountain in Maharashtra. From here a further excursion leads to the Ratangad Fort. One can access this temple by road or an 8 km boat ride on Arthur Lake. \n\nDhamma Giri Meditation Centre: Founded by S.N.Goenka, Dhammagiri is a meditation centre offers courses in Vipasana (insight meditation) a technique taught by the Buddha in India, 2,500 years ago. The large Golden Pagoda, the central theme of Dhammagiri serves as a landmark for Igatpuri. The centre attracts a lots of people from various parts of India as well as abroad. More on Dhammagiri, visit at www.giri.dhamma.org\n\nGhatandevi Temple: Just ahead of Igatpuri, after crossing the camel Valley, comes across a small road, which leads to the Ghatandevi temple. According to the locals belief, Ghatandevi is the Protector of Ghats. The mountains of Durrar Utvad, Trimak and Harihar forms a spectacular backdrop. Behind the temple lies the Tringalwadi Fort.\n\nGirisagar Waterfall: This majestic waterfall near the beautiful Bhavali dam greets you to enjoy its timeless beauty amidst the fog and lush green forests. There are a ton of top attractions in close proximity of the falls and a viewpoint just above provides a great view of the Sahyadris. The waterfall is 17 km from Igatpuri train station, inside Jamunda Hills.\n\nIgatpuri Cemetery It lies on a hillock, North of the town.Soldiers died while fighting the great war in India are buried here.\n\nTringalwadi Fort: It is situated at an altitude of 3,000 feet above the sea level. Since it is located very high, the fort offers picturesque scenery of the whole locality, especially Kulang and Kalsubai mountain ranges. The fort attracts trekkers also. The top of the fort is shaped like a Turban. A temple dedicated to lord Hanuman is nearby. An architectural marvel, the fort can be accessed through a narrow pathway, down to the Tringalwadi Lake. Just a few km away from Tringalwadi Lake is Talegaon Lake formed by the small Talegaon Dam.\n\nCamel Valley: A few metres away from Bhatsa river valley, on the right is the camel valley. On the other side of the valley is a waterfall formed by the rain waters and one have to walk over and look down to find a slope that falls over 1, 000 ft. The waterfall is the chief attraction of this place.\n\nThe Five Waterfalls: A little further from Ghatandevi, the rough road leading to the railway line begins. Across the railway line, while climbing down, falling one below the other, are five waterfalls that form which are main attraction for tourists in Igatpuri.\n\nMahatma Gandhi High School (Marathi, Semi-English).\nHoly Family Convent High School (English).\nWonderland High School and Junior College (English) (C.B.S.E) from 2019.\nPriceless Pearls Scholars Academy (English)(I.C.S.E.).\n\nPanchavati English Medium School and Junior College (C.B.S.E.), NH.3.\nJanta Vidyalaya and Junior College (Marathi).\nK.P.G. Arts, Commerce & Science College, Igatpuri.\nV. N. Patil Madhyamik Va Uchcha Madhyamik Mahavidyalaya (Arts & Science)\n\nNSPM Arts & Commerce.\nGSTMahavidyalaya, Igatpuri.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043954", "title": "Malibcong", "text": "Malibcong\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMalibcong is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nMalibcong is politically subdivided into 12 barangays.\n\nIn the , Malibcong had a population of . The population density was .\nThe Itneg tribe can be found in Malibcong and they speak a sub-dialect of Banao Itneg language, and Ilocano. There are three dialects in malibcong: Banao, Gubang and Mabaka.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043957", "title": "Manabo", "text": "Manabo\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe name “Manabo” came from the word “Anabo”, a thorny herb used for making twines of rope, growing luxuriantly in the fields between San Jose Sur and Poblacion. One time during the Spanish regime, a group of Spaniards passed by the place and asked the name of the thorny herb. The people answered “Anabo”. From that time on, the Spaniards called the place Manabo.\n\nThe first inhabitants of Manabo were Tinguians who came from Mountain Province. They settled in the place before the arrival of the Spaniards and the Tinguians were known to be peace loving people.\n\nManabo is politically subdivided into 11 barangays, namely: Ayyeng, Catacdegan Nuevo, Catacdegan Viejo, Luzong, San Jose Norte, San Juan Norte, San Juan Sur, San Ramon East, San Ramon west and Santo Tomas.\n\nManabo is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nManabo is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\nIn the , Manabo had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043958", "title": "Peñarrubia, Abra", "text": "Peñarrubia, Abra\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPeñarrubia is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nPeñarrubia is politically subdivided into 9 barangays.\n\nIn the , Peñarrubia had a population of . The population density was .\n\nAntonio Amasi Domes-ag was OIC Mayor of the town in 1989-1992, then elected as mayor in 1992-1995, and again for the term 1995-1998. He was replaced by his wife Lovelyn Domes-ag in 1998-2001 and 2001-2004. The election of 2004 became controversial in the whole nation when both husband and wife ran for mayoralty candidate. Antonio Domes-ag was proclaimed as the winner. In the May 2007 election, incumbent Vice Mayor Geraldine Mamsaang-Balbuena won in a matter of one vote against Antonio A. Domes-ag.\n\nThe present municipal mayor is still Jane Mamsaang-Cecilia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043959", "title": "Pidigan", "text": "Pidigan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPidigan is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nPidigan is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\n\nIn the , Pidigan had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043960", "title": "Pilar, Abra", "text": "Pilar, Abra\n\nPilar, officially the (, ), is a in the province of in the of the Philippines. The population was at the .\n\nPilar is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nPilar is politically subdivided into 19 barangays.\n\nIn the , Pilar had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043961", "title": "Sallapadan", "text": "Sallapadan\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSallapadan is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nSallapadan is politically subdivided into 9 barangays.\n\nIn the , Sallapadan had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043962", "title": "San Isidro, Abra", "text": "San Isidro, Abra\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSan Isidro is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nSan Isidro is politically subdivided into 9 barangays.\n\nIn the , San Isidro had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043963", "title": "San Juan, Abra", "text": "San Juan, Abra\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nA major tourist attraction is Abualan Cave, but it is not yet developed. The climate is characterized by 2 distinct seasons. The dry season, which occurs from November to April, is marked by daily blue skies and clear starry nights and the wet season for the rest of the year with high rainfall intensities accompanied by storms and typhoons.\n\nSan Juan is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nSan Juan is politically subdivided into 19 barangays.\n\nIn the , San Juan had a population of . The population density was .\n\nSan Juan is an agricultural town. Its major products are rice, corn and tobacco. The town has two major rivers: the Malanas River and Tineg River. These two rivers supply the townspeople with fish and they are also used to transport bamboo which is sold to resort owners in Vigan.\n\nDuring the dry season, the townsfolk also plant string beans, eggplant, peanuts, bitter gourds, squashes, okra and tomatoes. Some also cultivate mangoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043965", "title": "San Quintin, Abra", "text": "San Quintin, Abra\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is known for the \"Tugot ni Angalo\", believed to be the footprint of the giant who was the first man in Abra mythology.\n\nSan Quintin is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nSan Quintin is politically subdivided into 6 barangays.\n\nIn the , San Quintin had a population of . The population density was .\n\nSan Quintin's main products include rice, corn, tobacco, mango and freshwater fish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043967", "title": "Tayum", "text": "Tayum\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTayum is east of capital Bangued. Roman Catholicism is the dominant religion. Every 25 November, Tayum celebrates its town fiesta.\n\nRecords show that Tayum got its name after the \"indigo plant\" which was commonly known to the Ilocanos as \"Tayum-Tayum\". There was a time when indigo flourished in Tayum, then a source of wealth to the Ilocanos. In Barangay Deet, half kilometer away from the town proper, there was a big vat (\"Pagtimbugan\") used in decaying the plant into a blue-black dye called \"ngila\". The dye was used to color yams of cotton. At the beginning of the century, however, a powder dye from the Aniline Factories of Germany came into popular use among Ilocano weavers, causing the death of the indigo industry.\n\nThe earliest historical accounts of Tayum date back to 1626 when one adventurous priest, Father Juan Pareja, organized Tayum, also known as \"Bukaw\". Sometime in 1569, an Augustinian Priest, Father Gabriel Alvarez, constructed a temporary chapel in Tayum during the time of his expedition to Lepanto. It was however in 1725 when Tayum was formally organized as a political unit under the Spanish Regime. Don Vidal Banganan served as the first Gobernadorcillo.\n\nFrom a mere \"visita\" of Bangued, Tayum transformed into an independent mission in 1807 with the construction of the solid brick-walled church under the successive Augustinian missions. The church was dedicated to St. Catherine of Alexandria whose feastday is celebrated every 25th day of November. In 1904, Tayum reverted to a \"barrio\" of Bangued, due to the deterioration of peace and order at the time. Tayum ended as a \"barrio \"on December 31, 1907, with the designation of Don Pio Balmaceda y Belmonte as \"Teniente del barrio\". Balmaceda organized his men in effectively curbing lawlessness thus restoring the town’s peacefulness. Shortly afterwards, it regained its town status with Don Manuel Brillantes as it first president.\n\n is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nTayum is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\nIn the , had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe main mode of public transportation are tricycles and jeepneys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043969", "title": "Tineg", "text": "Tineg\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\n is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra. Tineg boundaries will be province of the Apayao to the northeast and province of the Ilocos Norte to the north and northwest.\n\nThe climate is characterized by 2 distinct seasons. The dry season which occurs from November to April, is marked by daily blue skies and clear starry nights and the wet season for the rest of the year with high rainfall intensities accompanied by storms and typhoons. \n\nTineg is politically subdivided into 10 barangays.\n\nIn the , had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThere are several waterfalls in Tineg, which include the Cabato Falls, Guirem Falls, and Anito Falls.\n\nIn Tineg, cottage industries are predominant: such as bamboo and rattan crafts. It also has a number of forest resources such as wood, bamboos (like \"buho\", \"bayog\", and \"hiling\"), pine, rattan, and tiger grass.\n\n"}
{"id": "2043970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043970", "title": "Jean Barker, Baroness Trumpington", "text": "Jean Barker, Baroness Trumpington\n\nJean Alys Barker, Baroness Trumpington, (; 23 October 192226 November 2018) was an English Conservative politician and member of the House of Lords. From an upper-class background, she was a socialite for years before entering politics.\n\nTrumpington was born to Major Arthur Campbell-Harris and his American wife, Doris (née Robson), an heiress to a Chicago paint manufacturer. Trumpington's father was an officer in the 7th Hariana Lancers, part of the Bengal Lancers, who became \"aide-de-camp\" to the Viceroy of India and knew David Lloyd George.\n\nTrumpington took dancing lessons at Madame Vacani's school in Knightsbridge. After two years she moved to the Ballet Rambert to learn under Pearl Argyle. Her mother had lost most of her inheritance in the Wall Street Crash of 1929, including selling their home at 55, Great Cumberland Place. On the family's return from India, they lived in their house Rowling, Goodnestone, near Sandwich, Kent, where Doris specialised in interior decorating. When war broke out, the house, which was owned by the Lunacy Commissioners, was needed for Army billets. Spring Grove was a Queen Anne-style ten-bedroom mansion at Wye, near Ashford in south Kent.\n\nEducated at Princess Helena College, Trumpington, aged 15, left school never having taken an exam, although she was fluent in French, German and Italian. She then went to a finishing school in Paris to study art and literature. Her father took her on holiday to Biarritz. She spent a year at Montrichard receiving coaching from French tennis champion Jean Borotra. In Paris, she stayed with Madame de Benouville, whose husband Jean was a member of the royalist group Action Française. When war broke out, she returned to England\n\nShe had two brothers educated at Eton; the elder, Alastair, was at Royal Naval College, Dartmouth.\n\nInitially during World War II, Lady Trumpington was attached to Lloyd George's Sussex arable farm, where she worked on the land with his daughter, lodging with his then secretary/mistress and later wife Frances Stevenson. She recalled that Lloyd George used to find reasons to \"measure her\". She then worked in naval intelligence at Bletchley Park from October 1940, making use of her knowledge of the German language to crack naval codes.\n\nShe was billeted at Great Brickhill with W. J. Locke's family, before moving to Passenham Manor, home of banker George Ansley. Her work was the centre of Z codes supervised by German-Jewish refugee, Walter Ettinghausen. Colleagues who became life-long friends included Sally, daughter of 6th Lord Grantley (later Sarah Baring); Jean, daughter of James Graham, 6th Duke of Montrose (later Lady Jean Fforde); and Osla Benning.\n\nAt war's end, she spent four years working for the European Central Inland Transport Organization, shipping and distributing supplies to the war-torn continent with the same job description, filing clerk. But she was soon working as the effective transport manager from a 5th floor office in the Champs Elysées above Mimi Pinson's nightclub. She went to parties at the Ritz and Crillion Club, frequented by politicians. Resident at 1 Place d'Alma, she worked briefly for the suave British ambassador Duff Cooper, whose wife, previously Lady Diana Manners, was a former actress she used to visit on Broadway. Lady Diana was courted by Ernest Bevin, the Labour cabinet minister. She maintained a passion for tennis and French fashion.\n\nMoving in political circles, she returned to London to work for an imperial Conservative, Victor Montagu, Viscount Hinchingbroke. He found her offices in 17 Great College Street, but he was slightly drunk most of the time and inclined to nonchalance. On inheriting the title, he was forced to leave the House of Commons, but renounced his title to stand for election as an MP.\n\nIn 1952, Trumpington moved to America, travelling on board RMS \"Mauretania\" and arriving at New York on 28 January. She shared a flat above the Stork Club on East 52nd Street, off Park Avenue. She was able to secure a position with an advertising agency, Fletcher Richards at the Rockefeller Center, off 5th Avenue. Shopping on 6th Avenue, she made friends with Riv Winant, son of John Gilbert Winant, a former American ambassador to London; their friendship turned out to be long-term. They frequented haunts of wealthy high society New Yorkers such as the Round Hill Country Club, Greenwich, Connecticut, and the River Club of New York City, and the homes of East Hampton, Long Island, with membership of the exclusive Maidstone Club. Fascinated by wealth,(please cite source saying she was “fascinated by wealth”) she got on the guest list of billionaire philanthropist, Walter Annenberg, a Jewish émigré. Ronnie Furse taught her to water-ski in the Chesapeake Bay. For her, the physical prowess was unnecessary, but part of the tour. Working as a secretary, she moved into a flat on 137 East 73rd Street next to Furse.\n\nWhilst in America, she met an Englishman, (William) Alan Barker, M.A. (Cantab.), a Master at Eton College and formerly a Captain in the Royal Artillery, wounded in the leg in Normandy on 16 June 1944. While working on the Harkness Commonwealth Fellowship in New York, he offered to bring her back to London. She returned to Britain during the London Season and Queen Elizabeth II's coronation, and they were engaged in October 1953. Lady Trumpington left New York for the last time by liner on 15 December. She was forced to apply for a licence to the Solicitor-General to become the first couple in modern times to hold a wedding at the Chapel of the Royal Hospital Chelsea, which took place on 18 March 1954.\n\nAfter working at Eton, her husband was Headmaster of The Leys School in Cambridge between 1958 and 1975, before moving to University College School, London. She played host to the rich and famous, often travelling abroad to raise funds for The Leys from parents and old boys. They invited the local dignitaries Edward Heath MP and the Duchess of Kent with the Prime Minister of Singapore to an open day. In 1961, the Queen Mother came to tea, and then again to open an extension to buildings in 1973.\n\nOn the day that Harold Wilson resigned in 1970, she invited Heath to view the cricket pitches, which was reciprocated by a visit to No.10. Other royalty continued to attend from Bahrain and Tonga. She promoted the school with her own brand of conservatism, taking care of mental health and epilepsy in the school. With Eton's help they started a boat club, spent time at Cliveden and in 1962 included among their friends, the Astors. The Macmillan era was rounded off with a world tour to drum up school business.\n\nThe couple had one son, Adam Campbell Barker born on 31 August 1955. Adam was educated at King's School, Canterbury and Queens' College, Cambridge. He qualified as a solicitor and, later, as a barrister. He was married in 1985 to Elizabeth Mary, daughter of Eric Marsden OBE of Stourpaine Manor, Blandford.\n\nSince 1945, Mother and Baby Homes (otherwise known as maternity homes) had been places for the poor to wean their offspring. She was appointed governor of the one in Cambridge, and moved to Cambridge where her voluntary work continued. The United Cambridge Hospital Board, the Cambridge Social Services Committee, and the Cambridge Folk Museum all received her patronage. She was a member of the Rheumatism and Arthritis Association, which began serious research work on debilitation at Cambridge laboratories. She gained public notoriety for personally tackling the 'Cambridge Rapist' in her own home, for whom the police had been searching for years without success; a burglar turned out to be the wanted felon masquerading as a door-to-door salesman calling himself MacFisheries.\n\nIn 1963, she was elected as councillor for Trumpington on Cambridge City Council. In 1971/2, she served as Mayor of Cambridge which she described as a \"folderol\". That office was followed by appointment to the Cambridge bench as a Justice of the Peace from 1972. She granted the Freedom of Cambridge to RAF Oakington, revived the town's market, installed a travel centre, and built an entrance hall to the railway station. She opened the Elizabeth Way Bridge with former Conservative cabinet minister Rab Butler, High Steward of Cambridge University. She arranged to \"twin\" Cambridge with three other great university cities, Florence, Heidelberg and Split. She raised funds for Addenbrooke's Hospital and the Indo-Pakistan War Relief Fund, and undertook a swimathon.\n\nBefore the local government and administration of justice re-organisation, it was usual for the upper classes to sit on the bench as a matter of public duty. She re-entered politics in 1973, when she was elected to Cambridgeshire County Council for the Trumpington division but resigned in 1975 over the rapist scandal. She sought election to Parliament, and reached the short list for the Isle of Ely for the October 1974 election. (Dr Thomas Stuttaford was selected instead and lost to Clement Freud.) That year marked a watershed in her political career. Stepping up a gear, she moved into a visibly national profile: her son was by now fully grown and starting a career. Continuing a gradual move up the career ladder into public life, Barker matured into a serious-minded public figure; she was appointed to the Board of Visitors of the women's gaol attached to Pentonville Prison in London. She was one of the few who could get along well with the leader of her party, Margaret Thatcher.\n\nIn addition, the former councillor was appointed by the Labour government to the Mental Health Tribunal, before community care had been introduced. The following year, 1976, she was made a General Commissioner for Taxes, based on a competent showing with the city's finances. She served on various public bodies, including chair of the Air Transport Users Committee (1979–80). One of the first questions she asked in the Lords was about improving the airmail service, in which area she was regarded an expert. The binding Official Secrets clause was repealed, privatisation followed, and profitability indexation restored to Air Mail services.\n\nHer interest in women's affairs became known for all the world to see when Thatcher became Prime Minister. Appointed as UK Representative to the UN Commission on the Status of Women it was her role to promote women's equality, marriage and divorce, healthcare, child-rearing, and human rights. She had an extensive address book in the United States; managing British interests on the Council in New York gave her a social profile that befitted her class status and ambition, but was nonetheless useful networking for the British Government. Belated recognition came from a Labour peeress:\n\nLady Trumpington was a steward of Folkestone Racecourse (1980–92). In 1980, she was made an Honorary Fellow of Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge. She was a member of the Farmers’ Club and Grillion's Club in London.\n\nIn almost her first debate she found herself on two sides of the same debate: discussing Clause no.23 amendment sponsored by Duke of Norfolk to Education Bill No. 2 1980. In June 1983, she joined the Lords Works of Art Committee. She became a resident expert on the committee, where she sat until 2010.\n\nOn leaving the UN post and entering the House of Lords, she was introduced as a Baroness-in-waiting from 1983 to 1985. Thatcher recognised her capabilities when she was given a ministerial post. Despite being in the Lords as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Department of Health and Social Security from 1985–87, during which time she smoked cigarettes, and in spite of a deep concern for women's mental health with numerous charities, she would \"in perpetuum\" champion the cause of smokers to do what they wanted. A stubborn streak of wilful independence was typical of the Thatcherite in her, which she never lost up until her final \"verbatim\" speech in the Lords.\n\nMoving to the Ministry of Agriculture, which suited her temperament better than social security, at the height of the Thatcher boom period from 1987 to 1989, she was made Parliamentary Under-Secretary. She was promoted to number two at the ministry in 1989 when the Prime Minister was still creating hereditary peerages; she valued her friendship and support. She continued until 1992, serving during John Major's administration as Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, when at age 69 she was the oldest female minister ever.\n\nHer last role was once again as a Baroness-in-waiting to the Queen from 1992–97, when a change of government ended her career. Acting in the capacity as a whip and a courtier, she felt compelled to attend at the bedside of Sally Mugabe in a London Hospital. She also received Mohammed Zahir Shah, the last king of Afghanistan, on behalf of the Queen. On several occasions during the 1990s, Lady Trumpington became acquainted with the New Labour opposition leaders, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown at Court. She was one of the few officials on hand in 1990 to recognise the new State of Mongolia, subsequently travelling to Ulan Bator to deal with KGB-backed Russian investors on a construction project.\n\nThe New Labour government therefore decided to appoint her an Extraordinary Baroness-in-Waiting from 1998, given her many years of experience at Court. During the Labour government, she was consistently on the side of traditionalists. She voted often in favour of university tuition fees and raising the cap to £9,000; opposed constitutional reform, telling the Lords that she believed in the first-past-the-post system; and against the ban on fox hunting. Lady Trumpington was broadly in favour of Brexit, particularly the diminution of EU integration. She voted against the bill to make a referendum necessary to transfer powers back from EU to UK. Trumpington remained a principled opponent of soft measures on crime. Consistently supportive of tough measures, she was appointed Trustee of Crimestoppers in 2004. This tied in closely with ongoing visitations to Pentonville Prison, as Crimestoppers' emphasis was specific to schoolchildren and youth offending. She opposed \"walking free\" and community sentencing; her disarming charm when discoursing about conditions in Britain's jails alerted the Lords perspective on the significance of public participation in crime reduction initiatives.\n\nHer sense of order, propriety and taste got her into trouble: mocked by a Labour peeress for commenting on the drab and dishevelled appearance of the House of Lords, she more than once appeared a martinet for insisting on \"dress code\". On another occasion she gave a V-sign to Lord King of Bridgwater in the House of Lords, 10 November 2011 when he referred to her advanced age during a Remembrance Day debate.\n\nWhen she tried to debate the \"plight of rural veterinary practices\", the peeress pretended to be deaf: she had long railed against the most absurd forms of political correctness. In 2000–01, she was made President of the South of England Agricultural Show, taking the opportunity to promote animal health, a cause for which she had in 1995 been awarded an Honorary Membership of the British Veterinary Association, in response to her work in that ministry. Declining rural practices was caused directly by the government's farming policies; the yawning gap between policy and practice exposed weaknesses in the EFRACOM report. She had initiated the debate on 24 June 2004, and was widely praised for so doing. Throughout her career, she was notable for having raised uncomfortable truths about topics most politicians have avoided, such as the plight of women in prisons, or the fate of single mothers with mental health issues.\n\nIn December 2012, she acknowledged the campaign for the government to give official recognition to the work of Alan Turing. In a letter to the \"Daily Telegraph\", the signatories, including Stephen Hawking, the physicist; Lord Rees, the astronomer royal; and Sir Paul Nurse, the president of the Royal Society, called on Prime Minister David Cameron to support a pardon for Turing's 1952 conviction for homosexuality. Trumpington worked at Bletchley Park during the war at the same time as Turing, commenting only on his presence.\n\nShe retired from the House of Lords on 24 October 2017, one day after her 95th birthday.\n\nTrumpington was appointed an Officer of the National Order of Merit by the French Republic. On 4 February 1980 she was created a life peer, choosing the title Baroness Trumpington, of Sandwich in the County of Kent. She was appointed a Dame Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 2005. Leaving government she was granted an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of Pathologists (FRCPath). Two years later she was recognised for her voluntary activities as Honorary Associate of the Royal College of Volunteer Services (ARCVS).\n\nAs a castaway on \"Desert Island Discs\" in 1990 she chose as her luxury item the Crown Jewels in order to maximise her chances of being rescued.\n\nIn 2011, she published a jaunty ghost-written memoir, \"Coming Up Trumps\". In the preface, she wrote she was persuaded by huge demands from her friends and colleagues to have an autobiography published.\n\nOn 30 November 2012, Trumpington was a guest panellist on the BBC TV's satirical news quiz \"Have I Got News for You\"; at the age of 90 she was the oldest guest to have appeared on the programme. In December 2013 she was a guest on BBC Three chat show \"Backchat\" with Jack and Michael Whitehall. In 2014 she was a guest judge in the finals of the \"Great British Menu\".\n\nAt the end of December 2017, she was one of the guest editors for BBC Radio 4's prestigious \"Today\" programme. Topics she chose to highlight included her long-standing campaign to legalise brothels; Sangita Myska was tasked with interviewing a brothel keeper, a sex worker, and a woman who had escaped the sex industry. Another topic was living with incurable diseases such as Crohn's. John Humphrys interviewed her about her life and career, when she credited good luck for much of her success.\nShe was referenced as suffering from the fictional 'Slimmels disease' in the spoof news and current affairs satire The Day Today.\n\nLady Trumpington was widowed in 1988. In later interviews with \"The Guardian\" she described enjoying her grandchildren. She also enjoyed contract bridge, needlepoint and horse racing. In January 2010, while she was out, her flat in Battersea caught fire; her possessions were badly damaged.\n\nShe died in her sleep on 26 November 2018. Her death was confirmed by her son, Adam Barker on Twitter later that night. He wrote: \"My mother passed away this afternoon in her sleep ... she had a bloody good innings.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2043971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043971", "title": "Tubo, Abra", "text": "Tubo, Abra\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality was created on June 17, 1967 from the former municipal district of the same name, through \"Republic Act 5161\".\n\nThe inhabitants belong to the Maeng tribe and speak the dialect of the same name. There is however one barangay, Tabacda, that speaks a different dialect. This is because they are believed to have originated from Kalinga and Mountain Province. Everyone can however understand and speak the common evolving dialect called Maeng together with those of Luba and parts of Villavicioa of the Province of Abra and likewise in the other municipalities of the Province of Ilocos Sur, who refer themselves as the Bago tribe.\n\nAgriculture is the main source of livelihood but various industries are starting to grow.\n\nAll barangays and their respective \"sitios\" do now have dirt roads leading to them but can still become accessible via trails permanently established even during the Spanish era. Electricity is available except in only one barangay and two sitios. The relative nearness of the three barangays of Dilong,Tubtuba and Alangtin to the Province of Ilocos Sur provided them the privilege of being served by ISECO while all others remaining are served by ABRECO.\n\n is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nIt is situated approximately from the provincial capital Bangued, and is at the southern tip of Abra. The town is bounded on the west by Ilocos Sur and Luba, Abra, north by Boliney, east by Kalinga and Mountain Province, and south by Mountain Province and Ilocos Sur.\n\nTubo can be reached through various routes. Coming from Bangued, the place can be reached by passing through the towns of Peñarrubia-Bucay-Manabo and Luba. It could also be reached via Candon-San Emilio and Tagudin-Quirino of the nearby province of Ilocos Sur, or via Besao of Mountain Province or Kalinga. Unfortunately, no road links exist herein.\n\nTubo is politically subdivided into 10 barangays.\n\nThe 10 barangays are grouped into three (3) zones:\n\nIn the , had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043973", "title": "Villaviciosa, Abra", "text": "Villaviciosa, Abra\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe population was at the . The town is known for the \"Kimkimay Lake\", a reminder of the wrath of the gods against people who have numerous vices.\n\n is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Abra.\n\nThe municipality is geographically situated at the southern portion of Abra, bounded in the north-west by San Isidro, north by Bucay, east by Manabo and Luba, south by San Emilio, and west by Pilar.\n\nVillaviciosa is accessible from Benguet by land transportation through the , the more frequently used route. From the nearby Province of Ilocos Sur, it is also accessible through the Candon via San Emilio to LubaTamac, Villaviciosa Road and the Santa MariaBurgos via PilarVillaviciosa Road.\n\nVillaviciosa is politically subdivided into 8 barangays.\n\nIn the , had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2043980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043980", "title": "Cutty-sark (witch)", "text": "Cutty-sark (witch)\n\nCutty-sark (18th century Scots for a short chemise or undergarment) is a nickname given to Nannie Dee, a fictional witch created by Robert Burns in his poem \"Tam o' Shanter\", after the garment she wore. In the poem, the erotic sight of her dancing in such a short clothing caused the protagonist Tam to cry out \"Weel done, Cutty-sark\", which subsequently became a well-known catchphrase. \n\nShe was the namesake of the tea clipper \"Cutty Sark\", which featured her figurehead at the bow. A brand of Scotch whisky is in turn named for the ship.\n\nIn Burns' poem \"Tam o' Shanter\" (first published in 1791), the drunken Tam, riding home on his horse, happens upon a witches' dance. Among the dancing figures is a particularly beautiful young witch named Nannie (Scots pet-form of Anna), \"ae winsome wench and wawlie\" (line 164). She is wearing a \"harn\" (linen) \"sark\" (nightshirt) which fitted her as a child (a \"lassie\") but is now rather too short for her:\n\nTam is so enthralled by the erotic spectacle that he cannot contain himself and yells out, \"Weel done, Cutty-sark!\" (line 189). The witches are now alerted to his presence and pursue him. Tam heads for the River Doon, because, according to folklore, witches cannot cross running water. He makes it across the bridge to safety, but not before Nannie, the \"Cutty-sark\", has torn the tail from his horse. The poem ends ironically, with a mock warning to all men of the devilish consequences of thinking about scantily-clad females.\n\nThe popularity of this poem was such that the phrase, \"Well done, Cutty-sark!\", entered the English language via Scots as an exclamation similar to \"Bravo!\". Literary allusions to the original Cutty-sark abound. For example, in \"Ulysses\", James Joyce writes, \"Laughing witches in red cutty sarks ride through the air on broom sticks\" (p. 695).\n\n"}
{"id": "2043990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043990", "title": "Spy Hard", "text": "Spy Hard\n\nSpy Hard is a 1996 American spy comedy film parody starring Leslie Nielsen and Nicollette Sheridan, parodying James Bond movies and other action films. The introduction to the movie is sung by comedy artist \"Weird Al\" Yankovic. It was the first film to be written by Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer. The film's title is a parody of \"Die Hard\". The film was directed by Rick Friedberg and produced by Doug Draizin and Jeffrey Konvitz.\n\nThe film was released by Buena Vista Pictures on May 24, 1996, receiving universally negative reviews from critics. While many praised Nielsen's acting and its humor, most found the script, story and its direction disappointing. The film eventually grossed $26 million against a production budget of $18 million.\n\nSecret agent WD-40 Dick Steele (Leslie Nielsen) has his work cut out for him. Along with the mysterious and lovely Veronique Ukrinsky, Agent 3.14 (Nicollette Sheridan), he must rescue the kidnapped Barbara Dahl and stop the evil genius, a General named Rancor (Andy Griffith), from seizing control of the entire world.\n\nRancor was wounded in an earlier encounter and no longer has arms. However, he can \"arm\" himself by attaching robotic limbs with various weapons attached. Steele is approached by an old friend, agent Steven Bishop (Robert Guillaume), who unsuccessfully tries to recruit him out of retirement. However, when a news report Steele is watching reveals that Bishop has been killed, Steele returns to the agency. Steele given his new assignment by The Director (Charles Durning), who also is testing out a variety of elaborate disguises. At headquarters, Steele encounters an old agency nemesis, Norm Coleman (Barry Bostwick), and flirts with the Director's adoring secretary, referred to as Miss Cheevus (Marcia Gay Harden).\n\nOn the job, Steele is assisted by an agent named Kabul (John Ales), who gives him rides in a never-ending variety of specially designed cars. They seek help from McLuckey (Mason Gamble), a blond child left home alone, who is very good at fending off intruders. Steele resists the temptations of a dangerous woman (Talisa Soto) he finds waiting for him in bed. But he does work very closely with Agent 3.14, whose father, Professor Ukrinsky (Elya Baskin), is also being held captive by Rancor.\n\nEverything comes to an explosive conclusion at the General's remote fortress, where Steele rescues both Barbara Dahl (Stephanie Romanov) and Miss Cheevus and launches a literally disarmed Rancor into outer space, saving mankind.\n\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic sings the title song and directed the title sequence. It is a parody of title sequences from the James Bond films designed by Maurice Binder, specifically 1965's \"Thunderball\", complete with multiple colored backgrounds, silhouetted figures, women dancing with guns, and \"wavy\" text. Additionally, an urban legend states that during the recording of the theme to \"Thunderball\", Tom Jones held the song's final note long enough to pass out. Yankovic holds it so long that his head explodes. Originally, Yankovic had planned to loop the note to the required length, but in the studio, he discovered he was able to hold the note long enough that no looping was required. The sequence was later included on \"\", although, for legal reasons, all credits and titles had to be taken out, excluding that of the film and of Yankovic himself.\n\nThe film opened at #3 with $10,448,420 behind \"\"s opening weekend and \"Twister\"s third. It eventually grossed $26,960,191 at the box office.\n\n\"Spy Hard\" was critically panned upon its release, receiving a \"Rotten\" rating of 8% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 40 reviews and a 3.5/10 rating. The site's consensus states: \"Leslie Nielsen's comic gifts are undisputed, but \"Spy Hard\"'s lazy script and slapdash direction fail to take advantage of them.\"\n\nJames Berardinelli of \"ReelViews\" wrote: \"Director Rick Friedberg [...] has crafted a dreadfully unfunny comedy that takes \"Naked Gun\"-like sketches and rehashes them without a whit of style or energy. ... For movie-after-movie, Leslie Nielsen has milked this same personality, and it's starting to wear \"very\" thin. As affable as the actor is, there's just nothing left in this caricature. However, while \"Spy Hard\" might have worked better with, say, Roger Moore in the title role (his 007 was a parody towards the end, anyway), Nielsen's performance is only a small part of a massively-flawed production. \"Hard\" is the operative word here, because, even at just eighty-one minutes, this movie is unbelievably difficult to sit through.\"\n\nStephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"\"Spy Hard\" is never funnier than during its opening credit sequence in which \"Weird Al\" Yankovic bellows his parody of the brassy theme song from \"Goldfinger\", while obese cartoon silhouettes swim across the screen. ... Instead of building sustained comic set pieces, it takes a machine-gun approach to humor. Without looking at where it's aiming, it opens fire and sprays comic bullets in all directions, trusting that a few will hit the bull's-eye. A few do, but many more don't. ... Around the halfway point, \"Spy Hard\" begins to run out of ideas and becomes a series of crude, rambunctious parodies of other films. ... When \"Spy Hard\" abruptly ends after only 81 minutes, you sense that it has used up every last round of available ammunition. It was simply exhausted and couldn't move another inch.\"\n\nMick LaSalle of \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote: \"It's done in the style of the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker \"Naked Gun\" series, but although the style is there, the jokes aren't. \"Spy Hard\" relies on silly slapstick, takeoffs of recent films and the shock effect of celebrity cameos. But all that exertion doesn't add up to more than a handful of laughs. ... The story is too weak to work even as a clothesline for gags. \"Spy Hard\" eschews a coherent story and instead just strings together movie takeoffs. ... Nielsen, with his expert deadpan and sense of comic timing, creates the illusion of humor – for about 15 minutes. Thanks to him, what could have been an unbearable experience becomes merely empty. Still, he can't work miracles, and nothing short of a miracle could have made \"Spy Hard\" worth seeing.\"\n\nStephen Hunter of \"The Baltimore Sun\" gave the film a negative review, writing that the film is \"more of a parody of a parody than a parody\" and in particular criticizing director Rick Friedberg, asking, \"[w]as this poor guy ever funny?\"\n\nMarcia Gay Harden wasn't a fan of the film itself as well:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043997", "title": "Johan Björnsson Printz", "text": "Johan Björnsson Printz\n\nJohan Björnsson Printz (July 20, 1592 – May 3, 1663) was governor from 1643 until 1653 of the Swedish colony of New Sweden on the Delaware River in North America.\n\nHe was born in Bottnaryd, Jönköping County, in the province of Småland. He was the son of a Lutheran pastor, Björn Hansson, and Gunilla Svensdotter. Printz received his early education in Sweden followed in 1618 by theological studies at German universities. While on a journey in about 1620, he was pressed into military service. The involuntary change in occupation turned out to suit him.\n\nDuring the Thirty Years' War, he initially became a mercenary for Archduke Leopold of Austria, Duke Christian of Brunswick, and King Christian IV of Denmark. Printz entered the Swedish army in 1625 rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel under King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden. He was dismissed from service for surrendering the Saxon town of Chemnitz.\n\nBy 1642, he was restored to royal favor, ennobled and appointed to be the third governor of New Sweden. He arrived at Fort Christina in the colony on 15 February 1643 with two ships, \"Fama\" (Fawn) and \"Svanen\" (The Swan).\nUnder his rule the Swedish colony initially prospered. He built \"Fort Nya Elfsborg\" on the east bank of the Delaware, and \"Fort New Gothenburg\" on Tinicum Island (to the immediate SW of today's Philadelphia). He thus secured a monopoly of trade with the Indians that inhabited both sides of the bay and river as far north as Trenton.\n\nOn Tinicum Island, he also built his own manor house which he called \"The Printzhof\". It was two stories high, made of hewn logs and fireplaces of brick imported from Sweden. The manor contained a finished lumber interior made from lumber sent from Sweden, glass windows and lavish draperies. The location was chosen with an eye to controlling the trade of the river and because it was close to the Dutch at Fort Masson.\n\nHe built Printz’s Mill on Cobbs Creek in 1645.\n\nPrintz, who was an energetic and conscientious governor, established harmony with the local Indians. He was a very large man, reputably over 400 pounds, which earned him the nickname \"Big Belly,\" from the native people, the Lenni Lenape tribe. During his tenure of office, seven expeditions, containing more than 300 emigrants, sailed from Sweden. The influx of settlers was made up of farmers who dealt fairly with the Indians and established a precedent of kindliness and justice. William Penn and his followers later became indirect beneficiaries of this treatment when they were received in a friendly manner by the Indians.\n\nPrintz arranged amicable relations with English settlers, initiated trade connections with the Dutch in New Netherlands, and directed several commercial enterprises within New Sweden.\n\nIn time, problems with the surrounding Dutch and English colonies became increasingly severe. Short of supplies from Sweden, Printz was unable to prevent the Dutch and the English from practically monopolizing the beaver fur trade in the area. His main adversary was Peter Stuyvesant, Director General of New Netherlands, and earlier on his local representative Andries Hudde.\n\nPrintz also was an autocratic administrator and his growing quarrels with the settlers led several of them to petition to take their grievances directly to the Swedish government. Printz had the ringleader of the dissident colonists, Anders Jönsson, hanged on August 1, 1653, but tensions continued to grow. Grievances included lack of land rights and trade rights.\n\nEventually, Printz found his position impossible, and in 1654 he returned to Sweden. His son-in-law Johan Papegoja, married to his daughter Armegott Printz, was acting governor until John Rising (Johan Risingh) was appointed Governor in his place.\n\nOn his return to Sweden, Printz was made a general. Several years later, in 1658, he was appointed governor of Jönköping. The information on this period in his life is limited.\n\nHe was survived by five daughters, among them the well known Armegot Printz, and his second wife, Maria von Linnestau, who he had married in 1642. He was predeceased by his son, and also by his first wife, Elizabeth von Boche, whom he had married in 1622.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044001", "title": "Limor Livnat", "text": "Limor Livnat\n\nLimor Livnat (; born 22 September 1950) is an Israeli politician. She served as a member of the Knesset for Likud between 1992 and 2015, and was Minister of Communications, Minister of Education, and Minister of Culture & Sport.\n\nBorn in Haifa, Livnat studied at Tel Aviv University. She joined Likud in the 1970s, becoming head of its youth organisation in 1977. She first entered the Knesset on 14 April 1992, shortly before the 1992 elections, as a replacement for Haim Corfu. She retained her seat in the elections, and in her first full term, served as chairwoman of the Committee for the Advancement of the Status of Women, the Subcommittee on Laws of Personal Status and the Parliamentary Committee for Investigating Murder of Women by their Spouses.\n\nShe retained her seat in the 1996 elections, and was appointed Minister of Communications in Binyamin Netanyahu's government. During her term, she attempted to increase competition in the Israeli communications sector by weakening and privatizing Bezeq, which had previously held a monopoly over the country's landline phone sector.\n\nTensions between Livnat and Netanyahu climaxed in the former's resignation from government in 1997 and subsequent attempt to end Netanyahu's leadership of the Likud. Following Netanyahu's resignation from the Likud leadership after the party's defeat in the 1999 elections, Livnat supported Ariel Sharon's successful attempt to serve as the next chairperson of the party. After Sharon's victory over Ehud Barak in the special election for Prime Minister in 2001, Livnat was appointed Minister of Education in both governments he formed.\n\nShe was re-elected in 2003, and continued to serve as Minister of Education until Likud left the coalition (now headed by the newly formed Kadima) in 2006. She retained her seat in the 2006 and 2009 elections, after which she was appointed to the new post of Minister of Culture and Sport. Prior to the 2013 elections she lost her place as the top-ranking woman in Likud, finishing below Tzipi Hotovely and Miri Regev in the party primaries. However, she was re-elected and continued in the ministerial role.\n\nIn December 2014 Livnat announced that she was leaving politics, and would not run in the March 2015 elections.\n\nLivnat has also served as Vice Chairwoman and Acting Chairwoman of the World Likud Movement.\n\nAlthough overtly secular, Livnat is generally identified as a right wing conservative, both morally and politically. A supporter of Revisionist Zionism, she ideologically opposed the Oslo Accords as well as the notion of relinquishing control over the West Bank. In this light she has voiced concerns over US President George W. Bush's Road Map for Peace. She also regularly attends events in honor of the pre-independence militant organizations, such as the Irgun and Lehi. However, she did not actively oppose Ariel Sharon's disengagement plan.\n\nIn April, 2011, Livnat's nephew, Ben-Joseph Livnat, 25, was shot dead by a Palestinian Authority policeman when trying to break through a Palestinian road block after an unauthorized visit to the Joseph's Tomb in Palestinian-administered area of Nablus. Livnat described the shooting death of her nephew as an act of terrorism. An IDF report released a month later concluded that the event was not a premeditated terror attack, but that the policeman had acted \"maliciously\" and with the intent to harm.\n\nIn an interview with Army Radio on December 25, 2011, Livnat, who was then leading the Interministerial Committee on the Status of Women, opined that in entirely ultra-orthodox areas of the country, segregation on public transport should be permitted.\n\"I don't think we should tell them how to live,\" said Livnat, \"We should live and let live...When we are speaking about a mixed city, however, or a city where there are haredim or religious people who oppose segregation, we must fight the phenomenon of public segregation between sexes,\" she added.\n\nA resident of Tel Aviv, Livnat is married and has two children.\n"}
{"id": "2044009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044009", "title": "Golden Tee Golf", "text": "Golden Tee Golf\n\nGolden Tee Golf is a golf arcade game series by Incredible Technologies. Its signature feature is the use of a trackball to determine the power, direction and curve of the player's golf shot. Play modes include casual 18-hole golf, closest to the pin, and online tournaments.\n\nOne of the longest running arcade game series, \"Golden Tee\" has maintained a large following and a competitive tournament scene.\n\nThe \"Golden Tee\" series began as a project at Incredible Technologies to create a large scale golf simulator for sizable family entertainment centers. The idea was scrapped, but not before programmer Larry Hodgson had already written software to create virtual golf courses. Rather than discard his work, Hodgson retooled the concept to develop a golf game for regular arcade cabinets. He worked with co-designer Jim Zielinski, who initially rendered the courses using Deluxe Paint. Instead of a regular joystick and buttons for controls, they used a trackball, which Incredible Technologies had previously used for \"Capcom Bowling\".\n\nThe first \"Golden Tee\" was play-tested in a bar, a venue which would become the most popular location for \"Golden Tee\" cabinets. This first iteration was sold exclusively as a kit that could be used to convert existing arcade machines to \"Golden Tee.\" Released in 1989, the first \"Golden Tee\" sold relatively well, but the series first found great success with \"Golden Tee 3D\" several years later. The 1995 \"Peter Jacobson's Golden Tee 3D Golf\" (featuring Peter Jacobsen) was the first in the series to support online networked play. Rather than being networked to each other, the cabinets were all linked to a central computer which compared scores for tournament play. The first test tournament, held on 24 game cabinets in the Chicago area from November 24 to December 17, 1995, awarded real money to the winners, including a $1,000 grand prize. The first \"real world\" tournament was held mid-June to July 7, 1996, on 145 cabinets across six states, and was considered a major success. By the end of 1996, 1,250 cabinets were installed across 32 states. The tournament gave rise to a large competitive play scene for the franchise. Ryan Bourgeois has won the US national championship three times.\n\nSince \"Golden Tee 3D\", Incredible Technologies has released a new entry in the series to arcades every year. Versions of the game have also been published for the original PlayStation, Microsoft Windows, iOS and Android. A plug-n-play dedicated console version has also been released.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044015", "title": "Zenith camera", "text": "Zenith camera\n\nA zenith camera is an astrogeodetic telescope used today primarily for the local surveys of Earth's gravity field. Zenith cameras are designed as transportable field instruments for the direct observation of the plumb line (astronomical coordinates) and vertical deflections.\n\nA zenith camera combines an optical lens (about 10–20 cm aperture) with a digital image sensor (CCD) in order to image stars near the zenith. Electronic levels (tilt sensors) serve as a means to point the lens towards zenith.\nZenith cameras are generally mounted on a turnable platform to allow star images to be taken in two camera directions (two-face-measurement). Because zenith cameras are usually designed as non-tracking and non-scanning instruments, exposure times are kept short, at the order of few 0.1 s, yielding rather circular star images. Exposure epochs are mostly recorded by means of the timing-capability of GPS-receivers (time-tagging).\n\nDepending on the CCD sensor - lens combination used, few tens to hundreds of stars are captured with a single digital zenith image. The positions of imaged stars are measured by means of digital image processing algorithms, such as image moment analysis or point spread functions to fit the star images. Star catalogues, such as Tycho-2 or UCAC-3 are used as celestial reference to reduce the star images. The zenith point is interpolated into the field of imaged stars, and corrected for the exposure time and (small) tilt of the telescope axis to yield the direction of the plumb line.\n\nIf the geodetic coordinates of the zenith camera is known or measured, e.g., with a GPS-receiver, vertical deflections are obtained as result of the zenith camera measurement. Zenith cameras deliver astronomical coordinates and vertical deflections accurate to about 0.1 seconds of arc. Zenith cameras with CCD image sensors are efficient to collect vertical deflections at about 10 field stations per night. Zenith cameras have been used for accurate local surveys of Earth's gravity field (geoid, quasigeoid).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044017", "title": "1994 amendment of the Constitution of Argentina", "text": "1994 amendment of the Constitution of Argentina\n\nThe 1994 amendment to the Constitution of Argentina was approved on 22 August 1994 by a Constitutional Assembly that met in the twin cities of Santa Fe and Paraná. The calling for elections for the Constitutional Convention and the main issues to be decided were agreed in 1993 between President Carlos Menem, and former president and leader of the opposition, Raúl Alfonsín.\n\nOn August 22, 1994, after three months of deliberations in the cities of Santa Fe (traditional seat of constitutional conventions) and Paraná, the reform of 43 articles was finally approved in Santa Fe. The deliberations did not end without altercations; for instance, Monsignor Jaime de Nevares resigned his seat, claiming the convention to be \"vitiated with absolute nullity\".\n\nAmongst the most important points of the reform are:\n\nIn order to provide an effective protection to individual rights, the 1994 amendment has introduced actions called: \"amparo\" (injunctions), \"hábeas corpus\", and \"hábeas data\". \"Amparo\" gives the possibility to any person to request that a judge declare the unconstitutionality of an act or ruling on which an action or omission of public authorities or private individuals is based that, in an actual or imminent manner, causes damage or restrains a right recognized by the Constitution, the law, or an international treaty. This action requires that no other effective judicial means be available. \"Hábeas corpus\" is an action that can be filled to protect the right of physical freedom when it is threatened, limited, modified, or injured, or in case of illegitimate aggravation of conditions of detention. \"Hábeas data\" is an action that can be filled by any individual to take notice of any information referred to him, registered in public or private registers, and to request its suppression, rectification, confidentiality, or updating.\n\nAnother innovation introduced by the 1994 amendment is the right of citizens to introduce bills before the House of Deputies that must be considered by Congress within the next twelve months. A further innovative provision is the recognition of the right of every inhabitant to a healthy environment in article 41 that establishes that\n\nAdditionally, there are precise provisions referring to protection of consumers rights, defense of competition, control of natural or legal monopolies, and of public services' quality and efficiency.\n"}
{"id": "2044018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044018", "title": "Aerotrain (GM)", "text": "Aerotrain (GM)\n\nThe Aerotrain was a streamlined trainset that the General Motors (GM) Electro-Motive Division (EMD) introduced in 1955. GM originally designated the light-weight consist as \"Train-Y\" (Pullman-Standard's \"Train-X\" project was already underway) before the company adopted the \"Aerotrain\" marketing name. \n\nGM's Styling Section first brought the \"Aerotrain's\" trainset to life, as it did for all of GM's body designs of that mid-century era. Chuck Jordan was in charge of designing the \"Aerotrain\" as Chief Designer of Special Projects. GM constructed two \"Aerotrains\", each of which utilized one of the last (serial numbers 21463 and 21464) of three experimental diesel–electric EMD LWT12 power cars that the company built. \n\nThe EMD LWT12 utilized the company's model EMD 567C 12-cylinder prime mover that could produce 1,200 horsepower and was based on the EMD SW1200 switcher. The unit featured a cab that mimicked an aircraft's cockpit. The locomotive's overall design resembled that of recent automobiles available for sale at the time.\n\nThe company completed the \"Aerotrains\" by coupling each of the two locomotives to sets of ten modified GM Truck & Coach Division 40-seat intercity highway bus bodies. Like GM's new PD-4501 Scenicruiser buses, the \"Aerotrain's\" passenger cars had windows with slanted sides. The cars each rode on two axles with an air suspension system that was intended to give a smooth ride, but had the opposite effect.\n\nThe cars were 40 feet long, half the length of standard designs, thereby reducing the weight by 50%. To further reduce weight, GM built the locomotive and cars of each train from aluminum. \n\nGM returned to a concept first used at the start of the streamliner era, semi-permanently coupled trainsets. All of the cars and locomotive shared a truck, which further helped to reduce weight.\n\n In late February 1956, the Pennsylvania Railroad began operating the first \"Aerotrain\" trainset (the \"Pennsy\") between New York and Pittsburgh. In June, the Pennsylvania cut back its New York-Pittsburgh \"Aerotrain\" to travel only between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. \nGeneral Motors demonstrated the second \"Aerotrain\" trainset on several railroads, including the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway, where the train operated in California between Los Angeles and San Diego as a \"San Diegan\". During the demonstration period, the New York Central Railroad operated the train between Chicago and Detroit. From July to October, the New York Central ran the train between Chicago and Cleveland.\n\nIn December 1956, Union Pacific Railroad began to operate the second trainset between Los Angeles and Las Vegas as the \"City of Las Vegas\", but discontinued that service in September 1956. The \"Pennsy\" continued to run between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh until June 1957, after which time it joined the Union Pacific train in City of Las Vegas service. \n\nIn October, 1958, General Motors sold both trainsets to the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad (the Rock Island line), which designated their locomotives as numbers 2 and 3 while using both trainsets in commuter service between Chicago and Joliet. Both trainsets ended service in 1966. Although the Rock Island scrapped or re-used most of the trainsets' equipment, both locomotives and two pairs of coaches remain on display in museums.\nMeanwhile, the first EMD LWT12 locomotive (serial number 20826), began in February 1956 to travel on the Rock Island line between Chicago and Peoria when pulling the line's \"Jet Rocket\" train, which bore a strong resemblance to an \"Aerotrain\". The Rock Island later designated the power car as locomotive number 1. \n\nThe American Car and Foundry Company constructed the \"Jet Rocket\"'s coaches, most of which were similar, but not identical, to those of the Talgo II. The last car resembled that of the future Talgo III.\n\nUnlike the slanted sides of the windows on the \"Aerotrain's\" coaches, the windows on the \"Jet Rocket's\" coaches had vertical sides. In addition, the \"Jet Rocket's\" Talgo-like coaches had one axle, whereas the \"Aerotrain's\" coaches had two.\n\nAfter less than two years, the Rock Island shortened the \"Jet Rocket's\" route. The train then traveled only between Chicago and Joliet. The railroad scrapped the train several years later. \n\nGM's \"lightweight with a heavyweight future\" was introduced at a time when passenger train revenues were declining due to competition from airlines and private automobiles. Although they featured a streamlined design, the \"Aerotrain\"s failed to capture the public's imagination. Their cars, based on GM's bus designs and using an air cushioning system, were rough riding and uncomfortable. The design of the locomotive section made routine maintenance difficult and it was underpowered. \nThe EMD LWT12 locomotives and two passenger cars of each of the two \"Aerotrains\" that GM constructed are presently on display within the United States. The National Railroad Museum in Green Bay, Wisconsin, now exhibits the Rock Island line's \"Aerotrain\" locomotive number 2 and two of its coaches (parts of trainset number 2). The Museum of Transportation in Kirkwood, Missouri (near St. Louis) exhibits the Rock Island's \"Aerotrain\" locomotive number 3 and two coaches (parts of trainset number 1).\n\nDisneyland had a scale version of the \"Aerotrain\", known as the \"Viewliner\", from 1957 to 1959 (see below). Since 1958 the Washington Park and Zoo Railway in Portland, Oregon, has operated a scale, diesel-powered replica of the \"Aerotrain\" (dubbed the \"Zooliner\") to transport zoo visitors. Idlewild Park in Reno, Nevada, operates a small train whose locomotive is fashioned after that of the \"Aerotrain\".\n\nOn June 26, 1957, the narrow-gauge Santa Fe and Disneyland \"Viewliner\" (billed by Disneyland as \"the fastest miniature train in the world\") commenced operation. Two separate trains, designed and built as scale replicas of the futuristic \"Aerotrain\", traveled a figure-eight track through parts of Tomorrowland and Fantasyland parallel to a portion of the DLRR main line. The Tomorrowland train featured cars that were named for the planets while the cars of the Fantasyland train were named after various Disney characters.\n\nThe modern, streamlined trains were placed in service to represent the future of rail travel in contrast to the steam-powered DLRR which represented its past. Motive power for each train consisted of an integral head-end unit driven by an Oldsmobile \"Rocket\" V8 gasoline engine. Oldsmobile also furnished the windscreen, doors and instrument console for each of the two 5,000 lb (2,300 kg) locomotives. The attraction operated until September 15, 1958, when construction began on the Matterhorn and Submarine Voyage; the Disneyland Monorail System took the place of the \"Viewliner\" in June of the following year.\n\nThe \"Zooliner\", one of three trains on the Washington Park and Zoo Railway operating in the Oregon Zoo in Portland, is a 5/8-scale replica of the \"Aerotrain\". The \"Zooliner\" entered service in 1958. On June 14, 2008, the zoo held a \"50th Birthday\" celebration for the locomotive. The \"Zooliner\" remains the primary train for the zoo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044021", "title": "Jorge Burruchaga", "text": "Jorge Burruchaga\n\nJorge Luis Burruchaga (; nicknamed \"Burru\", born 9 October 1962) is an Argentine association football coach and former professional football player. He played both as an attacking midfielder and forward and is known for scoring the winning goal in the final of the 1986 FIFA World Cup.\n\nBorn in Gualeguay, Entre Ríos, Burruchaga started playing in 1980 for Arsenal de Sarandí in Argentina's then second division.\n\nHe was bought by Independiente in 1982 and debuted in a victory against Estudiantes de La Plata on 12 February. He was part of the team that won the Metropolitano 1983, the Copa Libertadores and the Intercontinental Cup in 1984.\n\nHe was then transferred to French team Nantes, where he played for seven years. He also played one year for Valenciennes, where he was involved in a bribing scandal involving the French and European champions Olympique de Marseille 'buying' a 1–0 league win at Valenciennes on 20 May 1993. Marseille midfield player Jean-Jacques Eydelie and the club's general manager, Jean-Pierre Bernès, had offered him money to throw the game, Burruchaga said he agreed but then changed his mind. He was subsequently given a suspended six-month sentence when judgment was delivered on 15 May 1995.\n\nHe returned to Argentina for his last spell in Independiente, when he won a Supercopa Sudamericana and a Recopa Sudamericana both in 1995.\n\nHe retired from professional football on 10 April 1998 in a match against Vélez Sársfield.\n\nBurruchaga was part of the team that won the 1986 FIFA World Cup, scoring two goals, including the goal that gave Argentina the 3–2 victory against West Germany in the final match. He also participated in all Argentine matches at the 1990 FIFA World Cup and scored one goal in the tournament. He scored a total of 13 goals for Argentina in 59 games between 1983 and 1990.\n\nBurruchaga coached Arsenal de Sarandí since its arrival to first division in 2002, and succeeded in keeping the team far from the bottom of the standings. For the 2005–06 season, he signed with Estudiantes de La Plata. In May 2006, he moved to Independiente and resigned on April 2007. He has also managed Banfield from 2008 to 2009\n\nOn 5 May 2009, Burruchaga returned to Arsenal de Sarandí but resigned in 2010. He managed Paraguayan Club Libertad since 2011. He managed Atletico Rafaela in the Argentinian Primera Division from 2012 to June 2014. In 2015, Burruchaga returned to Rafaela in his second period as a coach.\nBurruchaga is father of the footballer Mauro Burruchaga.\n\nIndependiente\n\nArgentina\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044035", "title": "Blewett Pass", "text": "Blewett Pass\n\nBlewett Pass, at an elevation of , is a mountain pass in the Wenatchee Mountains (an eastward extension of the Cascades) of Washington state that is crossed by U.S. Route 97 (US 97). Named for Edward Blewett, a Seattle mining promoter of the 1880s, it lies on the route of the historical Yellowstone Trail.\n\nUnlike the many well known passes that lie on the spine of the Cascades, Blewett Pass lies on the divide between the Wenatchee River to the north and the Yakima River to the south. The highway over the pass connects Interstate 90 (I-90) between Seattle and Ellensburg, Washington with US 2 between Monroe and Wenatchee. The route from Seattle to Wenatchee over Snoqualmie Pass and Blewett Pass is a reasonable alternative to the more northerly route over Stevens Pass.\n\nWhat is now called Blewett Pass was formerly known as Swauk Pass. It should not be confused with Old Blewett Pass, which is about west of the current summit at the slightly lower elevation of . Swauk was renamed to Blewett Pass in the 1960s after the completion of a new highway alignment for US 97, with locals preferring to keep the old name. The old pass road is Forest Road 9715 and Forest Road 7320. The road closes for the winter so that seasonal recreation may take place. One should inquire about conditions with a Wenatchee National Forest office before driving the road upon re-opening in the warmer months.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044061", "title": "Mike Cubbage", "text": "Mike Cubbage\n\nMichael Lee Cubbage (born July 21, 1950) is a former third baseman, coach and manager in Major League Baseball (MLB). Listed at , , he batted left-handed and threw right-handed.\n\nBorn in Charlottesville, Virginia, Cubbage was the son of Lindy and Marge Cubbage and came from a baseball family, as his cousins Larry Haney and Chris Haney played in the major leagues. Cubbage attended University of Virginia, where he played for the Virginia Cavaliers baseball and football teams.\n\nCubbage originally was selected by the expansion Washington Senators in the fifth round of the 1968 MLB draft, but did not sign. He then was drafted again by Washington in the second round of the 1971 entry draft, and spent parts of four seasons in the minor leagues before joining the Texas Rangers on April 7, 1974, in a game against the Oakland Athletics. While appearing in nine games with the Rangers in 1974, he did not collect his first major league hit until being called up in 1975, in a game on June 20 against the California Angels, when he went 3-for-5 with four RBIs.\n\nCubbage was traded to the Minnesota Twins in 1976. On July 27, 1978, he hit for the cycle against the Toronto Blue Jays. Those that attended the game or watched on television called it an \"accidental cycle\". In the bottom of the 2nd inning, Cubbage hit a 1-0 pitch to right field, and was thrown out at third trying to leg out a triple; he was therefore credited for a double on the play. He subsequently hit a home run (4th inning), single (5th inning), and triple (7th inning) to complete the cycle.\n\nCubbage later signed as a free agent with the New York Mets for the 1981 season. Throughout his playing career, he was considered somewhat of a utility player, playing mostly third base, but with stints at the first and second bases and designated hitter positions. Although he spent most of his playing time at shortstop in high school, Cubbage did not receive any playing time at this position in the major leagues.\n\nIn his MLB career of eight seasons, Cubbage appeared in 703 games, batting .258 with 34 home runs and 251 RBIs.\n\nCubbage managed the Mets' AA affiliate Jackson Mets for the 1986 season, taking them to their league playoff finals.\n\nCubbage then served as Mets' third base coach in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and was named interim manager in September 1991. He managed the Mets in seven games, finishing with a career managerial record of three wins and four losses (.429).\n\nDuring spring training in 2002, Cubbage served as the interim manager of the Boston Red Sox after previous manager Joe Kerrigan was fired. Cubbage remained on the staff as third base coach after the Red Sox hired Grady Little as Kerrigan's full-time replacement.\n\n\n, or Retrosheet\n"}
{"id": "2044064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044064", "title": "Algirdas Julien Greimas", "text": "Algirdas Julien Greimas\n\nAlgirdas Julien Greimas (; born \"Algirdas Julius Greimas\"; 9 March 1917 – 27 February 1992), was a Lithuanian literary scientist who wrote most of his body of work in French while living in France. Greimas is known among other things for the Greimas Square (\"le carré sémiotique\"). He is, along with Roland Barthes, considered the most prominent of the French semioticians. With his training in structural linguistics, he added to the theory of signification and laid the foundations for the Parisian school of semiotics. Among Greimas's major contributions to semiotics are the concepts of isotopy, the actantial model, the narrative program, and the semiotics of the natural world. He also researched Lithuanian mythology and Proto-Indo-European religion, and was influential in semiotic literary criticism.\n\nGreimas's father, Julius Greimas, 1882–1942, a teacher and later school inspector, was from Liudvinavas in the Suvalkija region of present-day Lithuania. His mother Konstancija Greimienė, née Mickevičiūtė (Mickevičius), 1886–1956, a secretary, was from Kalvarija. They lived in Tula, Russia, when he was born, where they ran away as refugees during World War I. They returned with him to Lithuania when he was two years old. His baptismal names are \"Algirdas Julius\" but he used the French version of his middle name, \"Julien\", while he lived abroad. He did not speak another language than Lithuanian until preparatory middle school, where he started with German and then French, which opened the door for his early philosophical readings in high school of Friedrich Nietzsche and Arthur Schopenhauer. After attending schools in several towns, as his family moved, and finishing Rygiškių Jonas High School in Marijampolė in 1934, he studied law at Vytautas Magnus University, Kaunas, and then drifted toward linguistics at the University of Grenoble, from which he graduated in 1939 with a paper on Franco-Provençal dialects. He hoped to focus next on early medieval linguistics (substrate toponyms in the Alps). However, in July 1939, with war looming, the Lithuanian government drafted him into a military academy. \n\nThe Soviet ultimatum led to a new \"people's government\" in Soviet-occupied Lithuania which Greimas was sympathetic to. In July 1940, he gave speeches urging Lithuanians to elect leaders who would vote in favor of annexation by the Soviet Union. As his friend Aleksys Churginas advised, in every speech he would mention Stalin and end by clapping for himself. In October, he was discharged into the reserve, and he began teaching French, German, Lithuanian and humanities at schools in Šiauliai. He fell in love with socialist Hania (Ona) Lukauskaitė, who later became an anti-Soviet conspirator with Jonas Noreika, served ten years in a lager in Vorkuta, and was a founder of the Lithuanian Helsinki Group of anti-Soviet dissidents. Greimas became an avid reader of Marx. In March 1941, Greimas's friend, Vladas Pauža, a boy scout and fellow teacher, enlisted him in the Lithuanian Activist Front. This underground network was preparing for a Nazi German invasion as the opportunity to restore Lithuania's independence and drive out all of Lithuania's Jews. On 14 June 1941, the Soviets detained his parents, arresting his father and sending him to Krasnoyarsk Krai, where he died in 1942. His mother was deported to Altai Krai. Meanwhile, during these traumatic deportations, Greimas had been mobilized as an army officer to write up the property of detained Lithuanians. Greimas became an anti-Communist but retained a lifelong affinity with Marxist, leftist and liberal ideas.\n\nNazi Germany's invading forces entered Šiauliai on 26 June 1941. The next day, Greimas met with other partisans and was put in charge of a platoon. He handed down an order from the German Commandant to round up 100 Jews to sweep the streets. He felt uncomfortable and did not return the next day. Nevertheless, he became an editor of the weekly \"Tėvynė\", which urged ethnic cleansing of Jews from Lithuania. The nominal editor, Vladas Pauža, was a proponent of genocide. In 1942, in Kaunas, Greimas became active in the underground Lithuanian Freedom Fighters Union, which derived from the genocidal Lithuanian Nationalist Party, which the Nazis had banned in December 1941, after Lithuania's Jews had been killed. He grew close to life long liberal-minded friends Bronys Raila, Stasys Žakevičius-Žymantas, Jurgis Valiulis, all of whom had supported ethnic cleansing of Jews from Lithuania.\n\nIn 1944 he enrolled for graduate study at the Sorbonne in Paris and specialized in lexicography, namely taxonomies of exact, interrelated definitions. He wrote a thesis on the vocabulary of fashion (a topic later popularized by Roland Barthes), for which he received a PhD in 1949.\n\nGreimas began his academic career as a teacher at a French Catholic boarding school for girls in Alexandria in Egypt, where he would take part in a weekly discussion group of about a dozen European researchers that included a philosopher, a historian, and a sociologist. Early on, he also met Roland Barthes, with whom he remained close for the next 15 years. In 1959 he moved on to universities in Ankara and Istanbul in Turkey, and then to Poitiers in France. In 1965 he became professor at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales (EHESS) in Paris, where he taught for almost 25 years. He co-founded and became Secretary General of the International Association for Semiotic Studies.\n\nGreimas died in 1992 in Paris, and was buried at his mother's resting place, Petrašiūnai Cemetery in Kaunas, Lithuania. (His parents were deported to Siberia during the Soviet occupation. His mother managed to return in 1954; his father perished and his grave is unknown, but he has a symbolic tombstone at the cemetery.) He was survived by his wife, Teresa Mary Keane.\n\nGreimas's first published essay \"Cervantes ir jo don Kichotas\" (\"Cervantes and his Don Quixote\") came out in the literary journal \"Varpai\", which he helped to found, during the period of alternating Nazi and Soviet occupations of Lithuania. Although a review of the first Lithuanian translation of \"Don Quixote\", it addressed partly the issue of one's resistance to circumstances – even when doomed, defiance can at least aim at the preservation of one's dignity (\"Nebijokime būti donkichotai\", \"Let's not be afraid to be Don Quixotes\"). The first work of direct significance to his subsequent research was his doctoral thesis \"La Mode en 1830. Essai de description du vocabulaire vestimentaire d' après les journaux de modes de l'époque\" (\"Fashion in 1830. A Study of the Vocabulary of Clothes based on the Fashion Magazines of the Times\"). He left lexicology soon after, acknowledging the limitations of the discipline in its concentration on the word as a unit and in its basic aim of classification, but he never ceased to maintain his lexicological convictions. He published three dictionaries throughout his career. During his decade in Alexandria, the discussions in his circle of friends helped broaden his interests. The topics included Greimas's early influences – the works of the founder of structural linguistics Ferdinand de Saussure and his follower, Danish linguist Louis Hjelmslev, the initiator of comparative mythology Georges Dumézil, the structural anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss, the Russian specialist in fairy tales Vladimir Propp, the researcher into the aesthetics of theater Étienne Souriau, the phenomenologists Edmund Husserl and Maurice Merleau-Ponty, the psychoanalyst Gaston Bachelard, and the novelist and art historian André Malraux.\n\nGreimas proposed an original method for \"discourse semiotics\" that evolved over a thirty-year period. His starting point began with a profound dissatisfaction with the structural linguistics of the mid-century that studied only phonemes (minimal sound units of every language) and morphemes (grammatical units that occur in the combination of phonemes). These grammatical units could generate an infinite number of sentences, the sentence remaining the largest unit of analysis. Such a molecular model did not permit the analysis of units beyond the sentence.\n\nGreimas begins by positing the existence of a \"semantic universe\" that he defined as the sum of all possible meanings that can be produced by the value systems of the entire culture of an ethno-linguistic community. As the semantic universe cannot possibly be conceived of in its entirety, Greimas was led to introduce the notion of \"semantic micro-universe\" and \"discourse universe\", as actualized in written, spoken or iconic texts. To come to grips with the problem of signification or the production of meaning, Greimas had to transpose one level of language (the \"text\") into another level of language (the \"metalanguage\") and work out adequate techniques of \"transposition\".\n\nThe descriptive procedures of \"narratology\" and the notion of \"narrativity\" are at the very base of Greimassian semiotics of discourse. His initial hypothesis is that meaning is only apprehensible if it is articulated or narrativized. Second, for him narrative structures can be perceived in other systems not necessarily dependent upon natural languages. This leads him to posit the existence of two levels of analysis and representation: a \"surface\" and a \"deep level\", which forms a common trunk where narrativity is situated and organized anterior to its manifestation. The signification of a phenomenon does not therefore depend on the mode of its manifestation, but since it originates at the deep level it cuts through all forms of linguistic and non-linguistic manifestation. Greimas' semiotics, which is \"generative\" and \"transformational\", goes through three phases of development. He begins by working out a \"semiotics of action\" (\"sémiotique de l'action\") where \"subjects\" are defined in terms of their quest for \"objects\", following a \"canonical narrative schema\", which is a formal framework made up of three successive sequences: a \"mandate\", an \"action\" and an \"evaluation\". He then constructs a \"narrative grammar\" and works out a syntax of \"narrative programs\" in which subjects are \"joined up with\" or \"separated\" from objects of value. In the second phase he works out a \"cognitive semiotics\" (\"sémiotique cognitive\"), where in order to perform, subjects must be \"competent\" to do so. The subjects' competence is organized by means of a \"modal grammar\" that accounts for their existence and performance. This modal semiotics opens the way to the final phase that studies how \"passions\" modify actional and cognitive performance of subjects (\"sémiotique de passions\") and how belief and knowledge modify the competence and performance of these very same subjects.\n\nHe later began researching and reconstructing Lithuanian mythology. He based his work on the methods of Vladimir Propp, Georges Dumézil, Claude Lévi-Strauss, and Marcel Detienne. He published the results in \"Apie dievus ir žmones: lietuvių mitologijos studijos\" (\"Of Gods and Men: Studies in Lithuanian Mythology\") 1979, and \"Tautos atminties beieškant\" (\"In Search of National Memory\") 1990. He also wrote on Proto-Indo-European religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044070", "title": "Richard Reid (disambiguation)", "text": "Richard Reid (disambiguation)\n\nRichard Reid (born 1973) is a British convicted terrorist who attempted to detonate a shoe bomb.\n\nRichard Reid may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044092", "title": "The Nature of Truth", "text": "The Nature of Truth\n\nThe Nature of Truth is a novel by Sergio Troncoso first published in 2003 by Northwestern University Press. It explores righteousness and evil, Yale and the Holocaust. Arte Público Press published a revised and updated paperback edition of Troncoso's novel in 2014.\n\nHelmut Sanchez is a young researcher in the employ of renowned Yale professor Werner Hopfgartner. By chance, Helmut discovers a letter written decades ago by his boss mocking guilt over the Holocaust. Appalled, Helmut digs into the scholar's life and travels to Austria and Italy to uncover evidence of Hopfgartner's hateful past. Meanwhile, Hopfgartner's colleague and rival, Regina Neumann, wants to reveal the truth about Hopfgartner's sexual liaisons with vulnerable students before the professor's imminent retirement. Neumann traps Sarah Goodman, an insecure graduate student trying to find her place at Yale, into initiating formal charges of sexual harassment against Hopfgartner. Soon Helmut's intellectual quest for the truth metamorphoses into a journey of justice and blood, one with unforeseen consequences.\n\n\nTroncoso's novel explores how a man of Mexican-German heritage navigates a complex moral universe, and how his experience reveals the differences and links between righteousness and evil in the quest for the truth. In an interview for \"Prime Number Journal\" in 2015, Troncoso said: \"I had read Heidegger as a graduate student at Yale, and \"Being and Time\" was fascinating to me, particularly the concept of Being-towards-death...I was always shocked by the intellectual violence I witnessed at many Ivy League seminars, how people would just eviscerate each other with words, in pursuit of 'The Truth,' and how often they would lose themselves in these arguments. They would lose their humanity, in my opinion...I did not want to lose myself as a philosopher, and lose my heritage, and lose my humanity. I wanted to write a novel about someone wrestling with these issues of morality and identity, someone picking and choosing where he goes and who he is, a moral actor stumbling badly as he is consumed by the pursuit of 'The Truth,' and then finding himself with the help of friends.\" \n\nA reviewer from \"Prime Number Journal\" wrote: \"Sergio Troncoso's first novel—recently revised, expanded, and rereleased by Arte Publico Press—is a daring departure from the personal essays Troncoso is famed for...\"The Nature of Truth\" is not a thriller in the sense of pulp fiction; no, Troncoso's \"The Nature of Truth\" is a thriller in the way Richard Wright's \"Native Son\" is a thriller. And it's an erudite reader's novel in the way of Philip Roth's \"The Human Stain\" is. Troncoso's work places the reader on a knife's edge of suspense, while challenging the reader to examine and question \"The [very] Nature of Truth\", whether that truth be racially defined, intellectually constructed, or a scepter rising from ancient ideals of right and wrong...\n\nTroncoso's \"The Nature of Truth\" informs his mature works—\"From This Wicked Patch of Dust\" and \"\"—as they examine the ideas of borders, their permeability, and their dualistic nature of the real and the imagined. Without the intellectual questioning of truth in \"The Nature of Truth\", his mature works, I believe, would not have been possible. Troncoso, primarily known for his US-Mexican Border works, is, as \"The Nature of Truth\" suggests, the brightest and most able of the modern Border writers and thinkers. And somewhere in Troncoso's raising within the Border's transnational diaspora, he found that the nature of truth can only be located in the confines of the self, the family, the community, and our own definition of the truth.\" \n\n----A reviewer from \"Janus Head\", a journal of Continental Philosophy, Literature, and Phenomenological Psychology, wrote: \"It is with this trio [Helmut Sanchez, Ariane Sassolini, and Detective Jack Rosselli] that the author excels as both fictionist and moral epistemologist. When Helmut ventures beyond good and evil, Troncoso refuses to leave his reader behind. It is more than a liberating world, Troncoso suggests. It's also nightmarish one, inducing the worst symptoms of psychosis even in its most well-meaning inhabitants. In conveying this, Troncoso's powers of characterization and description are equal to his analytic ones: \"The blade in his hand glimmered in the moonlight. He sliced into the fatty tissue of his forearm. He felt exquisite pain. Blood, hot blood, ran out of his arm. Helmut clenched his fist, and the red stream became fuller, warmer, quicker.\" With Ariane Sassolini, Troncoso gives us a hero for the story playing out in the novel's subtext. A scholar every bit as inquisitive as Helmut, Ariane yet comes to embody the truth that Helmut has forsaken: that conventional taboos, though conventional, serve a grand ethical purpose. When her crisis arrives, again in the form of knowledge, she must make a life-altering decision, and her one of compassion and forgiveness for Helmut betrays a moral fortitude far exceeding that of her beloved. Rosselli, on the other hand, lacks the imagination required for compassion that large. He's too mired in the data of criminology to ever truly understand the criminal. Unable to identify the real killer, motivated not by vengeance but by idealism, Rosselli allows an innocent man, Atwater, to suffer at the hands of thugs.\n\nClearly, then, \"The Nature of Truth\" is no allegory. All three of the characters come to embody more than a philosophic agenda. But operating within the minds of each is a set of epistemic practices that Troncoso deftly contrasts. When juxtaposed, the Nietzschean valor of Sanchez, the Christian pragmatism of Sassolini and the blind inductivism of Rosselli make for a sustained, intellectual tension that perfectly complements the narrative one. If Troncoso occasionally tips his hand, as he does when Helmut self-consciously asks \"What was morality anyway?\", or when the street-wise Rosselli puts forth a rather academic-sounding theory of racial division, the author is careful never to make the conflict between his characters' \"truths\" too explicit. The subtlety, and fairness, with which Troncoso presents these conflicting frameworks stand as the novel's crowning intellectual achievement, side by side with the artistic one: a convincing tale of murder and ruminating guilt.\" \n\n----A reviewer from \"The Forward\" wrote: \"A sentimental tale of love triumphant over bigotry and zealotry, \"The Nature of Truth\" enables its philosemitic author to wear his heart on his sleeve, right beside an imaginary yellow star. Troncoso, who has studied and taught at Yale, portrays the campus as an intellectual enclave that tries to remain oblivious to the ambient urban blight. About the strained relationship between New Haven and Yale, he writes: \"One was in the gutter, the other was in the clouds.\" ...\n\n\"The Nature of Truth\" is an exploration of the ways in which lies can skew our lives. Over dinner at the end of the novel, Jonathan Atwater—a gay librarian who, like a Jew victimized by Nazi storm troopers, was assaulted by homophobic thugs—presents his theory about the decline of civilization. \"Two important things have gone by the wayside, in my opinion,\" he says, \"and I believe they've affected each other in a miserable manner. Family and truth.\" According to Atwater, truth, disembodied from the living communities that give it meaning, has become a vapid abstraction. \"The Nature of Truth\" concludes within the embrace of la familia, in Chicano New Mexico. But ... Troncoso recognizes that, though truth lies within the community, a failure to acknowledge the validity of other communities is the root of lethal lies.\" \n\n----\"The Nature of Truth\" won the Bronze Award for Multicultural Fiction from \"ForeWord Reviews\". The novel was also chosen as one of the Top Ten Best Fiction Books for 2014 by \"TheLatinoAuthor.com\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2044099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044099", "title": "Grattan Bridge", "text": "Grattan Bridge\n\nGrattan Bridge () is a road bridge spanning the River Liffey in Dublin, Ireland, and joining Capel Street to Parliament Street and the south quays.\n\nThe first bridge on this site was built by Sir Humphrey Jervis as \"Essex Bridge\" (named for Arthur Capell, 1st Earl of Essex, Lord Lieutenant of Ireland) to join several of Jervis' developments (including Capel Street and Jervis Street) to the opposite side of the river and to Dublin Castle. \"Essex Bridge\" was an arched stone structure with 7 piers, and apparently partly constructed from the ruined masonry of nearby St. Mary’s Abbey on the northside. In 1687 the bridge was damaged by a flood resulting in the loss of a hackney and two horses. The damage to the bridge was only partially repaired.\n\nIn 1751 the second most northerly pier collapsed and damaged the adjacent arches. Between 1753 and 1755 the bridge was rebuilt by George Semple, to correct flood and other structural damage and as one of the first initiatives of the Wide Streets Commission. During this construction, some original features were removed, including the Equestrian Statue Of George I, by John van Nost the Elder, which was moved in 1798 to the gardens of the Mansion House. In 1937 it was bought by the Barber Institute for Fine Arts in Birmingham, in front of which it now stands. For much of the 18th century, Essex Bridge was the most westerly bridge on the Liffey.\n\nFrom 1872, the bridge was further remodelled (on Westminster Bridge in London), being widened and flattened with cast iron supports extended out from the stonework so as to carry pavements on either side of the roadway. The bridge was (and is still) lit by ornate lamp standards also in cast iron.\n\nThe bridge was reopened as \"Grattan Bridge\" in 1874, being named after Henry Grattan MP (1746-1820).\n\nIn 2003/2004 the Dublin City Council, planned and built what was intended to be a \"\"European-style book market\"\" on Grattan Bridge. The initiative included reconstruction of the bridge deck, with granite paving for the footpaths and a set of benches with wooden seats and toughened glass backs. \n\nFollowing this development, several temporary kiosks (prefabricated in Spain) were controversially built on the bridge, to create \"\"a contemporary version of an inhabited bridge, such as the Ponte Vecchio in Florence\"\". These kiosks have since been removed.\n\nAs is tradition among Dubliners, the name used locally for the bridge will vary from \"Capel Street Bridge\", to \"Grattan Bridge\" and the original \"Essex Bridge\".\n"}
{"id": "2044111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044111", "title": "Canadian Urban Transit Association", "text": "Canadian Urban Transit Association\n\nCanadian Urban Transit Association (CUTA) is a trade association for the urban transit industry in Canada. \nIn December 1904, a group of officials from six street railway companies met in Montreal, Quebec and formed the Canadian Street Railway Association. The Association grew quickly and the focus of its activities reflected the changing times. It was renamed the Canadian Transit Association in 1932. After several name changes, the Canadian Urban Transit Association (CUTA) was adopted in 1973. \n\nIn its early years, membership was restricted to privately owned systems, especially on the prairies, and the rapid development of the bus (and its use by founding members) promoted changes to the Association's constitution. In 1920, municipally owned systems were welcomed along with non-operating members (suppliers). \n\nMany issues discussed by CUTA's predecessors remain topical today - traffic congestion, competition by the private automobile, vehicle design, transit marketing, relations with and regulation by government, and transit priority. New to the agenda in recent decades are the matters of achieving sustainable funding. Transit plays an important role in improving the environment. Urban sprawl and worsening air quality have today become issues of concern, not just by governments and local transit operators, but by the wider Canadian public. \n\nThe developments of the past century are testimony to the progress made by service providers and their suppliers. CUTA has vigorously defended the industry and actively promoted public transit across Canada. More recently, it has assisted government by laying the foundations of major transit funding programs that are bearing fruit. Since its foundation, Association members have benefited greatly from CUTA's vast resources and training expertise. \n\nTo mark the centennial of the Canadian Urban Transit Association in 2004, CUTA prepared a publication to document the many activities, achievements and challenges facing public transit systems since that 1904 winter day in Montreal when the Association was born. A Century of Moving Canada is their story.\n\nMore recently, membership has grown to over 500 members, including 120 transit systems, 280 manufacturers, suppliers and other businesses, as well as numerous affiliates and government agencies. \nCUTA's main office is located in Toronto, with a public affairs office in Ottawa. CUTA's ongoing activities and services are divided into six program areas, designed to serve the key requirements of the association's transit system, business, government and affiliate members. Where appropriate, these areas are linked to CUTA's National Committees, which are intended to serve in an ongoing advisory capacity:\n\n\nCUTA has five regional and five national committees. The Regional Committees comprise Atlantic, Quebec, Ontario, Prairies and Territories, and British Columbia provinces. They meet periodically for information sharing on issues of mutual interest. The national committees are Business Members, Communication and Public Affairs, Human Resources, Technical Services and Transit Board Members. These committees are being aligned with Transit Vision 2040 in order to proactively address the six themes contained in the Report.\nThe purpose of the Business Members Committee is to represent the interests of all Business Members relating to the policies and direction of the Association.\nThe Communications and Public Affairs Committee communicates strong and positive messages to all stakeholders about the important role of transit in a sustainable transportation system. This committee also oversees CUTA advocacy and government relations activities and has a sub-committee responsible for conference planning.\nThe Human Resources Committee provides a forum to assist CUTA members in promoting best Human Resource practices within their systems through research, training and information exchange. A sub-committee manages the CUTA National Recognition Awards Program.\nThe purpose of the Technical Services Committee is to promote the effectiveness of public transit and to encourage best practices in the industry by way of research and development and through the exchange of information in the areas of operations, planning, bus design and maintenance. There are sub-committees representing vehicle technology, standards and maintenance; planning and ITS; statistics; and accessible transit.\nThe purpose of the Transit Board Members Committee is to provide a forum for exchange and promoting public transit among municipal decision-makers, identify current and emerging municipal issues of concern to the industry and provide assistance in resolving them, as well as to raise awareness and promote the use of CUTA activities and transit best practices throughout the municipal sector.\n\nIn 2009, CUTA embarked on an initiative that involves the development of an industry vision, framing a comprehensive definition of the role of public transit in Canada for a 30-year time horizon. Transit Vision 2040 communicates transit's contribution to quality of life, the nature of change likely to take place in our communities by 2040, the implications these changes will have on transit, and strategic directions for actions that can maximize transit's contribution to our quality of life. \n\nTransit Vision 2040 is about putting transit at the centre of communities through stronger government policy and decision-making frameworks, and better community planning and design. It is about revolutionizing service in all types of communities through expansion and innovation, so that transit systems can both encourage and serve growing demands as they keep pace with the changing face of cities and towns. It is about focusing on customers and accelerating the delivery of flexible, integrated transit services that meet the needs of an increasingly diverse and discriminating clientele. It is about greening transit to further reduce the industry's ecological footprint, improve energy efficiency and limit greenhouse gas emissions. It is about ensuring financial health through enhanced transit infrastructure and operating investments by all orders of government, more progressive approaches to generating revenue, and new efficiencies in service delivery. \nFinally, it is about strengthening knowledge and practice so that Canada's transit industry can more effectively respond to future opportunities and challenges.\n\nThis Vision takes a long-term view, but it is intended to guide concrete short-term actions by CUTA, its members and other stakeholders. The Vision has particular relevance for transit agencies and can serve as a framework for strategic planning efforts by individual systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044118", "title": "Liberty, West Virginia", "text": "Liberty, West Virginia\n\nLiberty is an unincorporated community in Putnam County, West Virginia. It is located on WV 34 between Red House and Fishers Ridge.\n"}
{"id": "2044133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044133", "title": "William Theodore Heard", "text": "William Theodore Heard\n\nWilliam Theodore Heard (24 February 1884 – 16 September 1973) was a cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nHe was born in Edinburgh, the eldest son of Rev Dr William Augustus Heard (1847–1921), a housemaster of Fettes College, and his wife, Elizabeth Tamar Burt (who died when William Theodore was only four). They lived at Carrington House on Comely Bank, one of the school's boarding houses.\n\nHe was educated at Fettes College, of which his father was by then headmaster, a role he continued for 30 years, 1887 until 1912. He then studied divinity at Balliol College, Oxford, where he also rowed. He was baptised conditionally on 9 August 1910 by Fr Stanislaus St John SJ in the Farm Street Church of The Immaculate Conception in Mayfair, central London and, being thus reconciled with the Catholic Church, he was then confirmed. In 1913 he was accepted as a candidate for the priesthood by Bishop (later Archbishop) Peter Amigo of Southwark, his application to be a student priest of the Archdiocese of Saint Andrews and Edinburgh having been ignored by Archbishop Smith – whether intentionally or by omission is unclear. He studied at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome, where he obtained his doctorate in philosophy in 1915 and his doctorates in both theology and canon law in 1921.\n\nHe was ordained to the priesthood aged 34 years in the Patriarchal Lateran Basilica (the Pope's Cathedral as Bishop of Rome) on 30 March 1918, by Basilio Pompili, Cardinal Bishop of Velletri, the Pope's Vicar General for Rome. He acted as confessor for the students of the Venerable English College, Rome, 1918–1921 and again 1927-1960s. In 1921 he was appointed curate at the Most Holy Trinity parish in Dockhead, Bermondsey. He was named a domestic prelate by Pope Pius XI on 30 September 1927, and on the following day, 1 October 1927, he was named auditor of the Tribunal of the Roman Rota (the judicial part of the Roman Curia), which acts as the Supreme Court of Appeal in the administration of the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church. In 1958 he was appointed dean of the Holy Roman Rota (i.e. the equivalent of chief justice) and was elevated to cardinal one year later when he was appointed cardinal deacon of the titular church \"San Teodoro\". He was one of the rare modern instances of a cardinal who was not a bishop. This was rectified after three years when, on 19 April 1962, he was appointed bishop of the titular see of Feradi Maius and consecrated bishop by Pope John XXIII in the same Patriarchal Lateran Basilica in which he had been ordained priest forty-four years before. He attended the Second Vatican Council, 1962–1965 and participated in the conclave of 19 to 21 June 1963, which elected the Archbishop of Milan, Cardinal Giovanni-Battista Montini, to be Pope Paul VI.\n\nFor a number of years in the late 1950s/early 1960s, Cardinal Heard who – despite his sense of rejection by the Scottish Church in having not accepted him as a student for the priesthood – never forgot his Scottish birth and heritage, freely gave his time to serve as external confessor to the students of the Scots College, Rome, particularly during the summer season, when the students migrated to the college villa at Marino.\n\nIn 1970 he was elevated to cardinal priest of San Teodoro, as is customary for cardinal deacons after serving for ten years in that capacity.\n\nOn 1 January 1971 Pope Paul VI's new rule abolishing the right of cardinals over 80 years of age to participate in the conclave came into effect, and Cardinal Heard, who was already nearly 87 years old, immediately lost his electoral rights.\n\nHe had a long decline aggravated by failing sight and hearing, and his death at the age of 89 was natural and hardly surprising. He died in the clinic at \"S. Stefano Rotondo\" run by the Blue Nuns, on the morning of Sunday, 16 September 1973, aged 89. His funeral took place in the right transept of St Peter's Basilica in the Vatican, and he was buried in the Campo Verano cemetery, Rome.\n\nThat his funeral did not take place at the Scots College certainly speaks silent volumes about a private pain of which neither he nor any of his contemporaries have left any public record.\n\nSuffice it to say that in his lifetime – and certainly when he was first elevated to the Sacred College – the entire British press used to refer to him as \"the first Scottish Cardinal since the Reformation\".\n"}
{"id": "2044142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044142", "title": "Apparent place", "text": "Apparent place\n\nThe apparent place of an object is its position in space as seen by an observer. Because of physical and geometrical effects it may differ from the \"true\" or \"geometric\" position.\n\nIn astronomy, a distinction is made between the \"mean position\", \"apparent position\" and \"topocentric position\" of an object.\n\nThe mean position of a star (relative to the observer's adopted coordinate system) can be calculated from its value at an arbitrary epoch, together with its actual motion over time (known as proper motion). The \"apparent position\" is its position as seen by a theoretical observer at the centre of the moving Earth. Several effects cause the apparent position to differ from the mean position:\n\n\nThe \"Apparent Places of Fundamental Stars\" is an astronomical yearbook, which is published one year in advance by the Astronomical Calculation Institute (Heidelberg University) in Heidelberg, Germany. It lists the apparent place of about 1000 fundamental stars for every 10 days and is published as a book and in a more extensive version on the Internet.\n\nThe apparent position of a planet or other object in the Solar System is also affected by light-time correction, which is caused by the finite time it takes light from a moving body to reach the observer. Simply put, the observer sees the object in the position where it was when the light left it.\n\nTheoretically, light-time correction could also be calculated for more distant objects, such as stars, but in practice it is ignored. The movement of an object since the light left it is not needed because the mean position is the mean position of where it appears to be, not of where it once was. Unlike planets, these objects basically appear to move in straight lines, so for normal use no complicated calculation is needed to find their mean position.\n\nThe \"topocentric position\" of a body is that seen by an actual observer on the Earth, and differs from the apparent position as a result of the following effects:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044158", "title": "50th Space Wing", "text": "50th Space Wing\n\nThe 50th Space Wing is a United States Space Force wing of Space Operations Command stationed at Schriever Air Force Base. The 50th Space Wing is responsible for space superiority and space operations. It was activated as a space wing on 30 January 1992, replacing the 2nd Space Wing.\n\nThe 50th Space Wing is the United States Space Force's space operations and space superiority wing. The 50th Space Wing operates the Global Positioning System (GPS), Defense Satellite Communications System (DSCS), Wideband Global Satellite Communications system, Military Strategic and Tactical Relay, Defense Meteorological Satellite Program, Space Based Space Surveillance system, Operationally Responsive Space satellite system, Advanced Extremely High Frequency satellite system, and the Boeing X-37B Orbital Test Vehicle. It also operates the Air Force Satellite Control Network.\n\nThe 50th Space Wing is also the host unit for Schriever Air Force Base, providing base support for the reserve 310th Space Wing, Strategic Command's Joint Functional Component Command for Integrated Missile Defense, and the Army's 100th Missile Defense Brigade.\n\n 50th Operations Group (50 OG)\n 50th Network Operations Group (50 NOG)\n 50th Mission Support Group (50 MSG)\n 50th Comptroller Squadron (50 CPTS)\n\nThe 50th Fighter Wing was established on 16 May 1949 as part of the United States Air Force Reserve on 1 June 1949. The wing was formed at Otis AFB, Massachusetts. The 50th Fighter Group was assigned to the newly formed 50th Fighter Wing upon activation under the Hobson Plan. It was in the reserves between June 1949 and June 1951, being the counterpart of Air Defense Command's 33d Fighter Wing. The wing was ordered to active service on 1 June 1951 due to the Korean War, and its personnel and equipment were reassigned as replacements to active-duty units. The 50th Fighter Wing was inactivated the next day, 2 June 1951.\n\nOn 1 January 1953, the 50th Fighter-Bomber Wing was reactivated as part of the Tactical Air Command. The group was reactivated following Secretary of State John Foster Dulles' promise to provide NATO with four additional tactical fighter wings to increase its defenses against the Soviet Union due to the outbreak of the Cold War. The 50th Fighter-Interceptor Group activated as the 50th Fighter-Bomber Group (later renamed 50th Operations Group) and became the wing's primary combat element. The group's squadrons were equipped with North American F-86F Sabres, and training commenced for operational proficiency. Once training levels for pilots and aircrews had reached operational levels, the 50th FBW began preparations for its move to West Germany. On 10 August 1953, the 50th FBW arrived at its new home, the newly constructed Hahn Air Base.\n\nThe 50th FBW was assigned to the United States Air Forces in Europe's Twelfth Air Force. The wing became the first tactically operational Air Force wing in 12th Air Force's jurisdiction. The 50th FBG consisted of the 10th, 81st and 417th Fighter-Bomber Squadrons. The first of the wing's new F-86H Sabres arrived at Hahn AB 21 October 1955. Conversion continued throughout the winter of 1955 and spring of 1956, ending in May. The 50th FBG received seventy-four F-86Hs, and also had two C-47 transports which were assigned to the Wing for courier and supply operations. The primary mission of the 50th FBW at Hahn was the delivery of tactical nuclear weapons against Warsaw Pact forces in the event of an invasion of Western Europe. Its secondary missions were tactical air defense and support for NATO ground forces.\n\nWhile 50th FBW prepared for and converted to the newer F-86H, the wing expanded its mission responsibility to include supporting 12th Air Force's 7382d Guided Missile Group. The wing had previously supported the 69th Tactical Missile Squadron at Hahn, which operated the MGM-1 Matador tactical missile. New aircraft would not be the only change for the personnel of the 50th, however. With the conversion to the F-86H nearly complete on 15 April 1956, the wing began a move to Toul-Rosières Air Base, France. The reason for the move was that USAFE war planners believed that due to the vulnerability of West Germany to Soviet attack, having nuclear-equipped fighter wings in West Germany made them vulnerable to being quickly overrun by Warsaw Pact forces. By moving them west into France, it would give NATO more time to respond. This movement took most of the summer of that year. The wing reported it was mission-ready at Toul-Rosières on 1 August.\n\nThe 50th Fighter-Bomber Group was inactivated 8 December 1957 as a result of the 50th adopting the Tri-Deputate organization plan. As result of the group's inactivation, its operational squadrons—the 10th, 81st and 417th Fighter Squadrons were assigned directly to the wing.\nIn 1957 USAFE also announced that the 50th FBW would receive the new F-100D Super Sabre. This advanced, supersonic aircraft significantly improved the wing's combat capability and enhanced European air defenses. The 50th FBW was the third and last USAFE fighter wing to convert into Super Sabres and converted to the new aircraft in 1957 and 1958. \n\nOn 8 July 1958, it became the wing was renamed the 50th Tactical Fighter Wing as a result of a worldwide USAF renaming convention, a designation it would carry for almost 35 years.\n\nAround this time, the wing updated its emblem to reflect its new mission and aircraft. The modified design depicted a griffin facing forward and breathing fire with its wings spread. An atomic \"mushroom\" cloud was centered behind the griffin. Behind the beast's right talon, an olive branch denoted peace. A lightning bolt behind the left talon symbolized the strength and power of the unit's aircraft. The wing would carry this emblem until its inactivation in 1991. \n\nPolitical issues with France with regards to non-French military forces stationing nuclear weapons, or nuclear-capable units on French soil led to the United States moving the 50th TFW and other tactical wings out of France. Pferdsfeld AB, West Germany was initially considered as the new home of the 50th TFS, however it was decided to return the wing to Hahn AB since it was only partially occupied at the time and the runway at Hahn had just been recently re-paved. The wing, its support units, 10th TFS and 81st TFS returned to Hahn AB, West Germany as part of Operation Red Richard. The 417th TFS was detached to the 86th Tactical Fighter Wing at Ramstein AB, West Germany. The 50th Tactical Fighter Wing reported its movement complete to Hahn on 10 December 1959.\n\nDuring the Cuban Missile Crisis in October and November 1962, the wing hosted the 435th Tactical Fighter Squadron from Moron AB, Spain as part of a massive military buildup. After the Cuban Missile Crisis ended, the 50th TFW resumed normal operations and participated in various exercises and competitions, often with other NATO allies.\nBy the mid-1960s, the Super Sabres were becoming vulnerable to a new generation of Warsaw Pact fighters, such as the Mig-21 and Sukhoi Su-15. In response, the wing's three tactical squadrons, the 10th, 81st, and 417th, began converting to McDonnell Douglas F-4D Phantom IIs on 8 October 1966. When the last F-100 left Hahn, 50th TFW aircrews had logged over 143,000 flight hours. Throughout the conversion to the F-4D, the 417th TFS remained detached to the 86th Air Division at Ramstein AB. The 496th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron, attached to the 50th TFW but assigned to the 86th Air Division, did not convert to the new F-4D aircraft, instead flying the F-102 Delta Dagger interceptor aircraft.\n\nThe wing underwent another organizational change on 15 July 1968. The costs of the ongoing Vietnam War were stretching defense budgets, and the costs of maintaining large United States forces in Europe, as well as the decision by France to withdrawal from the NATO integrated military alliance led to the development of \"dual-based\" forces, stationed in the United States, but deployable to NATO in case of a crisis with the Soviet Union. The 417th TFS was reassigned to Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, and was subsequently reassigned to Tactical Air Command's 67th Tactical Reconnaissance Wing. The 417th was \"committed\" to USAFE, and was planned to deploy to USAFE annually. To replace the 417th, USAFE reassigned the 496th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron back from 86th Air Division to the 50th Tactical Fighter Wing. The 417th, however, remained equipped with F-102 interceptors with an air defense mission. USAFE then selected the 81st Tactical Fighter Squadron as the command's first \"Wild Weasel\" surface-to-air missile suppression unit. The squadron's primary mission focus changed from ground and air attack roles to location and elimination of threats posed by enemy radar tracking and surface-to-air missile systems. The \"Wild Weasel\" version of the F-4E (and later the F-4G) could be used as a radar jamming platform or as a search and destroy vehicle.\n\nThe 81st TFS moved to Zweibrücken Air Base, West Germany, on 12 June 1971. Though it remained assigned to 50th TFW, 81st TFS was detached from the wing's operational control and attached to the 86th Tactical Fighter Wing. Following these changes, the wing settled into a more routine operations tempo and returned its attentions to maintaining combat readiness. Within two years, USAFE redesignated 496th FIS as a tactical fighter squadron. The squadron then converted to the F-4E Phantom, retiring its F-102s.\n\nThe wing continued routine training operations throughout the 1970s. In 1976, the 313th Tactical Fighter Squadron was reactivated as a result of the 36th TFW at Bitburg AB receiving F-15 Eagles, and sending a squadron of its F-4E Phantom IIs to Hahn.\nIn late 1978 USAFE announced that the 50th Tactical Fighter Wing would test and then field of the new F-16A Fighting Falcon. Arrangements for the tests began with arrival of the first of four teams in November 1978 and continued into 1979. Tests began on 20 April 1979, with four F-16A Block 1 aircraft at Hahn Air Base, Germany.\n\nMeanwhile, prompted by the news of its selection to receive the Air Force's newest fighter, the 50th TFW began construction of new hardened aircraft shelters, additional hangars, maintenance shops and support buildings. In addition contracts were issued for the construction of 300 additional housing units in communities near Hahn AB.\n\nAircrews focused on training under a new graduated combat capability program that provided specific training events and competency levels for each category of crewmember. Maintenance personnel concentrated on learning F-16 specific requirements and adapted the Production Oriented Maintenance Organization to meet the needs of the new jets and mission. The 313th TFS accepted the first of the wing's new F-16s on 30 December 1981, after a vigorous acceptance inspection—a practice that continues today. Within six months, the last of the 50th TFW's F-4E Phantom IIs departed Hahn AB, after 16 years and more than 176,000 flight hours.\n\nFor the next several months, 50th TFW crews frequently deployed to Zaragoza Air Base, Spain, to conduct air-to-air and air-to-ground training. The training included events designed to improve bombing accuracy and increase air and ground crew performance. Before the 1983 Thanksgiving holiday, the wing would add yet another line to its list of accomplishments. That opportunity arrived in October, when 50th TFW crews took their F-16s to the Air Force's annual worldwide bombing and gunnery competition—Gunsmoke—where they won the overall competition. Additionally, one of the wing's pilots earned the individual Top Gun award. Personnel continued to demonstrate their excellence when one of the wing's weapons load crews earned first place distinction in USAFE and third place overall in an Air Force-wide competition at the end of 1983.\n\nThe wing replaced its F-16A and F-16B Fighting Falcons for the advanced second-generation F-16C and F-16D in 1986.\n\nBy the end of the 1980s, the social, economic, and political turmoil in the Soviet Union had reached a boiling point. The Berlin Wall fell, and a new era in Europe began. Former Soviet republics proclaimed their independence and right to self-determination. Talk in Germany quickly turned to the possibility of reuniting East and West. Debate followed on the future role of American forces in Europe, and worldwide change loomed imminent.\n\nThroughout the spring and summer of 1990, the 50th TFW continued its aggressive training schedule. Meanwhile, American military and government officials debated the new role and structure of the armed forces in light of perceptions of a diminished threat to Western Europe. The changes brought about by events in the Soviet Union and in light of increasing public and governmental concern over the United States' increasing budget deficit. For many, the possibility of any combat activity seemed unlikely, but that perception changed almost in the blink of an eye during the autumn of 1990.\n\nWhile the wing's aircrews continued their normal operations in West Germany and Turkey, Iraqi president Saddam Hussein resumed a war of rhetoric against Kuwait. As the summer heat in Southwest Asia intensified, so did Hussein's war of words. Iraqi forces crossed the border into Kuwait on 2 August 1990, forcing the Kuwaiti royal family and existing government to seek refuge in neighboring countries. The United Nations condemned the invasion, calling for immediate withdrawal of all Iraqi forces from Kuwait.\n\nReturning to Hahn AB following an October 1990 training deployment to Zaragoza AB, Spain, 10th TFS commander Lt. Col. Ed Houle received notice to prepare his unit for possible deployment. Originally scheduled for a Thanksgiving Day movement, plans changed and called for the deployment of the 10th within 72 hours of the outbreak of hostilities, should that happen.\n\nAs the final days of autumn passed and winter began, plans again changed. Word came that the 10th TFS would deploy on 15 January 1991, to fill out the combat strength of the fighter wing at Al Dhafra Air Base, United Arab Emirates. United States Central Command readjusted this date twice, finally establishing a deployment date of 1 January 1991. Meanwhile, crews continued to train and make other preparations. The 313th TFS selected six F-16Cs and eight pilots as potential replacements for lost jets and crews.\n\nThirty F-16Cs left Hahn AB, for Zaragoza AB 29 December 1990. Six served as airborne spares to replace any of the original 24 that might not complete the trip to Al Dhafra. While hundreds of personnel at Zaragoza AB celebrated and welcomed the new year, thirty pilots of the 50th TFW fired their afterburners, drowning the sounds of celebration, and lifted into the darkness bound for the Middle East and the near certainty of combat. When they arrived, aircrews learned they would not employ the low-level procedures they had practiced for use in Central Europe. Instead of low-level ingress and 10- to 30-degree dive angles, they would deliver their payloads from nearly 20,000 feet with ingress angles near 60 degrees. As training progressed, crews from the 10th TFS began sitting alert with crews of the 17th and 33d TFSs, hoping that they might be the first to strike if war erupted.\n\n15 January 1991, passed with Al Dhafra's crews and much of the coalition forces watching events unfold on cable television news. International news broadcasts, beamed via satellite, told of Iraq's refusal to withdraw and the resulting discussions on how the U.N. coalition would proceed. 16 January 1991 was much the same.\n\nThen, with a click of the second hand, Desert Shield became Desert Storm. At 4 a.m. local time 17 January, the first 40-plane strike package left Al Dhafra for targets in Iraq. The 10th TFS flew its first combat sorties of the war later that afternoon, led by squadron commander Lt. Col. Edward Houle. The assigned target for the eight-ship element of the 10th TFS was Al Taqaddum Airfield, near Baghdad—a round-trip of more than 1,400 miles and an eight-hour mission for crews accustomed to training flights of only one to three hours. For nearly six weeks, 10th TFS crews attacked Iraqi airfields, communication centers and military command centers. What few Iraqi fighters did fly were either shot down or chased across the Iraq-Iran border.\n\nAfter initial attacks against static targets, the 10th TFS crews received new orders. Iraq had begun using Soviet SS-1 Scud missiles in retaliation against the coalition's offensive air strikes, targeting both coalition forces and Israeli civilian population centers. In response, U.S. Central Command ordered search-and-destroy missions against Iraqi mobile and fixed SCUD launchers. Attacking those targets put 10th TFS pilots at greater risk. A good kill required locating and identifying the SCUD's associated radar once it was activated for launch, and the launchers were heavily defended. The squadron's first SCUD patrol mission began 19 January, only three days into Desert Storm.\n\nThe mission changed again 23 January. With most of the strategic targets eliminated, the 10th TFS received orders to concentrate on Iraq's Republican Guard units occupying Kuwait and Iraq's southern region. For the Al Dhafra-based crews, this meant bombing any military targets on the road and destroying any pontoon bridges being constructed across the Tigris River. In addition, the wing's crews dropped leaflet bombs over Iraqi positions and civilian centers. For the next month, emphasis centered on counter-SCUD operations and preparing the battlefield for the eventual ground war.\n\nWhen the ground war began 25 February, crews began flying combat air patrols, protecting and supporting coalition ground forces. This mission, however, lasted only three days. On the morning of 28 February, the offensive ceased to allow Iraqi units to withdraw. After a brief interlude, crews returned to combat air patrols to enforce ceasefire accords that prohibited Iraqi aircraft from operating within defined areas. This provision of the ceasefire sought to protect coalition ground forces, U.N. personnel who would monitor Iraq's compliance with Security Council resolutions and civilian populations.\n\nWith the return of deployed elements from Saudi Arabia in the summer of 1991, the 50th Tactical Fighter Wing was gradually inactivated during the balance of the year. With the reuniting of East and West Germany in October 1990, the Cold War threat of an invasion by the Soviet Union no longer was an issue. The United States was left with a huge excess capacity of expensive airfields in Europe. The 50th had performed its mission successfully in Western Europe and it was now time to end its mission.\n\nAs a result, the 50th TFW was inactivated in 1991 after 35 years at Hahn Air Base. The 496th TFS was inactivated on 15 May; The 313th TFS on 1 July, and the 10th TFS on 30 September. The 50th Tactical Fighter Wing was inactivated on 30 September 1991.\n\nAs part of the general reorganization of the Air Force in the post–Cold War era, The 50th TFW was reassigned to Air Force Space Command, which reactivated the wing as the 50th Space Wing on 30 January 1992, at Falcon Air Force Base east of Colorado Springs, Colorado. The 50th was reactivated as part of the USAF Heritage Program, in which notable historic wings remained on active duty, replacing younger ones. The 50th Space Wing assumed control of the personnel and assets of the 2d Space Wing, which was immediately inactivated.\n\nAt the same time, the command activated the 50th Operations Group, the redesignated World War II and early Cold War-era 50th Fighter Group, and assigned it to the 50th Space Wing as part of the post Cold War USAF Objective organization plan. AFSPC also activated the 50th Maintenance and Supply Group and the 50th Combat Support Group under new names, creating a wing organization that closely resembled that of the 1950s.\n\nSquadrons assigned to the 50th concurrent with its activation included a mixture of past units and those previously assigned to the 2d Space Wing, which the 50th SW replaced. The command activated the 50th Mission Support, Civil Engineering, Security Police, Communications, Airdrome, Air Service, Depot Repair and Depot Supply Squadrons with new designations. Transferred from the 2nd Space Wing were the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th Satellite Control Squadrons, renamed Space Operations Squadrons. The headquarters of the 2nd Satellite Tracking Group became Headquarters 750th Space Group and transferred to 50th SW. The 50th SW also assumed responsibility for a number of detachments operating around the world.\n\nThe 50th SW assumed command-and-control responsibilities for several existing satellite constellations that provided a variety of critical information to the Air Force, Department of Defense and other users. Additionally, the 50th SW assumed responsibility for the Air Force Satellite Control Network, which allowed satellite controllers to fly satellites under their command.\n\nContinuing activity resulting from the 1995 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) report resulted in the inactivation of the 750th Space Group and the 5th Space Operations Squadron at Onizuka Air Force Station, California, in 1999 and 2000 respectively. The inactivation of other agencies and units at Onizuka AFS left 21st SOPS as the installation's host, and the 21st SOPS commander assumed installation commander responsibilities.\n\nThe 50th Space Wing supports allied operations in Southwest Asia with satellite communications, GPS enhancements and deployed personnel. By 2005, the 50th SW averaged 80 Airmen per month deployed to forward operating bases in Afghanistan supporting the Global War on Terrorism.\n\nDuring Operation Iraqi Freedom 2d SOPS crews developed new techniques for enhancing GPS accuracy over the Iraqi theater of operations between 20 March and 10 April. The 1st SOPS set a record during this period, placing a GPS satellite in orbit and completing all early on-orbit checkout activities in only 11 days providing Defense Support Program and GPS support. 3rd and 4th SOPS crews maximized satellite communications coverage of the theater. The 3rd SOPS' Defense Satellite Communications System Block III satellites provided 80 percent of in-theater bandwidth. Meanwhile, 4th SOPS dedicated 85 percent of Milstar communications capability to the war effort.\n\nThe 50th Network Operations Group (previously the 50th Communications Group) supported all of the wing's satellite command-and-control activities through the Air Force Satellite Control Network scheduling nodes, managed by 22nd SOPS. Personnel at the wing's remote tracking stations, including 21st SOPS at Onizuka AFS and 23rd SOPS at New Boston AFS, N.H., logged more than 12,312 satellite contacts while assisting with other satellite operations and three satellite launches.\n\nThe 50th SW also underwent organizational changes in the first years of the new century. To correct inefficiencies and realign organizations along mission lines, Air Force Space Command renamed the 50th CG as 50th NOG and reassigned 21st, 22nd and 23rd SOPS to that organization. Functions of the 850th Space Communications Squadron merged with those of 50th SCS, and the 850th SCS inactivated in January 2006.\n\nOn 20 December 2019, the 50th Space Wing, along with the rest of Air Force Space Command, was transferred to the United States Space Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044159", "title": "Josefa Vosanibola", "text": "Josefa Vosanibola\n\nJosefa Bole Vosanibola is a Fijian politician, who served as Minister for Home Affairs from 16 December 2004, when he was appointed by Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase to succeed Joketani Cokanasiga, to 5 December 2006, when his government was deposed in a military coup . Prior to his appointment as Home Affairs Minister, he had served as Minister for Information, and before that as Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation, following his election to represent the Tailevu North Ovalau Open Constituency, as a candidate of the \"Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua\" (SDL), in the parliamentary election of 2001.\n\nVosanibola, a devout and outspoken Christian who strongly defended the influence of the church in Fijian society, played a role in the foundation of the Christian Democratic Alliance (VLV) in 1998, and unsuccessfully contested the Tailevu North Ovalau Open Constituency for that party in the election of 1999. In the political realignment that followed the 2000 coup, the VLV splintered and Vosanibola joined the SDL.\n\nOn 12 August 2005, Vosanibola backed calls for sovereignty over Fiji to be returned to the chiefs. It was the chiefs who ceded sovereignty to the British monarchy in 1874, he said, and it should have been returned to them when Fiji became independent in 1970. The failure to do so was the cause of Fiji's post-independence history of instability, he maintained. \"\"Fijians understand that unless their sovereignty is reinstated their status is subject to the maneuvering of politicking,\"\" he said.\n\nOn 22 November 2005, Vosanibola strongly criticized Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry for his attacks on the Unity Bill. He said that the government was following parliamentary procedures, and that Chaudhry's demands for it to be withdrawn before it had been tabled were both culturally insensitive and \"premature.\" \"\"The calls by the Opposition Leader to toss the bill out, before the sectoral committee's report on public submissions are tabled in the House, is uncalled for and premature, to say the least,\"\" Vosanibola declared. He went on to say that the government welcomed \"constructive criticism\" and believed in the need to respect other cultures and beliefs. \"\"Peace, reconciliation and unity are sentiments meant not only for the person next door but for all people,\"\" he opined.\n\nSeeking renomination from the SDL for the parliamentary election due on 6–13 May 2006, Vosanibola faced a challenge from Eminoni Ranacou, a former agriculture officer. The SDL campaign director, Jale Baba, intervened to ensure that Vosanibola was renominated, over the objections of the local party hierarchy, \"Fiji Village\" reported on 12 April. He went on to retain his seat by a large majority, and kept his Cabinet post in the new government that was formed subsequently.\n"}
{"id": "2044162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044162", "title": "North York General Hospital", "text": "North York General Hospital\n\nNorth York General Hospital (NYGH) is a teaching hospital in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Primarily serving the North York district, as well as southern York Region, it offers acute care, ambulatory and long-term services at multiple sites. It is one of Canada's leading community academic hospitals and is affiliated with the University of Toronto. NYGH is one of the three constituent hospitals of the Peters-Boyd Academy of the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine.\n\nNorth York General Hospital at Leslie Street and Sheppard Avenue was opened in 1968. The four founding partners were: Friends of North York General (later to become the North York General Hospital Foundation); the Imperial Order Daughters of the Empire (IODE), a Canadian women's charitable organization; the Missionary Health Institute; and Volunteer Services. In 1960, a group of local citizens established the North Metropolitan Hospital Association to explore building a hospital to serve the growing area of North York. Under the leadership of Colonel Clifford Sifton, plans were made and funds raised for a 70-bed community hospital on the corner of Leslie and Sheppard. By November 1962, land on the Leslie site was obtained. Some 3,000 volunteers collected $3.2 million of the $8.6 million cost of the new hospital. On March 15, 1968, Premier John Robarts officially dedicated North York General Hospital.\n\nThe hospital underwent a major expansion that opened in 2003.\n\nOn 1 April 2003 a nurse was infected with SARS. Dr. Donald Low recalls poring over patient charts throughout the Victoria Day weekend, held that year on 19 May, when he hypothesized that a disease that caused the emergency that the province had declared finished a few days earlier was actually still spreading among health-care workers and hospital patients. Low resumed containment efforts and it took a city-wide effort to beat the outbreak completely. On July 2, the WHO removed Toronto from the list of affected cities. In Canada, health-care workers made up 43 per cent of SARS cases.\n\nNorth York General encompassed satellite sites, such as Branson Ambulatory Care Centre and the Seniors' Health Centre and Reactivation Care Centre. On March 1, 2017, North York General Hospital announced the hospital would not be renewing its lease at the Branson Ambulatory Care Centre in 2019 and would begin to transition services from that site. On December 10, 2017, the Reactivation Care Centre: A Central LHIN Hospitals Collaborative opened at 2111 Finch Avenue West. In May 2018, the hospital announced two new locations would replace the Branson Ambulatory Care Centre. \n\nIn 2019, North York General Hospital was ranked the second best hospital in Canada and one of the top 100 hospitals world by Newsweek.\n\nThe General site is located at Leslie Street and Sheppard Avenue in north central Toronto. It offers services including inpatient acute care services and a 24-hour full service emergency. The Charlotte & Lewis Steinberg Emergency at the General site is a full-service emergency. The hospital emergency department had 114,384 visits in 2017–18.\n\nThe Cancer Program provides treatment for many types of cancers, including breast, colon, prostate, gynecological and urinary.\nOther services in the hospital include family and community medicine, genetics testing, maternal and pediatric care, diagnostic imaging, geriatric care, mental health, surgeries\n\nThe Branson Ambulatory Care Centre is located at Bathurst Street and Finch Avenue West. It opened in 1957 as the North York Branson Hospital by the Seventh-day Adventist Church. It was named for Mr. William Henry Branson, an Adventist missionary and President of the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists. In 1997 it became part of North York General Hospital (as NYGH-Branson Division) after the final report by the Health Services Retructuring Commission. On March 1, 2017, North York General Hospital announced the hospital would not be renewing its lease at the Branson Ambulatory Care Centre in 2019 and would begin to transition services from that site. In May 2018, the hospital announced two new locations would replace the Branson Ambulatory Care Centre.\n\nThe Seniors' Health Centre opened in 1985 and is located at 2 Buchan Court (Leslie and Sheppard). It houses both a long-term care home with 192 beds and Specialized Geriatric Services. These services are aimed at seniors with medical or mental health problems that threaten their independence or the ability to live at home. Along with the day hospital, the Seniors' Health Centre offers many elder care clinics.\n\nThe Reactivation Care Centre is a collaborative and innovative approach designed to help patients who no longer need acute care services, but often find themselves waiting for an alternate care facility, such as convalescent and long-term care. NYGH has a patient unit in the centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044163", "title": "Erik Lakomaa", "text": "Erik Lakomaa\n\nErik Martin Lakomaa (born 14 April 1977 in Linköping) is a Swedish scholar and political consultant known for his role as strategist for the no-campaign in the 2003 Swedish referendum on the euro. He has also advised a number of centre-right politicians, most notably Lars Wohlin and Nils Lundgren. In 2005 he was awarded the \"Rising Star Award\" as the best young political consultant outside the United States.\n\nLakomaa begun his career as editorial writer for the conservative news paper Svenska Dagbladet and he also edited the libertarian magazine Nyliberalen. In 2004 he founded the first political consultancy in Sweden. In March 2009 the newspaper Dagens Nyheter revealed that he was one of the organizers of the anti-FRA mass surveillance law grassroots campaign the year before.\n\nLakomaa is a graduate from Stockholm University, (B A Political Science), Stockholm School of Economics, (M.Sc. Business & Economics), a Ph D from Stockholm School of Economics (Economic History), where he also is an affiliated assistant professor at the Department of Marketing and Strategy and the director of the Institute for Economic and Business History Research. His research is focused on how organizations, private and public, handle external (technological, institutional, market driven) change. He has published on school reforms, technological change and internationalization in the media industry, and municipal tax policy. Lakomaa has also written on the history of the Swedish Psychological Defense Agency and the cooperation between the Government and civilian advertising agencies during the cold war. In addition to his research on school reforms he has been adviser to a number of local governments on school policy and expert in two government studies on the School System.\n\nHe is the grandson of Finnish aircraft designer Aarne Lakomaa.\n"}
{"id": "2044177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044177", "title": "New Orleans massacre of 1866", "text": "New Orleans massacre of 1866\n\nThe New Orleans Massacre of 1866 occurred on July 30, during a violent conflict as white Democrats, including police and firemen, attacked Republicans, most of them black, parading outside the Mechanics Institute in New Orleans. It was the site of a reconvened Louisiana Constitutional Convention. The Republicans in Louisiana had called for the Convention, as they were angered by the legislature's enactment of the Black Codes and its refusal to give black men the vote. Democrats considered the reconvened convention to be illegal and were suspicious of Republican attempts to increase their political power in the state. The massacre \"stemmed from deeply rooted political, social, and economic causes,\" and took place in part because of the battle \"between two opposing factions for power and office.\" There were a total of 150 black casualties, including 44 killed. In addition, three white Republicans were killed, as was one white protester.\n\nDuring much of the American Civil War, New Orleans had been occupied and under martial law imposed by the Union. On May 12, 1866, Mayor John T. Monroe was reinstated as acting mayor, the position he held before the war. Judge R. K. Howell was elected as chairman of the convention, with the goal of increasing participation by voters likely to vote Republican.\n\nThe massacre expressed conflicts deeply rooted in the social structure of Louisiana. It was a continuation of the war: more than half of the whites were Confederate veterans and nearly half of the blacks were veterans of the Union army. The national reaction of outrage at the Memphis riots of 1866 and this riot nearly three months later led to Republicans gaining a majority in the United States House of Representatives and the Senate in the 1866 election. The riots catalyzed support for the Fourteenth Amendment, extending suffrage and full citizenship to freedmen, and the Reconstruction Act, to establish military districts for the national government to oversee areas of the South and work to change their social arrangements.\n\nThe State Constitutional Convention of 1864 authorized greater civil freedoms to blacks within Louisiana but did not provide for voting rights for any people of color. Free people of color, who were mixed-race, had been an important part of New Orleans for more than a century and were established as a separate class in the colonial period, before United States annexation of the territory in 1803. Many were educated and owned property and were seeking the vote. In addition, Republicans had the goals of extending the suffrage to freedmen and eliminating the Black Codes passed by the legislature. They reconvened the convention, and succeeded in incorporating these goals.\n\nDemocrats considered the reconvened convention illegal, as they said that the voters (although then limited to whites only) had accepted the constitution. In addition, they argued legal technicalities: the elected chairman Howell had left the original convention before its conclusion and was, therefore, was not considered a member, the constitution was accepted by the people, and the radicals, only 25 of whom were present at the convention of 1864, did not make up a majority of the original convention.\n\nOn July 27, the black supporters of the convention, including approximately 200 black war veterans, met at the steps of the Mechanics Institute. They were stirred by speeches of abolitionist activists, most notably Anthony Paul Dostie and former Governor of Louisiana Michael Hahn. The men proposed a parade to the Mechanics Institute on the day of the convention to show their support.\n\nThe convention met at noon on July 30, but a lack of a quorum caused postponement to 1:30. When the convention members left the building, they were met by the black marchers with their marching band. On the corner of Common and Dryades streets, across from the Mechanics Institute, a group of armed whites awaited the black marchers. This group was composed of Democrats who opposed abolition; most were ex-Confederates who wanted to disrupt the convention and the threat of the increasing political and economic power of blacks in the state.\n\nIt is not known which group fired first, but within minutes, there was a battle in the streets. The black marchers were unprepared and many were unarmed; they rapidly dispersed, with many seeking refuge within the Mechanics Institute. The white mob brutally attacked blacks on the street and some entered the building:\n\nFederal troops responded to suppress the riot and jailed many of the white insurgents. The governor declared the city under martial law until August 3.\n\nApproximately 50 people were killed, including Victor Lacroix.\n\nThe national reaction to the New Orleans riot, and to the earlier Memphis riots of 1866, was one of heightened concern about the current Reconstruction strategy and desire for a change of leadership. In the 1866 House of Representatives and Senate elections, the Republicans won in a landslide, gaining 77% of the seats in Congress.\n\nEarly in 1867, the First Reconstruction Act was passed – over the President's veto – to provide for more federal control in the South. Military districts were created to govern the region until violence could be suppressed and a more democratic political system established. Under the act, Louisiana was assigned to the Fifth Military District. Ex-Confederates, mostly white Democrats, were temporarily disenfranchised, and the right of suffrage was to be enforced for free people of color. Politicians associated with the riot were dismissed from office.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044191", "title": "Lanuza, Surigao del Sur", "text": "Lanuza, Surigao del Sur\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLanuza is politically subdivided into 13 barangays. In 1956, the sitio of Antao was converted into a barrio.\nOn December 10, 1918, Executive Order No. 52 of American Governor General Francis Burton Harrison that was signed by Charles Yeater, divided Cantilan into three parts – Carrascal, present-day Cantilan and Lanuza. Now it is part of the settlement area called Carcanmadcarlan.\n\nLanuza belongs to the economic zone of Cantilan, one of the major economic zones of Surigao del Sur. Business opportunity is mainly dependent on agriculture, fishing, and eco-tourism. Lanuza was awarded a \"clean and green\" municipality title of the Caraga Region.\n\nFor telecommunication there are six cell sites operated by Smart Communications and Globe Telecom that cover the whole area of CarCanMadCarLan (Carrascal, Cantilan, Madrid, Carmen and Lanuza).\n\nTwo cable TV providers operate in Cantilan, Carrascal and Madrid. Cantilan has broadband internet with a number of internet cafes. The municipal building in Lanuza has a satellite connection, soon this will be extended to the school and may be offered as an internet cafe in the evenings.\n\nLanuza is noted as a surfing destination with its various surfing areas from Reef Breaks to Beach Breaks. Surfing season is between the months of November to March where big waves are in constant motion.\n\nLanuza's climate is characterized by rainfall that is distributed throughout the year. The period from April to August has the lowest level of rainfall while heavier rains occur from November to February and has 7% exposure to tropical cyclone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044220", "title": "Fujisankei Communications International", "text": "Fujisankei Communications International\n\nFujisankei Communications International, Inc. (FCI) is the American arm of the Fujisankei Communications Group, a Japanese media conglomerate of television and radio channels, magazine, newspaper, record and video game companies. The Fujisankei Communications Group regroups more than 90 companies, like Fuji TV in Japan, among others. Founded in 1986 in New York City and owned by Fuji Media Holdings, FCI makes productions from the Fujisankei Communications Group available to the United States and the rest of the western world.\n\nFCI was involved with videogame publishing as well, being one of the early third-party licensees for Nintendo's NES system. Originally, FCI merely published in North America translations of video games that were released in Japan mainly by Pony Canyon, another company from the Fujisankei Communications Group. FCI was well-known at this time for the many RPG and Adventure games they released for the NES as conversions from PC games, such as the \"Advanced Dungeons & Dragons\" and \"Ultima\" series. Later, FCI began contracting outside development houses to create original games; examples include \"WCW Super Brawl Wrestling\" and \"\", both developed by Beam Software of Australia; \"\", developed by Iguana Entertainment; and \"Metal Morph\" and the \"Runes of Virtue\" titles in the \"Ultima\" series, both developed by Origin Systems. FCI had a long partnership with Origin, starting when Pony Canyon was hired to translate the Ultima PC games for Japan, strengthening through the conversion of \"Ultima III\" through \"Ultima VII\" for the NES and SNES by Pony Canyon/FCI, and continuing through the end of FCI's videogame department; a conversion of Origin's PC game \"Wing Commander II\" to the SNES was in development for release by FCI when they closed their video games division. In the mid-1990s, FCI abandoned video game distribution to concentrate on television operations. \n\nFCI has contracts with television stations in New York City, Hawaii and California to air programming segments. Since 1999, Fuji TV, through FCI, has forbidden foreign TV stations from subtitling its dramas, a practice that is criticized and has alienated some fans of the genre.\n\nThe company continues to be based in Manhattan, but has since moved from its original offices to its current location around 1988–1989. FCI also has secondary offices in the United States, Europe and Egypt. \n\n\n\nCurse of the Azure Bonds was abandoned due to difficulties during development. the remaining games were in development \n"}
{"id": "2044235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044235", "title": "Duluth and Iron Range Railroad", "text": "Duluth and Iron Range Railroad\n\nThe Duluth and Iron Range Railroad was founded in 1874.\n\nIn 1884, it ran the first main line train between Two Harbors and Soudan, Minnesota, a total distance of 68 miles. In July 1938, the railway merged with the Duluth, Missabe and Northern Railway to form the Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range Railway.\n"}
{"id": "2044242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044242", "title": "John Dixon Long", "text": "John Dixon Long\n\nJohn Dixon Long (September 26, 1817 – 1894) was a minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church and a leading U.S. abolitionist. His 1857 book, \"Pictures of Slavery in Church and State\", was influential in abolitionist circles.\n\nLong was born in New Town, Maryland to John W. Long, a slaveholder and former sea-captain. He credited his mother Sally Laws Henderson Long with inspiring his early antislavery sentiments. A devout member of the Methodist Episcopal Church, she died in 1828. Long's father died in 1834, leaving Long to support two sisters and brother.\n\nLong was received into the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1835 and became a minister in 1839. Health problems forced him to give up his ministerial post in 1848.\n\nIn October 1856 Long moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where he was dismayed by the level of support for slavery, although it was not legal in the commonwealth. This inspired Long to write a treatise on his experience of and views on slavery as it existed in his native state. \"Pictures of Slavery in Church and State; Including Personal Reminiscences, Biographical Sketches, Anecdotes, Etc. Etc. With an Appendix, Containing the Views of John Wesley and Richard Watson on Slavery\" was published for $1 in 1857 and was considered a major contribution to the case against slavery by Frederick Douglass and others.\n\nIn 1857, Rev. Thomas Quigly, a Methodist minister from Pennsylvania but at the time serving in St. Michaels, Maryland, where Long had served in 1853 through 1855, (and which was the likely context of some of Long's descriptions and examples of slavery), brought charges against Long in the Philadelphia Methodist Episcopal Conference. Long was \"tried\" at the 1858 Conference Session. Debate about Methodist complacency on the issue of slavery at this conference, however, was skillfully avoided when proposals were made from the floor that the charges against Long be dropped. However, Bonner documents in her article in the Conference journal cited here that Long's book was deemed THE book by the secular press, which did provide debate and commentary on the issue, breaking silence on what was now openly discussed as hypocrisy and cowardice of the Methodist religious hierarchy, given their founders' adamant prescriptions against slavery in the early doctrines of the Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nJohn Dixon Long died in Philadelphia in 1894.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044249", "title": "Scaur Water", "text": "Scaur Water\n\nScaur Water is a river which rises near Polskeoch in the Scaur hills in the region of Dumfries and Galloway, Scotland.\n\nIt flows from its source near Sanquhar in the Southern Uplands and joins the River Nith two miles southwest of Thornhill. The total length is . During its course it descends from 500m to 55m altitude, and forms part of the boundary between Tynron and Keir Parishes.\n\nThe river valley, the Scaur Glen, displays several sculptures by Andy Goldsworthy and Bronze Age forts, and is lined for much of its length with birch and oak forest.\n\nThe river is renowned for trout fishing and canoeing, especially at the Glenmarlin Falls near Penpont. A local legend tells of the ghosts of a horse and rider who drowned in a deep pool, known colloquially as the Black Hole, at the bottom of the falls.\n"}
{"id": "2044253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044253", "title": "Big Creek, California", "text": "Big Creek, California\n\nBig Creek (Big Creek Flats in the 1870s; Manzanita Park in 1902; until 1926, Cascada) is a small census-designated place in Fresno County, California, located in the Sierra Nevada on the north bank of Big Creek. It lies at an elevation of above sea level. Its population is 175. The ZIP code is 93605, and the community is inside area code 559.\n\nBig Creek was built at the site of the first dam and power plant of Southern California Edison's Big Creek Hydroelectric Project, one of the most extensive in the world. Other than the private helipad owned by Southern California Edison, the only way in or out of the town is Big Creek Road, off of State Route 168. The dam has a walkway across it to the south bank, but access is limited to employees of SCE and those residents who have been given a key. Its major industries are electric power generation and tourism. There is camping and water recreation in the summer and snow skiing in the winter. Huntington Lake is to the northeast and Shaver Lake is to the south. China Peak is only about away. Though Big Creek's only school is an elementary, it teaches kindergarten through 8th grade.\n\nThe penstock pipes for the original two units at Big Creek Power Houses One and Two, built 1912-13, were purchased from the Krupp Works in Germany because at that time that manufacturer produced steel pipes of the tensile strength needed to contain the very high water pressures in the pipes in the drop down to Power House One. These pipes were purchased twenty one years before the Nazi Party came to power in Germany, and before the NSDAP party even existed. There is visual evidence of swastikas (once used as a Hindu symbol of good luck) on Big Creek penstock pipe headers at Powerhouse 1 and 2. All post-World War One penstock pipes were manufactured in the United States.\n\nThe first post office opened at Big Creek in 1912.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Big Creek had a population of 175. The population density was 380.4 people per square mile (146.9/km²). The racial makeup of Big Creek was 158 (90.3%) White, 1 (0.6%) African American, 1 (0.6%) Native American, 5 (2.9%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 3 (1.7%) from other races, and 7 (4.0%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 27 persons (15.4%).\n\nThe Census reported that 175 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 63 households, out of which 26 (41.3%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 43 (68.3%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 1 (1.6%) had a female householder with no husband present, 3 (4.8%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 4 (6.3%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 2 (3.2%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 12 households (19.0%) were made up of individuals and 2 (3.2%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.78. There were 47 families (74.6% of all households); the average family size was 3.21.\n\nThe population was spread out with 60 people (34.3%) under the age of 18, 4 people (2.3%) aged 18 to 24, 37 people (21.1%) aged 25 to 44, 58 people (33.1%) aged 45 to 64, and 16 people (9.1%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37.6 years. For every 100 females, there were 86.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 109.1 males.\n\nThere were 117 housing units at an average density of 254.3 per square mile (98.2/km²), of which 63 were occupied, of which 22 (34.9%) were owner-occupied, and 41 (65.1%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 0%; the rental vacancy rate was 31.1%. 47 people (26.9% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 128 people (73.1%) lived in rental housing units.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044261", "title": "Gabe Paul", "text": "Gabe Paul\n\nGabriel Howard Paul (January 4, 1910 – April 26, 1998) was an American executive in Major League Baseball who, between 1951 and 1984, served as general manager of the Cincinnati Reds, Houston Colt .45s, Cleveland Indians and New York Yankees. He also was president and part-owner of the Indians and president and limited partner of the Yankees.\n\nBorn in Rochester, New York, and of Jewish descent, Paul got his start in the game at age ten as a batboy for the Rochester Tribe of the AA International League and later attended Monroe High School. Eventually, he worked for Warren Giles, who became business manager of the renamed Rochester Red Wings when the St. Louis Cardinals purchased the team in 1928. When Giles took over the front office of the Cincinnati Reds in 1937, Paul became the Reds’ traveling secretary.\n\nAfter returning from military service during World War II, Paul was promoted to vice president.\n\nIn October 1951, when Giles was elected president of the National League, Paul took his old mentor's job as Cincinnati general manager. The Reds were then a losing outfit with a weak farm system. Paul rebuilt the minor league department and began to scout and sign African-American and Latin American players. Cincinnati broke the baseball color line on April 17, 1954, when Nino Escalera and Chuck Harmon made their debuts. After the Cardinals broke the color line earlier that same day, Cincinnati became the seventh of the eight National League clubs to integrate.\n\nIn at age 20, Frank Robinson, the club's first black superstar, had the best rookie season in NL history, hitting 38 home runs, scoring a league-leading 122 runs, and compiling an OPS of .936. In , Cincinnati unveiled another star African-American player, rookie outfielder Vada Pinson, who would enjoy a long MLB career and, with Robinson, help lead the 1961 Reds to the National League pennant. Paul also signed a working agreement with the Havana Sugar Kings of the Triple-A International League, giving the team access to top Cuban talent such as shortstop Leo Cárdenas and future \"Big Red Machine\" icon Tony Pérez. In addition, the Reds produced Cuban stars such as outfielder Tony González, second baseman Cookie Rojas, and pitcher Mike Cuellar—among many others—who made their mark with other MLB clubs.\n\nThe Cincinnati team of the mid-1950s—then temporarily nicknamed the \"Redlegs\" because of the anti-communism of the time—captured the country's imagination as a team of sluggers. With a lineup that included Robinson, Ted Kluszewski, Gus Bell, Wally Post and Ed Bailey, the 1956 Redlegs hit 221 home runs, tying the major-league team record then in place. They also won 91 games to finish third, only two games behind the pennant-winning Brooklyn Dodgers. Paul was named Executive of the Year by \"The Sporting News\". The following year, Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick had to intervene when Cincinnati fans \"stuffed\" the ballot box and elected a virtually all-Redleg starting lineup to the National League All-Star team.\n\nThe Reds failed to improve upon their 1956 mark during Paul's tenure, however, and after a disappointing 1960 season, Paul resigned to become the first general manager of the expansion Houston Colt .45s.\n\nPaul brought to Houston fellow Cincinnati executives Tal Smith, Bill Giles and Paul Florence and began to lay the foundation for the team's 1962 debut, but he did not stay long. He clashed with majority owner Roy Hofheinz and reportedly had a standing offer from the Cleveland Indians to take over their front office, following the January 1961 resignation of Frank Lane. So in April 1961, Paul returned to Ohio to assume command of the Indians, leaving the Colt .45s almost 12 months before the team ever played an official game.\n\nThe Indians of the early 1960s were a middle-echelon team in the American League that had contended for a pennant only twice ( and ) since its 1954 AL title. It had lost its most popular gate attraction, slugger Rocky Colavito, in a Lane-engineered trade just before the season and the young players summoned from the team's farm system failed to capture the city's imagination. On November 26, 1962, Paul became a part-owner, as well as president, treasurer and general manager, but the Indians continued to tread water in the standings and struggled badly at the gate. On multiple occasions, the Indians were rumored to be headed elsewhere. In 1964, the club's board of directors authorized Paul to investigate transferring the Indians to one of three cities: Oakland, Dallas or Seattle. But a new stadium lease with the city of Cleveland staved off the move. Two years later, Paul sold the team to frozen food magnate Vernon Stouffer, who retained Paul as general manager.\n\nOn the field, Paul brought to Cleveland pitching stars Sam McDowell and Luis Tiant and, in 1965, reacquired Colavito in a bid to win more games, and more fans. But, after an encouraging 1968 season, the Indians plummeted in the standings. For a while, between 1969 and 1971, Paul gave up his general manager title to field manager Alvin Dark in an effort to change the club's fortunes.\n\nFinally, in 1973, Paul sold his interest in the Indians and became part of George Steinbrenner's Cleveland-based syndicate that purchased the Yankees from CBS. Installed as club president that year after the April departure of minority owner E. Michael Burke and the year-end election of GM/interim president Lee MacPhail to the presidency of the American League, Paul helped Steinbrenner rebuild the once-proud Yankees into a champion. In , Paul was selected MLB Executive of the Year for the second time in his career, as the Yankees finished second in the American League East Division and improved by nine games from the edition. Then, the Bombers won their first American League pennant in 12 years in 1976 and first world championship since 1962 the following year.\n\nThe key to re-building the Yankees was a series of trades that Paul pulled off. Paul raised some eyebrows among Cleveland fans because less than two months before he became a part of the group purchasing the Yankees and assumed the role of President for the Yankees, he dealt All-Star third baseman Graig Nettles and catcher Gerry Moses to the New York Yankees for a group of journeyman players. Then he acquired in succession: Chris Chambliss, Dick Tidrow and Oscar Gamble from his former team, the Indians; Lou Piniella from the Royals; Mickey Rivers and Ed Figueroa from the Angels; Willie Randolph, Ken Brett and Dock Ellis from the Pirates; and Bucky Dent from the White Sox. He also signed Catfish Hunter and Reggie Jackson as free agents.\n\nPaul, whose nickname was the \"Smiling Cobra\" for his expertise in trades, had his enemies, among them influential Cleveland radio host Pete Franklin, who said of Paul, \"Gabe was a master at working the room, of getting to know everybody and knowing where all the bodies are. The thing about Gabe was that while he did work for an owner, he always found a way to get a piece of the team himself. Then it became damn near impossible to fire him because he was part-owner. Gabe's greatest gift was the ability to take care of Gabe.\" The Yankees were able to beat the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1977 World Series, Paul's only World Series victory as a general manager.\n\nThe 1977 season, however, was Paul's last in the Bronx.\n\nAfter Al Rosen was brought into the Bronx as a senior executive in fall 1977—crowding Paul's authority much as Paul's presence did Mike Burke—Paul returned to Cleveland as president of the Indians in 1978. But he could never rouse the Tribe from their doldrums.\n\nPaul retired in 1984 after almost 60 years in the game. He died at the age of 88 in Tampa, Florida. His son Gabe Jr. was also a baseball executive, serving the Milwaukee Brewers in a number of capacities, including vice president/operations, from 1970–97.\n\nPaul was played by actor Kevin Conway in the 2007 ESPN television mini-series \"The Bronx Is Burning\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2044267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044267", "title": "Stari Grad", "text": "Stari Grad\n\nStari Grad (\"Old Town\") may refer to:\nAbracadabra\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044279", "title": "Kombdi vade", "text": "Kombdi vade\n\nKombdi vade is a dish native to the Konkan region in the Indian state of Maharashtra. The dish consists of a traditional chicken curry (including chicken pieces with bones), \"vade\" (fluffy fried dumplings made of rice flour, and occasionally of wheat and \"Ragi\" flour), onions, lemon juice and \"solkadhi\" (a gravy made from coconut milk). This dish is majorly prepared on \"Gatari\" \"Gauri Ovase\", \"Dev Diwali\" and \"Shimga\" in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Konkan. Generally this dish is available throughout the year especially in the coastal area of Maharashtra including Mumbai.\n"}
{"id": "2044293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044293", "title": "Kaena Point Satellite Tracking Station", "text": "Kaena Point Satellite Tracking Station\n\nThe Kaena Point Satellite Tracking Station is a United States Air Force military installation in Kaena Point on the island of Oahu in Hawaii. It is a remote tracking station of the Air Force Satellite Control Network responsible for tracking satellites in orbit, many of which support the United States Department of Defense, receiving and processing data and in turn, enabling control of satellites by relaying commands from control centers. \n\nThe station originally opened in 1959 to support CORONA, an early reconnaissance satellite program.\n\nDetachment 3, 22d Space Operations Squadron, part of the 50th Space Wing, operates Hawaii Tracking Station on the site. It was constructed in 1959, one of three built that year. The facility is placed near the westernmost point of the island of Oahu, atop a high ridge. The two radomes are locally known as the \"golf balls\", and are a popular landmark for fishing vessels in the surrounding waters.Yokohama Bay state park is at the base of the ridge, with a hiking trail that goes to the point and around to the northern side of the ridge, to Mokuleia Beach. The station roadways provide access to state hiking and hunting trails, as well as a camping site about inland called Peacock Flats by permit only. Permits to enter through the station to hike, hunt, or camp on the surrounding State lands can be obtained from the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources in downtown Honolulu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044294", "title": "Lost film", "text": "Lost film\n\nA lost film is a feature or short film that is no longer known to exist in any studio archives, private collections, or public archives, such as the U.S. Library of Congress.\n\nDuring most of the 20th century, U.S. copyright law required at least one copy of every American film to be deposited at the Library of Congress at the time of copyright registration, but the Librarian of Congress was not required to retain those copies: \"Under the provisions of the act of March 4, 1909, authority is granted for the return to the claimant of copyright of such copyright deposits as are not required by the Library.\" Of American silent films, far more have been lost than have survived, and of American sound films made from 1927 to 1950, perhaps half have been lost.\n\nThe phrase \"lost film\" can also be used in a literal sense for instances where footage of deleted scenes, unedited, and alternative versions of feature films are known to have been created, but can no longer be accounted for. Sometimes, a copy of a lost film is rediscovered. A film that has not been recovered in its entirety is called a partially lost film. For example, the 1922 film \"Sherlock Holmes\" was eventually discovered, but some of the footage is still missing.\n\nMost film studios routinely had a still photographer with a large-format camera working on the set during production, taking pictures for potential publicity use. The high-quality photographic paper prints that resulted — some produced in quantity for display use by theaters, others in smaller numbers for distribution to newspapers and magazines — have preserved imagery from many otherwise lost films. In some cases, such as \"London After Midnight\", the surviving coverage is so extensive that an entire lost film can be reconstructed scene by scene from still photographs. Stills have been used to stand in for missing footage when making new preservation prints of partially lost films, for example the Gloria Swanson picture \"Sadie Thompson\" (1928).\n\nMost lost films are from the silent film and early talkie era, from about 1894 to 1930. Martin Scorsese's Film Foundation estimates that more than 90% of American films made before 1929 are lost, and the Library of Congress estimates that 75% of all silent films are lost forever.\n\nThe largest cause of silent film loss was intentional destruction. Before the era of television (and home video) films were viewed as having little future value when their theatrical runs ended. Similarly, silent films were perceived as worthless after the end of the silent era. Film preservationist Robert A. Harris has said, \"Most of the early films did not survive because of wholesale junking by the studios. There was no thought of ever saving these films. They simply needed vault space and the materials were expensive to house.\" Meanwhile, the studios could earn money by recycling the film for their silver content. Many Technicolor two-color negatives from the 1920s and 1930s were thrown out when studios simply refused to reclaim their films, still being held by Technicolor in its vaults. Some used prints were sold to scrap dealers and ultimately cut up into short segments for use with small, hand-cranked 35 mm movie projectors, which were sold as a toy for showing brief excerpts from Hollywood movies at home.\n\nIn some cases the destruction was proactive. Following a series of trials (which ultimately acquitted him) for the alleged rape and killing of actress Virginia Rappe in 1921, silent film star Roscoe \"Fatty\" Arbuckle's name had become so toxic that studios engaged in a program of determined destruction of films in which he had starred.\n\nMany other early motion pictures are lost because the nitrate film used for nearly all 35 mm negatives and prints made before 1952 is highly flammable. When in very badly deteriorated condition and improperly stored (e.g. in a sun-baked shed), nitrate film can spontaneously combust. Fires have destroyed entire archives of films. For example, a storage vault fire in 1937 destroyed all the original negatives of pre-1935 films made by Fox Pictures. The 1965 MGM vault fire resulted in the loss of hundreds more silent films and early talkies.\n\nNitrate film is chemically unstable and over time can decay into a sticky mass or a powder akin to gunpowder. This process can be very unpredictable: some nitrate film from the 1890s is still in good condition today, while some much later nitrate had to be scrapped as unsalvageable when it was barely 20 years old. Much depends on the environment in which it is stored. Ideal conditions of low temperature, low humidity, and adequate ventilation can preserve nitrate film for centuries, but in practice, the storage conditions were usually far from ideal. When a film on nitrate base is said to have been \"preserved\", this almost always means simply that it has been copied onto safety film or, more recently, digitized; both methods result in some loss of quality.\n\nEastman Kodak introduced a nonflammable 35 mm film stock in spring 1909. However, the plasticizers used to make the film flexible evaporated too quickly, making the film dry and brittle, causing splices to part and perforations to tear. By 1911, the major American film studios were back to using nitrate stock. \"Safety film\" was relegated to sub-35 mm formats such as 16 mm and 8 mm until improvements were made in the late 1940s.\n\nSome pre-1931 sound films made by Warner Bros. and First National have been lost because they used a sound-on-disc system with a separate soundtrack on special phonograph records. If some of a film's soundtrack discs could not be found in the 1950s when 16 mm sound-on-film reduction prints of early \"talkies\" were being made for inclusion in television syndication packages, that film's chances of survival plummeted: many sound-on-disc films have survived only by way of those 16 mm prints.\n\nAs a consequence of this widespread lack of care, the work of many early filmmakers and performers has made its way to the present only in fragmentary form. A high-profile example is the case of Theda Bara; one of the best-known actresses of the early silent era, she made 40 films, but only six are now known to exist. Clara Bow was equally celebrated in her heyday, but 20 of her 57 films are completely lost, and another five are incomplete. Once-popular stage actresses who made the jump to silent films, such as Pauline Frederick and Elsie Ferguson, are now largely forgotten with little left of their film performances; fewer than 10 movies exist from Frederick's work from 1915–28, and Ferguson has just two surviving films: one from 1919 and her only talkie from 1930.\n\nAll of the film performances of the stage actress and Bara rival Valeska Suratt have been lost. William Farnum, a Fox player like Bara and Suratt, was one of the early screen's big Western actors, rivalling the likes of William S. Hart, Tom Mix, and Harry Carey. However, today only three of his Fox films are extant. Others, such as Francis X. Bushman and William Desmond, had numerous film credits, but films made in their heyday are missing due to junking, neglect, or studios becoming defunct. Nevertheless, unlike Suratt and Bara, these men continued working into the sound era and even on television, so their later performances can be viewed.\n\nThere are occasional exceptions. Almost all of the films made by Charlie Chaplin have survived, as well as extensive amounts of unused footage dating back to 1916. The exceptions are \"A Woman of the Sea\" (which he destroyed himself as a tax write-off) and one of his early Keystone films, \"Her Friend the Bandit\" (see \"Unknown Chaplin\"). The filmography of D. W. Griffith is nearly complete, as many of his early Biograph films were deposited by the company in paper print form at the Library of Congress. Many of Griffith's feature-film works of the 1910s and 1920s found their way to the film collection at the Museum of Modern Art in the 1930s, and were preserved under the auspices of curator Iris Barry. Mary Pickford's filmography is nearly complete; her early years were spent with Griffith, and she gained control of her own productions in the late 1910s and early 1920s. She also backtracked to as many of her Zukor-controlled early Famous Players films as were salvageable. Stars such as Chaplin and Douglas Fairbanks enjoyed stupendous popularity, and their films were reissued over and over throughout the silent era, meaning prints of their films were likely to surface decades later. Pickford, Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, and Cecil B. DeMille were early champions of film preservation, although Lloyd lost a good number of his silent works in a vault fire in the early 1940s.\n\nIn March 2019, the National Film Archive of India reported that 31,000 of its film reels had been lost or destroyed.\n\nAn improved 35 mm safety film was introduced in 1949. Since safety film is much more stable than nitrate film, comparatively few films were lost after about 1950. However, color fading of certain color stocks and vinegar syndrome threaten the preservation of films made since about this time.\n\nMost mainstream movies from the 1950s onwards survive today, but several early pornographic films and some B movies are lost. In most cases, these obscure films go unnoticed and unknown, but some films by noted cult directors have been lost, as well:\n\nSome films produced from 1926–31 using the Vitaphone sound-on-disc system, in which the soundtrack is separate from the film, are now considered lost because the soundtrack discs were lost or destroyed, while the picture elements survive. Conversely, and more commonly, some early sound films survive only as sets of soundtrack discs, with the picture elements completely missing (e.g. \"The Man from Blankley's (1930)\", starring John Barrymore) or surviving only in fragmentary form (e.g. \"Gold Diggers of Broadway\" (1929) and \"The Rogue Song\" (1930), two highly popular and profitable early musicals in two-color Technicolor).\n\nMany stereophonic soundtracks from the early to mid-1950s that were either played in interlock on a 35 mm fullcoat magnetic reel or single-strip magnetic film (such as Fox's four-track magnetic, which became the standard of mag stereophonic sound) are now lost. Films such as \"House of Wax\", \"The Caddy\", \"The War of the Worlds\", \"The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T\", and \"From Here to Eternity\" that were originally available with 3-track, magnetic sound are now available only with a monophonic optical soundtrack. The chemistry behind adhering magnetic particles to the tri-acetate film base eventually caused the autocatalytic breakdown of the film (vinegar syndrome). As long as studios had a monaural optical negative that could be printed, studio executives felt no need to preserve the stereophonic versions of the soundtracks.\n\nOccasionally, prints of films considered lost have been rediscovered. An example is the 1910 version of \"Frankenstein\" which was believed lost for decades until the existence of a print (which had been in the hands of an unwitting collector for years) was discovered in the 1970s. A print of \"Richard III\" (1912) was found in 1996 and restored by the American Film Institute. In 2013, an early Mary Pickford film, \"Their First Misunderstanding\", notable for being the first film in which she was credited by name, was found in a New Hampshire barn and donated to Keene State College.\n\n\"Beyond the Rocks\" (1922), with Gloria Swanson and Rudolph Valentino, was considered a lost film for several decades. Swanson lamented the loss of this and other films in her 1980 memoirs, but optimistically concluded: ‘I do not believe these films are gone forever.’ In 2000, a print was found in the Netherlands and restored by the Nederlands Filmmuseum and the Haghefilm Conservation. It turned up among about two thousand rusty film canisters donated by an eccentric Dutch collector, Joop van Liempd, of Haarlem. It was given its first modern screening in 2005, and has since been aired on Turner Classic Movies.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the German film \"Metropolis\" — which had been distributed in many different edits over the years — was restored to as close to the original version as possible, by reinstating edited footage and using computer technology to repair damaged footage. However, at that point, approximately a quarter of the original film footage was considered lost, according to the Kino Video DVD release of the restored film. On July 1, 2008, Berlin film experts announced that a copy of the film had been discovered in the archives of the film museum Museo del Cine in Buenos Aires, Argentina, which contained almost all of the scenes still missing from the 2002 restoration. The film now has been restored very close to its premiere version. The restoration process is featured in the documentary \"Metropolis refundada\".\n\nIn 2010, digital copies of ten early American films were presented to the Library of Congress by the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Library, the first film installment from the Russian state archives to be repatriated.\n\nTelevision material existing on film has sometimes been recovered. The 1951 pilot of \"I Love Lucy\" was long believed lost; but in 1990, the widow of one of the actors, Pepito Pérez (who played Pepito the Clown), found a copy. It has since been shown on television. Sometimes, a film believed lost in its original state has been restored, either through the process of colorization, or other restoration methods. \"\", the original 1964 pilot film for \"\", survived only in a black-and-white print until 1987, when a film archivist found an unmarked (mute) 35 mm reel in a Hollywood film laboratory with the negative trims of the unused scenes.\n\nSimilarly, a number of videotaped television programmes, previously thought lost (see wiping) have been recovered as overseas Kinescope film prints from private collectors and various other sources over the years. For example, nine lost episodes of \"Doctor Who\" were discovered in storage at a television broadcasting station in Nigeria in 2013.\n\nSeveral films that would otherwise be entirely lost survive in the form of stock footage used for later films.\n\nThe Universal Pictures feature film \"The Cat Creeps\" (1930) is a lost film, and its only remaining footage was included in the Universal short film \"Boo!\" (1932). However, UCLA still has a copy of the soundtrack. The James Cagney film \"Winner Take All\" (1932) used scenes from the early talkie \"Queen of the Night Clubs\" (1929) starring Texas Guinan. While \"Queen of the Night Clubs\" was not a lost film in 1932, no prints of the film have survived through the decades, and the footage included in \"Winner Take All\" is all that remains.\n\nActress-turned-gossip columnist Hedda Hopper made her screen debut in the Fox Film \"The Battle of Hearts\" (1916). The star was William Farnum, then at the beginning of his long Fox contract. Twenty-six years later, in 1942, Hopper produced her short series \"Hedda Hopper's Hollywood #2\". In the short, Hopper, Farnum, her son William Hopper, and William's wife Jane Gilbert viewed portions of \"The Battle of Hearts\". These brief portions of that movie survive within the Hopper documentary. More than likely, Hopper had an entire print of the movie in 1942. However, like many early Fox films, \"The Battle of Hearts\" is now lost or missing.\n\nOne of the best-known Charlie Chaplin's works, silent film \"The Gold Rush\" (1925), was re-released in 1942 to include a musical track and narration by Chaplin himself. The reissue would end up having the unintentional result of preserving the film, as the original 1925 film (though generally not considered a lost film) shows noticeable degradation of image and missing frames, damage not evident in the 1942 version.\n\nThe Polish film \"\" (1939) contains three short fragments of \"Arabella\" (1917), one of the early films of Pola Negri which later became lost.\n\nSeveral films have been made with lost film fragments incorporated into the work. \"Decasia\" (2002) used nothing but decaying film footage as an abstract tone poem of light and darkness, much like the more historical \"Lyrical Nitrate\" (Peter Delpeut, 1991) which contained only footage from canisters found stored in an Amsterdam cinema. In 1993, Delpeut released \"The Forbidden Quest\", combining early film footage and archival photographs with new material to tell the fictional story of an ill-fated Antarctic expedition.\n\nThe 2016 documentary \"\", about the history of Dawson City, Canada and the 1978 discovery of previously lost silent films there, incorporates parts of many of those films.\n\nThe mockumentary \"Forgotten Silver\", made by Peter Jackson, purports to show recovered footage of early films. Instead, the filmmakers used newly shot film sequences treated to look like lost film.\n\nIn the double feature \"Grindhouse\" (2006), both segments - \"Planet Terror\" (directed by Robert Rodriguez) and \"Death Proof\" (directed by Quentin Tarantino) - have references to missing reels, used as plot devices.\n\n\"Cigarette Burns\", an episode of the John Carpenter series \"Masters of Horror\", deals with the search for a fictional lost film, \"La Fin Absolue Du Monde\" (\"The Absolute End of The World\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2044296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044296", "title": "BBBeat", "text": "BBBeat\n\nBBBeat is an audio game designed for the visually impaired. As such it has no video display. The player wears a pair of headphones and must use sound to locate a bee and then swat it. Sensors attached to the wrist indicate whether or not the \"bee\" was swatted. The game was developed by Makato Ohuchi at Tohoku Fukushi University in Japan.\n\nThe game is designed for schools and rehabilitation centers for blind people, to assist with sound location and learning to navigate base on sound source, not for personal entertainment. The game requires extensive hardware, and is expected to cost in the thousands of US dollars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044298", "title": "Child art", "text": "Child art\n\nIn its primary sense the term was created by Franz Cižek (1865–1946) in the 1890s.\n\nThe term \"child art\" also has a parallel and different usage in the world of contemporary fine art, where it refers to a subgenre of artists who depict children in their works.\n\nThird connotation of \"child art\" implies art intended for viewing by children, say illustrations in a book for juvenile readers. Such art could be done by a child or a professional adult illustrator.\n\nPremises for understanding of importance of art for children were laid by J.-J. Rousseau (1712–78), J.H. Pestalozzi (1746–1827), John Ruskin (1819–1900), and Herbert Spencer (1820–1903).\n\nAgenda of art education for children was discussed at the International Conference of 1884, held in London at the Health Exhibition. The discussion framework was largely shaped by the widespread of schools of design for professional training of children and youth in the UK, beginning from 1852. Some of the conference participants underlined importance of creativity, imaginations and special methodology for development of children's artistic skills. Ebenezer Cooke (1837–1913) has pointed out that \"if a child follows its bent and draws animals its own way, in action, and repeats them, outlines them, and colours them too, he will produce a drawing which may be comparable to the archaic period of more than one historic school.\" The proceedings of the conference, ed. by E. Cooke, were issued in the 1885–86 \"Journal of Education\", published by the Society for the Development of the Science of Education.\n\nFirst European exhibition of drawings by children was organized by Robert Ablett (1848–1945) in London, 1890. The first collection of 1250 children's drawing and sculpture pieces was assembled by (1858–1934), an Italian art historian.\n\nAesthetic appreciation of children's art as untainted by adult influence was extolled by Franz Cižek, who called a child's drawing \"a marvelous and precious document\". Discovery of the aesthetic quality of the unskilled visual expression by children was related to the aesthetics of modernism and, in case of Cižek, to the Vienna Secession.\n\nIn 1897, Cižek opened the Juvenile Art Class, a weekend school upholding children creativity uninhibited by adult vocational standards. The initiative was supported by his Secession friends-artists and opposed by the traditional art teachers. The Class accepted pupils of 2 to 14 years old for two hours a week, free of charge, with no selection. Cižek claimed that he was working \"as an artist, not as a teacher\", and actually \"learned and not taught\". In the work, the theory of developmental stages was propagated.\n\nPsychologists' interest in children's art was reflected in works by Georg Kerschensteiner (Die Entwickelung der Zeichnerischen Begabung, 1905, on the grounds of analysis of some 100 000 drawings), (\"Les Dessins D’un Enfant\", 1912, using 1500 drawings of the author's daughter from 3 to 8 years old), Georges Rouma (\"Le Langage Graphique de l’Enfant\", Paris, 1913), Karl Bühler (1918 ff.), Florence Goodenough, Helga Eng, Robert Coles. According to D.D. Kelly, consequent domination of Piagetian theory of cognitive psychology largely marginalized the psychological studies of children's art, which were revitalized only towards the end of the 20th century.\n\nAs the child develops, their art passes through a number of stages. 4 of them were for the first time defined by E. Cooke, under influence of Herbert Spencer's evolutionary theory.\n\nPresently, the stages are generally differentiated as follows:\n\nFrom about their first birthday children achieve the fine motor control to handle a crayon. At first they scribble. The youngest child scribbles with a series of left and right motions, later up, down and then circular motions are added. The child appears to get considerable pleasure from watching the line or the colours appear. Often however children do not pay attention to the edges of the page and the lines go beyond the confines of the page. Children are often also interested in body painting and, given the opportunity, will draw on their hands or smear paint on their faces.\n\nLater, from about their second birthday, controlled scribbling starts. Children produce patterns of simple shapes: circles, crosses and star-bursts. They also become interested in arrangement and can produce simple collages of coloured paper, or place stones in patterns. Once children have established controlled scribbling they begin to name their scribbles.\n\nFrom about age three, the child begins to combine circles and lines to make simple figures. At first, people are drawn without a body and with arms emerging directly from the head. The eyes are often drawn large, filling up most of the face, and hands and feet are omitted. At this stage it may be impossible to identify the subject of the art without the child's help.\n\nLater drawings from this stage show figures drawn floating in space and sized to reflect the child's view of their importance. Most children at this age are not concerned with producing a realistic picture.\n\nIn this stage of a child's development, they create a vocabulary of images. Thus when a child draws a picture of a cat, they will always draw the same basic image, perhaps modified (this cat has stripes that one has dots, for example). This stage of drawing begins at around age five. The basic shapes are called symbols or schema.\n\nEach child develops their own set of symbols, which are based on their understanding of what is being drawn rather than on observation. Each child's symbols are therefore unique to the child. By this age, most children develop a \"person\" symbol which has a properly defined head, trunk and limbs which are in some sort of rough proportion.\nBefore this stage the objects that child would draw would appear to float in space, but at about five to six years old the child introduces a baseline with which to organize their space. This baseline is often a green line (representing grass) at the bottom of the paper. The figures stand on this line. Slightly older children may also add secondary baselines for background objects and a skyline to hold the sun and clouds.\n\nIt is at this stage that cultural influences become more important. Children not only draw from life, but also copy images in their surroundings. They may draw copies of cartoons. Children also become more aware of the story-telling possibilities in a picture. The earliest understanding of a more realistic representation of space, such as using perspective, usually comes from copying.\n\nAs children mature they begin to find their symbols limiting. They realize that their schema for a person is not flexible enough, and just doesn't look like the real thing. At this stage, which begins at nine or ten years old, the child will lend greater importance to whether the drawing looks like the object being drawn.\n\nThis can be a frustrating time for some children, as their aspirations outstrip their abilities and knowledge. Some children give up on drawing almost entirely. However others become skilled, and it is at this stage that formal artistic training can benefit the child most. The baseline is dropped and the child can learn to use rules such as perspective to organize space better. Story-telling also becomes more refined and children will start to use formal devices such as the comic strip.\n\nArt therapy can be an effective way for children to develop and connect with their emotions. Some children with autism have found that drawing can help them to express feelings that they have difficulty expressing otherwise. Similarly children who have faced horrors such as war can find it difficult to talk about what they have experienced directly. Art can help children come to terms with their emotions in these situations.\n\nAfter visiting a children's art display in San Francisco in the 1980s, educator John Holt stated that, \"...An understanding of adultism might begin to explain what I mean when I say that much of what is known as children's art is an adult invention.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044313", "title": "Pkg-config", "text": "Pkg-config\n\npkg-config is a computer program that defines and supports a unified interface for querying installed libraries for the purpose of compiling software that depends on them. It allows programmers and installation scripts to work without explicit knowledge of detailed library path information. pkg-config was originally designed for Linux, but it is now also available for the various BSDs, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and Solaris.\n\nIt outputs various information about installed libraries. This information may include:\n\nThe first implementation was written in shell. Later, it was rewritten in C using the GLib library.\n\nWhen a library is installed (automatically through the use of an RPM, deb, or other binary packaging system or by compiling from the source), a .pc file should be included and placed into a directory with other .pc files (the exact directory is dependent upon the system and outlined in the pkg-config man page). This file has several entries.\n\nThese entries typically contain a list of dependent libraries that programs using the package also need to compile. Entries also typically include the location of header files, version information and a description.\n\nHere is an example .pc file for libpng:\n\nprefix=/usr/local\nlibdir=${exec_prefix}/lib\nincludedir=${exec_prefix}/include\nName: libpng\nDescription: Loads and saves PNG files\nVersion: 1.2.8\nLibs: -L${libdir} -lpng12 -lz\nCflags: -I${includedir}/libpng12\n\nThis file demonstrates how libpng informs that its libraries can be found in /usr/local/lib and its headers in /usr/local/include, that the library name is libpng, and that the version is 1.2.8. It also gives the additional linker flags that are needed to compile code that uses this library.\n\nHere is an example of usage of pkg-config while compiling:\n\n$ gcc -o test test.c $(pkg-config --libs --cflags libpng)\npkg-config can be used by build automation software such as CMake.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044316", "title": "Bobby Julich", "text": "Bobby Julich\n\nRobert Julich, popularly called Bobby Julich, (born on November 18, 1971, in Corpus Christi, Texas) is an American former professional road bicycle racer who last rode for Team CSC in the UCI ProTour racing series. He got his international breakthrough when he finished 3rd overall in the 1998 Tour de France, becoming only the second American to finish on the podium. He is a strong time trialist who won a silver medal at the 2004 Olympic Individual Time Trial, and combined with his high versatility he has won a number of stage races on the international circuits including the 2005 edition of Paris–Nice. In September 2008, he announced his retirement as a professional cyclist.\n\nHe served as a technical director for until November 2010, when it was announced that he would move to for the 2011 season as a race coach. On October 25, 2012, Team Sky announced that Julich would part ways with the team due to his admission to doping in the past. This departure is therefore in line with Team Sky's policy (re-asserted in the wake of the USADA Reasoned Decision and subsequent UCI/Lance Armstrong fall-out) of asking all current team personnel to admit to any past doping offences. After leaving Sky Julich worked as a coach for in 2014 before being announced by Team Tinkoff-Saxo as the team's head coach (Directeur Sportif) for 2015, however in August 2015 he confirmed that he would leave the team at the end of the year.\n\nBorn in Texas, Julich has resided in Glenwood Springs, Colorado, since childhood, with a brief time in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where he met his wife. Most of his living relatives reside in the New York area. Bobby Julich got his start in cycling winning the Red Zinger Mini Classics youth bicycle race in 1985. As an amateur cyclist Bobby Julich won the 1990 Junior National Cyclo-Cross Championship, and as a member of the US National Team he participated in the 1991 Tour DuPont. At the time it was the biggest stage race in the United States, and Julich finished 5th overall in a race which included fellow American cyclist and 3-time Tour de France winner Greg LeMond. Bobby won the award for the Best Young Rider and was heralded as the next LeMond.\n\nAfter a few \"false\" starts as a professional, he joined the Motorola team in 1995 alongside Italian rider Andrea Peron and fellow Americans Lance Armstrong and George Hincapie. In the 1996 season, Bobby Julich was diagnosed with \"re-entrant supraventricular tachycardia\" (RSVT), a heart condition which meant his heart would beat much faster than normal. Julich was treated with radiofrequency ablation and was ready for the 1996 Vuelta a España late in the season, a race which showed the first glimpses of his potential in international professional cycling. There, Julich held the King of the Mountains jersey for ten stages. Despite a strong performance he relinquished the jersey but did finish 9th overall, the highest placing ever by an American in the Vuelta up until Lance Armstrong finished 4th overall in 1998. It was this performance that made other teams in the peloton take notice of Julich.\n\nWhen Motorola ended its sponsorship at the end of the 1996 season he joined the French Cofidis team with a few fellow Motorola teammates, including Lance Armstrong. Armstrong's cancer meant that he was not able to compete with the team, while Julich went on to participate in the 1997 Tour de France. He performed well in this Tour, getting stronger as it progressed taking two top 10s in late mountain stages including one where he finished only behind the podium finishers Richard Virenque, Marco Pantani and Jan Ullrich. Then in the final ITT he placed 4th to finish the Tour in 17th overall.\n\nThe embattled 1998 Tour de France was a breakthrough for Julich, when he took over the team leadership from Italian Francesco Casagrande. Following the doping scandal of the 1998 Tour, only 96 of 189 riders completed the race, and Julich finished third on the podium with winner Pantani and runner-up Ullrich. Julich was hailed as the next American Tour de France champion and he was once more proclaimed to follow in the footsteps of Greg LeMond. The 1999 Tour de France saw Julich as one of the favorites for the overall win, but a crash during an individual time trial forced him to quit the race, which was in turn won by the recovered Lance Armstrong.\n\nFor the 2000 season, Julich moved to another French team Credit Agricole, joining compatriot Jonathan Vaughters. He was part of the Credit Agricole team that won the team time trial stage of the 2001 Tour de France. After a move to Team Telekom of Germany in 2002, Julich rode as a domestique in support of his team captain Jan Ullrich. Julich only enjoyed lacklustre results, and at the end of the 2003 season he contemplated retiring.\n\nDespite an offer below his wages at Team Telekom, Bobby Julich moved to the Danish outfit Team CSC in the 2004 season, where he joined up with former Motorola team mate Andrea Peron. He once again rode as a supporting rider in the Tour de France, but with the freedom to pursue his own chances during the rest of the season. Julich immediately saw his riding and performance improve, as he won a time-trial in the April 2004 race Tour of the Basque Country, his first victory since the 1998 season. With Team CSC team mate Jens Voigt, a rider Julich rode with in his time at Credit Agricole, he also won the two-man time trial LuK Challenge. Bobby Julich won a silver medal in the 2004 Summer Olympics men's individual time trial event behind Russian Viatcheslav Ekimov.\n\nJulich's renaissance continued in 2005 with his best-ever professional season, becoming the first American to win Paris–Nice. He also won the Critérium International and the Eneco Tour, making Julich the 8th ranked rider in the UCI ProTour, helping Team CSC become the highest ranked team of 2005.\n\nFor the 2006 season, Julich planned to conserve energy for helping Team CSC captain Ivan Basso in his winning bid for both the 2006 Giro d'Italia in May and 2006 Tour de France in July. Even though he did not start his season as strongly compared to 2005, he managed to finish 3rd at the Tour of California in February and he won the prologue of Paris–Nice in March, results that even positively surprised Julich himself. For the very first Giro d'Italia participation in his career, Julich had early aspirations of conquering the pink jersey for the leader of the general classification early in the race to lessen the pressure on Basso. However, Julich suffered heavily from pollen allergy throughout the race, and he did not play a major role himself, but focused on helping Ivan Basso, as Basso won the 2006 Giro. In the 2006 Tour de France, Julich abandoned the race after he suffered a crash on the stage 7 individual time trial. He went into a turn too fast, slid on small pebbles, and he severely injured his wrist when falling.\n\nIn May 2011, Tyler Hamilton, the winner of the men's time trial at the 2004 Summer Olympics, confessed that he had used doping products, and returned his gold medal. On August 10, 2012, Bobby Julich was upgraded from the bronze to the silver medal.\n\nIn May 2013, he joined BMC Racing Team as a consultant. In November 2014, it was announced that Julich would join Tinkoff-Saxo as head coach, reuniting with Sean Yates (former sports director of Team Sky) and team founder and manager Bjarne Riis. Julich and Yates left after Riis's firing later in 2015.\n\nOn October 25, 2012, Julich admitted to \"using EPO several times from August 1996 until July of 1998\". and resigned from the United Kingdom-based Team Sky. The team had issued a statement asking both riders and support staff to sign a document verifying that they did not use or administer performance-enhancing drugs during their careers. Julich stated that he wishes to continue to be involved in the sport to some extent, and also that he will pay the consequences for his poor decisions.\n\nBobby did his self-confession at CyclingNews. His open letter told that during the Tour de France of 1998 his fiancée (now wife) discovered his use from another rider's wife. She told him if it would reoccur, the relationship would be over. His name was also on the list of doping tests published by the French Senate on 24 July 2013 that were collected during the 1998 Tour de France and found suspicious for EPO when retested in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044328", "title": "Dominick Daly", "text": "Dominick Daly\n\nSir Dominick Daly (11 August 1798 – 19 February 1868) was the Governor of Prince Edward Island from 11 July 1854 to 25 May 1859 and later Governor of South Australia from 4 March 1862 until his death on 19 February 1868.\n\nHe was born in Ardfry, County Galway, Ireland in 1798, the son of Dominic Daly senior and third son of Joanna Harriet Blake, sister of Joseph Blake, 1st Baron Wallscourt and widow of Richard Burke of Glinsk. He was the half-brother of Sir John Ignatius Burke, 10th Baronet and Sir Joseph Burke, 11th Baronet of the Burke baronets. He studied at St Mary's College, Oscott in Birmingham. \n\nIn 1823, he came to Lower Canada as secretary to Lieutenant-Governor Sir Francis Nathaniel Burton. In 1827, he was appointed provincial secretary for Lower Canada. He was a member of the Special Council of Lower Canada from 1840 to 1841. After the Act of Union in 1840, it became a prerequisite for his post that he be elected and he ran successfully in the Canada East riding of Megantick in 1841. In 1841, he was appointed provincial secretary of Canada East and a member of the Executive Council. When the council resigned en masse in November 1843 in a dispute with Governor Sir Charles Theophilus Metcalfe, Daly chose to remain, which was viewed as a betrayal by Reformers. This left Daly as acting head of government for several weeks. In 1844, he became provincial secretary for both Canada East and Canada West. In March 1845, he was challenged to a duel by Reformer Thomas Cushing Aylwin; shots were fired but no one was injured. His tenacity in holding office earned him the nickname \"the perpetual secretary\", but he was nonetheless a popular and convivial character. Daly was removed from the Executive Council in 1848 when Robert Baldwin and Louis-Hippolyte Lafontaine came to power; he returned to England and served on a commission of inquiry.\n\nIn 1852, Daly was appointed lieutenant-governor of Tobago; he was next appointed to the same post in Prince Edward Island. In 1858, he announced his resignation from the latter post and departed the following year. He was knighted in 1856.\n\nIn October 1861, he was appointed the Governor of South Australia, becoming the first Catholic governor ever\nin Australia, notably in a colony with smaller proportion of Catholics amongst its population than any other of the Australian provinces. Presumably on account of his religion, he was not given an official reception when he and his wife and daughters arrived. Nonetheless, as in Canada, he quickly earned the respect and affection of the public, due to his charm, good nature and integrity. He died in office just after noon on 19 February 1868 in Adelaide after unexpectedly falling ill on the morning of the same day. He was reported as suffering from failing health prior to his sudden illness. Despite the intense heat, large crowds turned out to watch the funeral cortege pass, a tribute to the affection in which he was held.\n\nHe married Caroline Maria Gore, second daughter of Ralph Gore of Barrowmount, Goresbridge, County Kilkenny. Despite suffering a stroke which left her paralysed, she outlived her husband by four years. They had five children, including the artist Caroline Louisa Daly (1832-1893), whose paintings have only very recently been recognized as her own work.\n\nThe town of Daly Waters was named after the new Governor of South Australia by John McDouall Stuart in 1862 on his third attempt to find a path from south to north across the centre of Australia. The Daly River further north was named after him in 1865 by surveyor Boyle Travers Finniss.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044329", "title": "Clark electrode", "text": "Clark electrode\n\nThe Clark electrode is an electrode that measures ambient oxygen concentration in a liquid using a catalytic platinum surface according to the net reaction:\n\nIt improves on a bare platinum electrode by use of a membrane to reduce fouling and metal plating onto the platinum.\n\nLeland Clark (Professor of Chemistry, Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio, and Fels Research Institute, Yellow Springs, Ohio) had developed the first bubble oxygenator for use in cardiac surgery. However, when he came to publish his results, his article was refused by the editor since the oxygen tension in the blood coming out from the device could not be measured. This motivated Clark to develop the oxygen electrode.\n\nThe electrode, when implanted in vivo, will reduce oxygen and thus required stirring in order to maintain an equilibrium with the environment. Severinghaus improved the design by adding a stirred cuvette in a thermostat. A discrepancy between the measured partial pressure of oxygen (pO) between blood samples and gaseous mixtures of identical pO, meant that the modified electrode required calibration; consequently a microtonometer was added to the water thermostat.\n\nThe electrode compartment is isolated from the reaction chamber by a thin Teflon membrane; the membrane is permeable to molecular oxygen and allows this gas to reach the cathode, where it is electrolytically reduced.\n\nThe above reaction requires a steady stream of electrons to the cathode, which depends on the rate at which oxygen can reach the electrode surface. Increasing the voltage applied (between the Pt electrode and a second Ag electrode) will increase the rate of electrocatalysis. Clark affixed an oxygen permselective membrane over the Pt electrode. This limits the diffusion rate of oxygen to the Pt electrode.\n\nAbove a certain voltage, the current plateaus and increasing the potential any further does not result in a higher rate of electrocatalysis of the reaction. At this point, the reaction is diffusion-limited and depends only on the permeability properties of the membrane (which is ideally well characterized, the electrode being calibrated against known standard solutions) and by the oxygen gas concentration, which is the measured quantity.\n\nThe Clark oxygen electrode laid the basis for the first glucose biosensor (in fact the first biosensor of any type), invented by Clark and Lyons in 1962.\nThis sensor used a single Clark oxygen electrode coupled with a counter-electrode. As with the Clark electrode, a permselective membrane covers the Pt electrode. Now, however, the membrane is impregnated with immobilized glucose oxidase (GOx). The GOx will consume some of the oxygen as it diffuses towards the PT electrode, incorporating it into HO and gluconic acid. The rate of reaction current is limited by the diffusion of both glucose and oxygen. This diffusion can be well characterized for a membrane for both the oxygen and glucose, leaving as the only variable the oxygen and glucose concentrations on the analyte-side of the glucose membrane, which is the quantity being measured.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044335", "title": "1937 in Norwegian football", "text": "1937 in Norwegian football\n\nResults from Norwegian football in 1937.\n\nClass A of local association leagues (kretsserier) is the predecessor of a national league competition. In 1937, the leagues were shortened, or not even played because of Norgesserien 1937/38.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044339", "title": "Keith Alexander (footballer)", "text": "Keith Alexander (footballer)\n\nKeith Alexander (14 November 1956 – 3 March 2010) was a footballer and manager. Born in Nottingham, England, he was the manager of League Two side Macclesfield Town at the time of his death, in a career that included international appearances for Saint Lucia. Alexander played for a large number of lower league football teams. His main success, however, came from football management – managing in both non-league and the Football League. He took League Two side Lincoln City to four consecutive play-offs, taking them to two finals at the Millennium Stadium. His eldest son, Matthew Alexander, is a FIFA licensed Football agent and works with many top flight players.\n\nHe was the first full-time black professional manager in the Football League, as well as being the first black qualified referee in England, and is considered by many to be a pioneer of the modern game.\n\nAlexander began his career in non-league football, joining Arnold as a nineteen-year-old. He spent the 1977–78 season with Ilkeston Town, debuting in the home game with Louth United on 24 September 1977 and going on to make 17 appearances for the club, scoring a single goal, with his final game being the away fixture with Sutton Town on 5 April 1978.\n\nIn March 1979, Alexander joined Stamford from Alfreton Town and scored the first goal in the club's 2–0 FA Vase final win over Guisborough Town in April 1980 as the side won the unique treble of United Counties League Championship, League Cup and FA Vase during the 1979–80 season. Leaving at the end of the season, Alexander enjoyed spells with Boston United and King's Lynn before returning to Stamford for the 1981–82 season being part of a side which completed a United Counties League double. In total he made 94 appearances for the Daniels, scoring 24 goals. After a short spell at Corby Town, which witnessed Alexander score one goal in two games, he joined Spalding United where he scored 18 goals in the Northern Counties East Football League during his solitary season at the club in 1982–83.\n\nHe went on to have brief spells at Boston Town, Grantham Town, and King's Lynn in 1983, before joining Kettering Town just before the start of the 1983–84 season; where he spent two seasons and played 74 games for the Northamptonshire side, scoring 11 times. During his time at Kettering, Alexander had a brief, but successful, loan spell at Wisbech Town, and was instrumental in the club's FA Vase run that year – scoring a hat-trick against Harwich & Parkeston in a 5–0 win on his debut, followed by a goal in the semi-final against Southall. In the middle of 1986, Barry Fry secured the signing of Alexander at Barnet, who were playing in the Football Conference at the time. He scored 22 goals in 72 games in his two years at the club as the club narrowly missed out on promotion.\n\nAfter many years in non-league, Alexander ended his playing career in league football, most notably for Grimsby Town. He earned his move from non-league to the Football League when then-Grimsby manager Alan Buckley saw Alexander playing for Barnet, and subsequently signed him for £11,500. He made his Grimsby debut against Torquay United in September 1988, and went on to score 14 league goals in 44 games during the club's 1988–89 campaign; including a goal against FA Cup holders Wimbledon at Plough Lane. The following season, Alexander scored a further 12 goals in 38 games, including the two goals that ensured Grimsby's promotion in a 2–0 win over Southend United. He then joined Stockport County, before linking up with Lincoln City for the 1992–93 season.\n\nAfter a short spell as Lincoln City manager, he played a couple more games for Mansfield Town, before joining Northern Ireland outfit Cliftonville on loan. During his brief spell at Cliftonville during the 1994–95 season, Alexander scored on his debut in a 4–3 victory over Portadown, as well as netting a further goal against Glentoran. He also scored twice for Cliftonville as they eliminated Linfield in the League Cup quarter final at Windsor Park. He returned to his parent club, Mansfield, at the end of the season and made one further appearance the following year; coming on as a substitute in a game against Exeter City in January 1996. It was to signal the end of Alexander's playing days, as he broke his leg in injury-time. He did, however, remain registered as a player in the first season of managing Ilkeston Town, although he did not make any first-team appearances.\n\nAlexander won the FA Vase in 1980 with Stamford, scoring one of the goals in a 2–0 win at Wembley. While he was playing for Grimsby Town, Alexander played international football for St. Lucia, earning three international caps in 1990. Alexander also became Mansfield Town's oldest ever goal scorer when he came off the bench to score twice against Crewe Alexandra at the age of 37.\n\nWith his playing career winding down, Alexander was appointed youth team coach for Lincoln City, during which time he developed the likes of Darren Huckerby and Matt Carbon. At the end of the 1992–93 season, Lincoln's chairman John Reames announced that Steve Thompson's contract as first team manager would not be renewed and Alexander was placed in caretaker charge, steering the Imps to a 2–0 home victory over Darlington in the final game of the season. Officially appointed to the role in the summer of 1993, Alexander became the first permanently appointed black manager in the\nFootball League; Edwin Stein had earlier been in temporary charge at Barnet. He lasted only a season in charge before Sam Ellis succeeded him in the hot seat.\n\nFor the best part of a decade, Alexander then managed two semi-professional teams, Ilkeston Town during 1996–2000 and Northwich Victoria during 2000–01. During his time at Ilkeston, Alexander ensured the club's highest ever league placing, as well as two FA Cup runs that witnessed the side beat league opposition in the form of Boston United and Carlisle United. He is believed to be \"the most successful manager in Ilkeston Town's history\". He subsequently took charge of Northwich Victoria during the 2000–01 season, with Northwich in the relegation zone five points adrift from safety. Alexander orchestrated a great escape to steer Victoria away from relegation and to keep the club in the top tier of non-league football. The club also had an FA Cup run during the same season, which witnessed them hold Leyton Orient 3–3 in the second round.\n\nOn 11 July 2001, Alexander returned to Sincil Bank as Director of Coaching on a three-year contract. He was tasked with ensuring the continuity of coaching and football from the Centre of Excellence through youth to the first team and acting as Assistant Manager to Alan Buckley, his former Grimsby Town manager. With Lincoln entering administration at the end of the 2001–02 season, Buckley was relieved of his duties as manager on financial grounds and Alexander placed in charge of all football matters.\n\nOn 3 May 2002 Lincoln successfully petitioned to go into administration but the financial crisis would leave the first team squad bereft of players as the day saw five senior players – Jason Barnett, Grant Brown, David Cameron, Steve Holmes and Justin Walker – released at the end of their contracts with a sixth, Lee Thorpe, departing for Leyton Orient. A hectic day finished with confirmation of Alexander's official appointment as team manager. Three other senior players, Tony Battersby, Kingsley Black, and Ian Hamilton, would later leave the club by mutual consent as their contracts, including appearance money, had made them too expensive for Alexander's plans.\n\nRemaining at the club were former Tottenham Hotspur youngsters Alan Marriott and Peter Gain, Northern Ireland B international centre-back Paul Morgan along with midfielders Adam Buckley, Mark Camm and Ben Sedgemore and wing-backs Mark Bailey and Stuart Bimson and Alexander complemented their talents with a series of signings from outside of the Football League. After just one week in the job, Alexander completed his first two signings bringing Ben Futcher and Dene Cropper to the club on initial one-year contracts. One week later, Alexander made a second double swoop with Simon Weaver and Simon Yeo joining the ranks.\n\nAlexander oversaw an upturn in fortunes at the club, who were now owned by their Supporters' Trust. He used direct tactics and, following a good season with an impressive away record, they finished in the play-off places with a chance of promotion to the Second Division. However, Lincoln were defeated by Bournemouth in the play-off final at the Millennium Stadium, Cardiff. The 5–2 result established a new record for goals scored in a playoff final. Alexander was highly praised for his work at Lincoln during the 2002–03 season, taking a club that had finished two places off the bottom of the League and was working its way out of administration, to a play-off position on a shoe-string budget. He subsequently earned the nickname 'Alexander The Great'.\n\nThe 2003–04 season began poorly, and in November 2003 Alexander suffered a cerebral aneurysm. Alexander had been accompanied by his assistant Gary Simpson on a scouting mission that evening but felt ill on returning home and retired to bed. His wife later called an ambulance and Alexander was rushed to the Royal Hallamshire Hospital in time for potentially life saving surgery. His condition slowly improved and he returned to work in February 2004, where Simpson had been acting as caretaker manager.\n\nDespite their poor start to the season, Lincoln's campaign improved. Veteran Stuart Bimson had moved on, to Cambridge United, and youngster Paul Mayo was sold to Watford for an initial £75,000, but the acquisitions of Jamie McCombe, Marcus Richardson, Gary Taylor-Fletcher, Francis Green and loanee Kevin Ellison meant that they finished in the play-off places. Lincoln were beaten by Huddersfield Town in the semi-finals.\n\nIn the close season Alexander purchased Gareth McAuley and Ciaran Toner. Toner and Marcus Richardson were later involved in a training ground fracas, and were both allowed to leave on loan with a view to a transfer. Regardless, rumours persisted that the morale of the squad was low both because of this incident, and in relation to the payment of bonuses. Lincoln again finished in the play-off places and played Southend United in the final, again at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium. Neither side could manage a goal in normal time, and all three strikers had to be replaced in the second half. Derek Asamoah, who was in poor form, was brought on alongside defenders Matt Bloomer and Lee Beevers. However, Southend scored twice in extra time to win.\n\nAlexander signed a new three-year contract in May 2005. During the close season Simon Yeo, Richard Butcher and Peter Gain chose to leave the club, whilst Gary Taylor-Fletcher was surprisingly released amid speculation about his conduct. Captain Paul Morgan, however, signed a new three-year deal which reportedly made him the highest paid player at the club. Lincoln lost yet again in the play-offs at the end of the 2005–06 season, this time to local rivals Grimsby Town, giving Alexander the unenviable record of being the only manager to lead a team to four consecutive play-off defeats. Shortly after this defeat, Alexander left Lincoln by mutual consent.\n\nOn 30 May 2006, Alexander was named the new manager of Peterborough United replacing Steve Bleasdale, who had left at the end of April. He cited his reason for joining Peterborough as need for a new challenge. Alexander signed a 4-year contract with the club. Alexander's managerial career at Peterborough got off to a fine start, recording a 4–1 win over Bristol Rovers on the first day of the season, as well as knocking out Championship side Ipswich Town in the League Cup two weeks later. Despite still sitting in 8th in the league, his contract was mutually terminated following 6 straight league defeats in January 2007. During his time at Peterborough, Alexander stated that he wanted to \"unearth more non-league gems\", and as a result signed George Boyd, Aaron McLean and Craig Mackail-Smith from non-league – all of which have been hugely successful and now ply their trade in the Championship.\n\nAlexander was appointed as Bury's new director of football on 9 May 2007. He was dismissed on 14 January 2008, accompanying sacked manager Chris Casper.\n\nAlexander was appointed manager of Macclesfield Town on 27 February 2008, signing a contract until the end of the season. He replaced Ian Brightwell who had left the club one point away from the League Two relegation zone. His first game in-charge of Macclesfield was a 1–1 draw at home to Notts County, and secured his first win as boss shortly after in a 1–0 win at Dagenham & Redbridge. A run of four wins and three draws in nine games took the club away from the relegation zone, and in April 2008 Alexander was awarded a new two-year contract.\nHe signed a two-year contract extension on 18 January 2010.\n\nAlexander was involved in supporting a number of charities. In Saint Lucia, the country Alexander represented in his playing days, he established the Sacred Sports Foundation to help increase sporting opportunities for St Lucian children.\n\nAlexander, who suffered a brain aneurysm in 2003 when manager of Lincoln City, was taken to hospital before a match in March 2009 after complaining of feeling unwell but was later given a clean bill of health. Alexander was reported to be feeling unwell as he returned from a game at Notts County on 2 March 2010. He was taken to Lincoln Hospital after he had collapsed, and died shortly after at the age of 53. It was reported that Alexander had been suffering from a bout of hiccups three weeks before his death. Alexander had been due to take charge of his 100th game for Macclesfield Town the following weekend.\n\nTributes were paid to Alexander from all corners of the country following his death. Macclesfield Town chairman, Mike Rance, paid an emotional tribute to Alexander, stating \"it was perhaps fitting that the last conversation we had was about football\". Lincoln City, the club that Alexander lead to four successive play-off campaigns, opened their stadium to allow fans to pay tribute to Alexander. Grimsby Town also had opened up the gates of their stadium to allow fans to lay flowers and memorabilia for Alexander in front of the Pontoon stand. The club also announced that they are beginning to collect money for some of Alexander's favourite charities. Grimsby also wore black arm bands for Keith during their victory over Shrewsbury Town. Burnley manager Brian Laws said the former Lincoln boss \"broke the mould\" for black managers. A sentiment echoed by Port Vale boss, Micky Adams. Paul Ince, a friend of Alexander, described Alexander as \"a figure that all managers should aspire to\". Northern Ireland football team Cliftonville also paid respect to Alexander, with their chairman, Gerard Lawlor, saying \"I thank Keith Alexander for the great goals, the great nights and for always being a friend to our club\".\n\nMacclesfield Town's first game after Alexander's death was away to Hereford United, with Macclesfield players wearing special shirts with a tribute printed on the back reading \"Rest In Peace Gaffer\" – Macclesfield won the game 2–0. In what was an emotionally charged day, after Macclesfield scored both of their goals, all of their players pointed to the sky in remembrance of Alexander. Throughout the game, Macclesfield fans chanted \"Keith Alexander, his spirit lives on\". Players and staff at the club dedicated the win to Alexander. After the game, Richard Butcher, who played under Alexander for Lincoln City, Peterborough United, and Macclesfield Town said \"there are a few tears in that dressing room now. Today was Keith's day and we're proud that we got the win for him\". Macclesfield held a 'Keith Alexander Day' on 13 March, the day of the Silkmen's match against Bury at Moss Rose – Macclesfield's first home game since his death. Tributes were made before the game by representatives of the six clubs Alexander had managed, and 53 doves were released. The game ended 2–0 to Macclesfield.\n\nAdditionally, the England national team and the England under-21s wore black armbands in their respective matches against Egypt and Greece under-21s on the day of Alexander's death as a tribute. Black armbands were worn by clubs up and down the country the following weekend as a mark of respect. Clubs across the country also held either a minute's applause or a minute's silence in respect to Alexander.\n\nOn 15 March 2010, the funeral of Keith Alexander took place at Lincoln Cathedral, with thousands of people paying their respects. Friends, family and football fans gave a round of applause as his coffin entered and left the church. It was announced that a benefit match for Keith Alexander would take place on 3 May 2010 at Sincil Bank, as a tribute to the ex-Imps chief. Players such as Paul Merson, Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink, and Les Ferdinand took part in the match, with over a 1,000 tickets being sold. In October 2010, Alexander was honoured with a lifetime achievement award at the Black List celebratory evening at Wembley, highlighting the influence of African Caribbean figures in British football. Alexander's son, Matt, said \"If he was looking down and saw the reaction that followed his death and how valuable people thought he was, he would be smiling. He would realise that all his hard work had paid off.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2044340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044340", "title": "Climbing galaxias", "text": "Climbing galaxias\n\nThe climbing galaxias or kōaro (\"Galaxias brevipinnis\") is a fish of the family Galaxiidae found in Australia, New Zealand, and nearby islands. The name climbing galaxias is used in Australia, and koaro or kōaro in New Zealand. Further vernacular names include short-finned galaxias, broad-finned galaxias, Cox's mountain galaxias, and Pieman galaxias.\n\nThe climbing galaxias is unlikely to be confused with the other diadromous whitebait species because of its shape. It is elongated and slender, shaped almost like a tube. The sides and back are covered in a variable pattern of golden blotches and bands that gleam and glitter in the sun, making the climbing galaxias an attractive fish.\n\nTheir maximum size is around 29 cm, but they commonly reach 16–18 cm.\n\nThese fish live a basically benthic lifestyle and in most respects behave like the common galaxias, a closely related galaxiid. They inhabit mainly clear streams, often deeply shaded and relatively fast-flowing, although they sometimes occur in lakes, particularly in Tasmania. Climbing galaxias also have the ability to penetrate well inland in many river systems, thus have a more widespread distribution than the other whitebait species.\n\nA major distinguishing feature of this species is its ability to climb up very steep surfaces such as waterfalls, wet rocks, and the sluices of dams using its broad and downward facing pectoral and pelvic fins. Even juveniles of the species are capable of climbing up and over the sides of buckets after being trapped in whitebait nets.\n\nClimbing ability is not unique among galaxias species, but it reaches its greatest expression in the climbing galaxias, which have special features that enhance their climbing abilities. The downward orientation of their fins and the strong, backward-facing ridges on the front part of their fins possibly contribute to this ability.\n\nClimbing galaxias once formed large populations in some lakes. It once roamed New Zealand's Lake Taupo in huge shoals and was caught in huge numbers by Maori people using specialised nets. Introduced rainbow trout has now virtually eradicated the species from Lake Taupo. Similarly, the introduction of brown trout eradicated a climbing galaxias population from Lake Tarli Karng in Victoria, Australia (Cadwallader, 1996).\n\n\"G. brevipinnis\" eggs are believed to be washed downstream to the sea, where the young live for about six months before returning to fresh water as part of the large, mixed-species schools known as whitebait. They were once part of a commercial whitebait fishery in Tasmania, but now fishing for them has been restricted to recreational anglers with significant restrictions on allowable tackle and methods. Land-locked populations have a similar lifestyle except the young spend the first part of their lives in inland lakes and backwaters.\n\nThese fish are generalised carnivores of invertebrates, including aquatic and terrestrial insects, mayfly and caddisfly larvae, and amphipods.\n\nTheir distribution extends to coastal streams in southeastern Australia from Adelaide and Kangaroo Island in South Australia, through coastal Victoria including Wilsons Promontory, Tasmania, Flinders and King Islands, and north along the New South Wales coast to around Sydney, as well as New Zealand including the Chatham, Auckland and Campbell Islands.\n\nTheir climbing ability enables them to inhabit headwaters of streams that introduced species, such as trout, cannot reach.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044352", "title": "Marvin Creamer", "text": "Marvin Creamer\n\nMarvin Creamer (born January 24, 1916) is a former college professor and American sailor noted for having sailed around the globe without the aid of navigational instruments. Between December, 21, 1982, and May 17, 1984, Creamer and the crew of his 36-foot boat, \"Globe Star\", circumnavigated the globe without a compass, sextant, watch, or other instrument. The ship spent 510 days at sea. As general guides, Creamer observed the sun and stars, currents, and occasionally the regional biological setting. In honor of his voyage, Rowan University created the Marvin Creamer Scholarship Fund. He turned 100 in January 2016.\n\nCreamer was born in Vineland, New Jersey, and taught Geography at Glassboro State College from 1948 until 1977. He has three children, six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. He was married to Blanche Creamer for 59 years until her death in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044365", "title": "Namco Museum", "text": "Namco Museum\n\nThe compilations include video games developed by Namco for both arcade hardware and home game systems, including the Family Computer and Sega Genesis. Some iterations use software emulation for the games, while others instead reprogram them from scratch. The collections typically include interchangeable game settings, online leaderboards or unlockable extras, such as games or promotional material. The original PlayStation series, with the exception of \"Namco Museum Encore\", instead placed the player in a virtual museum that housed the individual games. Entries in the series have been released for multiple platforms, including the Game Boy Advance, PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, Nintendo DS and Xbox 360.\n\nThe \"Namco Museum\" series has been met with a mixed to positive critical response, some praising the emulation quality and unlockable extras while others criticizing the overall presentation and lack of updated features to the included titles. The franchise has sold a total of 9.113 million copies worldwide.\n\nThere are six different volumes available for the PlayStation, including one (\"Namco Museum Encore\") that was released only in Japan. When Namco unveiled Volume 5 at the November 1996 PlayStation Expo, it was announced that it would be the final volume in the series, hence the sixth volume's title, \"Encore\". Each volume has five to seven games. The means by which Namco recreated the games for the PlayStation hardware is unclear; Jeff Vavasour (creator of numerous emulators, including the one used in \"\") said that the executables on the CDs contain pieces of the original game data but none of the original source code, which supports the theory that the games are actually object-level recompilations. Some of the games, such as \"Galaga\" and \"Pac-Man\", allow for an alternative screen mode to compensate for the lack of a vertical monitor, whereby the scoreboard is located on the left of the screen, or rotates the image 90 degrees if the user possesses a vertical monitor or is willing to risk placing the television/monitor on its side.\n\nThe control systems of each of the games were well-preserved. However, since the PlayStation's analog controller was not available at the time, analog control for \"Pole Position\" and \"Pole Position II\" is only supported in these compilations by Namco's neGcon joypad.\n\nEach package had a museum mode where the player could walk through a virtual museum containing various curiosities surrounding the games including images of the mainboards, marketing material and conceptual artwork. In \"Namco Museum Encore\", the museum mode is simplified to a selection screen with \"Information\", \"Memory card\" and seven games in lieu of walking around the museum, with exhibits being displayed by selecting the respective game. All material is from the Japanese releases, as none of the volumes contain any American materials. For this reason, the games themselves are based on the Japanese releases, although for the United States, the games retain their American changes. For example, Pac-Man is still \"Pac-Man\" and not \"Puckman\", while the ghosts still have their American names.\n\nThere is a glitch in \"Namco Museum Volume 2\" that prevents Dragon Buster from displaying the proper high score, showing 10,000 at all times. The actual high score is shown in the record book, but not in-game.\n\nTwo unique versions of \"The Tower of Druaga\" were also hidden in this volume: one called \"Another Tower\", and the other called \"Darkness Tower\". Both are more difficult than the original and require different methods to complete the game.\n\nAll six volumes were added to the Japanese PlayStation Store as PSOne Classics. Volumes 1 to 4 were released on December 11, 2013 while Volume 5 and Encore were released on December 18, 2013. The five numbered installments were added to the North American PlayStation Store on September 30, 2014.\n\nVirtual museums are absent in all these games despite keeping the \"Namco Museum\" title. Instead, the compilations feature regular menus.\n\n\"Namco Museum 64\" for Nintendo 64 and \"Namco Museum\" for Dreamcast and Game Boy Advance are the first compilations in the series to omit a virtual museum. The GBA version was released worldwide, while other versions were exclusive to North America, and was a launch title for the system in North America. The following games, originally featured in \"Namco Museum Volume 1\" and \"Namco Museum Volume 3\" for the PlayStation, are included:\n\nThe GBA version does not retain high scores when powered off, which is also the case with \"Pac-Man Collection\". On the Wii U Virtual Console, however, the Restore Point feature saves scores for both games. The N64 version requires a Controller Pak with eight free pages and one free slot to save high scores and settings. The Dreamcast version requires a VMU with eight free blocks for saving progress, while also offering an mini-game that's exclusive to the VMU titled \"Pac-It\", with gameplay that's similar to \"Kaboom!\" and \"Fast Food\".\n\n\"Namco Museum 64\" received an average rating of 73.43% on GameRankings, while \"Namco Museum\" received 72.08% on the Game Boy Advance and 56.63% on the Dreamcast. IGN was the least impressed among the \"Namco Museum 64\" critics, giving the game a mediocre 5.5 out of 10 overall, finding the \"Start Up Mode\" feature unnecessary and being especially critical of the screen scrolling in \"Dig Dug\". IGN concluded: \"I wouldn't recommend it for a rental because there's nothing new to try out here.\"\n\nIn the United States, \"Namco Museum\" for the Game Boy Advance sold 2.4 million copies and earned $37 million by August 2006. During the period between January 2000 and August 2006, it was the third highest-selling game for handheld game consoles in that country.\n\nThis version marks the first time an entry has been released on PlayStation 2, Xbox, and Nintendo GameCube. It was first released in 2001 on PlayStation 2, followed by Xbox and Nintendo GameCube in 2002.\n\nThe collection on these consoles includes all the games from \"Namco Museum 64\" and \"Namco Museum\" for Dreamcast plus:\n\nThis edition of \"Namco Museum\" is the first collection in the series to include a game that originated on home consoles (\"Pac-Attack\", originally released on the Genesis and the Super NES and also previously included in the Japanese-only \"Namco Anthology Vol. 2\", and \"Pac-Man Collection\"). The version of Pac-Attack seen here also resembles the \"Genesis\" version, as opposed to the \"SNES\" version. This is distinguished by the music, which sounds like the \"Genesis\" version of the game. \nThe \"Arrangement\" games in the collection were originally on the arcade's \"Namco Classic Collection Vol. 1\" and \"Vol. 2\". The pitch of the music in \"Pac-Man Arrangement\" and \"Dig Dug Arrangement\" has been changed slightly from the original: it is higher-pitched than in the arcade versions. This compilation was released only in North America on all three of the consoles on which it was released.\n\nThis title was released on the PlayStation Portable in 2005. It contains over twenty of Namco's games such as \"Pac-Man\" (1980) and \"Galaga\" (1981). In addition, new \"Arrangement\" variants are available for \"Pac-Man\", \"Galaga\", \"New Rally-X\" (1981) and \"Dig Dug\" (1982), which have updated gameplay, graphics and can be played in a versus or co-operative mode using the PSP's ad hoc feature. Game Sharing, a feature that had not yet been used on the PSP, was introduced in this game. This allowed others PSPs in the area to download the first few levels of some of the games.\n\nThe \"Arrangement\" games in this compilation are not the same as they were on the arcade's \"Namco Classic Collection Vol. 1\" and \"Vol. 2\". They are entirely new games that were designed to take advantage of the PSP's hardware and features.\n\nThe Japanese version is divided into two volumes, with the second containing three extra games: \"Dragon Spirit\", \"Motos Arrangement\" and \"Pac-Man Arrangement Plus\".\n\nA special edition that marks Namco's founding as a toy manufacturing company in 1955. It was the second \"Namco Museum\" compilation to be released on the PlayStation 2, Xbox and the Nintendo GameCube. The Game Boy Advance version was also the second \"Namco Museum\" compilation for the GBA. It was also released on PC. In Japan, this was released under the title \"Namco Museum Arcade Hits!\" for PlayStation 2 only, with \"Pac-Mania\" and \"Galaga '88\" unlocked right from the start and different menu music.\n\nThis compilation includes 16 games, except for the Game Boy Advance, which only includes five games:\n\nThis collection, except for the scaled-down GBA version, includes five songs from the 1980s:\n\nThis is the first edition of Namco Museum with actual arcade game emulation using the original game ROM images (although voice sounds in \"Rolling Thunder\", sounds for both \"Pole Position\" games and \"Xevious\" are stored in .wav files). Also, the GameCube version allows the player to insert a limited number of credits, about 5 or 6, by repeatedly pressing the Z button when the game first starts, but then players can only exit to the main menu during gameplay. The PS2, Xbox, and PC versions allow the player to exit a game at any time, but skip being able to add credits. For \"Dragon Spirit\", \"Pac-Mania\" and \"Galaga '88\", the continue features from the original arcade versions have only been retained in the Windows PC version of the collection.\n\nThe Windows version was negatively received because of StarForce protection and, retrospectively, the lack of support for Windows 7 and higher.\n\nThe North American PS2 version of the game was immediately released as a Greatest Hits title, with no black label copies existing.\n\nAn edition of Namco Museum for the Nintendo DS was released in late 2007.\n\nThe DS game card includes 10 games:\n\"Super Xevious\" and the old version of \"Dig Dug II\" are hidden games that must be found by browsing the menus for \"Xevious\" and \"Dig Dug II\" respectively.\n\nThis game also allows access to each game's DIP switches, but some arcade-exclusive options are left out such as the \"Rack-Test\" on \"Pac-Man\". It was re-released as part of a \"Dual Pack\" bundle with the DS version of \"Pac-Man World 3\" in North America on October 30, 2012.\n\nThis game was released on October 23, 2007 for Wii.This compilation has the original arcade versions of:\nIt also had \"Remix\" versions of certain games:\nWhen played on multiplayer, the Miis are used. \"Galaga Remix\" on this compilation is not the same as the \"Galaga Remix\" iOS application.\n\nThis collection was released for the Xbox 360 on November 4, 2008, in North America, May 15, 2009, in Europe, June 3, 2009, in Australia and November 5, 2009, in Japan. \"Namco Museum Virtual Arcade\" is made up of two sets of games. The first is Xbox Live Arcade, which includes nine Xbox Live Arcade games. These are identical to the digital Xbox Live Arcade versions but are present on the game-disc. These games can be selected from the compilation's menu or, only while the game disc is in the console, accessed directly from the Xbox Live Arcade menu. The next set is Museum, which also includes Museum games, although these are the ones accessible directly from the disc. However, they do not come with achievements or online play. \"Namco Museum Virtual Arcade\" is the first \"Namco Museum\" game to include \"Sky Kid Deluxe\" (1986), while all of the rest were already or previously available on consoles. In common with other disc releases that include full Xbox Live Arcade games on-disc (like \"Xbox Live Arcade Unplugged\" for example), installation of the game disc to the Xbox 360 HDD is disallowed.\n\nXbox Live Arcade Games\n\nMuseum Games\n\nArrangement Games\n\nThe Arrangement games are placed in the same menu as the Museum games, and are the same as they were on the PSP's \"Namco Museum Battle Collection\", although \"New Rally-X Arrangement\" is not included in this collection. Additionally, on all games, the original 2-player modes from the original arcade versions (where applicable) do not appear here; all games are one-player only. The Xbox Live Arcade games do not have multiplayer either with the exception of \"Mr. Driller Online\"'s online mode. The Xbox Live Arcade games can only be played when the disc is inside the system. The games must be downloaded from Xbox Live Marketplace for their regular prices in order for the games to be retained in the system's game library.\n\nReception: The compilation received mixed reviews, the collection was praised for its inclusion of XBLA games, but is harshly criticized for its disappointing presentation and lack of bonus features.\n\n\"The Tower of Druaga\" in this compilation has glitches not found on any other version of the game resulting in numerous negative reviews from Japanese consumers.\n\nNamco Bandai released a downloadable Namco Museum on the Japanese PlayStation Store with the name \"Namco Museum.comm\" on January 29, 2009 – the \".comm\" is thought to stand for communication. They then released the downloadable Namco Museum compilation in North America on July 16, 2009, and in Europe and Australia on April 1, 2010, under the name \"Namco Museum Essentials\".It includes:\n\nPlayStation Home included a virtual arcade space with sample versions of the games.The PlayStation Store also had a free trial version that only includes the first at the few levels of:\nBoth the demo and the full version were delisted from the PlayStation Store on March 15, 2018.\n\nAn updated version of \"Namco Museum Remix\" for the Wii, which was released on November 16, 2010 in North America only. It adds additional arcade games and an additional \"Remix\" game. It adds a level select feature to all of the arcade games except \"Cutie Q\".\n\nArcade Games\n\nRemix Games\n\nSimply titled \"Namco Museum\", it was developed for the Nintendo Switch and released on July 28, 2017 on the Nintendo eShop. Much like \"Namco Museum DS\", the game includes a remake of \"Pac-Man Vs.\". It contains the following games:\nDue to the violent nature of \"Splatterhouse\", this is the first \"Namco Museum\" game to be rated T for Teen by the Entertainment Software Rating Board. A retail release bundled with \"Pac-Man Championship Edition 2 Plus\", titled Namco Museum Arcade Pac, was released on September 28, 2018.\n\n\"Namco Museum Mini Player\" is a dedicated handheld console shaped like a miniature arcade cabinet developed by My Arcade that includes 20 Namco games and was released by Bandai Namco Entertainment on June 24, 2019. While it includes some games that originated on home consoles, the games included that did originate in arcades are based on their original arcade versions. The games included are:\n\n\"Namco Museum Collection\" is an upcoming series of video game compilations for the Evercade handheld which will release on May 22, 2020.\n\nUnlike other compilations, the games in these compilations are based on their home console versions (NES/Famicom, SNES/Super Famicom, and SEGA Genesis/Mega Drive) rather than arcade versions.\n\n\n\nIn August 1996, Namco claimed accumulated sales of 600,000 units for the \"Namco Museum\" series in Japan alone.\n\nThe four reviewers of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" gave Volume 1 an 8.125 out of 10, citing the excellent quality of the emulation and the interesting virtual museum content. Mark Lefebvre summarized that \"Namco has given gamers what they've always been asking for: old titles.\" \"Next Generation\" likewise complimented the emulation quality and the virtual museum, and concluded that for those interested in retro compilations, \"this is as good as this sort of thing gets.\" They scored it four out of five stars. \"Maximum\" gave it three out of five stars, reasoning that \"On the one hand, this is a collection of six indisputably classic games, three of which rank among the most influential titles in the history of videogames. On the other hand, all the games on the disk are over ten years old, and influential or not, they're definitely well past their sell by date. \"Pole Position\" may have revolutionised the racing genre in 1982, but would you really choose to play it over \"Ridge Racer Revolution\" in 1996?\" While \"GamePro\" found that all of the games save \"ToyPop\" remained great fun, the reviewer criticized the absence of the voice samples from \"Pole Position\" and compared the 3D museum unfavorably to the bonus content in \"Williams Arcade's Greatest Hits\". He concluded the compilation to be worth renting at the least, and a must-have for retro gaming fans.\n\nReviews for Volume 2 were also mixed to positive, though most critics found the selection of games weaker than that of Volume 1. The four reviewers of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" gave Volume 2 a 7.125 out of 10, with all four remarking that the compilation had two or three genuine classics, with the remaining three or four games being mediocre and overly obscure. However, they disagreed on which games fell into which group; for example, Dan Hsu said that \"\"Super Pac-Man\" stinks\", while Crispin Boyer called it \"the best reason to buy NM2\" and \"the height of the yellow pellet-eater's evolution.\" Jeff Gerstmann of \"GameSpot\" similarly commented, \"While \"Mappy\", \"Xevious\", \"Gaplus\", and \"Super Pac-Man\" are infinitely playable, the lesser-known \"Grobda\" and \"Dragon Buster\" are mediocre at best.\" He gave the compilation a 7.1 out of 10, praising the charm of the antiquated graphics and sound effects and the still potent gameplay. \"Next Generation\" picked \"Grobda\", \"Dragon Buster\", and \"Mappy\" as the mediocre games in the compilation, reasoning that \"all are examples of game genres that have evolved way beyond these originals, and with good reason.\" They scored it two out of five stars. In direct contradiction to \"GameSpot\" and \"Next Generation\", \"GamePro\" said that of the six games, \"\"Super Pac-Man\"s weak control makes it the biggest disappointment, while \"Dragon Buster\"s action/adventure swordplay and \"Grobda\"s rapid-fire tank shooting hold up the best.\" They recommended the compilation for \"those who enjoy simple, classic gameplay\".\n\nVolume 3 continued the trend of increasingly mixed reviews for the series. Jeff Gerstmann and \"Next Generation\" both commented that \"Dig Dug\", \"Ms. Pac-Man\", and \"Galaxian\" are genuine classics, \"Pole Position II\" is good but suffers from the absence of the voice clips from the arcade version, \"The Tower of Druaga\" has aged poorly, and \"Phozon\" was a terrible game to begin with. However, while Gerstmann concluded the collection to be \"a real letdown\" after the first two volumes and advised gamers to skip it, giving it a 5.6 out of 10, \"Next Generation\" concluded that \"the number of true classics on \"Volume 3\" outweigh the ones that never should have been unearthed\", and gave it three out of five stars. \"GamePro\" approved of both the entire set of games and the quality of the emulation, and deemed Volume 3 \"must-have arcade fun\".\n\nVolume 4 saw a particularly steep decline in the series' critical standing, with most critics agreeing that of the five games included, only \"Ordyne\" and \"Assault\" were at all worthwhile. Gerstmann gave it a 4.5 out of 10, and said the collection \"is just plain depressing. It contains five games, and most of them are little known games that were little known for a reason.\" \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"s review team gave it a 5.75 out of 10. The team was evenly split: Shawn Smith and Crispin Boyer, each voting a 6.5 out of 10, found the interesting museum content and the two or three enjoyable games make the collection worthwhile, while Dan Hsu and Sushi-X both gave it a 5.0 and said it was a disappointment compared to the earlier volumes. Both Gerstmann and \"GamePro\" commented that the first three volumes of \"Namco Museum\" had exhausted the series concept and Namco's backlog of genuine classics, and that Namco should have let the series end with volume 3.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044372", "title": "Large yellow underwing", "text": "Large yellow underwing\n\nThe large yellow underwing (\"Noctua pronuba\") is a moth, the type species for the family Noctuidae. It is an abundant species throughout the Palearctic ecozone, one of the most common and most familiar moths of the region. In some years the species is highly migratory with large numbers appearing suddenly in marginal parts of the range.\n\nIt is also present in Europe, North Africa, Canary Islands, Middle East, Turkey, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, northwest India, Russia, Novosibirsk Oblast, Caucasus, Transcaucasia and Central Asia. It was introduced into North America at Nova Scotia. Since then it has increased its range considerably and has been recorded for Maine in 1985, and then spread throughout the northeast from Vermont and Massachusetts (1989) to New Hampshire (1990), New York, Maryland (1992), and Connecticut (1993). It was first recorded in Pennsylvania in 1998, North Carolina (1997) and west to Colorado (1999), Wyoming (2000), California (2001), British Columbia (2002) and Alaska (2005) and Ontario (2017). \nThis is a quite large and heavy moth with a wingspan of 50–60 mm. The forewings are quite variable from light brown to almost black. The darker individuals often have a pale streak along the costa. The hindwings are bright orange-yellow with a black sub-terminal band. As with other \"Noctua\" species (and numerous other insects), this contrast of bland-on-land and bright-in-flight is used to confuse potential predators. This species flies at night from July to September and is attracted to light, sometimes in huge numbers. It will also visit flowers such as \"Buddleia\", ragwort, and red valerian.\nThe larva is green or brown with two rows of black dashes along the back. This is one of the notorious \"cutworms\", causing fatal damage at the base of virtually any herbaceous plant (some examples listed below), sometimes severing it completely. This ubiquitous species is considered as a garden pest. The species overwinters as a larva and feeds on mild days throughout the winter.\n\nA. pronuba, L. 48-56 mm. Antennae in male ciliated.Forewings ochreous-brown to dark fuscous, sometimes reddish tinged, sometimes partly irrorated with grey-whitish, especially towards costa anteriorly ; lines often paler, dark-edged, sometimes faint, subterminal preceded on costa by a blackish mark orbicular and reniform more or less pale-edged, outlined with darker, reniform partly marked with dark grey. Hindwings ochreous-orange ; a blackish terminal band.\nLarva pale green to dull brown ; dorsal line pale ; subdorsal series of blackish\nlongitudinal marks on 5-12; a pale line beneath these; subspiracular\npale ; head light brown, dark-marked. \nSee \"Noctua orbona\", the lunar yellow underwing and \"Noctua comes\", lesser yellow underwing for differences between these species and\"pronuba\"\n\nSee Robinson, G.S. et al.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044391", "title": "Invitee", "text": "Invitee\n\nIn the law of torts, an invitee is a person who is invited to land by the possessor of the land as a member of the public or one who enters the land of another for the purpose of business dealings with the possessor of the land. The status of a visitor as an invitee (as opposed to a trespasser or a licensee) defines the legal rights of the visitor if they are injured due to the negligence of the property owner.\n\nThere are generally two types of invitees i.e. Business Invitee and Public Invitee.\n\nEven if \"invited\" onto somebody's premises, a social guest is classified as a licensee.\n\nThe property owner has a duty to make the property safe for the invitee, which includes conducting a reasonable inspection of the premises to uncover hidden dangers. The property owner also has a duty to warn the invitee of hazardous conditions that cannot be fixed. Furthermore, property owners assume a duty to rescue an invitee who falls into peril while visiting the property. If an independent contractor hired by the landowner injures an invitee (intentionally or through negligence), the owner can be held vicariously liable. This represents the broadest duty of care owed to any class of visitors to the property.\n\nAn invitee is only an invitee within the scope of permission granted by the landowner. Thus, if an invitee is invited to do business in a store and is injured snooping around in the private storage area, he does not have invitee status in that area. So if the invitee is snooping around in the dark, trips and falls on something, the land occupier is not liable since the snooper exceeded the consent given him/her (\"Whelan v. Van Natta\").\n\nIn California, the case of \"Rowland v. Christian\" sought to eliminate the distinction between business invitee and licensee in regard to a land occupier owing a duty to act as a \"reasonable man\" in rendering the property safe for others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044394", "title": "All Trinidad Sugar Estates and Factory Workers Union", "text": "All Trinidad Sugar Estates and Factory Workers Union\n\nAll Trinidad Sugar Estates and Factory Workers Union, founded by Adrian Cola Rienzi was the major sugar workers' trade union and the predominant Indo-Trinidadian voice in organised labour in Trinidad and Tobago between the 1930s and 1970s. Leadership of the trade union passed from Rienzi to the Vice President, McDonald Moses, then Bhadase Sagan Maraj, and later to Krishna Gowandan.\n\nThe ATSEFWU was displaced by the All Trinidad Sugar and General Workers' Trade Union led by Basdeo Panday.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044396", "title": "Niagara Cantilever Bridge", "text": "Niagara Cantilever Bridge\n\nThe Niagara Cantilever Bridge or Michigan Central Railway Cantilever Bridge was a cantilever bridge across the Niagara Gorge. An international railway-only bridge between Canada and the United States, it connected Niagara Falls, New York, and Niagara Falls, Ontario, located just south of the Whirlpool Bridge, and opened to traffic in 1883, it was replaced by the Michigan Central Railway Steel Arch Bridge in 1925.\n\nAlthough British engineers suggested using the cantilever form as a replacement for non-statically determinate trusses as early as 1846, the first modern cantilever actually built was Heinrich Gerber's Hassfurt Bridge over the Main River in Germany (1867), with a central span of 38 m.\n\nThe next important cantilever was built by American engineer C. Shaler Smith, ten years later in 1877. It provided the first practical test of the application of the cantilever principle to long-span bridge design. He built what was then the world's longest cantilever for the Cincinnati Southern Railway over a 366 m wide and 84 m deep gorge of the Kentucky River near Dixville, Kentucky.\n\nOther important counterbalanced spans are the Michigan Central Railroad bridge over the Niagara Gorge (this bridge), designed by Charles Conrad Schneider/Apolda in 1883. With cantilever arms supporting a simple suspended truss, this 151 m span and, the nearly identical Fraser River Bridge in British Columbia, Canada, directed the attention of the engineering world to this new bridge form. These two were the prototypes for subsequent cantilevers, the Poughkeepsie Bridge over the Hudson River in New York, Young's High Bridge over the Kentucky River, the Forth Bridge in Scotland, and the Quebec Bridge in Canada.\n\nThe Michigan Central Railway Bridge was the dream of financier and railway developer Cornelius Vanderbilt. Vanderbilt needed a rail link between Canada and the USA, but was not prepared to pay the high rental price which the owners of the Lower Arch Bridge (the first railway bridge across the gorge) were asking.\n\nMr. Vanderbilt owned the Michigan Central Railway and had controlling interest in the Canada Southern Railway. In lieu of paying rent, he decided to build a new bridge. Vanderbilt formed the Niagara River Bridge Company and received a charter to build a new bridge from both the Canadian and US authorities.\n\nOn April 9, 1883, the Niagara River Bridge Company signed a contract with the Central Bridge Works Company of Buffalo New York to build this bridge. The chief engineer was Charles C. Schneider. This first bridge of cantilever design at Niagara, was built across the Niagara Gorge by engineer Edmund Hayes, of the Central Bridge Works Company, at a site just south of the Lower Arch Bridge. (the Whirlpool Bridge)\n\nConstruction of this bridge began on April 15, 1883. The contractors were working against a deadline of November 1. Every day afterwards, the contractor had to pay a penalty of $500 per day. The 40.3 meter (132.6 ft) high towers were completed on October 11. The contractor soon realized that it would not be possible to complete the bridge and railway tracks by November 1. They anticipated they could put 25 foot (7.6 m) sections onto each side of the bridge every two days and connect the center span in five days.\n\nEach cantilever measuring 99 meters (325 ft) long and 7.9 meters (26 ft) high where they were anchored were in place by November 18. Two 7.5 meter (25 ft) long sections were attached and extended from each cantilever. The center span was measured and sent to the company's Buffalo, New York plant for fabrication. Each end was made of a section constructed of steel extending from each shoreline nearly half way across the gorge. Each section was supported near its center by a steel tower from which extended two lever arms, one reaching the shore while the other extended over the river 175 feet (53 m) beyond the towers. By the outer arm having no support and being subjected the same as the shore arm to the weight of the trains, a counter advantage is given to the shore arm being firmly anchored to the rock on shore. The towers on each side rose from the water level below. The bridge span was 495 feet (151 m). The ends of the cantilevers extended 395 feet (120 m) from the abutments leaving a gap of 120 feet (37 m) which was filled by an ordinary truss type bridge hung form the ends of the cantilever.\n\nProvisions had been built into this bridge to allow for expansion and contraction, allowing the ends to move freely as the temperature changed. The total length of the bridge was 906 feet (276 m). It had a double track and had the capacity to bear the weight of two trains crossing at the same time producing a side pressure equal to a 75-mile per hour (120 km/h) wind. The railway was 240 feet (73 m) above the Niagara River.\n\nOn November 21, media reports indicated that the bridge had been completed, linking Canada and the USA together. On December 1, 1883, the bridge was officially completed. The bridge had cost $700,000 US dollars. On December 6, 1883 at 11:41 a.m., the first crossing of this new bridge was made. It consisted of an engine pulling a tender and passenger car. The passenger car carried a number of dignitaries including railway Superintendent G. H. Burrows.\n\nSchneider's bridge had a useful life of over 40 years during a period when rolling stock on the railroads grew much heavier. The speed of erection of a new style bridge coupled with its performance made it one of the most innovative and significant bridges built in the world up to that time.\n\nThe Niagara River saw the following crossings in the 19th century (in chronological order):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044399", "title": "Roy McDonald (poet)", "text": "Roy McDonald (poet)\n\nRoy McDonald (4 June 1937 – 20 February 2018, approximation) was a poet, busker, author, philosopher and \"professional conversationalist\" in London, Ontario, Canada. He was well known for singing and reciting poetry in front of Joe Kool's Restaurant and Jim-Bob Ray's Bar on Richmond Street. For many years he stood at the northwest corner of Richmond and Dundas (the old centre of downtown London) and discussed the literary world with passersby. His long, grey beard, plastic bags filled with books and journals, tweed jacket, and habit of striking up friendly conversations with nearly everyone, making him a very recognizable and well-known figure around the city.\n\nMcDonald grew his beard for decades. He claimed his was the longest at the 1969 Woodstock Music and Art Fair. His clothes often fell into disrepair, and he occasionally mended his pants with duct tape. He decorated his jacket with buttons. He was often referred to as the unofficial Mayor of Richmond Row, a colourful segment of Richmond Street located in downtown London. Contrary to what some believe, McDonald did live in a house, a home on Wellington Road near Whetter Avenue, the same home he grew up in.\n\nRoy spent most of his life in London, but he also spent time in Montreal, where he developed a problem with alcohol. He had the will to quit drinking and was completely sober from age 38 until his death. Pocketman (Dorset Publishing 1979) by Don Bell, is a book of comedy loosely based on Roy's time in Montreal. Also there is a song called Pocketman that was written in 1977, two years prior to the book, by Jeff Rogers-Wardle that describes the first encounter Jeff had with Roy.\n\nMcDonald was found dead in his home in London, Ontario on 21 February 2018, at the age of 80, after friends had reported to the police that they hadn't seen Roy around in a few weeks, so the exact date of his death is unknown. Even though McDonald had a zest for life, he was known to scoff at his own death. \"If I die today,\" he once said, \"I would die fulfilled.\"\n\nErgo Productions published both of McDonald's books. \"Living: A London Journal\" is a detailed account of a week in McDonald's life, and \"The Answer Questioned\" is one long pun-poem. They can be found in the London Public Library and the UWO library, and are carried in some bookstores, including the one at UWO.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044421", "title": "Glasgow University Library", "text": "Glasgow University Library\n\nThe University of Glasgow Library in Scotland is one of the oldest and largest university libraries in Europe. At the turn of the 21st century, the main library building itself held 1,347,000 catalogued print books, and 53,300 journals. In total, the university library system including branch libraries now holds approximately 2.5 million books and journals, along with access to 1,853,000 e-books, and over 50,000 e-journals. The University also holds extensive archival material in a separate building. This includes the Scottish Business Archive, which alone amounts to 6.2 kilometers of manuscripts.\n\nThe current 12-storey building, opened in 1968, is a prominent landmark in Glasgow's West End, and its distinctive outline can be seen from several kilometers around. In 2014, there were over 1.7 million visits made to the library.\n\nThe first explicit mention of the Library is dated November 1475, when the first donations by the University's Chancellor, Bishop John Laing, were recorded. After the Reformation the University of Glasgow and its Library were reinvigorated under the Principalship of Andrew Melville in 1574-80. The Library grew steadily throughout the 18th century due largely to the fact that it was granted legal deposit status between 1709 and 1836. Legal deposit ceased in 1836 and the Library was granted an annual lump sum which allowed it to develop its collections in line with the University's teaching and research interests. The library of the royal physician to Queen Charlotte, William Hunter, received in 1807, comprised some 10,000 volumes that augmented the library's holdings by fifty percent, and extended their reach well beyond the contemporary curriculum; of Hunter's 650 manuscript codices, over a hundred are illuminated, and his incunabula \"accorded Glasgow a prominence that it could not have achieved with its own resources\".\n\nBy 1888 the holdings of the Library had risen to around 150,000 volumes, due in part to large donations and contributions by wealthy private collectors, such as William Hunter, John Smith of Crutherland, George Walker-Arnott, William Euing and David Murray.\n\nFollowing the considerable expansion of the university buildings in the 1630s onwards, the first purpose built Library for the university was designed by William Adam and opened in 1744 at the Old College in High Street. From 1870 until 1968, the University Library was housed within the main Gilbert Scott Building in Gilmorehill. The old Library closed in July 1968 and the new building opened to readers on 30 September 1968.\n\nDesigned by William Whitfield, the present 12-storey library was constructed in 1968, and extended in the 1980s and 1990s. It formed the centrepiece of the new campus buildings built across Hillhead during the 1960s. In line with architectural fashion of the period (Edinburgh University Library opened its new eight storey main library in a similar style in 1967), it is of Brutalist design, being clad in Precast concrete flint aggregate panels. (However, , the building was overclad in an \"aluminium rain screen system\" due to deterioration of the original panels.) The main library floors are stacked in a central core with the peripheral towers containing services. The cluster of towers are reminiscent of San Gimignano, and form part of a complex that also incorporates the Hunterian Art Gallery. The original building has been extensively refurbished to facilitate a modern information technology environment. The library has collections ranging from astronomy to zoology, as well as a world-class Special Collections department. Special Collections on level 12 has an internationally significant collection of manuscripts and printed works. In the foyer there is a display area featuring changing exhibitions of rare material from their collections. In 1993 the Glasgow University Library complex was selected by the international conservation organisation DoCoMoMo as one of sixty key Scottish monuments of the post-war era.\n\nOpen 361 days of the year, the library provides a resource not only for the academic community in Glasgow, but also for scholars worldwide. There are study spaces for more than 2500 students, with over 800 computers. Wi-fi access is available throughout the building. A new cafe and social learning space was opened in 2009, followed by an exhibition gallery, and a level dedicated to post graduate study. In 2016 the main entrance level was totally reconstructed in an open configuration, including a new Conservation Studio, and at the same time the basement area has been reformed to become a further study area.\n\nThe library staff comprises a team of over three hundred daytime, evening and weekend staff. The University Librarian from 1 August 2015 is Susan Ashworth, and the University Archivist is Lesley Richmond. The Friends of Glasgow University Library, an educational charity formed in 1976, is open to public membership, promotes the Library and its work, and each year presents a series of talks and events. The first fully illustrated account of the Library and its unique and distinctive collections, from 1451 to the present day, \"The University of Glasgow Library : Friendly Shelves\" was published in June 2016, with Forewords by The Chancellor Professor Sir Kenneth Calman and the Principal Anton Muscatelli.\n\nThe Library incorporates the Archives of the University of Glasgow accumulated since 1451, and the Scottish Business Archive of internationally important collections of business records covering the whole of Scotland and its global trades from the 18th century to the present.\n\nThe Library's Special Collections are classed as being of national and international importance. Its subject strengths include art, languages, literature, history and the history of law, science and medicine, represented by over 200,000 manuscript items and around 200,000 printed works (1,060 of which are incunabula, printed before 1501.) The holdings of medieval and renaissance manuscripts, and emblem literature, are of international status. Collections include those of George Buchanan from 1578, the Hunterian Library, the Stirling Maxwell Collection including emblem literature from 1531 onwards, the James McNeill Whistler Archive, the Euing Collection of music and Bibles, the Dougan Collection of early photography including Hill & Adamson, the modern Edwin Morgan Scrapbooks and the Scottish Theatre Archive.\n\nThe library is the only European Documentation Centre (EDC) in the west of Scotland, and one of the largest in the UK. The EDC is part of the Maps, Official Publications and Statistics Unit on Level 7. The centre contains full texts of legislation and proposed legislation, as well as reports and statistics from the European Union.\n\nSpecialist collections for veterinary medicine, dentistry and chemistry are held in separate branch libraries around campus. Additionally, the Adam Smith library holds undergraduate social science materials. Other notable collections include music scores, Russian and East European material and significant 18th- and 19th-century print books and journals at the Library Research Annexe. The 2015 public exhibition in the adjacent Hunterian Art Gallery, \"Ingenious Impressions -The Coming of the Book\", was the largest such exhibition of incunabula in Britain. A web catalogue of these rarities has been created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2044450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044450", "title": "Adrian Cola Rienzi", "text": "Adrian Cola Rienzi\n\nAdrian Cola Rienzi (born Krishna Deonarine on 19 January 1905, died Desh Bandu (\"Friend of the Nation\") on July 21, 1972) was a Hindu Indo-Trinidadian trade unionist, politician and lawyer.\n\nKrishna Deonarine was born in Palmyra, Princes Town, Victoria County, Trinidad and Tobago. His family originated from India. His grandfather Chaithnath Tiwari had fled Bihar, India in order to escape British vengeance for participating in the Indian Rebellion of 1857. In Trinidad, his grandfather had married Lakshmi, the granddaughter of a general in the army of Babu Veer Kunwar Singh, who also had participated in the Indian Rebellion of 1857. His father, Deonarine Tiwari, squandered the inheritance from his grandfather, Chaithnath Tiwari, and was forced to move the family to his grandmother's shop on Coffee Street in San Fernando. Krishna attended Naparima College, but his family's financial problems forced him to drop out during Form 3.\n\nAfter leaving school, Deonarine took a job as a law clerk with the law firm of J.C. Hobson, a prominent lawyer, on Harris Promenade, in San Fernando. Hobson encouraged Deonarine to learn and lent him books from which he learned about Cola di Rienzo, fourteenth century Italian activist and patriot. Adrian Clarke, an English magistrate, also mentored Deonarine. Influenced by Hobson and Clarke, Deonarine decided to become a lawyer. This meant going to England to study; to avoid problems that his obviously Indian name might cause, Deonarine changed his name to Adrian Cola Rienzi in 1927. He chose the name Adrian after Adrian Clarke, and Cola Rienzi after Cola di Rienzo.\n\nRienzi studied at Trinity College in Dublin, where he joined the Irish section of the League Against Imperialism. He tried to go to India to work against imperialism, but was denied a visa to travel there. Unable to travel to India, Rienzo moved to London in 1931 where he entered the Middle Temple. In London, Rienzi became close with Shapurji Saklatvala, an Indian-born socialist and trade unionist who had served as a member of the British Parliament. Rienzi worked with Saklatava as part of the Indian Freedom League and the Indian Independence League, and maintained close ties with the Irish Republican Congress and the US-based Universal Negro Improvement Association.\n\nIn 1934 Rienzi was called to the Bar and returned to Trinidad. His application for admission to the local Bar was rejected because he was considered a \"communist agitator\", and it was only thanks to the intervention of British Labour politician Sir Stafford Cripps that Rienzi was able to gain admission to the Bar.\n\nHe founded both the Oilfields Workers' Trade Union and the All Trinidad Sugar Estates and Factory Workers Union, and was involved in the establishment of three other trade unions. In 1936, after breaking with Arthur Cipriani and his Trinidad Labour Party, Rienzi founded his own party, the Trinidad Citizens League, which was based on the workers in the sugar belt in mid and south Trinidad. He was also the first president of the Trinidad and Tobago Trades Union Council, from its foundation in 1938 until 1944.\n\nRienzi also served four terms on the San Fernando Borough Council (three as Mayor of San Fernando) and represented Victoria on the Legislative Council from 1937-1944. He then worked in the public service as a Crown Counsel.\n\nIn addition to working for workers rights, Rienzi also worked for the rights of Indo-Trinidadians. He helped secure more employment of Indo-Trinidadians in the public service, the right to cremation, the recognition of Hindu and Muslim marriages and the establishment of schools by non-Christian religious groups.\n\nThe Rienzi-Kirton Highway in San Fernando is named partly in honour of him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044451", "title": "Duty to warn", "text": "Duty to warn\n\nA duty to warn is a concept that arises in the law of torts in a number of circumstances, indicating that a party will be held liable for injuries caused to another, where the party had the opportunity to warn the other of a hazard and failed to do so.\n\nTwo landmark legal cases established therapists' legal obligations to breach confidentiality if they believe a client poses a risk to himself or others. The first one was Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California where a therapist failed to inform a young woman and her parents of specific death threats made by a client. The other case was Jablonski by Pahls v. United States which further extended the responsibilities of duty to warn by including the review of previous records that might include a history of violent behavior.\n\nThe duty to warn arises in product liability cases, as manufacturers can be held liable for injuries caused by their products if the product causes an injury to a consumer and the manufacturer fails to supply adequate warnings about the risks of using the product (such as side effects from pharmacy prescriptions) or if they fail to supply adequate instructions for the proper use of the product (such as a precaution to use safety glasses when using a drill). If the manufacturer fails to supply these warnings, the law will consider the product itself to be defective.\n\nA lawsuit by a party injured by a product, where the manufacturer failed to properly warn, is usually brought as a \"negligence\" action, but it could be filed as a \"strict liability\" claim or as a \"breach of warranty of merchantability\" case.\n\nNot long after launching its Note 7 in August 2016, Samsung got many reports of burning phones. Samsung had no choice other than recalling all the Galaxy Note 7, which had cost the company around $5.3bn. Following the recall, the Federal Aviation Administration prohibited people from turning Galaxy Note 7 on, packing it in the checked luggage, and charging it while on the plane. On October 11, 2016 Samsung stopped the production and issued a warning for people to turn the Galaxy Note 7 off and to not use it any longer. Samsung also told all of its global partners to stop selling the phone because of concerns about the product's safety. After testing 200,000 devices and 30,000 batteries, Samsung found that the overheating and the burning phones was resulted from the error in designing and manufacturing the batteries of its two suppliers. At the press statement in South Korea, the Samsung representative concluded, “We are taking responsibility for our failure to identify the issues arising out of the battery design and manufacturing process prior to the launch of the Note 7.” \n\nAn issue in product liability cases is whether the product warranted a duty to warn about known dangers.\n\nIn the popularized \"Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants\" case where the individual Liebeck sued McDonalds for damages for injuries due to spilling hot coffee on her lap. McDonalds was cited not to have properly warned consumers about the inherent danger of their coffee product. In addition, McDonald's was aware of previous injuries from hot coffee injuries and had not properly warned the consumers which resulted in the court awarding Liebeck $640,000 in damages, which was later settled for an undisclosed amount.\n\nMost notably, a property owner has a duty to warn persons on the property of various hazards, depending on the status of the person on the property. For example, the property owner must warn an anticipated or discovered trespasser of deadly conditions known to the property owner, but that would be hidden from the trespasser. The property owner must warn licensees of \"all\" known hazards (whether deadly or not), and must warn invitees of all dangers that the property owner can discover through a reasonable inspection of the property.\n\nIn clinical psychological practice in the United States, duty to warn requires a clinician who has reasonable grounds to believe that a client may be in imminent danger of harming himself or others to warn the possible victims. Duty to warn is among the few exceptions to a client's right to confidentiality and the therapist's ethical obligation to maintain confidential information related in the context of the therapeutic relationship. In the American Psychological Association's Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct, the therapist's duty to warn is implicitly contained within the guidelines for disclosure of confidential information without the consent of the client: \"Psychologists disclose confidential information without the consent of the individual only as mandated by law, or where permitted by law for a valid purpose such as to … protect the client/patient, psychologist, or others from harm.\" In situations when there is cause for serious concern about a client harming someone, the clinician must breach confidentiality to warn the identified victim/third party about imminent danger. Although laws vary somewhat in different states, in general, the danger must be imminent and the breach of confidentiality should be made to someone who is in a position to reduce the risk of the danger. People who would be appropriate recipients of such information would include the intended victim and law enforcement.\n\nDuty to warn is embedded in the historical context of two rulings (1974 and 1976) of the California Supreme Court in the case of \"Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California\". The legal case was brought by the Tarasoff family after their daughter, Tatiana Tarasoff, was murdered by Prosenjit Poddar, who had received psychological services in the university counseling center. Poddar had made it known to his psychologist, during a session, that he wanted to kill Tarasoff, and his psychologist informed the campus police, following the session, of the danger that Poddar posed to himself and others and suggested that hospitalization might be necessary. The psychologist also wrote a letter requesting assistance to the chief of campus police. Upon investigation by the police, during which Poddar was briefly detained for questioning, he was released because his mental state seemed to be stable and rational. Shortly thereafter, the director of the department of psychiatry at Cowell Hospital asked for the police to return the letter and ordered that Poddar's therapy notes should be destroyed. No one ever warned Tatiana Tarasoff. Poddar killed Tatiana Tarasoff on October 27, 1969, and her parents filed suit against several of the organizations and individuals who had been involved. The case was initially dismissed by a lower court, but her parents appealed to the California Supreme Court, which upheld the appeal in 1974 and reaffirmed the ruling in 1976. The case was settled out of court when Tarasoff's parents received a substantial sum of money.\n\nExplicit in the court's decision was the principle that the confidentiality of the therapeutic relationship is subordinate to the safety of society and its members. Despite the value and importance of protecting the client and their feelings, and thus the physician-client relationship, the court decided that the clinician's duty to society as a citizen of that society places certain limitations on the clinician's loyalty to a client's secrets, divulged in the context of the therapeutic relationship.\n\nSome have decried the court's decision as a limitation of the foundation for the therapeutic relationship and progress, the client's expectation of confidentiality. Max Siegel, a former president of the American Psychological Association, defended the therapist's right to confidentiality as sacrosanct, under any circumstances. Furthermore, he suggested that had Poddar's psychologist maintained confidentiality, instead of alerting the police, Poddar might have remained in counseling and Tarasoff's death might have been averted through Poddar's psychological treatment. Limitations to confidentiality are a critical concern for clinicians, because a relationship of trust between the therapist and client is the prerequisite context for therapeutic growth. Without the client's expectation that the therapist will honor the client's confidences divulged in the therapeutic dialogue, the client will not have the freedom to unveil the most troublesome and private issues that are matters of the utmost concern and need for intervention. Some argue that if clients cannot depend on confidentiality in all matters that are related in therapy, potentially dangerous clients, who may be most in need of psychological services, will avoid therapy, thus missing the opportunity for intervention. If a trend of restrictions on confidentiality develops in legislation, some argue that the ability of therapists and counselors to effectively practice and facilitate clients' growth may be significantly impaired.\n\nOther cases similar to the issues addressed in the Tarasoff case have been brought to the attention of the courts, such as the \"Jablonski by Pahls v. United States\". The conclusion of that case extended the responsibility entailed in the duty to warn with the judgment that the clinician may be liable for failure to review previous records, which may contain history of previous violent behavior, a predictor of potential future violence.\n\nRecent consideration of applying the duty to warn has raised questions regarding therapists' responsibility to breach confidentiality in order to report clients' nonviolent behaviors which may pose danger to others, as in the case of clients with HIV/AIDS. Clients with HIV/AIDS who are sexually promiscuous or share needles may pose risks to their companions, who may be unaware of the client's health condition. Although the possibility of infection that may result is a factor of concern, the duty to warn currently does not prescribe breaking confidentiality in these cases. In such cases, there may be uncertainty regarding potential victims and, perhaps, ignorance about the occurrence of behaviors that would pose the danger of transmission. Furthermore, many states prohibit the disclosure of information about HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe application of duty-to-warn laws places clinicians in the uneasy situation of breaching the client's confidentiality or of placing others in potential danger of the client. In either case, the therapist's decision may make place himself at risk, professionally and legally, especially since the clinician has no certain method for determining a client's potential for violent behavior. The application of the principle may be difficult in particular situations; however, if the clinician has reasonable cause to think that danger is imminent, the clinician is required to break confidentiality for the safety of others.\n\nIn \"Jane Doe No. 14 v. Internet Brands, Inc.\", the Jane Doe plaintiff alleged that Internet Brands, Inc.'s failure to warn users of its networking website, modelmayhem.com, caused her to be a victim of a rape scheme. She alleged that Defendant Internet Brands knew about the rapists but did not warn her or the website's other users. She filed an action against Internet Brands alleging liability for negligence under California law based on that failure to warn. On May 31, 2016, the US Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled that the Communications Decency Act does not bar Jane Doe's failure to warn claim.\n\nIn the early morning hours of August 24, 1986, a woman who lived in a second-floor apartment in Toronto was raped at knifepoint by Paul Callow, who had broken into her apartment from a balcony. At the time, the plaintiff was the fifth victim of similar crimes by Callow, who would become known as the \"balcony rapist\". In 1998, this woman was successful in her lawsuit against the Metropolitan Toronto Police Force for damages on the grounds that the police force had conducted a negligent investigation and failed to warn women of the risk of an attack by Callow.\n\nIn December 2012, a woman, who later became a Jane Doe plaintiff, was attacked by Sofyan Boalag, an Algerian immigrant, in St. John's, Newfoundland. This assault was the last of six assaults between September and December 2012. Boalag was charged with 23 criminal offences in relation to complaints from multiple victims. In 2016, he was convicted of multiple offences including robbery, three counts of sexual assault with a weapon, and choking Doe until she passed out. \nIn January 2016, Doe commenced a lawsuit against the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary, alleging police failed to properly warn the public that a predator was stalking young women. According to the statement of claim, all of the attacks took place in a similar part of the city and involved people with similar characteristics — six young women, including one girl under 16 years of age.\n\nIn 1986, 19-year-old Jeanne Clery was raped and murdered in her Lehigh University dorm room. Her parents noted:\nBecause her parents' efforts, the Clery Act was enacted which requires colleges and universities in the United States to publish campus crime reports.\n\nIn 2008, Eastern Michigan University was fined $357,500 for violating the Clery Act. US federal officials cited the university for \"an egregious violation\" for failing to notify the public of the murder of Laura Dickinson in her residence hall room.\n\nThe South African Police Service and community groups publish the locations which are prone to \"smash and grab\" crimes. At these \"hot spots\", criminals smash through car windows to grab valuables while vehicles are stationary at traffic lights or stuck in slow moving traffic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044472", "title": "Volvo SI6 engine", "text": "Volvo SI6 engine\n\nThe SI6 (Short Inline 6) is a family of straight-six engines developed by Volvo and used by Land Rover and Volvo.\n\nVolvo designed the SI6 (\"short inline 6\") straight-6 automobile engine for use in 2007 models. An evolution of the company's long-used straight-5 Volvo Modular engine, which itself is an evolution of the Volvo B6304 straight six engine, the SI6 can be mounted transversely for front wheel drive or all wheel drive applications. Despite the added cylinder and displacement, the engine remains compact, and is in fact shorter than the previous straight-5. The engine was initially offered in two displacements — a 3.0 L turbocharged version and a 3.2 L naturally aspirated version. Both offered variable cam timing, though only the turbo version varies both the intake and exhaust valves. On top of the variable cam timing used on the intake cam of the naturally aspirated engine it also had variable valve lift by using Cam Profile Switching (CPS).\n\nProduction of the Volvo SI6 began at the Ford Bridgend Engine Plant in Wales in May 2006. It was assumed that the engines would be used in European Ford and Jaguar products as well as Volvos.\n\nThe engine codes consist of a series of letters and digits:\n\nEngine codes are not necessarily unique to a specific engine as power levels can vary depending on market, manufacturer and model.\n\nThe straight-six engine is intercooled and turbocharged. Cylinder bore and stroke are with a compression ratio of 9.3:1.\n\nThe B6304T2 has a power output of at 5600 rpm, and produces of torque at 1500–4800 rpm.\n\nApplications:\n\nThe \"B6304T4\" has a power output of at 5600 rpm, and produces of torque at 2100–4200 rpm.\n\nApplications: \n\nThe \"B6304T5\" has a power output of at 5250 rpm, and produces of torque at 3000–4750 rpm.\n\nApplications:\n\nThe straight-six engine is naturally aspirated. Cylinder bore and stroke are with a compression ratio of 10.8:1.\n\nThe B6324S has a power output of at 6200 rpm, and produces of torque at 3200 rpm.\n\nApplications:\n\nApplications: \n\nTBD\n\nApplications: \n\nThe B6324S5 has a power output of at 5600 rpm, and produces of torque at 3200 rpm.<br>\nIn its PZEV version power output is reduced to at ????rpm and produces of torque at ???? rpm.\n\nApplications: \nApplications:\n\n"}
{"id": "2044475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044475", "title": "Israel Brodie", "text": "Israel Brodie\n\nSir Israel Brodie KBE (10 May 1895 – 13 February 1979) was the Chief Rabbi of Great Britain and the Commonwealth 1948–1965.\n\nHe was educated at Balliol College, Oxford. He served as a Rabbi of Melbourne Hebrew Congregation in Australia from 1923 to 1937 and was influential in establishing the Zionist Federation of Australia in 1927, and also sat on the local \"Beth Din\". He was evacuated from Dunkirk, and finished the War as Senior Jewish Chaplain aka Forces Rabbi. He became Chief Rabbi soon after the war at the age of 53 when he faced a difficult time due to the ending of the British Mandate in Palestine. He presided over the post-war expansion of the United Synagogue. A dignified man of great presence, he was regarded as a mellifluous preacher. He had impeccable English connections and was a freemason, rising to the senior appointment of \"Grand Chaplain\" in the United Grand Lodge of England.\n\nThrough the Conference of European Rabbis, which he founded and led, Brodie took a significant part in rebuilding the religious life of European Jewry after the Holocaust. Brodie undertook tours throughout the Commonwealth, and strengthened the community in a quiet but significant manner, although the last years of his tenure were overshadowed by religious dispute. Brodie banned Rabbi Dr Louis Jacobs, who questioned the orthodox notion that the Bible had been written by the hand of God, from becoming principal of Jews' College. On his retirement, he was knighted \"for services to British Jewry\"; the first Chief Rabbi to be so honoured, although his predecessor was appointed to the more restricted membership of the Order of the Companions of Honour.\n\n"}
